N83|The War Next Door and the Reds are Coming: The Spanish Civil War and the Portuguese Stock Market|The Spanish Civil War (July 1936 to April 1939) was a key event that paved the way for World War II, unfolding with unprecedented violence and uncertainty over the its outcome. In this paper, we analyze the impact of the events of the Spanish Civil War on the Portuguese stock returns. Portugal is a particularly interesting case for analysis given its geographical exposure and historical ties to Spain as well as its political ties to the Nationalist side. Unlike previous studies of stock market responses to World War II outcomes, in our period of analysis the world at large was at peace, allowing for a clearer attribution of causation. We examine investors' reactions to news from the Spanish War using a panel of weekly returns for firms listed on the Lisbon Stock market, after classifying a series of important developments of the Spanish Civil War, classified according to its nature â?? military or political, and which contender emerged as favored â?? the Republicans, on the left, or the Nationalists, on the right. We run dynamic specifications with firm and month fixed effects, controlling for the reference interest rate in London, and events in Portugal. Our results reveal that Spanish Civil War events affect returns negatively, especially events that are military in nature. When we break down our sample into overseas firms â?? those whose most significant assets were located in Africa â?? and non-overseas firms, the latter present more significant effects from the event variables, especially from the Pro-Republican military events. Our findings are robust to the different specifications and suggest that both general uncertainty and partisan preferences affect Portuguese returns.
N83|Ireland's peculiar microfinance revolution, c. 1836-1845|In the decade before the famine, Ireland experienced a boom in Microfinance Institutions (MFIs). This paper analyses the motivations of MFI proponents and practitioners, and finds evidence linking the boom in MFIs with the introduction of the poor law in 1838. Many contemporary writers saw microfinance as a complex tax avoidance/reduction scheme that could lessen the burden on rate payers by helping the poor help themselves. The link between MFIs and the poor law is confirmed by an econometric analysis of MFIs at the level of the poor law union.
N83|Women Leaders in Industry in Nineteenth Century France: The Case of Amélie de Dietrich|This article traces the history of Amelie de Dietrich’s role - from 1806 to her death in 1855 - as the head of one of the oldest family-owned businesses: the De Dietrich company. Amelie took important strategic decisions to adapt the company to the new economic opportunities in the metal sector, which arose in the first half of the nineteenth century. Her choices were decisive for the future of the company; what is more, she succeeded in restoring the familial ownership. Given the entrenched assumptions about gender roles prevalent in the early nineteenth century, how can we explain her success in meeting such difficult challenges? Relying on Amélie de Dietrich’s own unpublished correspondence, this contribution examines the factors that explain her success in imposing herself as a Maître des Forges. It thus underlines women’s role – as business leaders – during the industrialization process.
N83|Ireland’s Peculiar Microfinance Revolution, c. 1836-1845|In the decade before the famine, Ireland experienced a boom in Microfinance Institutions (MFIs). This paper analyses the motivations of MFI proponents and practitioners, and finds evidence linking the boom in MFIs with the introduction of the poor law in 1838. Many contemporary writers saw microfinance as a complex tax avoidance/reduction scheme that could lessen the burden on rate payers by helping the poor help themselves. The link between MFIs and the poor law is confirmed by an econometric analysis of MFIs at the level of the poor law union.
N83|French bank Société générale in 1890-1914: From a strong growth to a crisis of its business model?|Société Générale vacillated under the influence of a grave crisis in 1913-1914. To think about the configuration and the management of its economic model allows to wonder about the strategic choices, the quality of the mode of management, the compared virtues of mixed or universal bank. The intertwining of the methods of study of the business history and economic history with those of the institutional management allows stimulating questionings.
N83|The origins of the (cooperative) species: Raiffeisen banking in the Netherlands, 1898-1909|Cooperatively-owned Raiffeisen banks first emerged in the Netherlands in the late 1890s and spread rapidly across the country. Using a new dataset, we investigate the determinants of their market entry and early performance. We find that the cooperative organisational form, when allied to a change in the structure of Dutch agriculture and the socioreligious pillarisation of Dutch society, was an important factor explaining their entry into rural financial markets. While religious organisations provided a necessary impetus for the emergence of Raiffeisen banks, the economic advantages associated with the cooperative organisational form ensured the subsequent survival and success of these banks.
N83|Retainers and retirement: Pieter Bruegel (†1566), pensioner in Sint-Janshuis retirement home, Bergen op Zoom|In 1553-1554 one Pieter Bruegel purchased a corrody in Sint-Janshuis, a retirement home for former employees of the Marquises of Bergen, where he would receive necessities of life and a place to stay until he would pass away. The paper reconstructs the early financial history of the retirement home, demonstrating how it was unable to cope with inflation, and struggled to provide for the inmates. It is suggested therefore Bruegel did not merely retire into Sint-Janshuis, but purchased an extra ration of food, clothes and fuel: apparently his background as a barber-surgeon at one of the most prestigious courts of the Low Countries allowed him to pay for a relatively decent old age. Further evidence corroborates that compared to his fellow-inmates, Bruegel was relatively wealthy. The paper also discusses evidence linking the barber-surgeon to the painter Pieter Bruegel the Elder, whose origins are almost completely unknown. Based on his name, estimated year of birth, and residence in Bergen op Zoom, the barber-surgeon is a strong candidate for the father of the famous painter. If we are correct in this, the latter would have come from an urban middle-class background with close ties to one of the most important courts in the Low Countries: the Renaissance palace Markiezenhof in Bergen op Zoom.
N83|The Origins of the (Cooperative) Species: Raiffeisen Banking in the Netherlands, 1898–1909|Cooperatively-owned Raiffeisen banks first emerged in the Netherlands in the late 1890s and spread rapidly across the country. Using a new dataset, we investigate the determinants of their market entry and early performance. We find that the cooperative organisational form, when allied to a change in the structure of Dutch agriculture and the socioreligious pillarisation of Dutch society, was an important factor explaining their entry into rural financial markets. While religious organisations provided a necessary impetus for the emergence of Raiffeisen banks, the economic advantages associated with the cooperative organisational form ensured the subsequent survival and success of these banks.
N83|Share trading activity and the rise of the rentier in the UK before 1920|Using a hand-collected dataset, we examine share trading activity over the period 1882 to 1920 for the North British and Mercantile Insurance Company, one of the largest UK companies of the time. Our main finding is that the steady flow of rentiers into the shareholding constituency of this company stymied share trading activity. Another important finding is that share trading still occurred during the closure of the Stock Exchange in 1914, but on a much-reduced scale. We also find that there was a substantial boom in share trading and in insurance stock prices after World War I.
N83|The Rise and Fall of Castrati|Castrato singers appeared in the Western World during the 16th century. They were needed by the Church for reasons that we shall discuss, and their skills were such that opera composers also decided to use them. This created a major demand for their services. Castrati reigned supreme at the Opera until the mid-19th century and continued to sing in Italian churches until 1913. The last one died in Rome in 1922. The paper shows that economic incentives played a key role in explaining the rise and fall of this remarkable group of singers.
N83|An Analysis of Revenues at the Comédie française, 1680-1793|I study the business practices of the Comédie française, the main theater in Paris, between 1680 and 1793. The theater was an actors’ partnership and operated within a (contested) oligopoly. Newly available data provide revenues by price category for over 32,000 performances. Attendance varied considerably from one performance to the next. Total revenues increased in the second half of the 18th century as demand for entertainment in Paris boomed. The increase came in part from box rentals (by performance or by season). Pricing practices changed over time, as premium pricing for high-demand events made way for premium pricing on specific weekdays, and ultimately constant pricing. The repertory consisted of proven classics to which successful novelties were added. As demand grew, the theater provided more variety and more novelty.
N83|Network preferences and the growth of the British cotton textile industry, c.1780-1914|The paper considers the dual aspect of social networks in terms of 1) product innovators and developers and 2) the providers of finance. The growth of networks can be explained as a function of incumbents and entrants’ preferences to link with specific nodes defined according to the underlying duality. Such preferences can be used to explain network evolution and growth dynamics in the cotton textile industry, from being the first sector to develop in the industrial revolution through to its maturity. The network preference approach potentially explains several features of the long run industry life cycle: 1. The early combination of innovators with access to extensive credit networks, protected by entry barriers determined by pre-existing network structures, leading to lower capital costs for incumbents and rapid productivity growth, c.1780-1830. 2. The spread of innovation and productivity through value chain linkages during the nineteenth century. 3. The trust movement, joint stock and personal capitalism: the emergence of large firms and a preference for regional financial markets in Lancashire and Scotland. 4. The consolidation of regional instead of national business groups which help explain the decline of the industry. The paper uses case studies of firms, networks, and market institutions based on a mixture of archival evidence, drawn mainly from the financial records of a large sample of cotton firms, and contemporary publications. It stresses human interactions (as opposed to population ecology mechanisms) as determinants of the character, scale and scope of network evolution. Intergenerational features of the networks are identified and classified by these characteristics. Networks were typically bounded in terms of product innovators and less bounded in terms of finance providers. Consequently, finance providers tend to provide the impetus for the rate of network growth in expansion, maturity and contraction phases.
N83|La industria vinícola del jerez y la replantación del viñedo, 1894-1914: una aportación de historia empresarial|This article examines the relationship between viticulture and the sherry industry during the difficult times of the phylloxera plague and changes in international markets prior to 1914. Based on company documents, this study offers a new set of statistics on the main indicators of the sherry sector (vineyards, musts, wines, export prices, and the added value of the industrial phase). It demonstrates the high added value in sherry wine production and the dominance of export firms. Although the loss of vineyards caused an increase in the price of musts, high production costs and a decrease in sherry demand limited the size of new vineyards, thus limiting their extension. This favored replanting vineyards, but only winegrowers with sufficient financial resources were able to carry this out. Some winegrowers demanded a restrictive regional appellation, but the opposition of the export firms obstructed the establishment of a collective brand.
N83|Negocio, tecnología e instituciones en la molienda del trigo en Castilla la Vieja y León a mediados del siglo XVIII|This text offers an approximation to the milling of wheat in the middle of the eighteenth century with respect to its mercantile, technological and institutional nature. For this purpose, the general responses of the Catastro del Marqués de la Ensenada in Palencia have been used. The hypothesis is that the conditions for obtaining flour were extremely archaic in these three dimensions, but at the same time efficient enough to guarantee the bread supply to the Castilian population without altering the status quo between the nobility, the church and the councils. However, a review of the accounts of the large wheat mills reveals that this balance started to break down around 1780, just when the new Enlightenment agricultural policy was implemented.
N83|Accounting fraud in a pre-modern historical context: An accounting investigation on the use of market (fair) value in the second half of the eighteenth century in Venice|The paper examines accounting practices, institutionsÕ role and the possible ways of defining accounting fraud in pre-modern historical context through the micro-analysis of a Venetian case. The three fraudulent financial statements, investigated in this paper, refer to the years 1781, 1782, and 1783, and regard Geminiano CozziÕs porcelain factory, an enterprise active in Venice in the second half of the eighteenth century. Their preparation was required by a government official (the Inquisitorato alle Arti) that, after the investigation of the statements, issued a report (called ÒRiflessioniÓ), emphasizing the reasons of the accounting fraud. In particular, the Inquisitorato highlighted the wrong evaluation of fixed assets at (historical) cost, arguing that it was far from the market (sale) value of such assets. The present paper examines the accounting criteria sought by the government official and fills part of the gap characterizing accounting history about the Italian peninsula (Zan, 1994).
N83|La industria cervecera en Madrid, 1815-1870|The end of the monopoly of manufacture, distribution and sale of beer in Madrid in 1791 led to the implementation and development of this industry in the Spanish capital after the end of the War of Independence. The gradual emergence of breweries, mainly by master brewers from German states, led to this sector becomingthe second industry in importance in Madrid behind heavy industry during the eighteen sixties. Also, reducing the distance from the price of beer compared to wine and institutional protection in tax and foreign trade regulations would encourage beer consumption in Madrid to widen its leadership in Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: N13. N23. N63. N83
N83|When is an oligarchy formed? The origins and evolution of an elite. Barcelona 1850-1920|This paper tracks the origins and inner changes of Barcelona's economic elite in the long term. The objective is to achieve a deeper understanding of the mechanism that families and individuals developed to gain access to the elites and retain their economic position. For doing so, the paper analyzes industrial and real estate tax payers in three moments (1853-1883-1919). Through this approach we can observe that in aggregate, elites (identified as the 5% of the higher taxpayers) move from a stationary state to a progressive increase of wealth concentration. For a deeper understanding of the mechanism and inner changes of this elite, we focus in 81 families and exhaustively we have tracked down their origin and evolution. The conclusion is that their initial wealth accumulation is linked with a few specific situations. Their economic promotion seems to be related to specific windows of opportunity that open at certain moments and/or places. Once these windows of opportunity close the elites seem to progressively lock on themselves. This tendency created social circles that favored endogamy.
N83|Knowledge Disclosure, Patent Management, and the Four-Stroke Engine Business|The appropriateness of patent systems has been largely discussed and has led to substantial theoretical debates and empirical analyses. One of the most significant arguments in favor of patents is that they enable knowledge disclosure, which would compensate their social cost. Through an evolutionary approach to a key case study based on a radical innovation and business –the four-stroke engine invented by the German Nicolaus August Otto in 1876– we provide new and fresh insights on the disclosure issue, on patent management hidden strategies, and on patent institutions and controversies.
N83|What Makes a Successful Entrepreneur? Historical Evidence from Italy (XIX-XX Centuries)|in this paper we employ a “quantitative” prosopographical approach to study the nature and the determinants of entrepreneurial success. Our main source is the “Biographical Dictionary of Italian Entrepreneurs” which contains very detailed information on 608 major Italian entrepreneurs active over more than two centuries. Our findings indicate the multidimensional nature of entrepreneurial success, comprising both a strictly economic and a “celebrity” dimension. Concerning the determinants of success, our findings point to the “political” nature of Italian capitalism.
N83|The Bank of England and the genesis of modern management|"In 1965 Sidney Pollard published The Genesis of Modern Management, an extended discussion of the problems, during Britain's initial period of industrialisation, of the 'internal management' of the firm. But, in his focus on industry, Pollard ignored one of the largest, most significant and most innovative of the enterprises of the late-eighteenth- and early-nineteenth centuries: The Bank of England. This paper focuses on the Bank as a site of precocious managerial development. It first establishes that the Bank, by the latter part of the eighteenth century, encompassed the complexities of a large-scale industrial enterprise. It employed a workforce of several hundred. Its workers operated in specialised and coordinated capacities. Its managerial hierarchy was diffuse and dependent on employed men, rather than the elected directorate. The Bank, therefore, warrants comparison with the types of enterprises identified by Pollard. Focusing on the 1780s, the paper then explores the Bank's organisational and management structure against Pollard's four aspects of management: 'the creation and training of a class of managers; 'the recruitment, training, disciplining and acculturation of labour'; the use of 'accountancy, and other information ... in the rational determination of their decisions' and finally the question of whether there emerged a 'theory and practice of ""management""'. It will demonstrate that, although not always applied effectively, the Bank's senior men did show managerial innovation and skill in training and organising the workforce and were able to make informed decisions which had the potential to improve some of the Bank's processes."
N83|Common law and the origin of shareholder protection|This paper examines the origins of investor protection under the common law by analysing the development of shareholder protection in Victorian Britain, the home of the common law. In this era, very little was codified, with corporate law simply suggesting a default template of rules. Ultimately, the matter of protection was one for the corporation and its shareholders. Using c. 500 articles of association and ownership records of publicly-traded Victorian corporations, we find that corporations afforded investors with just as much protection as is present in modern corporate law and that firms with better shareholder protection had more diffuse ownership.
N83|Common law and the origin of shareholder protection|This paper examines the origins of investor protection under the common law by analysing the development of shareholder protection in Victorian Britain, the home of the common law. In this era, very little was codified, with corporate law simply suggesting a default template of rules. Ultimately, the matter of protection was one for the corporation and its shareholders. Using c.500 articles of association and ownership records of publicly-traded Victorian corporations, we find that corporations afforded investors with just as much protection as is present in modern corporate law and that firms with better shareholder protection had more diffuse ownership.
N83|The Massó Fish Canning Company: An Innovative Family Business, 1883-1994|Studying family companies which have carried out their activities throughout the years is a way to analyse the innovation process and to show the role of these companies in the spatial development and industrial location. This article deals with Salvador Massó e Hijos from its creation in 1883 to its closure in 1994. This company pioneered the manufacture of canned fish in Spain and succeeded in keeping the entrepreneurial spirit for three generations.
N83|Intermarriage in a divided society: Ireland a century ago|This paper explores the characteristics associated with marriages between Roman Catholics and members of other religious denominations in Ireland before the Great War. Using the entire digitized returns of the 1911 population census, we find that such marriages were relatively rare, occurring in less than 1% of total marriages. Some of this infrequency can be attributed to ethno-religious hostility—especially in the north of the country. However, we also show that the rarity of intermarriage reflects local marriage markets, as non-Roman Catholics living in communities with fewer coreligionists were more likely to intermarry. We examine the individual characteristics of partners in these marriages, looking at the religious denomination of their children, their decision to marry out, and their fertility behavior. Our findings illustrate how the frequency of intermarriage reflects historical levels of intolerance, but only after local marriage market conditions have been accounted for.
N83|A Holy Alliance: Collusion in the Renaissance Europe Alum Market|On June 11, 1470, representatives of Pope Paul II and Ferdinand, King of Naples concluded a cartel agreement to restrict competition in the sale of alum. The agreement was one element of a broader plan to monopolize the sale of alum throughout Christendom. We discuss the background of the cartel agreement and analyze its terms (which include arrangements to facilitate detection of and reduce the profitability of defection) and the constraints that limited, but did not eliminate, Rome’s ability to extract economic profit from the European alum market. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
N83|Financing the Evolution of London’s Water Services: 1582 to 1904|This paper examines the evolution of water supply as a private, for-profit business from its origins in sixteenth century London until its transfer to a public monopoly at the start of the twentieth century. From 1582 onwards, 29 private water companies operated at different times in the area which became Greater London. By 1850, these had consolidated into eight local monopolies operating within mutually-agreed boundaries. The survival of private services depended on a mix of economic, institutional and political factors. Financial sustainability was achieved through early start-up investment subsidies and a pricing policy that kept the basic charge for a household connection constant in nominal terms for two and a half centuries. As quality regulation was introduced after 1852, services were transformed from low-pressure, intermittent and untreated supply, to a treated, continuous, high-pressure service universally available and affordable to all. Over the long run, users paid for services, with wealthier households providing a cross-subsidy to poorer ones through time. The policy implication is that early public sector financial support in the form of grants, soft loans or patient equity may be necessary to launch private sector solutions for water services, and that quality and price regulation is needed to drive quality improvements, achieve universal coverage and cap excess profits.
N83|The Development of Corporate Governance in Toulouse: 1372-1946|We document a sequence of institutional innovations associated with the corporate form over the course of several centuries in Toulouse. Shareholding companies that began in the 11th century formally incorporated themselves into two large-scale, widely held firms by 1373. In the years that followed they experienced the economic challenges and conflicts we now recognize as inherent in the separation of ownership and control. Using new and existing archival research, we show how the Toulouse firms developed institutional solutions including tradable shares, limited liability, governing boards, cash payout policies, external audits, shareholder meetings and mechanisms for re-capitalization. We examine these developments in the context of institutional economic theory and the received history of the corporation. The Toulouse companies preceded the birth of the Dutch and English East India companies by centuries. The Toulouse firms shed light on the necessary and sufficient conditions for the development of the corporate form. We show that the constellation of features associated with the corporation can appear in situations of relative economic certainty and in the context of Medieval legal code that did not require the granting of governmental approval or patent. The Toulouse firms are a unique case in which the corporation appears as a nexus of private contracts.
N83|Fraud and Financial Scandals: A Historical Analysis of Opportunity and Impediment|The paper presents a conceptual framework of financial fraud based on the historical interaction of opportunity and impediment. In the long run the character of opportunity is determined by the technical characteristics of assets and their unique, unknowable or unverifiable features. Impediment is promoted by consensus about the real value of assets, such that through active governance processes, fraudulent deviations from real value can be easily monitored. Active governance requires individuals in positions of responsibility to exercise a duty of care beyond merely being honest themselves. Taking a long run historical perspective and reviewing a selection of British financial frauds and scandals, from the South Sea Bubble to the Global Financial Crisis, the paper notes the periodic occurrence of waves of opportunity and the evolutionary response of passive governance mechanisms.
N83|Huth & Co.’s credit strategies: a global merchant-banker’s risk management, c. 1810-1850|The pivotal role played by non-banking institutions in supporting the expansion of international trade after the Napoleonic Wars and before first globalization c. 1870-1913 has long been recognised. Merchant-bankers in particular played a crucial role by advancing monies to consignors of products all over the world. Without this form of credit, many international trade operations could not have taken place. Despite the important extant literature on merchant-banking, we knew little about how these international lenders protected themselves against the risks involved in advancing during this period, in particular for merchantbankers who had diversified both geographically and by products. This paper is concerned with the risk protection strategies followed by one of these actors: Huth & Co., the first of these companies to globalize their operations. During this expansionary period they provided credit to many of their connections all over the world, thus becoming an important financial intermediary within world trade. This paper, therefore, provides the first account of the credit risk management strategies followed by this pioneer global lender.
N83|Happy hour followed by hangover: Financing the UK brewery industry, 1880-1913|In the last 15 years of the nineteenth century c.300 British brewers incorporated and floated securities on the stock market. Subsequently, in the 1900s, the industry suffered a long-lived hangover. In this paper, we establish the stylised facts of this transformation and estimate the gains enjoyed by brewery investors during the boom as well as the losses suffered by investors during the bust of the 1900s. However, not all brewery equity shares suffered alike. We find that post-1900 performance correlates positively with capital-market discipline and good corporate governance and negatively with family control, but does not correlate with indebtedness.
N83|The Impact Of The Bon Marché On The Modern Commercial Landscape|The article is a historical trip into the creation of the oldest kind of unspecialized store that exists in the modern commercial landscape and whose pioneering concepts transformed the way in which consumers shop up today. The paper is divided into three sections, each of them contributing to achieve the purpose that is to examine the origins and the business model of the first department store in the world. The paper also enriches our knowledge about the department store and retailing history. In the first section, the author emphasizes on the particular economic context that allowed the creation of big retail surfaces, to the mid-1800s, and describes architecture, atmosphere and retail strategy specific to Bon Marché. In the second section, department store was defined and have been identified its key characteristics. The last section was devoted to the general future trends which can make possible the survival of the department stores in the modern commercial landscape. Finally conclusions were outlined.
N83|American tariff policy and the British alkali industry, 1880-1905|Until the late nineteenth century, the British alkali industry enjoyed a colossal export market in the United States. Yet, as several scholars have already noted, the highly protectionist Dingley Tariff of 1897 caused a precipitous and irreversible decline in the volume of British alkali exports to the United States. Drawing upon an abundance of textual evidence, this study argues that, in addition to the climactic Dingley Tariff, previous American tariff acts in 1883, 1890, and 1894 also exerted a pronounced influence on the volume of British alkali exports to the United States. Further corroborating this claim is a regression analysis that employs, as an explanatory variable, newly constructed annual estimates of the ad valorem equivalent tariff that the United States imposed upon alkali imports from Britain. Approaching the British alkali industry from a microeconomic standpoint, this study also argues that one particular British alkali firm, Brunner, Mond & Co., mitigated its financial exposure to American tariff policy by acquiring, in 1887, a minority shareholding in a nascent American alkali firm, the Solvay Process Company. Profits from Brunner’s shareholding in the Solvay Process Company substantially offset the profits that Brunner, Mond & Co. lost as the result of its diminished alkali exports to the United States. The other dominant British alkali firm, the United Alkali Company, did not fare so well.
N83|Wages and prices in early Catalan industrialisation|Catalonia was the only Mediterranean region among the early followers of the British Industrial Revolution in the second third of the nineteenth century. The roots of this industrialisation process can be traced back to the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries when the Catalan economy became successfully integrated in international trade and the region enjoyed an intensification of its agrarian and proto-industrial activities. These capitalist developments were subsequently reinforced by a successful printed calico manufacturing business concentrated in the city of Barcelona. Although the factory system was largely adopted by the cotton industry in the 1840s, the diffusion of the spinning jenny had occurred earlier in the 1790s. In this paper, in line with Allen (2009a, 2009b), we explore whether relative factor prices played a role in the widespread adoption of the spinning jenny in Catalonia. First, we supply series of real wages in Barcelona for the period 1500-1808 in line with studies conducted within the ‘Great Divergence’ debate. Second, we undertake a comparative analysis of the relationship between the prices of labour and capital.Finally, we focus on the cotton spinning sector to determine the potential profitability of the adoption of the spinning jenny in Catalonia. We find that although Catalonia was not a high wage economy in the way that Britain was in the second half of the eighteenth century, evidence from the cotton spinning sector confirms the relevance of relative factor prices in the adoption of new technology. Within the booming sector of cotton after the 1780s, high wages created strong incentives for adopting the labour-saving spinning jenny.
N83|Monopoly Power in the Eighteenth Century British Book Trade:|In conventional wisdom, the reform of British copyright law during the eighteenth century brought an end to the monopoly on the sale of books held by the Stationers’ Company, and the resulting competition was one of the driving forces behind the expansion of British book production during the Enlightenment. In this paper, we analyze a new dataset on eighteenth century book prices and author payments, showing that the legal reform brought about only a temporary increase in competition. The data suggest that by the end of the century, informal collusion between publishers had replaced the legal monopoly powers in place at the beginning of the century. The monopoly power of retailers is not so easily undermined.
N83|Identity, nostalgia and happiness among migrants: The case of the KÅ shien High School Baseball Tournament in Japan|Public broadcasting of all games of high school baseball tournaments attests to their popularity in Japan. The present study uses individualâ€ level data to test the hypothesis that nostalgia influences the level of happiness of Japanese people. Its key findings were: (i) the number of wins by a prefecture team increased the happiness level of its residents; (ii) this effect applied only to residents of large cities; and (iii) for urban migrants, originally from rural areas, the effect of their home team wins exceeded that of the wins of their host area team. This effect was significant in cases where the host area cultural climate differed from that of the migrant home area. These findings suggest that a scarcity of â€˜identityâ€™ goods related to the residential community increases high school baseball influence on happiness. Furthermore, the influence of nostalgia for home on migrantsâ€™ happiness is greater than their attachment to their current residential community.
N83|Why did early industrial capitalists suggest minimum wages and social insurance?|Today the European welfare states are strongly challenged and it is heavily debated how much social security a society should provide and how much private insurance is possible. This article goes back to the origins of the German welfare state. In the 1830s, industrialists from the district of Aachen (Prussian Rhineprovince) suggested to implement collective labour rules regulating working hours and wages. In the 1860s –20 years before Bismarck– they proposed a mandatory pension system with equal contributions of employers and employees; they suggested labour conflict resolution by joint arbitration panels of employers and labour representatives. The proposals did not gain support from the Prussian ministries arguing collective agreements would violate freedom of contracting. Entrepreneurs demanding social welfare and the Prussian state defending economic liberalism – this challenges the perception of the Bismarckian welfare state as a means to reconcile labour with the German state. Yet, in the early 19th century the district of Aachen was the most advanced economic region in Prussia in regard with industrial employment and modern industrial organisation. Producing quality goods for the world markets, the industrialists aimed at stabilizing the social environment and reconciling labour with the capitalist society. Their motivation, however, was not based on philanthropy; it was guided by economic aims and collective self-interest. Analysing ‘social policy’ as a capitalist aim, the paper puts the German welfare state in a new perspective. By doing this it also wants to contribute to the discussion on the future of the modern welfare states, because if the argument presented here holds it might have implications for the possibility of privately solving social problems.
N83|120 Years of (Non) Issue of the Czech Translation of the book “Treatise on Accounting” by Luca Pacioli|The first printed textbook of double entry bookkeeping in the world, “Treatise on Accounting” by Luca Pacioli, was published as part of a mathematic textbook Summa de Arithmetica, Geometria, Proportii et Proportionalita in Venice in 1494, which is 520 years old this year. Thanks to Czech accounting historians, K. P. Kheil jr. (1843-1908) and H. Raulich (1866-1940) is for a Czech reader interested in accounting history available today in addition to the original text, as well as Italian, French, German, English and Russian versions, also Czech versions of Treatise Pacioli. Journey to the Czech translation was not easy. For the Kheil’s translation remained even at not quite finished forms of this work. We remember especially the 120th anniversary of preparation by Kheil’s translation to the press; edition, which eventually not happened.
N83|Opening the black box of entrepreneurship: The Italian case in a historical perspective| The main objective of this paper is to shed light on the Italian entrepreneurship between the beginning of the second industrial revolution and the end of the twentieth century. It is based on a new dataset concerning the profiles of 386 entrepreneurs. The results are twofold: first, by proposing an empirically based taxonomy of Italian entrepreneurs not exclusively founded on intuitions and qualitative judgements, the article provide valuable interpretative elements; second, the article puts forward some hypotheses about the relationship between entrepreneurship and Italian economic growth. In particular a cluster analysis singles out five different entrepreneurial typologies characterised by a widespread tendency to search for new markets, yet a scarce attitude towards innovation. Further it is suggested that the evolution of the institutional context slowed down the development of the entrepreneurial abilities and virtues necessary to grow.
N83|Mixed marriages in Ireland a century ago|This paper explores the characteristics associated with marriages between Roman Catholics and members of other religious denominations ('mixed marriages') in 1911 Ireland. Using the recently-digitized returns of the 1911 census of population, we find that such marriages were relatively rare, varying from two to three percent of all mar- riages in Dublin to less than half a percent in Connacht. However, at the turn of the century in the Dublin area mixed marriages represented 12 per cent or more of mar- riages where at least one of the partners was a non-Catholic. When mixed marriages did occur the Catholic partner was more likely to be the wife. Using regression analysis we examine the individual characteristics of the partners to these marriages and find a number of characteristics significantly associated with them. However, the strength and even the direction of predictors like socioeconomic status vary substantially across regions, most notably between Ulster and the rest of Ireland. In Ulster mixed marriages tended to occur between partners in lower socioeconomic positions, whereas in the rest of Ireland the partners tended to be from higher social strata. Since the religion of the children born to mixed marriages was a contentious issue, we match our sample of partners of mixed religions to their children and find that the religion of the children was strongly influenced by the mothers religion. Couples of mixed religions had lower fertility than the general population, even when the influence of socioeconomic class and other potentially confounding variables is allowed for. This, as well as the evi- dence of higher infant-child mortality among families of mixed marriages, potentially indicates a lack of family and social support due to the general public disapproval of couples who married across the religious divide.
N83|The role of Old Believers' enterprises: Evidence from the nineteenth century Moscow textile industry|The early accumulation of capital and the pioneering of capitalist enterprise have been undertaken in many countries by heterodox religious communities. The role of the Old Believers (further OB) in the early development of Russian industry and trade was noted by many economic historians (Blackwell, 1965; Gerschenkron, 1970; Beliajeff, 1979; Stadnikov, 2002; Kerov, 2004; Raskov, 2012); however, empirical and statistical research on the topic is still scarce. Therefore one of our goals is to analyze the role of the OB entrepreneurship in a dynamic dimension using statistical data. Taking advantage of official censuses of 1850, 1857 and, what is more important, 15 archive sources for confessional data for 1808 - 1905 and 7 industrial reports, we analyze the role of the OB firms in the Moscow textile industry for the period of 1832 - 1890. We find that the share of the OB firms in turnover and employment was over-proportionate prior to 1879, which hints at a higher propensity to entrepreneurship. The turnover per worker of the OB firms was significantly higher only in the wool sub-sector. Additionally, the OB firms tended to employ more labor. We capture the continuous process of the rise and fall of the OB entrepreneurship, especially in cotton-paper and wool weaving sub-sectors. Bearing in mind cyclical waves of repressions against the OB, we can state, that the performance of their firms was impressing. We discuss the Weber thesis and the Petty-Gerschenkron argument, and state that various factors contributed to their success: working ethics and minority status; social capital, networking and access to interest free financing; own informal institutions and reputation mechanisms; human capital and literacy.
N83|Capital market efficiency in the British industrial revolution: the case of the Lancashire cotton industry, 1760-1840|"""Recent debates on the industrial revolution have continued to showcase the role of the cotton textile industry. These discussions have centred on the Schumpeterian view of rapid growth based on a disequilibrium model in which capital market imperfections allow innovative firms to restrict entry, thereby earning long run super-normal profits. Neo-classical interpretations, in contrast, argue that firms were relatively untroubled by capital market imperfections and experienced few problems accessing finance, facilitating entry and rapid adjustments to equilibrium profit levels, with the gains from technological innovation transmitted through falling prices. Important questions can therefore be addressed by examining further the question of capital market efficiency. To operate efficiently, inter alia, a capital market should allow freedom of access, equalise rates of profit across sectors and accurately price the risk of economic activity. To investigate efficiency of the capital market in these respects, the paper uses firm level data to examine whether or not, first the firm’s access to capital was restricted by outdated business practices, second, whether capital goods suppliers were able to charge monopoly rents to textile firms and third, whether the cost of finance accurately reflected the risk of the enterprise. The research uses archival evidence for a sample of cotton textile firms and the steam engine manufacturer, Boulton and Watt. These records are investigated to examine how, and at what cost, firms accessed financial resources. The results show that an important source of disequilibrium was the slow pace of capital market development relative to the technological pace and demands of industrialisation. The underdeveloped capital market perpetuated pre-industrial methods of finance, including high dependency on bills of exchange at prescriptive interest rates. Although some entrepreneurs took advantage of the most efficient steam technology, returns did not systematically reflect underlying risk. At the same time, profitable opportunities remained for firms entering the market using old technology and traditional organisational networks. For these reasons, cotton firms had the potential of super-normal profits but these opportunities were dissipated by the costs of circulation arising from capital market inefficiencies and the rents associated with monopoly, asset mispricing, arbitrage and fraud. As a consequence, although the story of the industrial revolution is one of Schumpeterian disequilibrium, the apparent lack of sustained abnormal profits in manufacturing reflected embedded local networks of capital and transaction cost, rather than the neo-classical story of rapid adjustment to equilibrium."""
N83|Corvée versus money: Micro-history of a water infrastructure in the Alps, the Rû Courtaud, 1393- 2013|This paper analyses the micro-history of an irrigation infrastructure in the Alps, the Rû Courtaud, bringing water from the glacier of Ventina along the Ayas Valley, until some villages in the countryside of Saint-Vincent. Established in 1393, the infrastructure is still working and serving the local communities. The peculiar interest of this history lies in the way the investment and the maintenance costs were afforded by the project promoters. After an initial payment of 80 golden florins to the Seigneur of Challant, who held the water rights, the households promoting the infrastructure offered a very well tuned supply of labour in the form of corvées. These were established in a voluntary contract binding the promoters and their heirs. This was indeed a very long term venture, as - given the hard local conditions - the construction of the Rû took fifty years. The returns, however, were satisfactory, and the Rû Courtaud is still operated after six centuries, and has still a not for profit consortium. The opportunity to substitute money finance with labour 'finance' is analysed, and the arrangement is found to be efficient in terms of minimising ownership-related costs. Several other water infrastructures in the Alps were provided by similar schemes. This seems an interesting example of a 'bottom up' mechanism for the provision of public investment.
N83|Copyright and the Profitability of Authorship: Evidence from Payments to Writers in the Romantic Period|Proponents of stronger copyright terms have argued that stronger copyright terms encourage creativity by increasing the profitability of authorship. Empirical evidence, however, is scarce, because data on the profitability of authorship is typically not available to the public. Moreover at current copyright lengths of 70 years after the author's death, further extensions may not have any effects on the profitability of authorship. To investigate effects of copyright at lower pre-existing levels of protection, this chapter introduces a new data set of publishers' payments to authors of British fiction between 1800 and 1830. These data indicate that payments to authors nearly doubled following an increase in the length of copyright in 1814. These findings suggest that - starting from low pre-existing levels of protection - policies that strengthen copyright terms may, in fact, increase the profitability of authorship.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N83|Shanghai's Trade, China's Growth: Continuity, Recovery, and Change since the Opium Wars|This paper provides an analysis of China's trade performance from the 1840s to the present. Its focus is on Shanghai, the world's largest port, which began direct trade relations with Western nations starting in 1843. The paper finds that Shanghai had, and continues to have, an important role in China's trade structure. Applying the well-known gravity equation of trade for Shanghai's treaty port period, the paper shows that this relationship fits today's actual trade quite well when projected into the modern period. Second, the foreign presence, as measured by foreign direct investment (FDI), in Shanghai is shown to be related not only to trade in the past, but also to trade today, which suggests that FDI is one of the sources of persistence in foreign trade.
N83|A Historical Overview of Joint Stock Company Births in Greece (1830-1909): Coincidence, causality and determinants|Research on the history of the joint stock company has focused on advanced capitalist countries. Among the latecomer countries to be neglected is Greece. This paper is the outcome of a research project which seeks to redress this omission by constructing a historical data base from the charters of Greek Joint Stock Company (JSC) start-ups. We examine here through historical/qualitative and quantitative analysis the data for the period between 1830 and 1909. Our main findings are that: 1. The joint stock company in Greece came with nation building. Incorporation represented a small number of companies in absolute terms, but a relatively large capital commitment. It was emblematic of ‘big business units’ in what was basically a peasant economy. 2. Although the JSC was introduced from above, the legal framework for incorporation failed to evolve and adapt. Other forces in the socio-economic environment drove its evolution. Namely, the shift of JSC births from a period of incubation and ‘monoculture’ to a period (time-thread) of expanding horizons commencing circa 1870. 3. Joint stock company births came in waves. The timing of the 1870 cut-off point and of the other peaks in births coincided with exogenous so to speak shocks, among which institutional /political changes, and or geographical expansion played a primary role. These raised business expectations and hence increased the supply of surplus capital towards avant-garde activities (i.e. the nascent corporate sector). It could be argued that Joint Stock Company founders seemed to prefer to ride a tide- their entrepreneurial drive being motivated by (and perhaps further feeding) ‘rising expectations’. 4. Preliminary time series analysis indicates that GDP is a trend stationary process with a low deterministic trend component while paid-in capital is a difference stationary process. Capital persistence indicates negative association implying caution on the part of the investors given the uncertain economic context. Despite the absence of a Slutsky effect, the GDP series may have been induced by applying Kuznets transformations to an otherwise white noise process. In fact, the spectral density of GDP exhibits a long-cycle of about 18 years at the lowest frequency with subsequent dampening. 5. Further analysis provides evidence in favour of an equilibrium relationship between gross incorporation as measured by paid in capital commitment and GDP. Short-run dynamics imply that the propensity to commit capital is positive and equal to 2.26 in case of total and 2.99 in case of agricultural GDP. Moreover, it is paid-in capital which provides evidence in favour of equilibrium adjustment as opposed to GDP. Given our preliminary finding of a deterministic trend in paid-in capital, our evidence of co-integration is restricted to the stochastic trend component of the series. 6. Despite the lack of an underlying structural economic model for gross incorporation and the macro-economy, we may exploit the efficient markets hypothesis, according to which the structural equilibrium adjustment parameter of paid-in capital should equal unity. Our empirical findings indicate that it is negative and close to one. Thus, even though economic context matters, it is paid-in capital which drives expectations. 7. There is evidence that paid-in capital is Granger-caused by GDP. Causality is mutual in case of agricultural GDP (yet marginally significant at the 10% level) since agricultural GDP is Granger-caused by paid-in capital as well. This finding implies transformation of agricultural surplus into capital value despite the rather uncertain economic environment. 8. Paid-in capital is the primary determinant of gross incorporation. There is evidence that an increase in paid-in capital increases the probability of JSC births in a year by 21-23% with associated elasticity of around 3. Moreover, there is evidence of over-dispersion in the Poisson conditional mean of 44.3%. Following our previous analysis, the source of this over-dispersion is the domination of the sectoral distribution of JSC births by financial services.
N83|Las raíces agrarias del crecimiento económico andaluz y el grupo Larios (1800-1936)|This article tries to shed light on a macroeconomic issue from a microeconomic or business perspective. The problem is the Andalusian backwardness in comparison to more advantaged regions of Spain and the subsequent negative effects it had on the population’s standard of living. The backwardness was due to the overemphasis on activities related to the production and transformation of agricultural products in the region during the 19th century and the first third of the 20th century, a period when the opposite just should have occurred. The business perspective is based on a case study of the Larios Group, which was an engine of economic changes in the region along this period. An important feature of this evolution was the increase of the agrarian share of their business, especially in their industrial activities. The epilogue suggests a hypothesis trying to explain why this agrarian orientation, given the socio-political context of the region, allowed for economic growth but blocked structural change.(Full text in Spanish)
N83|Apuntes para una relación comercial velada: la República de Florencia y el Reino de Granada en la Baja Edad Media|Las repúblicas mercantiles italianas (Génova, Venecia) desempeñaron un papel fundamental en la inserción del Reino de Granada en el comercio internacional de la Baja Edad Media. El presente artículo pretende estudiar un aspecto mal conocido hasta el momento, la posición de la República de Florencia en el sultanato nazarí. Para ello se tomarán como referencia los mecanismos comerciales desarrollados por los mercaderes toscanos en las relaciones con el Islam occidental entre los siglos xiii y xv , destacando las particularidades observadas en Granada. Por último, los datos localizados sobre el comercio de las galeras estatales florentinas servirán para alcanzar una conclusión provisional. KEY Classification-JEL: N43. N73. N83. N93.
N83|War, Conquest and Local Merchants: The Role of Credit in the Peripheral Military Administration of the Hispanic Monarchy during the First Half of the Sixteenth Century|During the early modern period the European Monarchies were expanding geographically and politically. Despite the importance of the military campaigns the challenge was, however, not in conquering independent polities but in keeping them. For that reason the mobilization of resources to maintain the war effort was especially important and the members of the different military administrations were frequently obliged to obtain loans from the local merchants and financiers of the recently conquered communities. The reputation or 'credit' (the term employed to designate the borrower's trustworthiness) of these monarchical agents in charge of the organization and funding of the military campaigns played a key role in the mobilization of local resources to maintain these conquests. Through a micro-historical analysis of some local loans negotiated during this period, I will analyse the credit assessment around these loans as conditioned by information about past conducts, future rewards and individual credibility. In doing so, we can realise the complexity of this reputation-based credit-assessment and reconstruct the different meanings of reputation that they handled.
N83|The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism the Haugian Way|On the basis of availabale sources the present paper seeks to map entrepreneural industrial activities the Norwegian puritan revivalist Hans Nielsen Hauge (1771-1824) was involved in and quantify his financial activities. It also tries to map entrepreneural activities by his followers. The paper concludes that these activities must have played a decisive role for the economic development in Norway during the nineteenth century.
N83|The financing history of urban water infrastructure in Paris (1807-1925): lessons from the past to enlighten present and future challenges?|Sustainable financing is a major challenge for the water sector both in many developing countries where water and sanitation services are still in the expansion phase and in Europe where the water industry is faced to major investments needs too. To give more depth to the present policy debate a historical perspective on water services financing is needed. This paper is focused on the financing history of the Paris water infrastructure brought to completion in the 1807-1925 time frame (Ourcq canal, water supply network and sewers, long distance aqueducts, water treatment plants, waste water treatment units). A variety of financing schemes and institutional solutions (municipal budget - fiscal resources, concession, municipal bond and land added value capture schemes) are identified and described. A deeper analysis is made on the financial flows of Paris’ water, sanitation and canals service over the 1893-1930 time frame. A discussion on the institutional choices and on the long run cost allocation of the chosen financing schemes is made. It appears that long term debt, inflation and land added value capture mechanisms played key roles in absorbing part of the investments’ costs.
N83|The Role of the Double-Entry Bookkeeping in the Emergence of Capitalism|The article describes the differences between the early capitalism and pre-capitalist modes of production. It also considers the thesis advanced by W. Sombart on the double-entry bookkeeping as a necessary prerequisite of the emergence of capitalism. The author suggests the definition of capitalism as a management system aimed at maximizing capital. He also develops a hypothesis that the double-entry bookkeeping and capitalism originated in the Roman Empire and were just resuscitated in the Middle-Ages Italy.
N83|Theocracy is just another Form of Dictatorship: Theory and Evidence from the Papal Regimes|This paper tests the explanatory and predictive power of a theory of dictatorship (e.g., Wintrobe 1998, 2007) when applied to the case of theocracy and in particular to the history of the temporal power of the Popes. We consider the behaviour of the Catholic theocracy in the Papal States, as this was a very long lasting theocracy, exposed to many historical shocks that reveal information about the incentives and constraints that characterize it. We use this information to test the explanatory power of the theory of dictatorship, showing that never in the history of the temporal power of the Church have the four categories of dictatorship that the theory foresees (tinpot, tyrant, totalitarian and conceivably timocrat) proven inadequate. Theocracy is just like any other form of dictatorship. Furthermore, we test some of the predictions of the theory of dictatorship about the durability of, and the source of opposition to the various regimes on data about the Papacy. The results appear to support the theory.
N83|Italian Firms in History: Size, Technology and Entrepreneurship|The economic performance of a country depends, among other things, on the strategies and structures of its firms. In the framework that is designed by institutions and policies and determined by technology and macroeconomic cycles, entrepreneurs decide how to allocate available resources in order to face off competitors and to hook up with demand cycles. This paper looks at the evolution of the Italian economy across the last 150 years from a business history perspective. Analyzing Italian firms over the long-term cycles of the global economy and with respect to the different paradigms of the three industrial revolutions, we identify some structural features that explain successes and failures of the Italian economy. In doing this we explicitly connect the micro level of the business enterprise to the macro one of the national business system and explain the comparatively good performance of the Italian economy from the end of the 19th century to the 1970s. Over the last three decades this performance has turned negative, highlighting the role played by the small average size of firms and the failure of institutions to provide incentives for growth.
N83|Old and new Italian multinational firms|"After a quick profile of Italian foreign direct investments since 1900 and a short review of the main explanations of the lagged multinational growth by Italian manufacturing companies, a quick glimpse of business histories is given to the only two still today living ""old protagonists"" (Pirelli, Fiat) and to three old corporate groups (Olivetti, SNIA Viscosa, Montecatini-Montedison) who had also reached a significant degree of full internationalization early in the XX century, but during the second postwar period underwent profound dismantling of their original business mission. Finally the paper focuses on few cases of ""new protagonists"", mid-size family companies who undertook a true multinational strategy only in the most recent decades and today represent the core of the Italian ""fourth capitalism""."
N83|The creation of new entities: stakeholders and shareholders in 19th century Italian co-operatives|The numerous studies made of the persistence of the co-operative movement during the course of the 20th century, have often distinguished between economic efficiency and the ethical values (or ideologies) in questioni, as if the two were separate phenomena moving in parallel directions. However, over the past fifteen years at least two approaches have led to an interweaving of the cultural aspects of co-operation with the question of economic efficiency: the Putnam’s concept of social capital and the property rights model based on the work of Henry Hansmann. In associating myself with an approach, where efficiency is linked with “culture”, I wish to examine the cultural components of the Italian co-operative movement which emerged from three different socio-cultural traditions: liberalism, catholicism and socialism. Despite their differences, all three seem to share what we refer to here as the “ideal of community happiness”, that is the ideal of a collaboration among citizens for the improvement of the standard of living of the whole community. In this paper we will measure the popularity of this culture in the various Italian regions by per capita welfare expenditure in 1880 and 1900. At that time everything spent for helping people in need was given by friendly societies, catholic charities and local councils and nothing came from the central state. Therefore only the spreading of non-profit societies and a proactive attitude by local councils could generate high per capita welfare expenditure. Indeed, such indicator would seem to be closely linked to co-operative expansion during the second half of the 19th century, and would thus appear to provide an explanation for the non-homogeneous geographical distribution of Italian co-operatives. The main conclusion of this essay is that in the early stages the link with the political and cultural movements was crucial not only for the emergence but above all for the viability of cooperative enterprises by reducing the costs associated with collective decision making.
N83|The design of licensing contracts: Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals, and Electrical Engineering in Imperial Germany|We investigate a sample of 180 technology licensing contracts closed by German chemical, pharmaceutical, and electrical engineering companies between 1880 and 1913. Our empirical results suggest that strategic behaviour seems to be relevant for the design of licensing contracts, whereas inventor moral hazard and risk aversion of licensor or licensee seem to be irrelevant. Moreover, our results suggest that uncertainty regarding the profitability of licensed technology influenced the design of licensing contracts. More specifically, profit sharing agreements or producer milestones were typically included into licensing contracts.
N83|De sale à durable ? Le tannage du XIXe au XXIe siècle<BR>[From dirty to sustanaible ? Tanning industry nineteenth to twenty-first century]|The tanning industry is presented today, by its own enterprises but also in the media, as a champion of sustainable development through the come back of the vegetable method, abandoned since the early twentieth century. The argument is problematic in relation to the concept of sustainable development itself, but also with regard to the history of this industry which is in contrary among the most polluting. The abandonment of vegetable tannage at the turn of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries must be understood by situating this technological development in its economic and social framework. Adherence to sustainable development seems well, therefore, like a recent development to meet the challenges of the sector.
N83|Les industries animales dans l'ouest de la France : les territoires industrielles de Chateau-Renault et Surgères<BR>[Animal industries in western France : the industrials territories of Chateau-Renault and Surgères]|The author of this paper intends to compare two industrial territories from western France: Chateau-Renault and Surgères. Chateau-Renault is a tanning center, and the city of Surgères houses a vast dairy. The industries of both areas deal with products of animal origins deriving from agriculture. They could be named “animal industries”. Besides, both areas are located in the west of France, where industrialization lagged behind the rest of the country. The author will study the mechanism at work behind the development of those industries in a region with very little industry overall. The relationship between local resources, notably agriculture, and the development of a specific form of industrialization are central to the emergence of those animal industries.
N83|A moneylender in Venice: Costantino Bogdano ‘da Patrasso’, c. 1800-44|Research on the practices of the moneylender, a permanent yet shadowy fixture of society, has focused on England in the early modern period. This paper, however, examines the business operations of Costantino Bogdano, a Greek moneylender active in Venice (c. 1800-44). At a time of transition in finance and cash shortage, Bogdano offered credit at a ‘just’ interest rate with competitive terms, combining profit with enlightened self-interest. Individuals from all walks of life repeatedly turned to him for money without ‘fear of losing their property’. He was patient, granted extensions for repayment and did not prosecute his bad debtors. The incidence of default was rare, testifying to a cautious choice of clientele. He required the usual guarantees of mortgages and jewels and also relied on implicit guarantees from family members linked to one another with bonds of trust. This strategy proved to be financially viable because he died a wealthy man.
N83|Añil, cacao y reses. Los negocios del indiano Esteban González de Linares en tiempos de mudanza, 1784-1796|The aim of this work is to exploit the information contained in an isolated but very dense source: the cash book of the Spanish merchant Esteban Gonzalez de Linares. Moved to Caracas between 1785 and 1791 to manage the liquidation of the estate of Sebastian de Mier y Terán, a wealthy landowner in Los Llanos, Linares was actively involved in the export boom of those years, marked by the end of the monopoly of the Guipuzcoa Company and the decrees of free trade. The text quantifies the amount of cocoa, indigo, and cattle moved by this subject, and their prices.
N83|The design of licensing contracts: Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals, and Electrical Engineering in Imperial Germany|We investigate a sample of 180 technology licensing contracts closed by German chemical, pharmaceutical, and electrical engineering companies between 1880 and 1913. Our empirical results suggest that strategic behaviour seems to be relevant for the design of licensing contracts, whereas inventor moral hazard and risk aversion of licensor or licensee seem to be irrelevant. Moreover, our results suggest that uncertainty regarding the profitability of licensed technology influenced the design of licensing contracts. More specifically, profit sharing agreements or producer milestones were typically included into licensing contracts.
N83|Old Times, Better Times? German Miners' Knappschaften, Pay-as-you-go Pensions, and Implicit Rates of Return, 1854–1913|This paper contributes to the literature on the weakness of modern pay-as-yougo social security systems in financing pensions by taking a business and economic historical perspective on the issue. It focuses on Prussian Knappschaften (plural of Knappschaft), which provided miners with compulsory invalidity and implicit old-age insurance, and studies the period from 1854 to 1913. Knappschaften used the pay-asyou-go mechanism, and, in the long-term, came under financial pressure by the rising number of pensioners. The question to be answered is whether Knappschaften were able to offer cohorts of miners entering the system at different times the same implicit rates of return. Did Knappschaften provide an intergenerationally sustainable policy, or did adjustments of contributions and other parameters decrease the dividend for insured miners over time?
N83|Wily welfare capitalist: Werner von Siemens and the pension plan|The German firm of Siemens and Halske introduced many enterprising features of what later came to be known as welfare capitalism in the mid-nineteenth century. Profit sharing, annual bonuses, a pension fund, a reduction in work hours, and an annual party were all means to ensure a productive, trouble-free workforce. We investigate the reasons why Siemens and Halske introduced this internal welfare system. We focus on the by-far most expensive part of the welfare system: the pension fund introduced in 1872, more than a decade before the nationwide social security system was implemented in Germany. We find that the adoption of the internal welfare system increased labor productivity, and in addition discouraged workers from striking. We estimate that the company’s gains due to strike prevention and higher productivity were at least as high as the cost of the pension fund. This suggests that (1) the introduction of a pension fund is not inconsistent with simple profit maximizing behavior on the firm’s side and (2) increased labor unionization induced firms to introduce subjective components of workers’ remuneration packages.
N83|La economía de Valladolid, 1830-2000. Una perspectiva histórica|This paper offers an overview of the modern Economic History of an interior Spanish province (Valladolid). It investigates the reasons of the economic retardation of this central region in contrast with the periphery of the country. It also presents the unknown attempts of the local business class to exploit large industrial conglomerates. The evidence shows that the region did not lack of entrepreneurial spirit. Actually, in spite the adverse agricultural conditions, the Government protection, the little modernisation of its capital market and its large risk aversion, Valladolid became the main industrial district of the region thanks to its specialization in food production and metallurgy
N83|Las empresas metalgráficas en Galicia (1890-1936)|This paper aims to analyze the role of metal graphic companies in Galicia. Metal graphic is an activity that has gone virtually unnoticed in economic history, despite having played a key role in the development and competitiveness of the canned fish sector, which for many years was the basis of the industrialization of Galicia. In fact, considering the metal graphic companies as a mere auxiliary activity of the canning industry has tended to conceal their characteristics as companies specialising in the production of modern packaging. This is a key factor without which it is impossible to understand how even today heirs to these companies established in the early part of the century still occupy a leading position in the packaging sector. The factors that led to the appearance of metallographic companies, their concentration in Vigo, and the factors which influenced their specialization throughout the various stages until the onset of the civil war are analyzed. KEY Classification-JEL: L14, L61, N83, O14
N83|How do Electoral Systems Affect Fiscal Policy? Evidence from State and Local Governments, 1890 to 2005|Using a new data set on Swiss state and local governments from 1890 to today, we analyze how the adoption of proportional representation affects fiscal policy. We show that proportional systems shift spending toward broad goods (e.g. education and welfare benefits) but decrease spending on targetable goods (e.g. roads and agricultural subsidies). Our evidence does not suggest that proportional representation increases the overall size of government. We provide new evidence on the mechanism behind these estimates. We show that proportional elections lead to better political representation of left-wing parties, which are associated with more spending. Furthermore, proportional elections lead to higher political fragmentation. However, since political fragmentation increases spending in a plurality system only, proportional elections reduce spending through its more moderate effects of fractionalized parliaments.
N83|Banking in Savoy and embeddedness within local business communities (1860- (In French)|The annexation of Savoy by France fuels the issue of the fate of Banque de Savoie, because Banque de France was reluctant to share its monopoly as bank of issue, which explains the absorption of its rival in 1865. A second issue was the creation of local banking tools, embedded in regional business communities, as leverage to industrial clusters at the heart of the alpine productive system. Two big family banks and four mutual institutions reflected this Savoyard will to resist the grip of banks from Paris, Lyon, and Geneva. A third issue became the “type” of business model of Savoy banks, between a classical discount model, a type of enterprise banking committed to industrial finance in favour of customer companies, and, last, “regional banking”, quite mixed banking. Each period of the Savoy economic growth privileged this variety of models, before a convergence towards a more balance model of commercial banking took shape after WWII.
N83|Restare A Lungo In Fabbrica Nella Prima Meta’ Del ‘900: Stabilita’ Occupazionale O Crescita Professionale?|Questo studio si propone di analizzare le caratteristiche del lavoro e dei rapporti di lavoro di lunga durata instaurati alla Sezione II-Ferroviaria della Società Italiana E. Breda per Costruzioni Meccaniche, durante la prima metà del Novecento. La ricerca si focalizza sulla forza lavoro considerata più stabile dell’impresa, cioè quella composta dagli operai che hanno mantenuto, in modo continuativo, la loro occupazione in fabbrica per più di dieci anni. L’obiettivo finale è duplice. Da un lato si vogliono individuare le motivazioni che hanno, di volta in volta, portato la Società a consolidare al proprio interno una parte della propria manodopera. Dall’altro l’idea è quella di cogliere le ragioni che hanno spinto i lavoratori a far perdurare nel corso del tempo la relazione industriale attivata al momento dell’assunzione con l’azienda. I dati necessari a raggiungere gli scopi dell’indagine sono stati desunti dalle informazioni contenute nei Registri del Personale della Sezione II, redatti direttamente dall’impresa a partire dal 1894 fino ad arrivare al 1951. Le registrazioni effettivamente interessanti hanno riguardato in totale 553 casi. Per ognuno di questi è stato ricostruito il profilo storico, sottolineando in particolare gli aspetti inerenti il percorso di evoluzione professionale avvenuto in ciascun rapporto di lavoro. Da questo esame particolareggiato sono, poi, state tratte le considerazioni di insieme sulle peculiarità dell’intera classe di operai afferente a questo gruppo e, in ultima analisi, si è giunti a dare risposta alle problematiche avanzate dallo studio. Pertanto, nella parte iniziale il saggio si prefigge di fornire una breve introduzione di carattere generale sulla tematica da esaminare. Nel secondo paragrafo, invece, viene presentata una valutazione globale dei rapporti di lavoro complessivamente instaurati alla Sezione Ferroviaria tra il 1894 e il 1951. Infine, nel paragrafo che precede le conclusioni, l’attenzione viene completamente dedicata alla questione delle lunghe permanenze in fabbrica e alle sue determinanti.
N83|Prices and Profits in Cotton Textiles During the Industrial Revolution|Cotton textile firms led the development of machinery-based industrialization in the Industrial Revolution. This paper presents price and profits data extracted from the accounting records of three cotton firms between the 1770s and the 1820s. The course of prices and profits in cotton textiles illumine the nature of the economic processes at work. Some historians have seen the Industrial Revolution as a Schumpeterian process in which discontinuous technological change created large profits for innovators and succeeding decades were characterized by slow diffusion. Technological secrecy and imperfect capital markets limited expansion of use of the new technology and output expanded as profits were reinvested until eventually the new technology dominated. The evidence here supports a more equilibrium view which the industry expanded rapidly and prices fell in response to technological change. Price and profit evidence indicates that expansion of the industry had led to dramatic price declines by the 1780s and there is no evidence of super profits thereafter.
N83|Portuguese public debt and financial business before WWI|Government, public finance, and public debt framed the historical background for exceptional financial business opportunities for Henry Burnay as a private banker and a network with Baring Brothers, Comptoir National d'Escompte, Banque de Paris et des Pays Bas, Neuflize et Cie., Credit Lyonnais, Societe Generale, Deutsche Bank, Bank fur Handel& Industrie, Dresdner Bank, M. Jacob H. S. Stern and the Deutsche Effecten & Wechsel Bank from Frankfurt. Nineteenth-century financial markets and public debt emerge as the main players in the game. Credibility and honesty are important values for earning confidence and trust in international financial business, while bilateral-monopoly market situations required a lot of bargaining for joint profit maximization.
N83|La formación de un distrito industrial metalúrgico en Valladolid (c. 1842-c. 1953)|This work proposes a long term outlook in order to investigate the reasons explaining the development and importance of the metal-mechanic sector in Valladolid during the second half of the 20th century. We find that the political decisions after the Spanish Civil War of 1936 are determinant in explaining the change of size of this industrial district, but also that Valladolid knew how to take advantage of its privileged geographic situation, its means of transport -Canal and Railway-, and the introduction of electric power at the beginning of the century, to free itself from an excessive dependence on the agricultural sector for its development. Not only the political advantages coming out of the war, but also the tradition developed since 1842, explain the introduction of large companies in the next decades.
N83|Aux origines de l'entrepreneuriat social. Les affaires selon Jean-Baptiste André Godin (1817-1888)|Since the beginning of the 1990’s, the social entrepreneur has become a fundamental actor within capitalism. But, what is a social entrepreneur, one must ask? The question is debated and defies consensus. Is an entrepreneur social because he founds a nonprofit enterprise? If so, then how can he live in the free market economy? Alternately, is the entrepreneur social because he finances social ventures from profits? To illustrate this conundrum, consider 19th century French entrepreneur Jean-Baptiste André Godin (1817-1888) who was both a technological and a social innovator. He invented a new system of heating and also made a fortune creating a “familistère” according to the theory of Charles Fourier. The workers (who chose to do so) lived in the familistère, enjoying a large range of welfare activities (care, social insurance, etc). Their children were also educated by the enterprise. The economic strategy of Godin was rational because his enterprise was more profitable than others. Indeed, for many decades the familistère of Godin was the market leader. So, then, we must also consider a follow-on question: Is the social entrepreneur paternalistic? JEL codes: P12, 013, N83
N83|Italian Entrepreneurship: Conjectures and Evidence from a Historical Perspective|This paper is the first product of an ongoing research on the determinants and the role of entrepreneurship in Italian economic development. Its primary aim is the creation of a data-set of Italian entrepreneurs for the period encompassed between the Unification of the Kingdom (1861) and the end of the XXth century. The main source of the research is a collection of 390 entrepreneurial biographies, prepared for an ongoing Dictionary of Italian Entrepreneurs. The first part of the paper presents a descriptive analysis of the main peculiarities of the country’s entrepreneurship on the basis of a few standard variables traditionally used in economic analysis. The second one refines the descriptive approach through a methodology – Multiple Correspondence Analysis and Cluster Analysis – usual by now in standard statistics, yet not very familiar to scholars in economic and/or business history. This has allowed us to single out a few entrepreneurial typologies of the history of Italian capitalism which partly confirm the “traditional” features already emphasized by historiography; such as the prominence of northern entrepreneurs, the strong relations both with own and partner’s families, the almost total absence of female entrepreneurs and an essentially middle-class rooted entrepreneurship. However a few novel interesting aspects emerge, the most surprising being the good level of formal education of the sample: a neat majority (60%) has a medium/high degree and almost one third an university degree.
N83|Intangible assets and competitiveness in Spain: an approach based on trademark registration data in Catalonia (1850-1946)|This paper studies the origins of trademark registration in Spain and offers, for the first time, data across sectors and regions with a long-term perspective. In apparent contradiction to the slow path of industrialization and the economic backwardness of Spain between 1850 and the 1940s, empirical evidence on trademark registration suggests that, in this field, Spanish policies and Spanish firms seemed to be well ahead of other countries. Spain was among the pioneering countries in the Western world in having a state legislation protecting brand registration since 1850. Also, some Spanish regions and industrialized sectors adopted similar strategies to those of its European counterparts in terms of using consistently branding and registered trademarks. Our evidence suggests that firms seem to have used brands and marks, first to fight against fraud and imitation and second to add intangible assets to its products in order to endow them with persistent identity trends regarding origins or quality of the product that were difficult to replicate, as often happened with patents. This created and accumulated, over that period of time, a marketing knowledge among consumers, which may have been useful to maintain the competitiveness of some industrial districts and regions.
N83|Los flujos de información en las redes comerciales castellanas de los siglos XV y XVI|This article analyzes the information flows in Castilian commercial networks developed during the 15th and 16th centuries and points out that having an efficient system of news distribution contributed to having a better business performance since it lowered transaction costs. These flows have been studied in three different places: the Burgos Consulate, the Burgos maritime insurance and Simon Ruiz’s company. Thousands of different documents (commercial correspondence, public notary documents and accounting books) have been kept from these three sources, thus allowing us calculating information costs as well as data velocity of distribution and its geographical dispersion. Our study concluded that the aforementioned commercial networks were formed by companies which have developed very efficient management systems. KEY Classification-JEL: N13, N23, N73, N83
N83|Asociacionismo, gremios y restricciones corporativas en la España medieval (siglos XIII-XV)|This article asserts that the Spanish associations banned in the Low Middle Ages were not trade corporations and that those restrictions were both Spanish and European monarchs response to nobility and urban oligarchy’s attempts to gain power, above all in politics, through different organizations. Guilds were indeed affected only when they took part of those political leagues or when craftsmen tried to control the market in their own benefit. And even in thoses cases the restrictions entailed just specific or temporal limitations. This assessment is based on a comprenhensive author’s review of the extensive non-corporate laws developed in medieval Spain and of the explanations provided by literature in the last decades. A new possible explanation is proposed: the impact of the Roman law from the 12th century onwards. KEY Classification-JEL: N33, N43, N63, N83
N83|Pharmaceutical research in Wilhelmine Germany: The case of E. Merck|In this paper, we describe the emergence and evolution of pharmaceutical research at the German company E. Merck during the late 19th and early 20th century. Revolutionary changes in the scientific knowledge base, especially the rise of bacteriological research, and the market entry of dyestuff producers into pharmaceuticals made the re-organisation of pharmaceutical research during the 1890s a necessary corporate strategy. Consequently, Merck restructured its in-house research between 1895 and 1898. Moreover, the firm deepened its co-operation with universities and other outside inventors. Jointly and severally, the firm depended on outside inventors for the generation of new products, whereas in-house scientists improved the productive efficiency. Moreover, we show that a significant number of new products were launched between the late 1890s and 1905. During the following years, however, resource constraints restricted Merck’s innovative capacity.
N83|Incentives and Innovation? R&D Management in Germany’s High-Tech Industries During the Second Industrial Revolution|The allocation of intellectual property rights between firms and employed researchers causes a principal-agent problem between the two parties. We investigate the working contracts of inventors employed by German chemical, pharmaceutical, and electrical engineering firms at the turn of the 20th century and show that some firms were aware of the principal-agent problem and offered performance-related compensation schemes to their scientists. However, neither a higher total compensation nor a higher share of variable compensation in total compensation is correlated with a higher innovative output. Thus, incentives techniques were already used during the early history of industrial research laboratories, but their impact on innovative output was unsystematic.
N83|Italian investment and merchant banking up to 1914: Hybridising international models and practices|This paper focuses on the specific legacy of the 19th century private banking on Italian major mixed banks' practices. We consider their international connections (Paris, Berlin, etc.) and their operating patterns as compared to European ones. Besides, we provide a comparative quantitative analysis of their portfolios in order to evaluate how much they differed from the other major European universal banks, and to which extent investment banking activities were relevant in their portfolios.
N83|La publicité des artisans en France au XXème siècle<BR>[Artisans's advertising in XXth century France]|Artisans are usually considered as businessmen who don't advertise. The way the dvertising business organized itself at the beginning of the 20th century seems to relegate them out of his field. However, craftsmen do seem to use some kind of commercial communication. To exist in their territory, they communicate through diversified means throughout the 20th century. (Signs, advertising inserts, commercial documents...) This communication has its own themes thanks to which craftsmen try to improve the reputation of their business and stand out from the competition. They do therefore advertise.
N83|Social Entrepreneurship und Ordnungspolitik: Zur Rolle gesellschaftlicher Change Agents am Beispiel des Kruppschen Wohlfahrtsprogramms|Dieser Beitrag stellt mit Hilfe der Ordonomik einen systematischen Zusammenhang zwischen zwei unterschiedlichen Literaturen her, deren Fragestellungen zunächst inkommensurabel erscheinen: zwischen der akteurszentrierten Social Entrepreneurship- Literatur und der auf Institutionen ausgerichteten Ordnungspolitik. Das Argument des Beitrags lautet, dass Social Entrepreneurs als Regelunternehmer wichtige Governance- Beiträge leisten können, wenn es ihnen gelingt, neuartige und wechselseitig vorteilhafte Bindungsarrangements für sich und andere zu organisieren. Auf diese Weise können sie – komplementär zu staatlicher Koordination – als echte Change Agents zur Weiterentwicklung der institutionellen Rahmenordnung beitragen und damit genuine Ordnungsaufgaben erfüllen. Diese Argumentation wird in Auseinandersetzung mit dem historischen Beispiel des Kruppschen Wohlfahrtsprogramms entwickelt.
N83|Nacionalizando el capital bancario: Banesto y Paribas (1902-1927)|The Banco Español de Crédito (Banesto) was founded by the big French bank Paribas in 1902. In the first decades of 20th century, economic nationalism increased in Spain, as the bad relationship between Spanish and French directors of Banesto reflected. Finally, in 1927, during Primo de Rivera’s dictatorship, the bank became to be completely controlled by the national capital. Using new archival sources, this work identifies the main conflicting issues between Spaniards and foreigners. It contributes also to the debate in economic history on the relationship between political power and business elites in King Alfonso XIII’s Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: N23, N24, N83, N84
N83|La politique financière de l'Etat italien et l'évolution du système financier|La période 1861-1896 est particulièrement mouvementée en Italie relativement à l'évolution du système financier, avec la sortie de l'étalon or (1866), les successions des régimes rélementaires des banques d'émission (1861-66, 1866-74, 1874-81, 1881-93), les crises boursières (1872-73, 1892-93) et l'inflation. L'objet de l'article est de relire ces évènements à partir d'une cause centrale de déstabilisation à savoir la monétisation de la dette publique. L'objet de l'article est de présenter une synthèse des conséuences de la monétisation de la dette publiue italienne, à partir des bilans des banues d'émission et de l'évolution des cours de la Bourse de Gênes.
N83|Vinos y cuestión algodonera. Los exportadores ante la reforma arancelaria, 1839-1843|This paper analyses the collective action of the pressure groups in favour of a commercial liberalization during the consolidation of the representative regime. Specifically, it analyses the mobilization of one important exporter group in the Spanish economy -sherry wine exporters- and Cádiz bay merchants, during the first attempt of tariff reform of the liberal regime. Through the study of parliamentarian debates, government documents, economic agents’ files, press and diplomatic documentation, it is analysed the means and results of the collective action of exporters and merchants. They defended .a commercial liberalization in order to increase their sales in the foreign markets. They attempted to construct a political coalition in order to change the tariff law with two main aims: Repeal of the ban .to import cotton and the signing of a commercial treaty with Great Britain. Finally, the results of their campaign according to structural and political factors are analysed too.
N83|Tawney's Century (1540-1640): the Roots of Modern Capitalist Entrepreneurship in England|Richard Tawney (1880-1962), who taught at the London School of Economics from 1917 to 1949, was unquestionably one of the very most important economic historians that England has ever produced: so much so, indeed, that the era of his major research and publications, 1540 - 1640, has justly come to be known as ï¿½Tawneyï¿½s Centuryï¿½. Those publications, and the debates that they provoked, concern the origins or roots of modern capitalism and (implicitly) capitalist entrepreneurship that were supposed to have been established in this century. Though the roots of those economic developments, in particular those leading to more modern forms of industrial capitalism, may indeed lie in that century, nevertheless the main thesis of this study is that most of their positive fruits are instead to be found in the ensuing century of 1640 - 1740, the century preceding the advent of the modern Industrial Revolution. Tawneyï¿½s seminal scholarship, towards these ends, was concerned with two major issues. The first considered in this study is his 1926 monograph: Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, which in part was designed to promote, in the English-speaking world, Max Weberï¿½s famous thesis (1905) on ï¿½The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalismï¿½. Both works focused on how three elements of one Protestant sect in particular, the Calvinists (from 1536), came to influence so deeply that Protestant Ethic and new ethos of modern capitalism: Predestination, the Calling, and ï¿½Worldly Asceticismï¿½. The significance of this form of Protestantism in England is that Calvinists and other Non-Conformists or Dissenters, those who refused to conform to the Church of England after the 1660 royalist Restoration, constituted about one half of the known scientists, innovators, and entrepreneurs from the later 17th century and through the Industrial Revolution era (1760-1820), though constituting only 5 percent of the population. The debate concerns the roles of their restricted (legislated) minority status and of schools and superior educational systems that they had to establish, but also the applicability of the Weber-Tawney thesis, in explaining their superior economic performance. Tawneyï¿½s second major issue was that of ï¿½agrarian capitalismï¿½, along with the supposed ï¿½rise of the gentryï¿½: involving the transfer of vast amounts of land from the old aristocracy, the crown and church together, and finally the free-holding yeomanry into the hands of a non-aristocratic upper class who were far more predisposed and able to engage in profit-maximizing agriculture, especially through enclosures and the technology of the New Husbandry. But if Tawney dates this shift from Henry VIIIï¿½s Dissolution of the Monasteries, in 1536, this study contends that the real shift, but certainly a major shift, to ï¿½agrarian capitalismï¿½, involving enclosures and the New Husbandry, again came only after the 1660s. To provide a contrast to Tawneyï¿½s work, this study examines two alternative theses on the origins of modern industrial capitalism within Tawneyï¿½s century (1540-1640): (1) Earl Hamiltonï¿½s thesis of ï¿½Profit Inflationï¿½, one fully endorsed by Keynes; and (2) John Nefï¿½s ï¿½Early Industrial Revolution in Tudor-Stuart Englandï¿½. The Hamilton thesis is rejected in this study, with the contention that its true importance was to inspire Nefï¿½s counter-thesis: on the decisive shift from wood and charcoal fuels to coal fuels, which in turn required very major technological changes (in furnace designs), which in turn led to major increases in industrial scale, and (for Nef) to true ï¿½industrial capitalismï¿½. This study, noting the importance of Wrigleyï¿½s similar thesis on a shift from an organic (wood-based) to an inorganic (coal-based) industrial economy, supports the essence of the Nef thesis ï¿½ but only for the period after 1640 (with new data). Finally, this study considers two other related changes so necessary for the development of early-modern capitalism, in this era: the development of the Full Rigged or Atlantic Ship (but from the 1450s) and the overseas joint-stock trading companies. Again, their major impact came after 1660, with the ï¿½New Colonialismï¿½ (Hobsbawm) or ï¿½Commercial Revolutionï¿½ (Davis). The study also considers the history of the English joint stock companies, from the first joint-stock company, in overseas trade (the Muscovy Company of 1553) to the Bubble Act of 1720, which restricted their formation until 1825. Also included is their role in the so-called ï¿½Financial Revolutionï¿½ from 1694 to 1757 (ï¿½Pelhamsï¿½s Conversionï¿½ of the national debt).
N83|Empresas familiares y acuerdos cooperativos en el metal español: el caso de las industrias del alambre de hierro y acero (1880-1974)|Family ownership, reduced size of productive centers, and concentration are historical trends that characterize the development of the Spanish iron and steel wire firms in international comparison. Agreements at regional level between the most significant family firms of the sector allowed coordination, which proved to be useful to avoid absorptions and to keep family control in some of the most important firms during more than a century. KEY Classification-JEL: L14, N83, N84, 014
N83|Banking as an emerging technology: Hoare's Bank, 1702 1742|Analysis of the financial revolution in England has often focused on changes in public debt management and the interest rates paid by the state. Much less is known about the evolution of the financial system providing credit to individual borrowers. We document the transition from goldsmith to banker in the case of Richard Hoare, and examine the operation of the loan market during the early eighteenth century. Learning how to use the relatively new technology of deposit banking was crucial for the bank's success and survival. Innovation during the early stages of the British Industrial Revolution was not limited to manufacturing and transport, but played a critical role also in the service sector.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N83|L’analyse du risque au Crédit Lyonnais:l’utilisation de tableaux de retraitements comptables (1871-1919)|(VF)L’absence de réglementation comptable avant la Grande Guerre rend difficilement exploitable les documents financiers publiés. Pour pallier ce manque de fiabilité de l’information financière, certaines banques, à l’instar du Crédit Lyonnais, mettent en œuvre des systèmes d’analyse des comptes qui s’apparentent, dans leur essence, à certains retraitements comptables que nous connaissons aujourd’hui. Cette étude, réalisée à partir d’un travail sur les archives du Crédit Lyonnais, cherche à expliquer les enjeux de cette méthode, à présenter les différents concepts mis en œuvre et à formaliser leurs interactions. Elle s’achève sur deux études de cas qui visent à évaluer la pertinence du modèle.(VA)Due to the lack of binding accounting rules prior to World War I, published financial reports are hardly useful for stakeholders, at that time. In order to lessen this lack of reliability of financial information, a few banks, such as Crédit Lyonnais, put to use a system of financial statement which can be, to a certain degree, compared to today’s accounting restatements. This survey, established from the archives of Credit Lyonnais archives, seeks to explain the aim of this method, to present the different concepts utilized and to show their interaction. In order to evaluate the relevance of the model, two case-studies complete this survey.
N83|The evolution of Port merchants: An evolutionary analysis of the transformation of an economic sector (1700-1833)|This historical episode is one of a profound transformation of this trade sector that between the end of the 17th century and the middle of the following one, namely the emergence and strengthening of the position of the British merchants in detriment to the competitive position of the merchants of other nationalities, including the Portuguese. During this period, England, the first import market for wine, a market undergoing substantial changes, dissociating itself from the traditional European wine of the previous century: the German and Italian wine, and associating itself with the Iberian Peninsular wines such as the Sherry (Jerez) and Port (vinho do Porto). Of course, the French wines retain a central place in the present story but this will not be our focus here. If the gravity center of consumption is dislocated to England, the production regions are also reorganized. The Iberian Peninsula is the rising side of the trade, directly competing with the French wines. Behind this change, there lies the emergence of a new population of wine merchants, especially in the case of the Port wine that I study in the present research. If the overall transformation of the sector, on an aggregated level has already been done, there is still a need of a research based on more detailed information. In this respect, I will insist above all on the transformation and evolution of the population of Port shipper from 1700 to 1833, basing my argument on historical documents from the Portuguese and English customs and other regulatory entities in Portugal. I will present the evolution of the population of wine merchants based on quantitative data (quantities exported) and qualitative data on Port shippers. I will focus the constitution and evolution of the core British merchants that will obtain and maintain the dominance on the sector. The second point of my research is the mechanism of transformation and renewal of the population of Port merchants of either group: British and non-British (as it is often referred to in the historical records). The perspective I will adopt is straightforwardly evolutionary. In the first section I present the issue I will tackle: the evolution of trade and the population of Port shippers from roughly 1700 to 1833. In the second section, I will develop some basic theoretical concepts from evolutionary theory in order to adapt them to the present study. In the third part, I analyze the evolution of the population of wine merchants on quantitative data of exports, other economic and institutional indicators (market trends, regulation policy, market structure, etc.). I will finish with the presentation of a summary table that will compare the situation at the beginning of the period and the outcome of the evolutionary transformation of the sector at the end of the 1830s.
N83|Entrepreneurship and market order: Some historical evidence|Our objective here is to establish the proposition that creative entrepreneurship gives rise to a market order which is optimally adjusted to facilitate the introduction and the diffusion of innovations, particularly those that take the form of new markets, new organizational schemes, new management devices and new methods and means of doing business. To substantiate this claim we extract from the existing historical literature and employ the ideal type entrepreneurial method of the Greek diaspora network. The interpretation we offer is that this method showed a high degree of operational flexibility and institutional adaptability and that it is these two proper-ties that explain its marked tenacity over time. The key ingredient for its success is traced to the self-regulatory robustness of the network, which was secured by the commitment of its partners to a moral order based on the triptych of ‘trust, reliability and reciprocity’ as well as to their ac-ceptance in advance of the sanctions in case of transgressions. Moreover, the embeddedness of the branches of the network in the Greek communities abroad, called Paroikies, where the Greek Orthodox Church provided moral leadership and maintained the community ties, reinforced the adherence of network partners to the rules of ethical business conduct. But in our view the domi-nant force in the design of the core mechanism that made the Greek diaspora network such a suc-cess was entrepreneurship.
N83|Per un'analisi del costo della vita nella Verona del Settecento<BR>[For an analysis of the living cost in Verona during the XVIII century]|Focusing on the urban context of Verona (a major city in the Venice Republic) during the XVIII century, the paper aim to clarify if, and in which measure, the cost of living of the employed population changed along the century. Instead of simply analyzing salaries and prices, the Author built a data analysis able to clarify if those salaries and prices allowed workers to survive and how the purchasing power modified from the beginning to the end of the XVIII century.
N83|Entrepreneurship in Early-Modern Europe (1450 - 1750): An Exploration of Some Unfashionable Themes in Economic History|Entrepreneurship, by its very essence, concerns the theory of the firm --- the individual enterprise --- which in turn is the essential core of micro-economics. A major theme of this study, however, is to demonstrate the interaction of micro- and macro-economic phenomena: to show how such firms or enterprises, and entrepreneurship itself, were often shaped by, and often helped shape, such macro-economic forces as demographic changes, monetary changes, price changes --- in terms of both deflation and inflation --- long distance trade, overseas exploration and expansion (colonialism), and indeed related changes in social institutions and socio-cultural values that were also influenced by such macro-economic changes. One generalization about macro-economic changes involving inflations and deflations has both general and considerable importance in the history of European business enterprises and entrepreneurship itself: for long-term inflations (when moderate) tend to cheapen or reduce the relative factor costs of labour (wages), land (rent contracts), and capital (fixed interest rates in loan contracts). Similarly, long term deflations tend, in reverse fashion, to increase the real or relative factor costs of labour, land, and capital, especially with pronounced wage-stickiness, and related 'stickiness' in leasehold rent contracts (and more so with customary tenures), and with loan contracts -- even if the long-term trends in real interest rates was falling over this long period. At the same time, both inflations and deflations are accompanied by changes in the relative prices of key industrial inputs. The key question to be posed is this: how did entrepreneurs respond to such changes in their factor costs, both short term and long term? This study commences by demonstrating how deflation in mid-15th century Europe, in increasing the purchasing power of silver, provided the stimulus for two major technological innovations in silver-mining and smelting that led to the South German silver-copper mining boom of 1460-1540, which also meant major changes in commercial-industrial entrepreneurship and in industrial scales. That mining boom in turn laid the foundations for the 130 year inflation of the Price Revolution (1520-1650) --- an inflation further fostered by a financial revolution in credit and banking institutions (from the 1520s), and then further fuelled by the influx of Spanish-American silver. The heart of this study is on the role of inflation, and associated macro-economic changes, in producing the roots of modern capitalist entrepreneurship, during what is often called Tawney's Century (1540-1640). We begin, however, with two famous related theses: Hamilton's thesis of 'Profit Inflation' (in which wages lag behind consumer prices), a wrongly-constructed thesis that endures only because Keynes endorsed it; and Nef's thesis of the 'Tudor Stuart industrial revolution' --- a much ridiculed response to Hamilton --- whose merit lies in revealing the capitalist entrepreneurship, major technological changes, and changes in industrial scale that resulted from the substitution of coal --- the heart of modern industrialization --- for every more costly wood charcoal. Tawney's three theses themselves concern the origins of modern agrarian capitalism, the related 'Rise of the Gentry' debate (on the role of inflation in shifting land ownership from the aristocracy to the more 'capitalist-minded' gentry landowners), and the Weber-Tawney thesis on Religion (Protestantism) and the Rise of Capitalism, which, I endeavour to show has its real relevance only from the late 17th century. Associated with the Price Revolution era is the Age of Overseas Expansion (involving one of the most momentous technological and entrepreneurial change of the early modern era: the development of the Full Rigged Atlantic ship, with heavy artillery). England joined that overseas commercial-colonial race rather late, in the 1550s, but in doing so developed the institutional foundations of modern capitalism by creating the joint stock company. Certainly technological and institutional innovations are the real hallmark of entrepreneurship. This three-century study ends with the following era of monetary scarcity and deflation (1650-1740) that provided another macro-economic challenge whose response was revolutionary changes in banking and financial institutions --- i.e., in financial-commercial entrepreneurship. It also fostered the growth and spread of rent-seeking Mercantilist philosophies that also influenced the character of early-modern capitalist entrepreneurship.
N83|Entrepreneurial structure of the mercantile company in pre-industrial Catalonia|The mercantile company was the basic form of enterprise in pre-industrial Catalonia. The aim of this paper is to study the formation and development of the mercantile companies in Barcelona whose end was the wholesale and retail sale of textiles in the “botigues de teles” (textile retail shops) throughout the eighteenth century. These firms were officially registered before a notary and their deeds reveal how these establishments were administered and managed. The study covers a sample of 121 mercantile companies, and the articles and documentation that were put into effect by 32 notaries who were active in Barcelona in the 18th century have been consulted in their entirety. From an initial selection of documentation, a total of 228 deeds registering companies have been found, 107 of which (47%) relate to the creation of companies whose various activities were centred in taverns, textile manufacturing, braiding.... While the 121 companies, which make up our sample and which account for 53% of the deeds registered with the notaries mentioned above, focused exclusively on the management of textile retail shops located in the commercial heart of the city. Thus one point of interest that the documentation reveals is that the majority of the mercantile companies registered by Barcelona notaries throughout the 18th century were establishments which traded in textiles. The first part of the article focuses on the structural characteristics of these enterprises, the number and socio-professional status of the partners and the extent of each partner’s involvement in the administration and management. The second part of the article examines the capital investment made by each partner, their rights and obligations agreed on, the sharing out of profits and possible losses and the duration of the companies. The final aim of the paper is to highlight the evolution of these companies through one specific case.
N83|Old and new ceramics: manufactures, products and markets in the Venetian Republic in the 17th and 18th centuries|This contribution aims to draw up a map of ceramics production sites in the Venetian area from 1600 to 1800, bearing particular attention to institutional and informal devices allowing local production to adapt to European markets trends and innovations. The paper investigates the logics of privileges allowance to pivate entrepreneurs outside of the guilds framework, conceived probably as a protection for offer more than for demand: they had to do with the exploitation of natural resources at a local level (water, raw materials), and of the services of a labor force accumulating specialized skills working in close contact with foreign invited artisans. The defence and seizure of industrial expertise was in fact the object of enduring court cases between manufacturers fighting to retain and attract highly qualified workers. These were the actual agents of innovation exchange among European, Italian and regional production centres. Continuous exchange and imitation allowed Venetian privileged firms to keep positions in econdary European markets providing most of the demand for local production.
N83|Networks of People in Specialty Production: Family Firms in the Iron and Steel Wire Industries in Spain (1870-2000)|Capital intensive industries in specialized niches of production have constituted solid ground for family firms in Spain, as evidenced by the experience of the iron and steel wire industries between 1870 and 2000. The embeddedness of these firms in their local and regional environments have allowed the creation of networks that, together with favourable institutional conditions, significantly explain the dominance of family entrepreneurship in iron and steel wire manufacturing in Spain, until the end of the 20th century. Dominance of family firms at the regional level has not been an obstacle for innovation in wire manufacturing in Spain, which has taken place even when institutional conditions blocked innovation and traditional networking. Therefore, economic theories about the difficulties dynastic family firms may have to perform appropriately in science-based industries must be questioned.
N83|Tejiendo Redes Empresariales en Andalucía Oriental:Vida y Obra de Alfredo Velasco y Sotillos (1872-1936)|En las páginas que siguen se estudia, siguiendo las vicisitudes biográficas de un ingeniero militar madrileño y más tarde director de empresas, la formación de un grupo empresarial que se ocupó de la promoción industrial y de la gestión de servicios públicos en las provincias de Granada y de Almería. A lo largo del trabajo se presenta la construcción gradual de sucesivas redes sociales formadas por contactos personales y profesionales y se muestra la emergencia en su seno de conflictos y tensiones entre los diferentes grupos.
N83|A short history of French spirit of enterprise (from 1780 till date) (In French)|Pessimistic views among French economist, political and scholar opinion givers have often prevailed about the assessment of French economic competitiveness ; that might be explained by negative surveys of the ability of economic elites to adapt themselves to the changes of the environment of competition and of the productive and technological systems. Breakdowns of enterprise spirit could thus explain that periods of sluggishness be imposed to French growth and, globally, that backwardness had been endured when factors of progress were at stake. Our text reconstitutes the overall issues and, then, proceeds, alongside chronological periods, to a large scrutinizing of the validity of these assertions, throughout the 19th and 20th centuries.
N83|«Un genere pressocché necessario»: consumo, politica e industria dello zucchero nel Regno di Napoli in età rivoluzionaria e napoleonica<BR>[“An almost necessary good”: sugar consumption, politics and industry in the Kingdom of Naples during the revolutionary and Napoleonic age]|During the late modern age, sugar moved from being a luxury to a necessary good. The Napoleonic era is an excellent point of view to examine this process. Indeed, the Napoleonic Wars interrupted the supply of cane sugar in Europe, determining reactions on the part of consumers but even from politicians and savants interested in promoting and finding out an alternative source of sugar, finally identified in the beet. The article explores the subject with special regard to the Kingdom of Naples. It describes the trend in sugar consumption during the eighteenth century, the effects of the Continental Blockade on consumers’ behaviour and the enterprises (public, academic and industrial) taken in those years to produce an indigenous sugar.
N83|O Rio de Janeiro e as primeiras linhas transatlânticas de paquetes a vapor: 1850-1860|The first line of steamship navigation between Europe and Brazil was the British Royal Company, which was subsidized by the British government not only to do the postal service, but also to transport passengers and goods, mainly those of smallest volume and highest freight value. Due to the very great success of this company many other steamship navigation companies started to compete with it. The quickness of its comfortable and elegant steamships, the cheapness of the return freight and, above all, the regularity and punctuality of its vessels converted the British Royal Company into the favourite of Brazilian customers and even of its competitors, who had to face their defeat in the middle of frustration and admiration feelings for the British efficiency. The Rio de Janeiro's connection to England, in twenty eight days with a fixed schedule, revolutionized Brazilian business life: foreign capitalists could now control their investments and better evaluate the advantages for doing new investments; the exchange floatations decreased and the commercial relationships of both sides of the Atlantic increased. This new commercial order created a new dynamics to all sorts of business and new perspectives for the displacement of people and capital, transforming Brazil into a modern country.
N83|The trading of unlimited liability bank shares: the Bagehot Hypothesis|From the mid-1820s, banks became the first business sector in Great Britain and Ireland to be granted the right to form freely on an unlimited liability joint stock basis. Walter Bagehot, the renowned contemporary banking expert, warned that shares in such banks would ultimately be owned by widows, orphans and other impecunious individuals. An alternative hypothesis is that the governing bodies of these banks constrained by special legal restrictions on share trading acted effectively to prevent such shares being transferred to the less wealthy members of society. We test both conjectures using the archives of an Irish joint stock bank. The results do not support Bagehot's hypothesis, but instead indicate that shares continued to be owned by wealthy individuals.
N83|Anticipating changes: de Nederlandsche Bank at Leyden 1865-1969|The 'sub-agentschap' of de Nederlandsche Bank did not figurate in the Bank Act 1863, but turned out to develop as a steppingstone between a correspondent and an agency of the Bank. This article considers the history of the office at Leyden, where between 1865 and 1969 a whole lifecycle of a branch of De Nederlandsche Bank took place.
N83|Public Policy and Extended Families: Evidence from South Africa|Tightly knit extended families, in which people often give money to and get money from relatives, characterize many developing countries. These intra-family flows may mean that public policies may affect a very different group of people than the one they targeted. To assess the empirical importance of these effects, we study a cash pension program in South Africa that targeted the elderly. We use the variation in pension receipt in three-generation households that comes from differences in the age of the elder(s) in the households. We find sharp drops in the labor force participation of prime-age men in these households when the elder women reach 60 or elder men reach 65, the respective ages for pension eligibility. We also find that the drop in labor supply diminishes with family size, as the pension money is split over more people, and with educational attainment, as the pension money becomes less significant relative to outside earnings. Other findings suggest that power within the family might play an important role: (1) labor supply drops less when the pension is received by a man rather than by a woman; (2) middle aged men (those more likely to have control in the family) reduce labor supply more than younger men in the family; and (3) female labor supply is unaffected. These last two findings also respectively suggest that the results are unlikely to be driven by increased human capital investment or by a need to stay home to care for the elderly. As a whole, the program seems to have had large effects on a group - prime age men living with the old - quite different from the ones it targeted, elderly men and women.
N83|Is There a Tulip in Your Future?: Ruminations on Tulip Mania|This essay emphasizes and explicates factors and forces that led to the creation of the Tulip futures market (increased globalization, a rising prosperity of middle class, etc.). It considers whether critics of that market were correct about Tulip Mania. The introductory section describes briefly the Dutch economy and states the thesis that the Dutch developed an innovative futures market. The principal section describes the forces and factors at work in the Tulip futures market. The concluding normative section assesses the bases for criticism and approves of the workings of the market.Cet article met en avant et explique les facteurs et les forces qui ont conduit à la création dun marché de futures de la Tulipe (globalisation amplifiée, augmentation du niveau de vie des classes moyennes; etc.). Il examine si les analyses de ce marché étaient correctes concernant la Tulipe Mania. La section introductive décrit brièvement léconomie hollandaise et explique que les Hollandais ont développé un marché de futures innovant. La section principale décrit les forces et les facteurs qui opèrent sur le marché financier des Tulipes. La section normative de conclusion évalue les fondements des critiques et défend le fonctionnement du marché.
