N85|Tjong Yong Hian And the Development of The City of Medan, The Existence of Chinese The Economy Field in Indonesia|The domination of economy and trading by a Chinese group in Indonesia could not be separated from the ”open door policy” since colonial age. Politically, Chinese had been granted special privilege through vreemde oosterlingen system, which was the separation of foreign eastern people and native inhabitants. Besides the officer system, residential system, construction of the social order were the construction of power hegemony in order to achieve development objectives. Tjong Yong Hian was one of the prominent businessman in a colonial age that arose from the production of that colonial policy system. Position and status that were given to Tjong Yong Hian, as well as political policy that were given by the government to the Chines,e enabled Tjong Yong Hian to strengthen his existence in the economy field. His success in developing his business empire had given contribution in the development of the City of Medan since the beginning of the 20th century.
N85|The Strategies of Integration on the Textile Companies in the Meiji Period :A Case Study the Kyoto Cotton Flannel Co. Ltd|The purpose of this study is to discuss the significance of the vertically and horizontal integration focus on the textile companies in the Meiji Period. It has been widely accepted that the process was initiated by those formed as spinning companies, which later acquired the weaving sector by mergers and acquisitions because of recession. This paper is to show an alternative way of vertical integration of spinning and weaving processes in cotton industry in early Meiji Japan through a case study of the Kyoto Cotton Flannel Co., Ltd(the Kyomen). Cotton flannel is a finished cotton textile napped on side made to imitate wool flannel. Full-fledged, factory-based machine printing in Japan started to develop when the Kyomen was established in 1895. The Kyomen actively transferred technology for raising the nap of the cloth, dyeing and processing to European. The industry faced various quality problems caused by inexperience in machine printing technique and copper roller engraving. This study provide evidence that the Kyomen was the first Japanese company which overcame these challenges. It was worthwhile to note that the Kyomen achieve vertical integration process by acquisition of Kyoto Spinning Company. Since then, it internalized the spinning process and became able to improve the self-manufactured cotton yarn to fit in printing and napping. It made it possible to improve the quality of cotton flannels. When the competition in this industry is fierce after the Russo-Japanese War, the Kyomen was developing aggressive horizontal integration in order to break out of dependence on the sales cotton flannels. Although the Kyomen failed to finance them and went bankrupt in 1909, it filled an importance role in the rise of the machine textile printing industry in Japan.
N85|The Multi-Entity Structure and Control in Business Groups|The literature on business groups in ‘emerging’ markets emphasizes several dimensions along which the group form may differ from its presumed opposite – the stand-alone firm. However, what does not usually capture too much attention is that the business group structure in India can and does incorporate several companies/firms which are neither publicly listed nor even individually large. So much so that several apparently stand-alone companies can also be parts of networks connecting them to other such companies/firms. The interconnections which link these several entities are, however, crucial inter alia to the exercise of control by business families over capital and wealth far in excess of what is legally owned by them. Concentrated control over assets as well as concentrated ‘ownership’ of companies are the related outcomes of these – and this provides an important reason for the resilience of the multi-entity group structure. The specific structure of the network of individual business groups and their participating entities, however, change over time in response to changing institutional contexts as well as due to its endogenous dynamics. This paper will seek to develop these propositions using the specific case of the Reliance group as an illustration and further argue that liberalization, instead of developing a “market for corporate control”, has only served to reinforce this method of “entrenchment”.
N85|Centers of Gravity: The Effect of Stable Shared Leadership in Top Management Teams on Firm Growth and Industry Evolution|We study the processes of firm growth in the evolution of the Japanese cotton spinning industry during 1883-1914 by integrating strategy and historical approaches and utilizing rich quantitative firm-level data and detailed business histories. The resultant conceptual model highlights growth outcomes of path dependencies as firms evolve across periods of single vs. shared leadership, establish stability in shared leadership, or experience repeated discord-induced TMT leader departures. While most firms do not experience smooth transitions to stable shared TMT leadership, a focus on value creation, in conjunction with talent recruitment and promotion, enabled some firms to achieve stable shared leadership in spite of discord-induced departures, engage in long term expansion, and emerge as “centers of gravity” for output and talent in the industry.
N85|Structural Change in Mass-Procurement Systems: China’s Iron and Steel Industry and the Global Iron Ore Market|This paper was originally presented at the 1stWorld Congress on Business History/ This study aims to describe historical trends in the “mass-procurement system” for iron ore, which for many years has been the largest non-fuel natural resource in terms of trade value. Wefocus on China because it reflects globaltrendsmost comprehensively. Throughmodern history, all large steel producers have established their own iron ore mass-procurement systems. We can classify thesesystemsinto three major modes:“captive mine”,“long-term contract (LTC)”,and “spot trading.” We found that in China, traditional state-owned steel companies such as Anshan Iron and Steel (Ansteel)adopted the captive-mine mode from the prewar period, like the Americans. On the other hand, the newly established leadingcompany Baoshan Iron and Steel (Baosteel) introduced the LTC mode, following the innovationof this mode by Japanese companies in the 1980s. Then, in the early twenty-first century, China’smass-procurement system for iron ore further diversifiedwhich establishedthe spot-trading mode as the third mass-procurement system. As a result, many steel companies tended to create a portfolio of sourcing modes.
N85|Business registration pillars: Good regulatory practice for ASEAN|Business registration is crucial for ensuring accountable, transparent and viable business environments. By bringing businesses into the formal economy, governments are able to provide more strategic and targeted policies for businesses and consumers. The objective of this working paper is to look at the importance of business registration for governments, businesses and citizens. It explores the this issue through a series of case studies that support good practices in customer orientation and joined-up government. Each of the different case studies fall under a pillar that aims to support countries in the development of their business registration systems.The paper also aims to provide policy directions for countries in Southeast Asia when developing modern business registration systems and provides some background for the development of ASEAN’s regional business registration principles.
N85|Political Economy, Firm Survival and Entrepreneurship in Turkey: The Case of the Wealth Tax (1942)|In 1942, the Republic of Turkey promulgated a controversial tax on personal wealth to finance mobilization of the army and curb inflation. The extraordinary tax was arbitrarily assessed and the burden fell disproportionately on non-Muslim minorities. The precise transformative effect of the tax on Turkey’s commercial life is not well understood. This article assembles a new dataset of firms operating in Istanbul to show the tax led to a dramatic rise on the liquidation of enterprises with non-Muslim ownership but no effect on Muslims. At the same time, the tax caused a sharp decline in the formation of new non-Muslim firms and a commensurate increase in the number of Muslim firms. The results show that the Wealth Tax forced the dissolution of otherwise productive, older firms and contributed to the further nationalization of the economy.
N85|The presidents of the Bank of Taiwan and their times : background, management and business development : 1899-1925|This paper is the brief history of the Bank of Taiwan (BOT, 台湾銀行) from 1899 to 1925, especially focusing on the first to the fourth presidents who represent the era of the rise and fall of the BOT. The BOT was established by the Japanese government in 1899 as colonial development bank in Taiwan, however they changed the business model to that of an international bank covering mainland China and Southeast Asia in 1910s. This rapid expansionism failed in the early 1920s and the BOT temporarily closed its doors in 1927. The question is how and when these problems occurred and spread in the organization as a result of mismanagement. Through the analysis of their achievements and personal background along with corporate performance and macro history, we are better able to understand the rise and fall of the BOT.
N85|Explanatory factors behind formalizing non-farm household businesses in Vietnam|"(english) This article sets out to investigate the reasons why some household businesses decide to register and become formal (while others do not) in order to shed light on the origins of informality. We use qualitative as well as quantitative data on household businesses (HB) derived from first-hand representative surveys implemented in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh city. The study reveals that although most of the informal businesses operate ‘illegally’, this is more due to unclear registration legislation than the mark of a deliberate intention to evade the economic regulations.Among the different factors which influence the registration decisions, the reason for setting up the business appears to be a determining one: the more it is a real choice (businesses set up to be independent or to follow a family tradition) and the less a constraint (set up for lack of an job alternative), the more the HB is more inclined to be registered. Furthermore, the analysis highlights that incentives do prove decisive insofar as the probability of having a formal business is greater among HB heads who consider that registration provides at least partial protection from corruption. Besides, access to information, the market and large business orders also drive the informal entrepreneurs to register. These results stress the need for clarification of the legal framework as well as incentive policies in order to address the issue of informality. _________________________________ (français) Cet article se propose d'analyser les raisons pour lesquelles certaines unités de production (household businesses, HB) décident de s'enregistrer et de devenir formelles (et pourquoi d'autres ne le font pas) afin d'éclairer les origines de l'informalité. Nous mobilisons des données aussi bien quantitatives que qualitatives sur les HB, issues d'enquêtes représentatives et de première main conduite par nos soins à Hanoï et Ho Chi Minh ville. L'étude révèle que bien que la plupart des unités informelles opère ""illégalement"", ce trait procède plus d'une législation floue et méconnue que d'une volonté délibérée d'échapper aux régulations publiques. Parmi les différents facteurs qui jouent sur la décision de s'enregistrer, le motif qui a conduit à s'établir à son compte est déterminant : plus il s'agit d'un véritable choix (volonté d'échapper au salariat ou par tradition familiale) et moins il résulte d'une contrainte (manque d'alternative d'emploi), et plus le chef d'unité sera enclin à s'enregistrer. De plus, l'analyse met en évidence le rôle des incitations dans la probabilité de devenir formel. Ainsi, ceux qui considèrent que l'enregistrement protège (au moins partiellement) de la corruption sont plus nombreux à régulariser leur situation. Enfin, l'accès à l'information, aux marchés et aux commandes des grandes entreprises favorisent l'enregistrement. Ces résultats soulignent le besoin de clarification de la législation des entreprises ainsi que l'importance de politiques incitatives pour s'attaquer à la question de l'informalité."
N85|Accumulated social capital, institutional quality, and economic performance: Evidence from China|This paper provides evidence from China that historically accumulated social capital affects the current economic performance by improving contemporary institutional quality. Using historical data, we employ the Elites Studying Abroad rates of the years 1847–1949 for each Chinese province as a proxy for accumulated social capital. Our empirical investigation shows that historically accumulated social capital strongly and significantly affects the current economic performance because it can improve current social capital and institutional quality. This argument is strongly robust across multiple controls such as geography information, climates, natural resources, historical economic conditions, and economic policies.
N85|From “Outsider” to Insider: The Case of Reliance|At the time of India’s liberalization, the Reliance group was already one of India’s leading business groups and in subsequent years it has only solidified its place at the top of India’s corporate hierarchy. Reliance was not, however, among the “traditional” large groups that emerged during the colonial era and remained dominant in the mid-1960s. This paper traces the story of the Reliance phenomenon and briefly discusses the process (method) by which that story was constructed. In addition to demystifying the phenomenon, the paper seeks to demonstrate there is sufficient evidence available to assert that the basis for the success of Reliance was fundamentally no different from that which other groups used to perpetuate their dominant position, and that the roots of this success lay in the nature of Indian capitalism.
N85|The Empiricists' Insurgency|Research on insurgency has been invigorated this past decade by better data, improved methods, and the urgency of understanding active engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan. This empiricists’ insurgency reinforces a classic literature on the essential role of civilians while challenging older theories about how they affect conflict outcomes. It provides a general framework describing “irregular” insurgencies (where government capacity exceeds rebel capacity), which is analytically cohesive and empirically tested using subnational data from multiple conflicts. The new research provides guidance on intervention design, including governance improvement, development programs, and rules of engagement. The design of interventions matters: some key evidence comes from measuring the effects of misguided policies. The framework may enable better conceived and implemented interventions, including foreign engagements with and without troop deployment, depending on the type of insurgency and mindful of political limitations. We position these findings in the literature, and highlight directions for future research, including legal aspects of countering insurgency.
N85|Velocity shifts in the creative economy: incumbent-entrant dynamics in the emergence of Japanese social games|The Japanese innovation system has been characterized as more prone to disruptive innovation by incumbent firms rather than de novo entrepreneurial entrants (H. W. Chesbrough, 1999). We draw upon the notion that creative industry competition in a high velocity environment is fundamentally different from an environment of more moderate velocity, exploring the notion that velocity shifts following disruptive innovation could be a key underlying mechanism for transformation by entrants in institutional settings that favor incumbents. A higher velocity environment provides a cognitive barrier to incumbent firms’ R&D by making established design heuristics obsolete, introducing novel market analytic methods and shifting established industry logics towards speed, constant iteration and services. The velocity shift in the transition from video games to social games required new specialized assets and new ways of accessing customer preferences though real-time data mining techniques that also challenged engrained cognitive frames of how game design should be pursued. Unlike previous disruptive innovation in the game industry, social games enabled new entrants to rapidly become market leaders. The case points towards a more nuanced view of the influence of disruptive innovation during velocity shifts in creative industries. For studies of technological entrepreneurship, this implies that the velocity shifts following disruptive innovation could provide a previously overlooked important mechanism in understanding how entrants have been able to challenge incumbent firms in Japan.
N85|Do Japanese MNCs use expatriates to contain risk in Asian host countries?| We investigate the impact of host-country risk on the expatriation strategies of multinational firms, using data on Japanese subsidiary firms in manufacturing industries in 13 host countries in Asia. We find that country risk is negatively correlated with the degree of expatriation and that, rather than host-country risk, firm-specific factors (particularly capital intensity, ownership share of parent firms in subsidiaries and the age of the venture) explain most of the variation in the degree to which subsidiaries rely on Japanese expatriates. Contrary to previous studies, the capital intensity of production is a key explanatory firm-specific variable that correlates positively with the degree of expatriation. Japanese multinational companies do not rely on expatria127=tes to off-set host-country risk, but to mitigate risk to parent investment in subsidiaries.
N85|Retail Networks and Real Estate: the case of Swiss luxury watches in China and Southeast|Shopping centers are among the most significant places to sell luxury goods in East Asia. However, the relations between retail networks of luxury companies and access to land and real estate still need to be addressed. On the one hand, an extensive literature highlights how the turn to luxury industry since the 1990s has enabled some European countries to maintain their comparative advantage on the global market and at the same time to keep a significant part of their production non-globalized. Yet, an issue that remains to be addressed is the way European luxury companies are able to enter and expand their sales networks in emerging countries. On the other hand, while real estate has become a major economic circuit in East Asia, there is still a lack of works about the property industry and companies f concrete strategies and business models. This article is hence an exploratory study that tackles the issue of real estate within the strategies of the main actors of the Swiss watch industry, namely Swatch Group, Richemont and LVMH, which have massively invested in their retail network in China and East Asia since the 1990s. While these three companies went through local retailers until late 1990s, they managed to expand their sales networks by increasingly controlling the retail spaces in China and in some Southeast Asia countries, such as Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Taiwan, increasingly influenced by Chinese consumers. For these countries which now represent a major part of their respective market shares, the Swiss watch groups rarely invest directly in large-scale real estate projects like shopping malls. They however have various strategies of control and integration between retail and the commercial real estate industry.
N85|From the Phased Manufacturing Programme to Frugal Engineering: Some Initial Propositions|Although the structural reforms, initiated in 1991, did not lead to any appreciable increase in either the efficiency or the export orientation of Indian manufacturing firms, unexpectedly, there has been a visible improvement in manufacturing design capabilities in certain segments, for instance, in the motor vehicle sector. The paper suggests that the development of “frugal engineering”—an approach of “frugality” in resolving complex design problems—is a real advance. It suggests, further, that this approach developed from the experiences of the procedures laid down in the phased manufacturing programme of the 1950s, and first found expression in the successful forays into some specific export markets by Indian vehicle manufacturers in the late 1970s and 1980s. Although this design expertise cannot solve the problems of manufacturing efficiency, particularly across the wider industrial sphere, it indicates that Indian firms have the expertise to resolve problems related to the manufacturing sphere if strategic goals are appropriately set by managers.
N85|Opium after the Manila Galleon: The Spanish involvement in the opium economy in East Asia (1815-1830)|This paper identifies the Spaniards’ involvement in the opium trade in China at the beginning of the 19th century. Several sources have been consulted, mainly the Jardine Matheson Archive at the University of Cambridge and the Archivo General de Indias in Seville. These activities took place from the end of the Manila Galleon until 1830, and were undertaken by some employees of the Spanish Royal Philippine Company in Calcutta and Canton in their private businesses. These houses collaborated closely with the British firms during the opium boom, and Manila private financial support was provided. Thus, Spaniards undoubtedly made a fundamental contribution during a key stage of development of the opium economy and evolution of modern Chinese history, being a precedent of what became the prestigious British company Jardine, Matheson & Co. KEY Classification-JEL: N45. N75. N76. N85
N85|From Hierarchy to Market: the Changing Industrial Organization of Epistemic Communities During Hong Kongs Transition to a Cashless Society (1965-2005)|This paper documents how computer technology modified retail financial markets in Hong Kong in the period from the 1960s to the early 2000s. The forty years after the deployment of Hong KongÕs first computer in 1965, saw a dramatic change in retail banking technology as Hong Kong moved towards being a cashless society. Prior to that pivotal year, none of the colonyÕs banks used computers whilst retail customers accessed their liquid balances via cash and cheques and only during banking hours. Over time, the ways in which people spent money became more diverse and transformed with the advent of technologies such as the ATM, point of purchase debit card terminals, the Octopus chip, and mobile phone payments. One could construct a straightforward narrative arc that links the acquisition of HSBCÕs first computer in 1967 to the proliferation of electronic payment systems in the twenty-first century. Such a narrative, however, would obscure an important discontinuity in the history of retail payment technology. In the early stages of Hong KongÕs transition to the cashless society, the relevant technologies were installed and managed within the boundaries of large financial intuitions such as HSBC. The second episode discussed in this paper is the successful launch of a micro-payments solution called ÒOctopusÓ. Initially designed as a transport payments card, cash balances stored within a smart chip grew outside financial institutions to become the leading payment solution in small value transactions. Over the course of the period covered by this article, the industrial organization of the relevant technologies transformed as the provision of much of the technology for retail payments had been outsourced to non-bank, non-financial institutions. In other words, the industrial organization of the relevant technologies had been transformed. This paper seeks to account for this shift in the organization of payments technology by drawing on literature around the boundaries of the firm as well as the theory of the firm as an epistemic community. It will be suggested that this process of vertical disintegration (i.e., a shift from hierarchy to markets) took place because of changes in the underlying conditions in Hong KongÕs economy.
N85|The Impact Of Enterprise Systems On Small And Medium-Sized Enterprises In The Kingdom Of Bahrain|The study explored the benefits of Enterprise Resource Planning systems to small and medium enterprises in the Kingdom of Bahrain on improvement in decision-making ability, employee performance monitoring, resource management, cost reductions, cycle time reductions and organizational benefits empowerment and achievement. Data collected through survey questionnaire from 48 SMEâ€™s, of which 36 had implemented Enterprise System. The study found significant positive relationship between ERP implementation and improved decision-making ability, improved employee performance monitoring, the achievement of cost reductions and the achievement of cycle time reductions improved decision-making and performance monitoring. Thus, it is perceived, a wider adoption of Enterprise Systems by SMEâ€™s in Bahrain can help them to expand and achieve business growth, thus contribute to the economic growth of Bahrain, in line with the ambitious goals of the Bahrainâ€™s economic vision 2030.
N85|China's Unfinished State-owned Enterprise Reforms|This article discusses China’s incremental approach to SOE reform, the difficulties of continuing this approach as the need to make efficiency gains across all sectors of the economy becomes more acute, and future reform options and the challenges in carrying them out.
N85|三菱商事における店舗ネットワークの構造と機能：1928-36年度|This paper explores the structure and function of the intra-firm trade network in Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi Shoji) from 1928 to 1936. In this period, Mitsubishi Co. substantially expanded its global branch network. Using original documents of Mitsubishi Co., we obtained the data on the trade flow between every pair of the headquarters and branches in 1928 and 1936. While the headquarters in Tokyo maintained its position as the central hub in the intra-firm trade network in this period, some major branches, including Dalian in China, grew to be the subsidiary hubs, which resulted in a change in the network structure.
N85|Shanghai's Trade, China's Growth: Continuity, Recovery, and Change since the Opium Wars|This paper provides an analysis of China's trade performance from the 1840s to the present. Its focus is on Shanghai, the world's largest port, which began direct trade relations with Western nations starting in 1843. The paper finds that Shanghai had, and continues to have, an important role in China's trade structure. Applying the well-known gravity equation of trade for Shanghai's treaty port period, the paper shows that this relationship fits today's actual trade quite well when projected into the modern period. Second, the foreign presence, as measured by foreign direct investment (FDI), in Shanghai is shown to be related not only to trade in the past, but also to trade today, which suggests that FDI is one of the sources of persistence in foreign trade.
N85|Hazard Concerns: MIC at Bhopal and Virginia and the Indian Nuclear Liability Act|Oblivious to the anger and outrage expressed throughout the world after the methyl isocyanate leak in December 1984, the continued storage of MIC at the parent West Virginia plant until 2011, despite several accidents, indicates the limited effect of public safety concerns on corporate strategy. As in India, neither the US executive nor the judiciary seemed capable of withstanding pressures exerted by the chemical processing industry. This is an ongoing story of struggle. What gave Bhopal a fresh salience in the public mind was the Indian government’s proposal to buy nuclear power reactors from the US, and to agree to legislation which would satisfy US manufacturers of the limits to their liability. Disconcertingly for the government, the Bhopal chief judicial magistrate’s judgment in 2010 led to an explosion of public fury, forcing the government to introduce clauses in the nuclear liability legislation laying down responsibility on the technology supplier. If organic chemicals have awakened the world to the dangers of chemical substances, Bhopal brought home the fraught nature of industrial processes involving exothermic reactions.
N85|The Accounting System In Poland – Polski System Rachunkowości|Studying Poland’s economic situation is a challenge for specialists, since it is the country with the best performance among the former communist countries of Eastern Europe. The aim of this article is to examine the variables that have a key role in defining the Polish accounting model in order to better understand its evolution. Firstly, will be shown a chronological summary of the events that formed the accounting in Poland. Then will be exposed the socio-economic cultural, legal and institutional context of national accounting system, its structure being described by emphasizing the internationalization. Finally, will be set up a correspondence between Polish norms and international standards, in order to highlight the characteristics of Polish accounting system that led it to preserve its features even in the internationalization and standardization context.
N85|Industrialization, Dirigisme and Capitalists: Indian Big Business from Independence to Liberalization|This paper examines the interaction between the development and transformation of Indian big business, the trajectory of Indian industrialization and the course of the interventionist policy which provided its background between independence and the shift to a liberal economic policy regime in the early 1990s. Specifically it focuses on how the process of transformation impacted on and worked through diverse firms in different stages of the industrialization process. The paper shall reinforce the broad case that studying that period and the development of the Indian corporate world over it is critically important for developing a proper understanding of the historical origins of Indian liberalization and the subsequent trajectory of Indian capitalist development.
N85|Credit Business of an Agricultural Cooperative in Modern Japan: The Case of the Takedate Cooperative|This study examines the well-known Takedate Cooperative fs credit activities from 1907 until the 1930s. This cooperative established its credit division in 1914 because its members had difficulty raising money from the financial market after poor rice harvests. Additionally, the another purpose was to controlled member behavior by providing preferential financing terms to frequent users of its production and marketing activities and to those who obeyed its rules. This lending practice allowed cooperative members to grow apples as well as rice until the early 1920s. However, in the wake of poor business conditions after World War I, the cooperative reduced loan amounts, lent money only to cover living expenses, and pressed members to save money. The cooperative fs loan rate rose above that of the Aomori prefecture fs financial market, leading many competent members to withdraw their memberships. However, this action did not result in the stagnation of the cooperative. In Takedate village, the central area of the cooperative, peasants could still borrow money without security, and thus, 80% of farm households continued to grow apples, leading to greater affluence in the 1930s.
N85|Book review: The long divergence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
N85|19. Yüzyıl'da Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nda Süngercilik Ve İzmir Limanı'ndan Sünger İhracatı (1850-1900)|Çalışmada 19. yüzyılda bir “zoophyte” olarak tasnifi yapılmiş deniz canlısı süngerin denizaltından çıkartılmasına dayalı süngercilik bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak Osmanlı İmparatorluğu sınırları dahilinde ele alınmaktadır. Burada sunulan bilgiler, bu konuda yapılmış sayılı çalışmanın yanısıra ulaşılan tarihi veri kaynaklarından edinilmiş verilere dayanmaktadır. Bu veriler dahilinde, bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak tanımlanması yanısıra, süngerciliği etkileyen gelişmeler de açıklanmaya çalışılmıştır. Ayrıca süngerin 19. yüzyılda İzmir'den gerçekleştirilen toplam ihracat içerisinde azımsanmayacak paya sahip bir ihraç ürünü olarak, uluslararası piyasalarda rekabet gücünü de belirleyen kendisine has özelliklerine de değinilmektedir. Dahası, 19. yüzyılın ikinci yarısında, bu ekonomik faaliyet üzerinde önemli etkileri ortaya çıkan belli teknik gelişmeler de sözkonusudur. Süngercilik tekniklerindeki bu gelişmelerden de bahsedilmekte ve etkileri açıklanmaya çalışılmaktadır. Nihai olarak, Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nun en önemli ihraç limanlarından birisi olan İzmir’den gerçekleştirilen sünger ihracatının, 19. yüzyıl ikinci yarısı boyunca gösterdiği gelişmelerin belirleyenleri de tanımlanmaya çalışılmıştır.
N85|The State, Industrialization and Competition: A reassessment of India's Leading Business Enterprises under Dirigisme|For over four decades after independence in 1947, India’s industrialization took place under a regime with an extensive system of controls over private capital. It is commonly believed that during this period of dirigisme, established dominant business families successfully manipulated the system to block competition from new firms and thereby perpetuated their dominance. This paper presents evidence to show that this perception conceals as much as it reveals. The process of industrialization between independence and the onset of liberalization in 1991 is actually marked by a combination of continuity with important shifts in the composition of Indian big business. The paper provides a framework for understanding this combination by revisiting the understanding of how business rivalry under Indian dirigisme actually worked. This is done by placing it within the context of dynamic industrialization and structural change, which unfolded within the specific economic, social and political realities of India. The paper shows that continuity and change amongst the leading private business enterprises had common roots in this competitive context.
N85|Aligning with both the Soviet Union and with the Pharmaceutical Transnationals: Dilemmas attendant on initiating Drug Production in India|The paper discusses the processes typically underlying the Government of India’s technological choices in the mid 1950s, with a case study of the pharmaceutical industry. It argues that questions of the future development of India’s pharmaceutical industry was impacted by debates over placing it in the public or private sector, and over securing finance from the government’s own budget,from transnational corporations or through Soviet aid. A close scrutiny of the trajectory of these debates reveals how the highly contested conception of the required scope of the production process finally emerged. This scope then determined why, when faced with an offer from the USSR for an integrated pharmaceutical complex also manufacturing dye intermediates; and from the German conglomerate Bayer for a standalone plant for chemical intermediates, both for drugs and dyes, the Government decided to accept the Bayer proposal.
N85|The Scale of Entrepreneurship in Middle Eastern History: Inhibitive Roles of Islamic Institutions|The historical record belies the claim that Islam impeded entrepreneurship by inculcating conformism and fatalism. However, the diametrically opposed view that Islamic institutions are necessarily supportive of entrepreneurship flies in the face of the historical transformations associated with economic modernization. Islamic institutions that served innovators well in the medieval global economy became dysfunctional as the world made the transition from personal to impersonal exchange. The key problem is that Islamic law failed to stimulate the development of organizational forms conducive to pooling and managing resources on a large scale.
N85|Economic Modernization in Late British India: Hindu-Muslim Differences|The Muslims of South Asia made the transition to modern economic life more slowly than the region’s Hindus. In the first half of the twentieth century, they were relatively less likely to use large-scale and long-living economic organizations, and less likely to serve on corporate boards. Providing evidence, this paper also explores the institutional roots of the difference in communal trajectories. Whereas Hindu inheritance practices favored capital accumulation within families and the preservation of family fortunes across generations, the Islamic inheritance system, which the British helped to enforce, tended to fragment family wealth. The family trusts (waqfs) that Muslims used to preserve assets across generations hindered capital pooling among families; they were also ill-suited to profit-seeking business. Whereas Hindus generally pooled capital within durable joint family enterprises, Muslims tended to use ephemeral Islamic partnerships. Hindu family businesses facilitated the transition to modern corporate life by imparting skills useful in large and durable organizations.
N85|Drivers of change or cut-throat competitors? Challenging Cultures of Innovation of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in West Africa|The remarkable influx of Chinese migrant entrepreneurs in different West African countries in recent years has been met with growing resistance by established local entrepreneurs. Whether the former have a competitive edge over the latter because of distinctive socio-cultural traits, or whether the Chinese supposed effectiveness is just a characteristic feature of any trading Diaspora, is open to question. This exploratory study of Chinese and Nigerian entrepreneurial migrants in Ghana and Benin tries to answer this question. Apparently, the cultural motive powers of migrant drivers of change are not restricted to inherited value systems or religions like a protestant ethic or Confucianism, but they are permanently adapted and invented anew by transnational networks of migration in a globalized world. There is no evidence for a supposed superiority of Chinese versus African innovative cultures of entrepreneurial migrants. Rather there exists an enhanced innovative capacity of a trading Diaspora in general vis-à-vis local entrepreneurs, regardless of the background national culture in which it is embedded. In addition, the rivalry of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in African markets does not necessarily lead to the often suspected cut-throat competition under the impact of globalization. Often both groups act rather complementary. This contributes under certain conditions even to poverty alleviation in the host country.
N85|Technological advantage and market loss: Siemens and the X-ray machine business in Japan (1900-1960)|This paper focuses on the involvement of Siemens on the market for radiology equipment in Japan between 1900 and 1960 from a business history perspective. It explores why the German multinational was unable to keep its dominant position on the Japanese market in the interwar years, despite its technological competitiveness. In particular, it examines the strategic choices made by the firm (export, licensing, direct investment) in relation to the changing economic and technological environment, highlighting the importance, for foreign multinationals, of working together with national trading firms involved in the distribution of drugs and products for doctors, as the Japanese medical market was already well structured when the country opened up to the West. Four phases have been identified. At first, before World War I, German manufacturers of X-ray machines, especially Siemens, enjoyed a virtual monopoly in Japan and favored an export strategy. The political and technological shifts that occurred during the war (interruption of trade with Germany, development of the Coolidge X-ray tube by General Electric) led to a more competitive market in Japan. Siemens reorganized its involvement in this business via a contract signed with a domestic medical goods trade company, Goto Fuundo (1926). Yet this proved insufficient to overcome the competition, and Siemens finally decided to relocate some of its production facilities for X-ray machines in Japan by entering into a joint venture with Goto (1932). Relations between Siemens and Goto were severed by the war, and Goto tried until the 1950s to go it alone in this field but failed due to a lack of organizational capability. As for Siemens, it reverted to its export strategy approach, re-entering the market in the 1950s.
N85|Economic Modernization in Late British India: Hindu-Muslim Differences|The Muslims of South Asia made the transition to modern economic life more slowly than the region’s Hindus. In the first half of the twentieth century, they were relatively less likely to use large-scale and long-living economic organizations, and less likely to serve on corporate boards. Providing evidence, this paper also explores the institutional roots of the difference in communal trajectories. Whereas Hindu inheritance practices favored capital accumulation within families and the preservation of family fortunes across generations, the Islamic inheritance system, which the British helped to enforce, tended to fragment family wealth. The family trusts (waqfs) that Muslims used to preserve assets across generations hindered capital pooling among families, and they were ill-suited to profit-seeking business. Whereas Hindus generally pooled capital within durable joint family enterprises, Muslims tended to use ephemeral Islamic partnerships. Hindu family businesses facilitated the transition to modern corporate life by imparting skills useful in large and durable organizations.
N85|Production and Marketing Activities of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture between the l870s and l920s|This article analyzed the production and marketing activities of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association, Takedate-kumiai had been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation, and had built a brand name for itself. Takedate-kumiai was the cutting-edge case of the industrial associations which is supposed to have spread out in earnest in the 1930s. We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved in the latter half of 1910s. The association received special awarding in 1916 and became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N85|Mergers and Acquisitions - The Standing of theory in the Quest for Better Institutions and Policy|The paper shows that the standing of theory in the field of mergers and acquisitions is weak for at least three reasons. Research is best described as a battlefield of ad hoc theory testing leaving behind a fragmented field. Research has focused traditionally on high intensity markets under the Anglo-Saxon variant of capitalism. Empirical evaluation is prone to be inexact and suffers among other from significant aggregation problems between the micro (firm performance) and macro level (economic growth). The deficiencies in the standing of theory will be reflected in weak institutions to handle the political processes concerning value, liquidity, efficiency and fairness aspects that affect the market for corporate assets within and across different variants of capitalism.
N85|Are the Chinese in Africa More Innovative than the Africans? Comparing Chinese and Nigerian Entrepreneurial Migrants' Cultures of Innovation|The remarkable influx of Chinese migrant entrepreneurs in West Africa has been met with growing resistance from established African entrepreneurs. Whether the Chinese have a competitive edge over Africans because of distinctive sociocultural traits or whether the Chineseʹs supposed effectiveness is just a characteristic feature of any trading diaspora is open to question. This comparative exploratory study of Chinese and Nigerian entrepreneurial migrants in Ghana and Benin provides initial answers to these questions. Apparently, the cultural stimuli for migrant drivers of change are not restricted to inherited value systems and religions, such as a Protestant ethic or Confucianism. Rather, they are continually adapted and invented anew by transnational migration networks in a globalized world. There is no evidence of the supposed superiority of the innovative culture of Chinese entrepreneurial migrants versus that of African entrepreneurial migrants. Instead, there exist trading diasporas which have a generally enhanced innovative capacity vis-àvis local entrepreneurs, regardless of the national culture in which they are embedded. In addition, the rivalry of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in African markets does not necessarily lead to the often suspected cut-throat competition. Often the actions of each group are complementary and mutual benefiting to those of the other. Under certain conditions they even contribute to poverty alleviation in the host country.
N85|Entrepreneurship Propelling Economic Changes in China|The most important aspect of the Chinese economy today is its rapid changes. The changes are propelled by the Chinese entrepreneurs. This essay is an attempt to understand who the entrepreneurs are, the environment in which they work, whether the dynamic changes will continue and what policies can be proposed to improve the changes.
N85|Particularidades de China para el desarrollo empresarial: reflexión a partir de casos de estudio| [ES] China ha irrumpido como actor principal del escenario global al haber protagonizado, durante las tres últimas décadas, un proceso de transformación económica y social de gran magnitud. Ahora bien, vender productos –sobre todo, del sector de alimentación– de origen occidental en China es, con diferencia, el reto más complicado al que deben enfrentarse las compañías de deciden entrar a operar en este mercado.
N85|Are the Chinese in Africa More Innovative than the Africans? Comparing Chinese and Nigerian Entrepreneurial Migrants' Cultures of Innovation|The remarkable influx of Chinese migrant entrepreneurs in West Africa has been met with growing resistance from established African entrepreneurs. Whether the former have a competitive edge over the latter because of distinctive sociocultural traits or whether the Chinese's supposed effectiveness is just a characteristic feature of any trading diaspora is open to question. This comparative exploratory study of Chinese and Nigerian entrepreneurial migrants in Ghana and Benin provides initial answers to these questions. Apparently, the cultural stimuli for migrant drivers of change are not restricted to inherited value systems or religions, such as a Protestant ethic or Confucianism; rather, they are continually adapted and invented anew by transnational migration networks in a globalized world. There is no evidence of the supposed superiority of the innovative culture of Chinese entrepreneurial migrants versus that of African entrepreneurial migrants. Rather, there exist trading diasporas which have a generally enhanced innovative capacity vis-à-vis local entrepreneurs, regardless of the national culture in which they are embedded. In addition, the rivalry of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in African markets does not necessarily lead to the often suspected cut-throat competition. Often the actions of each group are complementary to those of the other. Under certain conditions they even contribute to poverty alleviation in the host country.
N85|Technological advantage and market loss: Siemens and the X-ray machine business in Japan (1900–1960)|This paper focuses on the involvement of Siemens on the market for radiology equipment in Japan between 1900 and 1960 from a business history perspective. It explores why the German multinational was unable to keep its dominant position on the Japanese market in the interwar years, despite its technological competitiveness. In particular, it examines the strategic choices made by the firm (export, licensing, direct investment) in relation to the changing economic and technological environment, highlighting the importance, for foreign multinationals, of working together with national trading firms involved in the distribution of drugs and products for doctors, as the Japanese medical market was already well structured when the country opened up to the West. Four phases have been identified. At first, before World War I, German manufacturers of X-ray machines, especially Siemens, enjoyed a virtual monopoly in Japan and favored an export strategy. The political and technological shifts that occurred during the war (interruption of trade with Germany, development of the Coolidge X-ray tube by General Electric) led to a more competitive market in Japan. Siemens reorganized its involvement in this business via a contract signed with a domestic medical goods trade company, Goto Fuundo (1926). Yet this proved insufficient to overcome the competition, and Siemens finally decided to relocate some of its production facilities for X-ray machines in Japan by entering into a joint venture with Goto (1932). Relations between Siemens and Goto were severed by the war, and Goto tried until the 1950s to go it alone in this field but failed due to a lack of organizational capability. As for Siemens, it reverted to its export strategy approach, re-entering the market in the 1950s.
N85|Business Activities of Yamanaka Hyouemon Family: The Case of the Gotenba-sake Branch in the Edo period|Yamanaka Hyouemon family who was one of Omi-Hino Merchants established the first and second branches in the Gotenba area located at the foot of Mt. Fuji in the Edo period. Focusing on the licenses to brew and the bookkeeping, this paper examines the business activities of the second Gotenba branch (the Gotenba-sake branch). As the conclusions, we could point out the following topics. 1) Yamanaka Family purchased a license to brew sake from the Gotenba village headman in 1801. Purchasing afterward more licenses and building breweries, Yamanaka Family laid the foundation of the sake brewing industry for a short period. 2) The Gotenba-sake branch brewed three types of sake: shiraume, morohaku, namishu. These sake prices were mainly affected by the rice prices. 3) The Gotenba-sake branch brewed sake on average 756 koku (136,374 litre) a year in 1835-1872. 4) The main business of the Gotenba-sake branch was to brew and sell sake, but the branch also sold soy sauce, salt, vinegar and rice bran. 5) The net assets of the Gotenba-sake branch showed the second largest volume of all five branches of Yamanaka family.
N85|The Diffusion of Foreign Cultural Products: The Case Analysis of Japanese Comics (Manga) Market in the US|"Matsui outlines the historical development of the U.S. manga (Japanese comics) industry from the 1980s through the present in order to address the question of why foreign cultural products become popular in offshore markets in spite of cultural differences. He focuses on local publishers as ""gatekeepers"" in the introduction of foreign culture. Using complete data on manga titles published in the U.S. market from 1980 to 2006, he shows what kinds of manga have been translated, published, and distributed for over twenty years and how the competition between the two market leaders, Viz and Tokyopop, created the rapid market growth."
N85|JapanÃ¢â‚¬â„¢s Foreign Direct Investment Experiences in India : Lessons Learnt from Firm Level Surveys|Ever since India decided to globalize, concentrated effort was made to attract Japanese participation through foreign direct investment. However, response from Japan has been rather subdued. This paper attempts to gain some insight into this reluctance of Japanese investors by studying the experiences of eight firms which are either subsidiaries or joint ventures of Japanese companies. The companies that were studied are YKK, Honda Siel Pvt. Ltd, Sona Koyo Steering, Kyocera Wireless India Ltd, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation PTA India (MCC PTA), Toyota Kirloskar Motor Ltd, Satake India Engineering Ltd and Eisai Pharmaceutical Pvt. Ltd. Key findings of the study are as follows : Japanese companies are long term orientated with a strong commitment to quality and the customer and they try to fulfil this commitment by embedding the Japanese style of management into their operations. Among other factors, Japanese firms seek trust in their partner and each of the companies that have a joint venture in India spent a long time in deciding about the partnership. Labour unions are no longer viewed as a threat, as they have realized that a humane approach to labour guarantees harmony. Skill gap at the lower end of the employee order is a concern and the response has been to participate in skill enhancement. In the telecommunications and pharmaceutical sectors, India has become a potential destination for R&D activity because of its cheap, knowledgeable and capable talent pool. Kyocera and Eisai have taken steps to take advantage of this opportunity. Though there are obstacles that continue to impede smooth operations, the Japanese firms that were studied have acquired a greater understanding of the Indian market, and the Government of India has also stimulated foreign direct investment through investor friendly policies, thus contributing to their success in Indian operations. The achievements of these firms show that many of the perceptions about investing and operating in India are unfounded and/or outdated. The success stories of these companies should help attract more Japanese firms into India.
N85|Of Traders, Usurers and British Capital: Managing Agencies and the Dalmia Jain Case|The years between 1947 and 1966, covering the period from independence to the end of the third Five Year Plan, provided the arena for the most acute debates over the content of industrial development. Especially debated at the time was the form of industrial organisation that was appropriate for the private sector under a system of socially regulated industrialisation. In particular, the Managing Agency System, linking a closely held decision making organisation to joint stock companies came under extensive scrutiny. It has been suggested in the paper that by using the frame of joint stock companies as a means to aggrandisement, the Dalmia Jain Group had behaved in a qualitatively different way to the “straightforward” cases of tax evasion of Tatas, Birlas, and even the stock market speculation of Haridas Mundhra. By the late 1960s, the most backward forms of capital had been removed from control of industrial enterprises The tenaciousness of the struggle waged by usurer capital is only an indication of the complexity of the process of development of industrial capital in colonial societies.
N85|Xtending Likages Between Organizational Analysis And Social Structure: A Case Study Of The Celebrity-Construction Of A Chinese Marketplace|This paper examines the emergence of firm-celebrity, both an intangible-asset, and a facilitator of competitive advantage. Institutional approaches have asserted that organizations from the same organizational field and characterized by comparable structural positions face similar structural forces. These result in isomorphic tendencies, and similarities among firms. But, in any organizational field, differences among firms also exist. Apart from research on variations resulting from intra-organization factors, however, firm-differentiating processes have not received much attention. This paper focuses on various firm-external social constructions: legitimacy, reputation, and status, and how they impact the emergence of firm-celebrity, a construct that helps to differentiate one firm from another. The paper adopts a historical, relationally framed approach, which features a firm-celebrity case study.
N85|Business Marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture in the l900s and l910s: Building Cooperative Relationships among the Association, Associate partners, and Wholesalers|This article analyzed the business marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association has been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation ever since the mid-1910s, and has built a brand name for itself, We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved after the association received special awarding in 1916. The association became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N85|Business Marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association in Aomori Prefecture in the l900s and l920s: Building Cooperative Relationships among the Association, Associate partners, and Wholesalers|This article analyzed the business marketing of the Agricultural Co-operatives Association established in Takedate Village in the Tsugaru district of Aomori Prefecture in 1907. In the early stages of the Meiji period, this area was considered as backward in terms of commodity production and circulation. However, the Agricultural Co-operatives Association has been highly evaluated for its business marketing across the nation ever since the mid-1910s, and has built a brand name for itself, We obtained the followings results. (1) By means of production inspection before packaging, the association made an effort toward not only the production of high-quality apples but also their trusted shipment in accordance with the brand name and standards established for itself. All these were extremely advanced efforts in agricultural commodity transactions. (2) However, until the early 1910s, the business sales of the association encountered certain problems. One problem was that the association partners had illegally sold apples to merchants and therefore, could not gather enough apples to sell. Another problem was that the specification wholesalers in the great city did not make all their payments smoothly. While being such status, the association thought much of the trust and the autonomy at the partners and the wholesales. It supported without laying down compulsion and a penalty regulation. (3) The problems mentioned in the above point were solved after the association received special awarding in 1916. The association became flagrant nationwide and succeeded in establishing a brand name image. The partners recognized that apples sold on behalf of the association should be done so at favorable prices. As the association fs apples became famous in the markets of consuming regions, wholesalers came to recognize special wholesale contracts with this association as an honor. Consequently, the association grew to be an economic organization that took the initiative in product sales to wholesalers even in important cities such as Tokyo.
N85|Entrepreneurship and Japanese Industrialization in Historical Perspective|Studies of entrepreneurship in nineteenth century Japan typically focus on the activities of leading industrialists who founded large, family-owned conglomerates known as zaibatsu. These individuals do not conform well with the archetypal Schumpeterian entrepreneur, but this discrepancy may be more an issue of context than behavior. However, due to a lack of documentation for smaller independent firms, it is difficult to make this comparison. To broaden the scope of analysis, I use data drawn from corporate genealogies, which provide a more complete cross-section of entrepreneurial activity. This dataset of firm entry during the Meiji Period (1868-1912) covers a wide range of industries, allowing me to analyze aspects of Japan's early industrialization that heretofore have relied on anecdotal or case evidence. I also propose a game-theoretic model of entry appropriate for entrepreneurs in late developing economies that exploit the qualitative nature of these data.
N85|Perfecting the Catching-up: The Case of Taiwan's Motorcycle Industry|The final stage of the catching-up process has formidable hurdles. This paper examinesthe case of Taiwan’s motorcycle industry and shows how latecomers overcame thehurdles. In the early 1990s, the two largest motorcycle makers in Taiwan, Sanyang andKwang Yang, had completed the catching-up process and became independent fromHonda, on which they had technologically depended since the early 1960s. The requisitefor independence was acquiring the capacity for product innovation. The two assemblerscould cultivate technological capacity by investing abundant resources, which theyaccumulated in the protected market. It should be noted that although the market wasprotected and highly concentrated, it was also very competitive. Another condition wasthe solid local suppliers of parts and components. The local suppliers had also grownunder the government’s industrial policies. However, their development beyond imitatorscan be attributed to their own initiatives.
N85|Myanmar Sugar SMEs: History, Technology, Location and Government Policy|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) engaged in sugar processing in Myanmar appeared in the last decade of the socialist era. An acute sugar deficit, restricted trade in white sugar, and high demand from the conventional dairy business led to the growth of sugar SMEs by appropriate blending of semi-finished products (syrup) in the fields, which were then processed in vacuum pans and centrifugals to obtain white sugar. This became a tradable commodity and sugar SMEs grew in clusters in big cities. They are family-owned businesses. However, they lack the bagasse-based power generation.In recent years, large modern sugar factories operated by private and military companies have emerged as key players. The current shortage of fuel feedstock and competition for raw materials have become driving forces that shift sugar SMEs from market-oriented to raw material-oriented locations. Internal competition among key players made sugar price highly volatile, too. Being placed on a level playing field, the whole industry should be upgraded in terms of price and quality to become export-oriented.
N85|Sixty years after the partition resolution: what future for the Arab economy in Israel?|Despite the expectations of economic theory, a century of Arab-Jewish economic interaction in Palestine has not led to the convergence that is supposed to result from exchange between a capital-rich economy and a labor-intensive one. After 60 years of failed integration, the Arab population in Israel has fallen to the bottom of the socio-economic ladder. With the Palestinian “regional economies” in Israel and the occupied territories operating as part of the same Israeli economic regime, the challenge for Palestinian economic policy makers is to build on the new paradigm in shaping a national development strategy aimed at reconstructing Arab-Jewish economic relations on the principles of balanced cooperation embodied in the Economic Annex of the 1947 UN partition resolution.
N85|Venturing Beyond the Marathon: The Entrepreneurship of Ultrarunning and the IAU World Cup in Korea|This article describes the entrepreneurial development and professionalism of ultradistance running (ultrarunning) in South Korea, culminating with the hosting of the IAU World Cup 100K in 2006. This case study-based research provides evidence of various macro-environmental and individual drivers of a grassroots entrepreneurial process, contextualised in Korea's sporting culture. Macro-environmental factors include the economic crisis and Korean cultural values of comradery, emotional expressiveness and entrepreneurial spirit. At the individual level, self-leadership, focus, persistence, team dynamics and access to resources explain the growth of ultrarunning and the commitment to hosting the IAU World Cup. Implications for sports entrepreneurship and grassroots-initiated mega-sporting events in Asia are discussed.
N85|The development of Transistor Radio export from Japan -The contribution of Small and Medium firms in its formative stage-|In a postwar high-growth period, some Japanese industries which were classified as a glight machinery industry h appeared and contributed for acquisition of foreign exchange, especially American dollar. As a case study of these industries, this paper examined the development of Transistor radio industry. Not only some major Japanese electronics companies like Matsushita, SONY and so on, but also a lot of SMEs played a very important roll to open up its American Market. In its early stage, Japanese companies had an advantage of price competition over American companies, but were criticized its f poor-quality. To improve it, MITI imposed an export restraint which gave favorable allotment to exporters which was dealing high quality goods and had a long term and exclusive contract with American importers. Middle class companies which was at a disadvantage against big companies in past export record utilized the system to secure their quota and was strongly motivated to improve their product. On the other hand, the companies shipping low quality goods had to leave the market. Consequently, by the middle of 1960 fs, the industry was reorganized.
N85|South-South Regionalism And Trade Cooperation In The Asia-Pacific Region|This study of regional South-South (S-S) trade and cooperation in East, South and South-East Asian countries (ESSEA) aims to provide an economic rationale for S-S trade; shed some light on the extent and pattern of S-S trade in the ESSEA region; examine the dynamic forces behind the expansion of such trade, and its shortcomings and vulnerabilities; propose policies for enhancing and strengthening regional cooperation; and identify areas for further research. The main conclusion of the study is that, while the rapid expansion of trade among ESSEA countries has been mainly the result of industrialization and industrial collaboration in the form of production sharing, it has not been driven through the operation of market forces alone. South-South trade can also be used as a policy-driven vehicle for industrialization in lower-income countries, and is linked to the principle of dynamic comparative advantage. The resultant expansion of supply capabilities and diversification of the structure of production and trade, in turn, potentially leads to further expansion of S-S trade and to the geographical diversification of trade for the countries involved, with a positive impact on their bargaining power. However, enhancing S-S trade requires proactive policy measures for cooperation that go beyond tariff reduction and trade agreements. The paper begins by providing a rationale for S-S trade as a vehicle for promoting industrialization and development. It goes on to show that regional trade has expanded rapidly in ESSEA mainly through intra-industry trade in the form of production sharing in electrical and electronic products. The region has become not only the most dynamic area for S-S trade, but also a major force in international trade in general. Nevertheless, intraregional trade among ESSEA countries has led to three main developments that these countries need to consider collectively and address through joint policy initiatives in order to further promote industrialization and development.
N85|Financial Independence of Local Productivity Centers (in Japanese)|After the Second World War, the productivity movement was spread out in Western European countries and in Japan. After that, the productivity movement was developed also in developing countries, e.g. India, and in some developed countries such as Germany and Italy until today. Japan Productivity Center (JPC) was established in 1955 and after that its local organizations were founded. So that JPC and its local organizations could have continued to exist for half a century, it is necessary for them to continually contribute to society. Its proof lies in the fact that the local organizations could be operated independently with smaller amount of financial support from JPC. I studied the current status of income and expenditure of Kansai Productivity Center (KPC), one of the local productivity centers of JPC. The result of my study clearly shows that KPC has been run with smaller amount of financial support from JPC.
N85|Economic Integration in Asia: Bilateral Free Trade Agreements Versus Asian Single Market|No abstract is available for this item.
N85|The Restructuring of Cotton Spinning Companies in Postwar Japan|Since the mid-1960s, the Japanese cotton spinning industry has experienced steady decline. However, the whole process of this decline was the synthesis of several different firm strategies within the industry. If we look at this process, three types of firm strategies can be found; (1) positive restructuring from textiles to non-textiles (Kanebo, Nittobo, and Nisshinbo), (2) adherence to textile manufacturing (three shinbo: Kondobo, Tsuzukibo and Omikenshi), and (3) inactive restructuring in some large companies (such as Toyobo).
N85|Why the Middle East is Economically Underdeveloped: Historical Mechanisms of Institutional Stagnation|Although a millennium ago the Middle East was not an economic laggard, by the 18th century it exhibited clear signs of economic backwardness. The reason for this transformation is that certain components of the region’s legal infrastructure stagnated as their Western counterparts gave way to the modern economy. Among the institutions that generated evolutionary bottlenecks are the Islamic law of inheritance, which inhibited capital accumulation; the absence in Islamic law of the concept of a corporation and the consequent weaknesses of civil society; and the waqf, which locked vast resources into unproductive organizations for the delivery of social services. All of these obstacles to economic development were largely overcome through radical reforms initiated in the nineteenth century. Nevertheless, traditional Islamic law remains a factor in the Middle East’s ongoing economic disappointments. The weakness of the region’s private economic sectors and its human capital deficiency stand among the lasting consequences of traditional Islamic law.
N85|The Flying Geese Paradigm: A critical study of its application to East Asian regional development|"It is often claimed that what is popularly known as the ""flying geese paradigm"" of dynamic comparative advantage has accurately depicted the East Asian catching-up process. This paper presents a critical study of the paradigm, as well as its application to the current situation in East Asia economic hierarchy. The paper first presents the various versions of the paradigm, and discusses similarities and differences among them. It then evaluates the application of the paradigm to the East Asian regional development context by identifying major theoretical, conceptual and empirical problems that come with it. It is the author's hope that the arguments presented in this paper will contribute to the further enrichment of future discussions on the East Asian development experience."
N85|Incorporated cash waqfs and mudaraba, Islamic non-bank financial instruments from the past to the future|We will discuss in this paper whether it would be possible to merge two powerful traditional Islamic financial institutions, the cash waqfs and the mudaraba, with the European corporate form to create a potent modern Islamic non-bank institution.
N85|The Evolution of Concentrated Ownership in India Broad patterns and a History of the Indian Software Industry|As in many countries (Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Italy, Sweden), concentrated ownership is a ubiquitous feature of the Indian private sector over the past seven decades. Yet, unlike in most countries, the identity of the primary families responsible for the concentrated ownership changes dramatically over time, perhaps even more than it does in the U.S. during the same time period. It does not appear that concentrated ownership in India is entirely associated with the ills that the literature has recently ascribed to concentrated ownership in emerging markets. If the concentrated owners are not exclusively, or even primarily, engaged in rent-seeking and entry-deterring behavior, concentrated ownership may not be inimical to competition. Indeed, as a response to competition, we argue that at least some Indian families the concentrated owners in question have consistently tried to use their business group structures to launch new ventures. In the process they have either failed hence the turnover in identity or reinvented themselves. Thus concentrated ownership is a result, rather than a cause, of inefficiencies in capital markets. Even in the low capital-intensity, relatively unregulated setting of the Indian software industry, we find that concentrated ownership persists in a privately successful and socially useful way. Since this setting is the least hospitable to the existence of concentrated ownership, we interpret our findings as a lower bound on the persistence of concentrated ownership in the economy at large.
N85|Gaining Technical Know-How in an Unequal World: Penicillin Manufacture in Nehru's India|The paper examines the rationale behind the Government of India's decision to initiate the manufacture of penicillin through collaboration with specialized agencies of the United Nations. Initially the expectation had been that collaboration was essential with one of the prominent transnational companies which had proprietory knowledge in penicillin manufacture. This preference for aligning with a proven manufacturer rather than taking the more entrepreneurial route of depending on the United Nations was favoured by the Committee established to oversee the penicillin project which was chaired by a prominent industrialist. Prime Minister Nehru's intervention tilted the balance in favour of the United Nation's agencies. Nehru's choice in the matter was based on the advantages to India which would accrue from association with the United Nations, in addition to his reluctance to allow India to enter into a subordinate position through collaboration with a foreign manufacturer in as sensitive an area as pharmaceuticals.
N85|The Flying Geese Paradigm: A Critical Study Of Its Application To East Asian Regional Development|It is often claimed that what is popularly known as the “flying geese paradigm” of dynamic comparative advantage has accurately depicted the East Asian catching-up process. This paper presents a critical study of the paradigm, as well as its application to the current situation in East Asian economic hierarchy. The paper first presents the various versions of the paradigm, and discusses similarities and differences among them. It then evaluates the application of the paradigm to the East Asian regional development context by identifying major theoretical, conceptual and empirical problems that come with it. It is the author’s hope that the arguments presented in this paper will contribute to the further enrichment of future discussions on the East Asian development experience.
N85|Taxation by auction: fund raising by 19th century Indian guilds|"We describe a unique institution used by 19th century Indian guilds to raise funds: The guild members agreed that on a particular day all but one of their shops would be shut. An auction would be held to determine which one shop would remain open, and the winning bid would go to the guild funds. We compare this ""taxation by auction"" mechanism with more conventional tax schemes and show that under certain conditions, not only will a majority of the guild members prefer to be taxed via an auction, but that this form of taxation will be more equitable than other forms.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N85|What drives the adoption of SHRM in Indian Companies?|Managerial innovation and its critical importance in today's global business is well documented. The crucial role of managerial innovation in strategic human resource management is becoming increasingly prevalent in both business and academic literature. However, practically no such study has been undertaken in an emerging country scenario as India. This study identifies the drivers of adoption of innovative strategic human resource practices (SHRM) in Indian organizations. This study is of critical importance against the backdrop of the liberalization of the Indian economy which started in 1991. The structural adjustments due to liberalization have created a hyper-competitive and turbulent environment. Drawing from both innovation and SHRM literature this research report discusses five main propositions of adoption of innovative SHRM practices in Indian organizations. The generalisability, applicability, acceptability, and the diffusion of practices are discussed.
N85|Strategic Organizational Response of an Indo-Japenese Joint Venture to Indian's Economic Liberalization|The Indian economy began its liberalization process in 1991 under the structural adjustment program of the IMF and the World Bank. The structural adjustment program required India to deregulate in a phased manner, eliminate the license regime and to open its economy to foreign capital. With the opening of the economy, the Indian market has become intensely competitive and turbulent with the entry of greater foreign participation. This paper tries to build a conceptual model of strategic response through effective human resource management policies and practices within such a market environment. The article tries to understand this phenomenon from a contingency perspective through a single detailed case-study of an Indo-Japanese Joint Venture. Several issues relating to organizational redesign, effective corporate responses like organizational redesign, professional and employee oriented modes of management and a hybrid model of Indo-Japanese HRM interventions are discussed.
N85|Bracing Competition through Innovative HRM in Indian Firms: Lessons for MNEs|HRM plays a critical role and constructive role. How important is the involvement of HRM in strategy development and implementation under hyper-competitive environment? HRM occurs at all levels of organizations and increasingly, outside organizations as organizations manage relationships with external stakeholders. This article shows how innovative HRM practices are being adopted by Indian firms to brace competition in the post liberalization scenario. The article discusses the need for new skills, new policies and innovative HRM practices.
N85|Has the Bourgeoisie Truly Come of Age in India?|Flat-footed entry into globalisation and the terrible events in Gujarat have perhaps jolted the Indian bourgeoisie into a new phase in their quest for modernity
N85|Are Prices Higher For the Poor in New York City?|Despite earlier evidence to the contrary, recent inquiries appear to reach a consensus that the poor pay more for food. However, these studies utilize samples drawn on the basis of prior knowledge of unfair pricing strategies, proximity of volunteer surveyors, or other non-random methods. This paper revisits the issue of price discrimination by analyzing price data collected using a stratified, random sample design to answer the question of whether prices are higher in poor, urban neighborhoods. Contrary to the recent literature, I find that market prices in poor neighborhoods are not higher than those in more affluent areas.
N85|Nature of Small Enterprise Development: Political Aims and Socio-Economic Reality|The political aim of the Government of India's small industries policy-the creation of a class of small capitalist entrepreneurs-required two measures to ensure its fulfillment.Firstly, the demarcating line between small and big capital had to be defined in a way that was both administratively easy to handle and captured in an acceptable manner the essential difference between 'small' and 'large' across a wide range of industries.Secondly, ways had to be devised to ensure against the entry of ineligible persons or conglomerates to the special provisions of the development schemes. This paper assesses the success of the Government's efforts in these directions
N85|Nature of Small Enterprise Development: Political Aims and Socio-Economic Reality|The political aim of the Government of India's small industries policy-the creation of a class of small capitalist entrepreneurs-required two measures to ensure its fulfillment.Firstly, the demarcating line between small and big capital had to be defined in a way that was both administratively easy to handle and captured in an acceptable manner the essential difference between 'small' and 'large' across a wide range of industries.Secondly, ways had to be devised to ensure against the entry of ineligible persons or conglomerates to the special provisions of the development schemes. This paper assesses the success of the Government's efforts in these directions
N85|Small Enterprises and the Crisis in Indian Development|"There was a socio-political as well as economic imperative for the conscious encouragement of small enterprises in India. The high degree of concentration of capital in the Indian economy at the time of Independence led to a serious situation as far as the stability of the existing social order was concerned. Added to this was a situation where the country had achieved independence under the pressure of a mass national movement. Although never seriously challenging the legitimacy of institutions of private property, this had generated and disseminated democratic ideas, viewing unfavourably the existence of extreme concentrations of income and wealth. The economic imperative facing the planners arose from the high degree of self-employment in the economy. According to the 1951 population census, over 58 per cent of the work force engaged in industry ""neither employed any one nor did they work for anyone"". If the mass of productive facilities already existing at the time of independence were to expand and grow, it was critical that the market for the goods which they produced should also grow. To generate a fast growing market for capital goods and intermediate goods, it was necessary for the planners to encourage a process of capital accumulation, leading to differentiation among the huge mass of self-employed persons. Thus, both the socio- political imperative of the development of a small industrial capitalist stratum, and the economic imperative of the encouragement of small industrial enterprises pointed to the need for a set of official policy measures and institutions which would aid these processes. What is of interest in the Indian case, however, is that these requirements were skilfully matched to the popular support for small industrialists and small enterprises which had been generated by democratic currents within the national movement in the pre-Independence period."
N85|Capitalism in India and the Small Industries Policy|It is instructive to look at the genesis of what has come to be known as the small industries development policy and to see whether it was at all possible in the early 1950s, given the already existing strength of large industry, for any government to have appreciably increased the strength of cottage and other small industry — and thus to have provided the jobs which, it is claimed, the policy actually implemented did not. For this purpose, we must examine the Congress's original views on the pattern of development it wished to see; the results of almost 20 years of debate following the 1929 Karachi resolution; and the opposition these views faced once Independence was a reality — both from large industrialists and from large landholders. Attempts were made by the large industrialists to bring about direct changes in policy, while the large landholders tried to preserve their economic and social interests through intervention largely at the more detailed policy-making stage and at the time of implementation. Though both types of obstruction had an impact on the final shape of the small industries policy, it is with the former that this paper is principally concerned.
N85|Japan's Foreign Direct Investment Experiences in India: Lessons Learnt from Firm Level Surveys|Though economic relations between India and Korea have been strengthening, the current size of trade and investment between the two countries is relatively low compared to the size and structural complementarities of the two economies. In this context, the present paper analyses trade and investment relations and explores future areas of potential co-operation between India and Korea. We find that the increase in merchandise trade between the two countries has been mainly because of the changing demand structure and comparative advantages of both the economies in complementary sectors in recent years. The Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) analysis, at both the aggregated and disaggregated levels, shows that while Korea has been specialising in a few, high value-added manufacturing products, India's exports have been more diversified. The analysis also indicates that both the countries have comparative advantages in different products in the same industry, revealing the opportunity for intra-industry trade (IIT). Moreover, the increasing trade complementarity index (TCI) shows that Indian and Korean trade gradually has become more compatible over time, indicating that any agreement between the two countries is likely to enhance trade flows. The trade intensities between the two countries reveal that Korea is doing much better and there is scope for India to improve its export intensity with Korea. The study also suggests the areas where there is huge scope for increased investment and technological collaboration between the two countries. Further, there is huge potential for trade in services in areas such as information technology, science and technology, pharmaceutical industry, broadcasting, tourism, healthcare and human resource development. Removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers, especially sector specific barriers, will give a major boost to bilateral trade and investment relations.
