N86|Losing Your Dictator: Firms During Political Transition|Can firms transfer distortions across political regimes? To answer this question, we use a novel dataset and a network analysis to study firms during Chile’s transition to democracy. We find that firms with links to the dictatorship were relatively unproductive before the transition, increased their productive capacity, enjoyed higher profits, and obtained more loans from state-owned banks during political transition. We test for different explanations and provide suggestive evidence consistent with strategic behavior aiming to improve their market position in democracy. These results suggests that distortions can be transferred across political regimes.
N86|El bicentenario: una mirada entre la historia económica y la economía política|En el marco del Bicentenario de la independencia de Colombia, el Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), en alianza con el periódico Portafolio, ha presentado una serie de reflexiones sobre la trayectoria económica que ha atravesado el país, en aras de entender los retos del futuro y las lecciones aprendidas del pasado. El contenido es muy amplio incluyendo temas que han jugado un rol clave en la historia del país, como el café, la violencia, la tierra, hasta temas que son menos conocidos pero deberían formar parte de la reflexión colectiva, como el papel de la mujer, los estudios sectoriales, o el desarrollo de largo plazo. El lector no tiene que esperarse una narración univoca, ni un recorrido lineal: estos escritos son reflexiones que vienen de investigadores con enfoques teóricos y metodológicos muy diferentes, como tradición en la Universidad Nacional. Así, ensayos de análisis económico de las instituciones son acompañados por reflexiones de análisis marxiano aplicado, y la cliometría se entrelaza a la finanza pública. Por la misma razón, decidimos no proponer una estructura interpretativa o una organización del contenido, prefiriendo reportar los escritos en el orden cronológico en el cual aparecieron en el portal del periódico. *** In the framework of the Bicentennial of the independence of Colombia, the Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), in alliance with the newpaper Portafolio, has gathered a series of reflections about the economic trajectory that the country has gone through, for the sake of understanding the challenges of the future and the lessons learned from the past. The content is very broad including issues that have played a key role in the history of the country, such as coffee, violence, land, and issues that are less known but should be part of collective reflection, such as the role of women, sectoral studies, or long-term development. The reader should not expect a univocal narrative, nor a linear perspective: these texts are reflections that come from researchers with very different theoretical and methodological approaches, as a tradition at the Universidad Nacional. As a result, economic analysis of the institutions goes hand by hand with applied Marxian analysis, and the cliometry is intertwined with public finance. For the same reason, we decided not to propose an interpretative structure or an organization of the content, opting for an order of presentation that follows the chronological order in which they appeared in the newspaper's portal.
N86|Teaching entrepreneurial families and family business history in Latin America, 1870s-2017|This paper aims to be an instrument for teaching family business history in Latin America in business schools. The focus is the story of the many failures and the few successful histories of Latin American family businesses, from the 1870s until our days. The choice of the dates responds to the willingness of the authors to focus the attention of students in a key historical period in the history of Latin America, with consolidated independent governments, and fast inclusion in the global economy. Those were years in which the region transformed its global position from being a destination of foreign products, labour, and capital, to becoming increasingly the cradle of innovative multinationals, some of which are today key players in global Foreign Direct Investment (Casanova 2016). The paper indicates the major trends in the external environment and the national politics, and the impact of such context in the creation, expansion, disappearance, or transformation, of family businesses, though the focus is in the large diversified family controlled business groups, for which the empirical evidence is more abundant to establish comparisons across borders, despite the diversity.
N86|The Industrialization of South America Revisited: Evidence from Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, 1890-2010|We use new manufacturing GDP time series to examine the industrialization in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Colombia since the early twentieth century. We uncover variation across countries and over time that the literature on industrialization had overlooked. Rather than providing a single explanation of how specific shocks or policies shaped the industrialization of the region, our argument is that the timing of the industrial take off was linked to initial conditions, while external shocks and macroeconomic and trade policy explain the variation in the rates of industrialization after the 1930s and favorable terms of trade and liberalization explain de-industrialization after 1990.
N86|Constrained Potential: A Characterisation of Mexican Microenterprises|This paper investigates the existence and nature of constraints prevailing among Mexican microenterprises. It provides inter-temporal insights by relying on firm-level data spanning from 1994 to 2012. A performance index is defined based on firm levels of capital stock and monthly profits, and is used to estimate the empirical probability of a business's success. The predicted values are used to classify every microenterprise into one of three categories: upper, middle, or lower segment. Overall, the study provides evidence of constrained productivity and capital misallocation. Specifically, middle-segment firms exhibit entrepreneurial features and their average marginal returns are 15 percent. Because this segment faces mainly external constraints, cost-effective interventions are plausible. Regarding the lower-segment firms, it is estimated that their average monthly marginal returns are 30 per cent, compared to 1 per cent for the upper segment. It is also shown that, over time, the share that middle-segment firms represent relative to all microenterprises increased from 16 to 22 percent. Lastly, the sources of variation in monthly profits among segments are explored using the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition method.
N86|Repatriando capital sin plata. Redes de paisanaje, comercio de frutos y giro de letras entre Venezuela y España, 1785-1796|This paper offers some evidences about the circulation of capital between Venezuela and Spain at the end of the eighteenth century through the case study of the Spanish merchant Esteban González de Linares (1751-1802). Our sources are private nature: an accounting book and some letters of Esteban González de Linares with Francisco de Gibaja, shipowner and merchant in Santander, and other people (335 letters). These documents show a wide variety of channels to the transfer of capitals from the colony to the metropolis, both at large operations and small deliveries. González de Linares became, during his stay in Caracas (1785-1791), an important agent in the transfer of savings from the colony. The scarcity of silver and gold in Venezuela during this period justifies that the transfer of capital did promote the export of groceries (cocoa, indigo) and the development of financial markets (orders and bills of exchange).
N86|Empresas de vapores en el Caribe Colombiano: La navegación fluvial y los ferrocarriles en el Magdalena Grande y el Bajo Magdalena, 1870 - 1930|En este trabajo se indaga sobre la presencia de empresas y empresarios extranjeros en el Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El objetivo es conocer su participación en el comercio exterior colombiano, así como sus aportes a la innovación tecnológica en un sector estratégico como el del transporte. Para este fin, en el artículo se analizan las experiencias empresariales en la navegación fluvial a vapor, así como en los ferrocarriles de Barranquilla y Santa Marta, actividades que han estado siempre asociadas a inversionistas extranjeros. ******ABSTRACT: This paper investigates about the presence of foreign companies and businessmen in the Colombian Caribbean between the 1870s and 1930s. This in order to understand their participation in the Colombian foreign trade, as well as their contributions to technological innovation in a strategic sector such as transportation. For this purpose, business experiences in river steamboat and railroad transportation in Barranquilla and Santa Marta are analyzed, activities which have always been linked to foreign investors.
N86|El comercio internacional de las grandes empresas de la Argentina en el siglo XXI|En la Argentina, las grandes firmas tienen un papel central tanto en la demanda como en la oferta de divisas, lo cual les confirió un rol clave en la dinámica del modo de acumulación que se desplegó bajo los gobiernos del kirchnerismo (2003-2015). En este artículo se analiza la incidencia que tuvieron las empresas líderes en el comercio exterior del país, aspecto central dado que este fue el único rubro del balance de pagos que registró superávits sistemáticos hasta el año 2014. Para ello se toman en cuenta distintas variables de las 200 compañías más grandes de la economía argentina excluyendo a las firmas del sector financiero. En este sentido, el objetivo del trabajo es el de aportar algunos elementos de juicio referidos a las características y las restricciones que caracterizan el perfil de inserción del país en la división mundial del trabajo.
N86|Empresas de vapores en el Caribe Colombiano: La navegación fluvial y los ferrocarriles en el Magdalena Grande y el Bajo Magdalena, 1870 - 1930|En este trabajo se indaga sobre la presencia de empresas y empresarios extranjeros en el Caribe colombiano entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El objetivo es conocer su participación en el comercio exterior colombiano, así como sus aportes a la innovación tecnológica en un sector estratégico como el del transporte. Para este fin, en el artículo se analizan las experiencias empresariales en la navegación fluvial a vapor, así como en los ferrocarriles de Barranquilla y Santa Marta, actividades que han estado siempre asociadas a inversionistas extranjeros.
N86|Symbioses imperative and convenient: The Evolution of Crony Capitalism in Puebla, Mexico, 1920-1940|Several historians have used “crony capitalism” to label the cozy and inefficient relationships between business and political elites prevailing in Mexico since the 19th century. But it is a nebulous term, stigmatizing various behaviors not all of which are harmful to state formation or economic growth. I seek to solve this problem of conceptual vagueness by differentiating between forms of state-capital interdependence. The first, necessary to both parties at times of uncertainty, I term a “symbiotic imperative,” which operates between institutions and purports to serve the greater good. The second, involving exchanges of favors that are merely advantageous, I term “symbiotic convenience,” which tends to operate at a more interpersonal level. As a case study, I consider relations between governors and the leading industrialist William Jenkins in Puebla after the Revolution.
N86|La ganadería bovina en el nororiente de Colombia. Fomento de razas y dinámicas en la propiedad de tierras en El Socorro, siglo XVIII|El artículo analiza los orígenes de la ganadería bovina en la provincia de El Socorro (nororiente de Colombia) desde las dinámicas en la posesión de tierras, la adecuación de potreros en las estancias y haciendas para las razas criollas, el intercambio económico con los llanos del Casanare y los intereses pecuarios de los insurgentes de 1781. A partir de la consulta en los archivos notariales de El Socorro, trabajos de grado sobre demografía y movimiento de tierras y estudios de especialistas sobre la historia de la ganadería en Colombia, se demuestra que desde sus orígenes como provincia se fomentó la producción, intercambio y comercialización del ganado bovino a la par de sus tradicionales comercios interprovinciales de mieles, tabacos y artesanías de algodón. ***** This paper analyses the origins of cattle in the province of Socorro (north eastern Colombia) from the dynamics of land ownership, adequacy of pastures on farms and ranches for landraces, economic exchange with the plains of Casanare and livestock interests of the insurgents of 1781. Notarial archives of Socorro, graduate theses on demographics and earth moving and specialist studies on the history of livestock in Colombia, demonstrate that from its origins as a province, the production, exchange and trading of cattle was promoted at the same time as traditional interprovincial trade of honey, tobacco and cotton handicrafts.
N86|Formalization of Chilean banking activity in the second half of the 19th century|This article analyzes the formalization of Chilean banking activity in the second half of the 19th century. It also considers the consequences of the legalization of banknote issuance as legal currency on the Chilean economy. The main hypothesis is that the formalization of banking activity had two main effects: on the one hand, it helped to develop the money market. On the other hand, it increased market concentration while there was no control of money issuing activity. This article is based on an archival research, contemporary magazines, newspapers and other secondary sources.
N86|Entrepreneurs and the Co-Creation of Ecotourism in Costa Rica|Between the 1970s and the 2000s Costa Rica became established as the world's leading ecotourism destination. This working paper suggests that although Costa Rica benefited from biodiversity and a pleasant climate, the country's preeminence in ecotourism requires more than a natural resource endowment explanation. The paper argues that the ecotourism industry was a co-creation of the public, private, and tertiary sectors. While the role of the government and conservation NGOs is acknowledged in the existing literature, this study draws attention to the critical role of small entrepreneurs. Making extensive use of oral history, the working paper demonstrates the role of tour companies in drawing affluent Western ecotourists to the country, and of the creators of ecolodges and other forms of accommodation in providing them with somewhere to stay. These entrepreneurs, many of them expatriate Americans, helped ensure that formally protected areas remained sustainable parks and reserves, by providing revenues, education in conservation to tourists, and community development and jobs. Clustering created positive externalities for new entrepreneurs to enter the industry, who could also learn from knowledge spillovers. There were downsides to the new industry, however. The creation of the national image of a natural paradise enabled many businesses which were not environmentally sustainable to free-ride on the green image. Even values-driven ecotourism entrepreneurs faced questions about their impact as they expanded the scale of their operations. While scaling was a sign of success and delivered many benefits to Costa Rica, there were distinct drawbacks from a sustainability perspective.
N86|Playing with Fire? Internationalization and Condition of Mexican Banks Prior to The 1982 Debt Crisis|Large foreign lending and heavy indebtedness of developing countries are main features of international finance in leading to the debt crisis of the 1980s. The high exposure of the commercial banking sector from industrial countries to external debt in the developing world by the time of the Mexican default in August 1982 is well known. However, although importantly involved in foreign finance and the petrodollar recycling process, the condition of commercial banks from debtor countries themselves has been much less recognized and explored. This paper shows that the health and financial position of the Mexican commercial banking sector significantly deteriorated in the years preceding the debt crisis, and that internationalization was an exit option to domestic fundraising difficulties. Economic and financial analysis of the banks' asset and liability structure demonstrate that banks involved in international business had greater risk levels than those operating only in the domestic market, which puts international banking at the heart of the problem. The paper provides new insights into the domestic and international political economy of a lending-borrowing mechanism that led to what was perhaps the largest global financial crisis since the Great Depression.
N86|Delivery Process Of Non-Banking Government Funds To Smes In Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico Proceso De Entrega De Fondos Gubernamentales No Bancarios A Mipymes En Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico|This research addresses the issue of non-banking Government funds to which micro, small and medium enterprises (SMES) in Mexico may have access. The purpose of this study is to provide updated information to SMES in Mexicali, Baja California to help them identify different options available when they require non-banking government funds. Research on the theme, as well as the conceptual and legal framework of trusts is analyzed. It outlines and explains the procedure applied by federal, state and local Governments for the delivery of funds. Research is done under the degree of knowledge that SMES had on the types and amounts of non-banking funds. This is a descriptive research quantitative in nature. It also explores a nonprobability sample, a convenience sample of 30 companies that agreed to participate in this research. One finding in this investigation was that in Mexicali, Baja California, trusts are not disclosed in full when promoted by the federal government and this creates confusion among employers. The data obtained allowed us to conclude that most SMES are unaware non-bank government support and use their personal savings to finance their operations.
N86|Entrepreneurship and its analysis in Colombia: A contextualized literature review|This paper presents a literature review contextualized through the different stages of Colombian industrial history up to the first decade of the XXI century, when an attempt is made to organize the growing interest in the topic of entrepreneurship. We find a tight connection between public policy agenda setting and the definition of the research agenda of the topic. We also find a dualistic approach in the research of the topic, with universities and think-tanks leading the investigation on accumulative / innovative entrepreneurship, and a consultancy-bias group dedicated to the study of subsistence entrepreneurship. ***** Este artículo presenta una revisión del avance en el estudio de emprendimiento, contextualizado a través de las diferentes fases de la historia empresarial colombiana. El artículo presenta una marcada conexión entre las motivaciones detrás de la definición de las políticas industrial y de emprendimiento, y la definición de la agenda de investigación de la comunidad académica. Asimismo, se encuentra un dualismo en el estudio del tema; por un lado, grupos de investigación (universidades e instituciones gubernamentales) dedicados al estudio de emprendimientos acumulativos/ de innovación; y por otro, un sesgo proconsultoría dedicado al estudio de emprendimientos de subsistencia.
N86|Boundaries of firms and catching up by latecomers in global production networks : the case of a Mexican auto-parts manufacturer|For manufacturing firms in developing countries, there are high barriers to entry and to catching up with competitors in their global production networks (GPNs). This paper examines the case of a Mexican auto-parts manufacturer that succeeded in catching up in the automotive GPN. The author proposes that the door to GPNs is open thanks to frequent changes in the boundaries of firms, and also stresses the importance of the necessary conditions that generate opportunities, including institutional settings that facilitate market entry and catching up, and capability building by firms hopeful of entry.
N86|The British commercial houses in Peru and Chile between the two world wars: success and failure|The previously successful British merchant houses on the west coast of South America faced significant problems between the two world wars. Earlier historians have referred to difficulties such as the volatility of commodity prices, the organisation and structure of the firms, and changes in patterns of trade. This paper, instead, compares their different experiences on the basis of archives from the merchants and their banks, concluding that their response to crisis differed, depending on the manner and extent of diversification, their core expertise, the quality of their management, and the support of their banks. The outcomes varied from outright failure to continued growth, with the two largest firms struggling to survive and adapt to the new business environment.
N86|Female entrepreneurship and participation rates in 19th century Chile|This article studies female participation rates as entrepreneurs during the 1877-1908 period using data from the Santiago business license registry, census data and the trademark registry. The evidence reveals that business women in Santiago increased from 3 to 14 percent of the female labor force in the corresponding sectors analyzed during the period. The evidence shows women increasingly as business people: half of the economic sectors analyzed had female entrepreneurs while firms run by women increased from 13 to 20 percent in Santiago, but reached only 5 percent of national firms within the elite.
N86|A Dainty Review of the Business and Economic History of Chile and Latin America|This introductory piece provides some context to the special edition on business and economic history of Chile and Latin America. It also provides an introduction to better understanding research and method in business history while inviting for this field to be further developed in Chile.
N86|Familias empresarias y grandes empresas familiares en América Latina y España: una visión de largo plazo|Son numerosos los libros y artículos que analizan las claves del éxito de las familias empresarias y grupos familiares que perduran en el tiempo, si bien la gran mayoría de los negocios registrados como empresas desaparecen en dos generaciones. Aunque esos datos pudieran hacer pensar en el fracaso de este tipo de empresas, a través del estudio de los mayores negocios familiares de ocho países de América Latina y España a lo largo de más de un siglo, esta obra pone de manifiesto que las familias empresarias desaparecen de una empresa y surgen en otras continuando con la actividad a lo largo de décadas en un continuo proceso de adaptación, diversificándose en sectores que presentan mayores expectativas de rentabilidad o seguridad, alterando para ello la denominación jurídica de los negocios, el organigrama o los esquemas de gobierno. Con la metodología propia de la historia empresarial que combina archivos públicos y privados, entrevistas con un enfoque interdisciplinar, y con la participación de veintidós especialistas de once países, este libro revela que en América Latina y España son las familias empresarias, a través de empresas independientes o grupos, la clave histórica de la riqueza de los territorios en los que se desarrollan. Esta monografía se acompaña por un portal, accesible a través del sitio web de la Fundación BBVA, en el que se presentan distintos recursos adicionales como un análisis estadístico y gráfico de los datos resultado de esta investigación, además de una base de datos con la información sobre los mayores negocios familiares en los nueve países analizados para el año 2010. El conjunto de esta obra proporciona una herramienta de utilidad para un público lector del ámbito académico, así como para consultores y gestores económicos.
N86|La industria molinera de trigo en Colombia: el caso del Molino Tres Castillos, 1940-2012|Fundada en Cartagena en 1861, la firma Rafael del Castillo & Cia. es una de las sociedades familiares más antiguas de Colombia. Ha estado bajo la administración de cuatro generaciones de sucesores, desde su fundación hasta el presente, cuando atraviesa un proceso de expansión y diversificación sin precedentes en su historia. Los cambios en la política económica nacional en el siglo XX marcan distintas etapas en la historia de esta empresa familiar que debió adaptarse a las nuevas reglas del juego implementando estrategias efectivas. Este trabajo describe y analiza los cambios más trascendentes que experimentó la empresa desde la década de 1940, cuando pasó de la actividad mercantil a la producción de harina. La trayectoria del Molino Tres Castillos entre 1940 y 2012, recogida en este estudio de caso, es útil para ilustrar cómo en la supervivencia y el éxito de las empresas familiares es tan importante el ambiente económico e institucional que moldea su estructura corporativa como las relaciones entre los familiares y la empresa.
N86|Vínculos interregionales en la economía colombiana del siglo XIX: El empresariado de la Costa Caribe en el interior del país, 1840-1880|Este trabajo analiza mediante tres estudios de caso las actividades de los empresarios del Caribe colombiano en el interior del país durante el siglo XIX. Se examinan los negocios de la familia Amador, Juan Bautista Mainero y la familia Fergusson Noguera. Se pretende con ello resaltar la importancia del estudio de los fenómenos interregionales, evidenciando la existencia de ámbitos nacionales en los grandes negocios en el siglo XIX. Así, se aportan elementos para una mejor comprensión del proceso histórico de integración económica del país.
N86|The untold story of the Mexican debt crisis: Domestic banks and external debt, 1977-1989|In the years preceding the international debt crisis of the 1980s, international banks displayed a growing enthusiasm for lending to Mexico and other developing countries. During this period, Mexico's development and commercial banks got heavily involved in intermediating foreign finance with domestic final users. Although important, scholars have thus far neglected the role played by Mexican banks in international capital markets and in the country's external indebtedness process. This paper argues that the imbalances which Mexican banks incurred in running their international operations eventually brought them to the brink of bankruptcy once the crisis began. Given that the banks that were at risk represented a large share of the domestic market, this paper argues the whole Mexican banking system was threatened with collapse. The improved understanding of the banking system's exposure to and dependence on foreign finance provides new insights into Mexico's debt renegotiation outcomes and the nationalization of the banking system in the aftermath of the crisis.
N86|A evolução da indústria de máquinas e equipamentos no Brasil: Dedini e Romi, entre 1920 e 1960 [The evolution of the machinery and equipments industry in Brazil: Dedini and Romi, between 1920 and 1960]|The aim of this paper is to examine the evolution of the market machinery industry in Brazil and Sao Paulo between 1920 and 1960, with the object study of two major companies for consolidation in this industry country, Dedini and Romi. The choice of these companies due to the existence of specific studies and historical collections with economic and financial documents. Will highlight the similarities and differences in the performance of these two companies in context of market developments machinery industry. Companies emerged as a small workshop in the first decades of the twentieth century, evolved with the specific market where it operated with great changes in the 1920 and 1930 and signed in the sector after a decade 1940. In the 1960's were the main companies in the sector in which they operated.
N86|Mortgages for machinery: credit and industrial investment in pre-World War I Brazil|O objetivo deste artigo é mostrar a relação entre o mercado de crédito hipotecário e as atividades industriais da Cidade de São Paulo, considerando as hipotecas uma forma não-usual de nanciamento industrial. Hipotecas registram diferentes formas de nanciamento. Por meio delas, podemos descobrir se as indústrias foram nanciadas por bancos nacionais ou estrangeiros, indivíduos privados ou emissão de debêntures. O período analisado está inserido em um contexto de intensa transformação da economia brasileira, que inclui: expansão das exportações cafeeiras, urbanização e investimentos em infra-estrutura. Analisando os dados, armamos que o capital nativo é preponderante em hipotecas industriais e que os tamanhos das indústrias importam para determinar as condições de nanciamento. Não obstante, embora bancos e títulos sejam importantes para se explicar o nanciamento industrial, as hipotecas mostraram que a maior parte das operações de crédito foram realizadas por agentes não-bancários.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N86|Centro de Estudios Económicos Regionales, 15 años de historia (1997-2012)|"""Con el establecimiento del CEER de Cartagena se encontró una oportunidad para estimular un campo de la investigación económica que tiene pertinencia especial para nuestro país: los determinantes y diferenciadores del desarrollo regional. Los estudios y publicaciones del Centro tienen, como era de esperarse, un foco especial en la historia y las particularidades del Caribe colombiano, pero no se han limitado a esa región y han contribuido, desde los primeros años de existencia del Centro, a elevar la calidad de los debates sobre aspectos complejos y controversiales del desarrollo nacional y regional. apoyo a la investigación en el Banco de la República no es una simple actitud filantrópica o de imagen pública. Está basado en la convicción de que las instituciones que se acostumbran a tomar sus decisiones basadas en evidencias empíricas, bien analizadas y contrastadas de manera crítica y original con los postulados de la teoría, son instituciones más sólidas, plurales y mejor preparadas para hacer constructivos los debates que, inevitablemente, acompañan a la mayoría de las actuaciones de quienes diseñan y ejecutan políticas públicas. revisión de los aportes del CEER en sus primeros quince años de actividad es, por tanto, un motivo de satisfacción por el rigor, la pertinencia y la calidad de los trabajos que ha producido hasta el momento, y es también un estímulo para perseverar en esta tarea, en el convencimiento de que instituciones económicas sólidas, profesionales y comprometidas son un elemento básico para asegurar el desarrollo económico y para aumentar el bienestar de todos los colombianos."""
N86|Comerciantes en economías de frontera: El caso de La Guajira Colombiana, 1870-1930|The main purpose of this article is to analyze the commercial activities in La Guajira, Colombia, as well as the in titutional and geographical constraints traders faced between 1870s and 1930s. The result that La Guajira developed a frontier economy, characterized by a weak institutional presence, economic practices with few state surveillance, wide presence of indigenous population, inhospitable zones for colonization and active trade with neighboring countries. The lack of institutions allowed the traders to grow without further controls. The entrepreneurs and regional leaders, linked to extractive activities such as: salt, pearls and logwood, as well as trade, could not create the adequate institutions and business environment to consolidate the departments economy with a production structure based on endogenous production, competitive companies and a job market adjusted to the national legislation. RESUMEN: El objetivo del presente documento es analizar las actividades comerciales en el territorio de La Guajira colombiana, así como las limitaciones institucionales y naturales a que se vieron sometidos sus comerciantes entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El estudio plantea que en La Guajira se desarrolló una economía de frontera, caracterizada por la escasa presencia institucional, prácticas económicas con escasa vigilancia estatal, amplia presencia de población indígena, zonas inhóspitas para la colonización y activo comercio con países vecinos. La falta de Estado permitió que los negociantes adelantaran sus actividades sin mayores controles. Los empresarios y dirigentes regionales vinculados a las actividades extractivas como sal, perlas, palo de tinte, así como al comercio, no pudieron crear las instituciones ni el ambiente empresarial propicio para que en la economía guajira se consolidara un tejido productivo basado en la producción endógena, con empresas competitivas y un mercado de trabajo ajustado a la legislación nacional.
N86|Determinantes De La Dinámica Empresarial De Egresados De La Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana|Este trabajo tiene como objetivo construir la dinámica y los determinantes en la creación y desarrollo de empresas fundadas por egresados de la Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana en el período 1990-2006. Para ello se utilizó el método descriptivo inductivo, soportado en la teoría de la empresa y del empresario, así como en información primaria y secundaria obtenida en la construcción de bases de datos y entrevistas realizadas a egresados de este período, caracterizado por la presencia de nuevas tipologías empresariales derivadas de los aportes de la sociedad del conocimiento el cual se ha aplicado en ese caso, a la generación de riqueza incremental a través de emprendimientos universitarios.
N86|The Rise and Fall of the Barcelonnettes in Mexico and their Implications for a Theory of Entrepreneurial Diasporas|This paper develops a socioeconomic model to analyze the construction and ulterior collapse of an entrepreneurial diaspora. The mathematical model is motivated by some empirical facts of the Barcelonnettes diaspora, a group of French immigrants who came to Mexico in the 19th century. Moreover, it makes evident that a theoretical framework that interconnects the social and economic arenas is very helpful to improve our understanding of the dynamics of any entrepreneurial diaspora. These migration-chains with a high level of entrepreneurialism depend heavily on their underlying social governance and, consequently, the sustainability of their social norms and values is critical for explaining their survival. In the case of the Barcelonnettes, a logistic map and numerical simulations show that the dynamics of this diaspora was very fragile, since its success bred its own destruction. This conclusion can be applied to other entrepreneurial diasporas with a “communitarian spin offs system”, where ethnic firms promise the recruited personnel the sponsoring of their entrepreneurial adventures.
N86|Companhias estrangeiras de eletricidade na Argentina e no Brasil: o caso da American & Foreign Power (1926-1965)|O artigo analisa a evolução, estratégia e posição das subsidiárias da American & Foreign Power (AMFORP) na Argentina e no Brazil desde sua chegada nesses mercados em meados da década de 1920, até sua nacionalização. São comparadas as performances e estratégias de entrada nos países, assim como as relações entre as empresas subsidiárias americanas e os governos dos dois países. Finalmente, o artigo analisa o papel do investimento direto estrangeiro no desenvolvimento do setor elétrico argentine e brasileiro. O estudo foi baseado nos Relatórios Anuais da American & Foreign Power (1923-1963) e de estatísticas oficiais e informes dos dois governos, como também dos Estados Unidos.
N86|The Security Crisis In Mexico And Its Impact On Business Management|In Mexico, antisocial behavior affects and concerns the population. This behavior has produced a vicious circle involving a high rate of criminality. This, in turn discourages investment, and reduces economic growth, it causes unemployment and increases poverty and economic inequality. Official databases reveal that during the last five years, the number of people murdered by organized criminals has increase to more than sixty thousand. With a population of over 112 million residents, Mexico has 52 million people living in poverty conditions. Seven million young people called ninis (ni estudian, ni trabajan) donâ€™t work or study. Business executives have reduced production levels with the purpose of reducing losses and criminal acts. Companies have closed because of antisocial acts and because of a lack of funds. During 2011 over one hundred and sixty thousand companies shut down in Mexico because of organized crime, according to the Employersâ€™ Confederation of the Mexican Republic (Coparmex).
N86|Vínculos interregionales en la economía colombiana del siglo XIX: Empresariado del Caribe en el interior del país<BR>[Interregional links in Colombian economy during the 19th century: Caribbean entrepreneurship in the inland]|This paper analyzes, through case study, the activity of the Colombian Caribbean entrepreneurs in the inland country during the 19th century. It discusses the business of Amador family, Juan Bautista Mainero and Fergusson Noguera family. The aim is to highlight the importance of studying the interregional phenomena, evidencing the existence of national spheres for large business in the 19th century. Thus, it provides elements for a better understanding of the historical process of Colombian economic integration.
N86|Comerciantes en Economías de Frontera: El Caso de La Guajira Colombiana, 1870-1930|El objetivo del presente documento es analizar las actividades comerciales en el territorio de La Guajira colombiana, así como las limitaciones institucionales y naturales a que se vieron sometidos sus comerciantes entre las décadas de 1870 y 1930. El estudio plantea que en La Guajira se desarrolló una economía de frontera, caracterizada por la escasa presencia institucional, prácticas económicas con escasa vigilancia estatal, amplia presencia de población indígena, zonas inhóspitas para la colonización y activo comercio con países vecinos. La falta de Estado permitió que los negociantes adelantaran sus actividades sin mayores controles. Los empresarios y dirigentes regionales vinculados a las actividades extractivas como sal, perlas, palo de tinte, así como al comercio, no pudieron crear las instituciones ni el ambiente empresarial propicio para que en la economía guajira se consolidara un tejido productivo basado en la producción endógena, con empresas competitivas y un mercado de trabajo ajustado a la legislación nacional.
N86|Medición del riesgo sistémico financiero en estudios de historia económica : propuesta metodológica y aplicación para la banca libre en Antioquia, 1888|Resumen: Este trabajo propone una metodología para calcular el riesgo sistémico en estudios histórico-económicos, esto debido a que las características de los sistemas financieros no contemporáneos y la disponibilidad de información impiden para ellos el empleo de las técnicas existentes de medición de la estabilidad sistémica. El método propuesto, de simple empleo y escasos requerimientos de información, al utilizar el grado de apalancamiento como referente del riesgo individual y la teoría de redes para determinar la propagación de esos riesgos individuales en todo el sistema, resulta especialmente útil para estudios de la banca en periodos de incipiente corporativización. Luego de exponer la metodología, que toma como eje central a los accionistas y fundamenta los vínculos entre instituciones a partir de la propiedad, se presentan sus virtudes y deficiencias. Finalmente, el método es ejemplificado en la experiencia de banca libre en Antioquia para 1888. Abstract : This paper proposes a methodology to calculate systemic risk in historical research, understanding that the characteristics of non-modern financial systems and the availability of information hinder the use of recent techniques for measuring financial risk. I propose a method of simple application and scarce information requirements that uses the degree of leverage as an approximation to individual risk, and network theory to determine the propagation of these risks throughout the system. This methodology is especially useful to study banking systems in early corporatization periods. After presenting the methodology, which is mainly focused on the shareholders and link institutions through property, its strengths and weaknesses are described. Finally, the method is tested by means of an application to the free banking experience in Antioquia in 1888.
N86|Los españoles y la revolución comercial mexicana: las cadenas de supermercados, 1921-2011|En este artículo enfatizo el papel desempeñado por los españoles en la creación de las grandes cadenas de supermercados en México. La cercanía a Estados Unidos y la aportación española resultaron decisivas en su engrandecimiento. Esta historia, al tiempo, revela la importancia del papel desempeñado por las minorías nacionales en la formación de la gran empresa en América Latina. Al tiempo revela un aspecto desconocido hasta la fecha: la fortaleza de estas firmas comerciales, su capacidad de adaptación a los cambios experimentados en el mercado y su competitividad frente a Wal-Mart. Adicionalmente, este artículo permite identificar la transferencia de conocimientos y experiencias adquiridos en el sector de México a España en la década de 1960. KEY Classification-JEL: N76, N86, O15, O54
N86|Propuesta metodológica para el cálculo del riesgo sistémico financiero en estudios de Historia Económica: Aplicación para el caso de la banca libre en Antioquia, 1888<BR>[A methodology for assessing financial systemic risk in economic history studies: An Application for free banking in Antioquia, 1888]|This paper proposes a methodology to calculate the systemic risk in historical research, understanding that the characteristics of non modern financial systems and the availability of information do not enable the use of recent techniques of measuring financial risk. I propose a method of simple application and scarce information requirements, using the degree of leverage as an approximation of the individual risk, and the network theory to determine the allocation of individual risks throughout the system. The methodology is especially useful for studying the banking systems in early corporatizing periods. After been exposed the methodology, which takes as its central axis the shareholders, and the property as base linkages between institutions, it is mentioned its strengths and weaknesses; being, finally, tested in an application for the free banking experience in Antioquia.
N86|Origens dos empresários da indústria de máquinas e equipamentos em São Paulo, 1870-1900 [Entrepreneur origins in the capital goods sector of the state of São Paulo, 1870-1900]|The aim of this paper is to identify the origins of entrepreneurs, such as nationality and the genesis of capital to start the activity in the machinery and equipment industry in Sao Paulo and developments in the sector over the period 1870 to 1900. We will try to identify the entrepreneurs of the industry and its relation to the import and export trade, the farmers of products for export (mainly coffee), immigrants traders and immigrants who have some technical knowledge.
N86|Añil, cacao y reses. Los negocios del indiano Esteban González de Linares en tiempos de mudanza, 1784-1796|The aim of this work is to exploit the information contained in an isolated but very dense source: the cash book of the Spanish merchant Esteban Gonzalez de Linares. Moved to Caracas between 1785 and 1791 to manage the liquidation of the estate of Sebastian de Mier y Terán, a wealthy landowner in Los Llanos, Linares was actively involved in the export boom of those years, marked by the end of the monopoly of the Guipuzcoa Company and the decrees of free trade. The text quantifies the amount of cocoa, indigo, and cattle moved by this subject, and their prices.
N86|Barreras que quitan el aliento|El estudio documental que desarrollé durante el segundo semestre de Administración de Negocios, como ejercicio de investigación con el fin de tener un acercamiento a la realidad histórica, cultural y empresarial colombiana del siglo XX, lo hice a partir de una serie de fuentes que se encuentran en la Sala de Patrimonio Documental de la Institución. El proceso fue arduo. Durante el periodo, realicé constantes visitas a la biblioteca con el objetivo de recoger la información considerada como importante y necesaria para el trabajo. La selección fue algo confusa al comienzo, pues no contaba con suficientes bases para formarme un criterio sobre la calidad de la misma pero, a medida que transcurría el ejercicio, adquirí habilidades y conocimientos que me permitieron elegir de manera correcta lo que mejor se asociaba a mis requerimientos.
N86|Los grupos económicos en México a partir de una tipología de arquitectura y gobierno corporativos. Una revisión de sus explicaciones teóricas|This paper develops a typology of corporate architecture and corporate governance in order to analyze the Mexican Business Groups. The typology helps under-stand: 1) the evolution of Mexican business networks towards a centralized coordination of the firms, and 2) how changes in some features of corporate governance have tended to preserve a state of few counterweights to the decisions of majority shareholders. Moreover, this paper presents a survey that provides a set of possible explanations for the formation and operation of Business Groups. This review helps assess the analytical advantages of a socioeconomic approach that conceives these business networks as a consequence of sociocultural, institutional, and economic factors, which provides a theoretical basis for understanding the historical persistence of this business system in Mexico and other countries.// En este artículo se desarrolla una tipología de arquitectura y gobierno corporativos con el fin de analizar a los grupos económicos mexicanos. La tipología ayuda a comprender la evolución de las redes de negocios mexicanas hacia una coordinación centralizada de las empresas; también ayuda a entender cómo los cambios en el gobierno corporativo han tendido a preservar un estado de pocos contrapesos en las decisiones de los accionistas mayoritarios. Asimismo, el artículo presenta una revisión teórica que proporciona un conjunto de posibles explicaciones de la formación y funcionamiento de los grupos económicos. Esta revisión permite valorar las ventajas analíticas de un enfoque socioeconómico que interpreta a estas redes de negocios a partir de la interacción entre factores socioculturales, institucionales y económicos, lo que aporta una base teórica para comprender la persistencia histórica de este sistema de negocios en México y otros países.
N86|The paths of coffee: A brief economic history of coffee in Colombia|This paper develops a brief history of coffee in Colombia identifying the processes of change in the geography and populations. From the eighteenth to the twentieth century, coffee cultivation represented the basis of household income. Changes in rural and urban culture of the nineteenth century were influenced by the coffee trade, likewise the fundamental transformations of the Colombian economy during the first half of the twentieth century. The Colombian economy and the idiosyncrasy of its people still depend on coffee, especially in rural areas and the Andean ranges.
N86|Vida empresarial colombiana después de la Gran recesión|El presente artículo se derivó del trabajo realizado en la materia “Estudios Empresariales Colombianos”, como un acercamiento a la historia de los empresarios colombianos y al desarrollo de la industria en el país al comenzar el siglo xx. Para ello, utilicé como fuente primaria la hemeroteca de la Sala de Patrimonio Documental de la Universidad Eafit, específicamente noticias del periódico El Diario de abril de 1932.
N86|Análisis de reducción de la fecundidad en Colombia. Modelo de determinantes próximos|El proceso de reducción de la fecundidad es un fenómeno moderno de la sociedad. Como explicación existen diferentes concepciones que parten de la teoría de la transición demográfica y se fundamentan tradicionalmente en una visión económica, aun cuando existen aportes de otras ciencias sociales. El presente documento recoge en parte dichas teorías y analiza la reducción de la fecundidad para el caso de Colombia empleando el modelo de determinantes próximos de la fecundidad, siguiendo lo planteado por Bongaarts (1978) y Gertler y Molyneaux (1994).
N86|Fábrica y territorio: un caso al sur de la región metropolitana de Buenos Aires|En el presente artículo reflexionamos sobre el papel que jugaron las empresas y los empresarios en la configuración del territorio en una etapa de la economía argentina. Consideramos, como punto de partida, que el vínculo empresa-territorio se manifiesta tanto en una dimensión material como también en una inmaterial, que se observa en la conformación del imaginario colectivo y de la identidad industrial de una comunidad. El caso seleccionado es el de Cristalerías Rigolleau, una empresa productora de envases de vidrio instalada al sur de la región metropolitana de Buenos Aires a comienzos del siglo xx . En este sentido, el análisis y reelaboración de un caso particular permitiría hacer un aporte a un debate conceptual más amplio. Nos interrogamos, entonces, acerca de las condiciones de atractividad territorial que están en el origen de la instalación de las empresas en un determinado locus, y sobre los desafíos y las alternativas que supuso la industrialización por sustitución de importaciones a nivel local. KEY Classification-JEL: N66. O14. N86. N96
N86|Entre Carlos Lehder y los vaqueros de la cocaína. La consolidación de las redes de narcotraficantes colombianos en Miami en los años 70|Este artículo estudia las importaciones de cocaína y marihuana colombianas a Miami durante la década de 1970. Describe las redes organizadas para estas actividades ilícitas y señala que los colombianos cooperaban con traficantes de otras nacionalidades (principalmente cubanos y norteamericanos). Por último, se muestra que la violencia desatada por los narcotraficantes colombianos en Miami a finales de los años 70 iba plenamente dirigida a bandas rivales de la misma nacionalidad
N86|Cooperación, internacionalización temprana y organización empresarial en América Latina: el caso de la Organización Techint|Through the study of the historical beginnings of OrganizaciÛn Techint (OT), this paper tries to discuss the idea of innovation present in the frameworks for understanding the nature of the world's emergent economic groups. Focusing on the career of Agostino Rocca, the founder of the OT, during the interwar years and on the firm's evolution during the Postwar Years, this article attempts to unravel the process of social network formation that allowed the firm to access capital, technology and manpower, as well as a position in the public works market of energy, both locally and internationally. With the help of economic sociology and other theoretical lines that develop the phenomenon of cooperation between firms and heterogeneous agents, it sustains the importance of the horizontal relations between both companies that formed the group as well as between those which did not, as a key to understanding the success of the group and its early internationalization. KEY Classification-JEL: N86, Z13, L26, L22
N86|La empresa en Colombia en la primera mitad del siglo XX|"“Yo siempre he creído que el futuro de Colombia está en su pasado”, dijo alguna vez Gonzalo Restrepo Jaramillo, un destacado político y empresario antioqueño de la primera mitad del siglo xx. Como él, muchos otros pensamos que se puede aprender del pasado para construir el futuro; pero es importante precisar, desde ahora, que no se pretende mirar al pasado para construir modelos de imitación o réplica, y mucho menos para levantar ídolos sobre la premisa de que “todo tiempo pasado fue mejor”, como suelen afirmar algunos pesimistas."""
N86|1920: Colombia en plena crisis|En el marco del programa curricular de la asignatura “Estudios Empresariales Colombianos”, comprobé que, efectivamente, hacer un ejercicio de investigación no es tarea sencilla: se requiere mucha dedicación y gran cantidad de tiempo. Aun así, para mí fue una experiencia enriquecedora, complementaria a los temas del curso, ya que mientras leía los artículos de la revista que me correspondía, pude enlazar hechos y conceptos que se explicaban en clase, permitiéndome tener una mirada más amplia y clara sobre lo que pasaba en el país en aquel momento.
N86|Empresas colombianas, crisis y guerra mundial|El artículo que presento pretende ubicar las condiciones y dificultades que sortearon los empresarios de principios del siglo XX, en especial durante los años 1920 y 1941. Dos años con interesantes contextos —crisis económica (1920) y Segunda Guerra Mundial (1941)— fundamentales para la comprensión de los temas desarrollados en el curso. Tomé como fuentes primarias la publicación seriada Colombia. Revista Semanal del año 1920 (No. 183 al No. 229) y el periódico El Diario del año 1941, entre los meses de abril y junio. De las 31 fichas que recopilé, seleccioné 11 para tratar de comprender qué dificultades debieron sortear los empresarios nacionales en sendas coyunturas.
N86|Asociación, intervención estatal y café: elementos esenciales para la Colombia que somos|En el presente escrito, el lector encontrará la síntesis de un ejercicio de investigación que constó de tres etapas. La primera fue la asignación de una fuente de consulta, periódico o una revista del año o periodo de indagación; para este caso, El Sol de 1915 y El Diario de 1941, entre los meses de octubre y diciembre; ambos periódicos de Antioquia, con una línea de visión nacional. La segunda fase consistió en la búsqueda selectiva de las noticias que involucraran los diversos procesos empresariales de ambas coyunturas; en total se recogieron 50 artículos, de los cuales 19 sirvieron como base para intentar responder a la pregunta guía: ¿Cómo se identificaban las oportunidades de negocio en el año 1915 y en el periodo de octubre a diciembre de 1941? La selección relacionaba los elementos que tenían los empresarios a su favor y, a juicio del autor, constituyeron lo más representativo de las noticias halladas.
N86|Temores y virtudes de los empresarios colombianos en los albores del siglo XX|Al comienzo del semestre tenía muy pocas expectativas de la asignatura “Estudios Empresariales Colombianos”, ya que el curso me sonaba a Historia, y nunca fui una gran fanática de esta. Y así fue. Desde la primera clase, el profesor nos dio la lista de los “mil” documentos que nos tocaría leer a lo largo del semestre; además, mencionó un trabajo de investigación que reemplazaría un parcial para los que lo quisieran hacer. Sin embargo, yo me motivé de inmediato. Cuando el docente explicó cómo sería el famoso trabajo, vacilé en si debía hacerlo o no, pero me atreví.
N86|Iniciativa empresarial antioqueña: primer paso para un gran futuro industrial|Luego de un minucioso acercamiento al material de la Sala de Patrimonio Documental de la Universidad Eafit, recogí 30 fichas o noticias referentes al tema empresarial durante los años de 1938 y 1940. La información está relacionada con diversos temas acerca de la naciente vida industrial en Colombia, más precisamente en el departamento de Antioquia. Por ejemplo, se encontró amplia documentación acerca de las crecientes oportunidades e iniciativas empresariales que se tradujeron en las nuevas empresas de esa época; también, como era de esperarse, se hallaron dificultades que los personajes iban resolviendo a medida que las enfrentaban. Para el desarrollo del trabajo se consideró pertinente escoger el tema de “Iniciativas” en la tarea de responder a la pregunta: ¿Qué significaba hacer empresa en los años de 1938 y 1940?
N86|Actividades religiosas en Bucaramanga: una aproximación desde la economía|Este documento explora el comportamiento religioso de los habitantes de la ciudad de Bucaramanga desde la perspectiva analítica conocida como economía de la religión. Considerando la práctica religiosa como una elección racional de los individuos, se analizan las creencias, el nivel de oración y la frecuencia de asistencia al templo. Los resultados empíricos permiten concluir que: (i) la edad y la compatibilidad religiosa entre cónyuges son determinantes positivos de la asistencia a la iglesia y la oración y (ii) la educación y el ingreso se constituyen como factores que inciden negativamente en la intensidad de las prácticas religiosas.
N86|Commodity Chains: what can we learn from a business history of the rubber chain? (1870-1910)|The literature on the rubber boom applied a Dependendist view of rubber production in the Brazilian Amazon. Even though a sizable surplus was generated in the rubber chain, it was mostly appropriated by foreigners. This view is in tune with the Global Commodity Chain approach that argues that manufacturing/core economies absorb the bulk of surplus generated in the commodity chain. This paper challenges both frameworks and asks for a more careful examination of the business history of commodity chains: it is a first step in this direction through an analysis of the relationship between two nodes of the rubber chain.
N86|Análisis comparado de las trayectorias estratégicas de empresas siderúrgicas latinoamericanas. Desarrollo interno y contexto histórico|Large Latin American companies which remain under family control increasingly employ professionals at the executive level and have part of their capital in the stock market. This is the case of Hylsa/Hylsamex, property of the Alfa Group (Mexico), and of Siderca (Ternium) and Siderar (Tenaris) belonging to Techint (Argentina). They followed similar and different strategies along the last decades, until in 2005 Techint acquired Hylsamex and integrated it into its transnational Ternium. These divergent strategies – Alfa abandoned steel production, while Techint concentrated on it – have taken place within the same sector context, so this article explores the role played in these decisions by their national contexts and their own internal development. Comparative historical analysis is used in order to contrast strategies and nacional contexts. KEY Classification-JEL: N86, N16, N66, L21
N86|La expansión “por defecto” del estado empresario. La política económica frente a la crisis de las empresas industriales en la Argentina, 1960-1976|In the sixties a set of industrial companies, many of them with a long trajectory in the markets in which they operated, experienced financial and production problems. In order to solve these problems and in some cases “save” the companies from bankruptcy, successive governments designed a set of measures, basically financial (such as special credit support, tax tolerance and moratoriums). Finally, in the second half of that decade, an aid scheme known as the “company rehabilitation” scheme, which was soon complemented with other legal measures, was sanctioned. Many of these companies were declared bankrupt years later; in the meanwhile they had state financial support to continue their production and to avoid social conflicts; a major political problem for these successive governments that followed one another into power. The article analyzes the particular form adopted by decision making in relation to industrial policies, and the way it originated from the pressure exerted by industrialists and the sociopolitical context of Argentina in those years. KEY Classification-JEL: N86
N86|L’approche latino-américaine de l’économie populaire, les inégalités et la pauvreté|Cet article analyse l’évolution des politiques et des théories en économie du développement depuis les années 1950. Il montre les raisons de leur essoufflement au début des années 1980 et situe l’approche de l’économie populaire qui surgit en Amérique latine dans ce contexte. À partir du cas de la Bolivie, il illustre l’intérêt de cette approche socioéconomique et non-évolutionniste des pratiques de production, d’échange et de financement des secteurs populaires pour une analyse renouvelée des inégalités et de la pauvreté. Pour cela, deux échelles d’observation sont successivement adoptées : l’observation à micro-échelle de l’environnement institutionnel et des logiques de fonctionnement des organisations de l’économie populaire ; et l’analyse du cadre macro-institutionnel dans lequel ces organisations sont immergées.
N86|Engineering Change in Mexico: The Adoption of Computer Technology at Grupo ICA (1965-1971)|This article documents the adoption of computer technology by a civil engineering services and construction company in Mexico at the time that it became the first Mexican multinational enterprise. Computerization took place independently of cross border growth. The challenges, failures and successes of computerization attest to the transformation in the use of computer applications from the mechanization of routine procedures to the creative use of these applications. In line with company policy, the latter lead to the establishment of the computer centre as a standalone, profit generating business unit. However, this policy responded to ‘laissez faire’ and fiscal (i.e. minimizing tax payments) rather than strategic considerations. To little surprise computer services never grew to be a significant income stream.
N86|Pobreza y delincuencia departamental en Colombia 2003 - 2007|El documento analiza la relación existente entre la delincuencia y la pobreza en Colombia a nivel departamental durante el periodo 2003-2007. Su punto de partida es la consideración de delitos que afectan la seguridad democrática y la seguridad ciudadana como la delincuencia común, mediante el análisis multivariado de covarianza (MANCOVA). Esta forma de modelar esta situación muestra la relación existente entre los delitos, la pobreza y los territorios teniendo en cuenta su ubicación en el contexto regional y nacional.
N86|En los comienzos de la empresa pública argentina: la Administración de los Ferrocarriles del Estado y las Obras Sanitarias de la Nación antes de 1930|In this work we examine the emergence and development until 1930 of two of the first Argentine public enterprises organised during the 20th century: Administración General de los Ferrocarriles del Estado (State Railways National Administration) and Obras Sanitarias de la Nación (Water and Drainage National Works), created in 1909 and 1912 respectively. The trajectory of both entities is examined and compared, as well as their origins during the last third of the 19th century and the process through which they managed to achieve a certain autonomous character. In this sense the investment process — connected with the cycle of the great increase in expenditure and public investment by the State— is examined in relation to the rentability achieved and the conformation, in both entities, of a staff of public servants that tended to shape a State technical burocracy, some of whose members arrived to the highest leading places afterwards. KEY Classification-JEL: N46, N76, N86
N86|The Colombian Aerial Navigation Company Between 1919 and 1921. An Entrepreneurial Adventure in South America|The early participation of Colombian entrepreneurs in the establishment of airlines in Colombia during the first decade of the twentieth century was marked by risk, faced with an aviation industry that recently began worldwide. This article describes the creation and operation in 1919 of the first airline in Colombia: Compañía Colombiana de Navegación Aérea, CCNA. The documentation from personal files, newspapers and press at the time, allowed to explore the short life of this company. This first attempt paved the way for what would become years later in a lucrative industry that has revolutionized the way of moving from one place to another and strengthened economic and political ties between geographically isolated areas
N86|A Indústria de Bens de Capital no Processo de Industrialização na Década de 1930: Crescimento e Diversificação no Estado de São Paulo|O objetivo deste artigo é fazer um resgate ao tema da industrialização e mostrar a importância da indústria de bens de capital (indústria de máquinas, metalúrgica, de transporte e elétrica) para o processo de industrialização no estado de São Paulo na década de 1930, tentando responder algumas questões em aberto na historiografia. Qual a importância da década de 1930 para o processo de industrialização no estado de São Paulo? Quais as mudanças na estrutura industrial nesta década? Quais as mudanças na estrutura da própria indústria de bens de capital? Tentaremos contribuir com a historiografia tratando do debate na qual os efeitos da Grande Depressão da década de 1930 foram favoráveis ou não para a indústria de bens de capital.
N86|Las agencias de informes crediticios en la Argentina: una aproximación al funcionamiento de los mecanismos informativos en el mercado crediticio (1892-c.1935)|During the last decades, economic theory has devoted considerable attention to the role of information asymmetry in credit markets and problems connected with this phenomenon. However, institutional aspects —particularly, how information is gathered and shared— have not been studied as thoroughly. Only recently has research been conducted on the origins of credit-reporting agencies and on the different responses lenders designed to minimize the impact of information asymmetries. As far as Latin America is concerned, there is no previous historical research available. In that sense, this paper aims to depict some of the mechanisms used within the Argentine business community at the beginning of the twentieth century to generate and disclose information about borrowers, with particular emphasis on Argentina’s first credit-reporting agencies. KEY Classification-JEL: N26, 016, N76, N86
N86|La Compañía Colombiana de Navegación Aérea, 1919-1921. Una aventura empresarial pionera en Suramérica|Resumen: La temprana participación de empresarios colombianos en el establecimiento de compañías de aviación en Colombia durante la primera década del siglo XX, estuvo marcada por el riesgo ante una industria aeronáutica apenas explorada a nivel mundial. El artículo describe la creación y el funcionamiento en 1919, de la primera compañía de aviación en Colombia: Compañía Colombiana de Navegación Aérea, CCNA. La documentación proveniente de archivos personales, diarios y prensa de la época, permitió explorar la corta vida de esta compañía. Este primer intento empresarial abrió el camino de lo que se convertiría años más tarde en una lucrativa industria que revolucionó la forma de trasladarse de un lugar a otro y fortaleció los vínculos económicos y políticos entre zonas aisladas geográficamente.
N86|La fábrica de tejidos Obregón de Barranquilla, 1910-1957|Historia de la Fábrica de Textiles Obregón de Barranquilla, como una empresa representativa del éxito industrial de Barranquilla que producía y proporcionaba productos a todo el país. Hasta 1934 la empresa de los Obregón fue la textilera más grande del país, pero luego perdió dinamismo. Se muestra la historia empresarial regional del Caribe en la mitad del siglo XX.
N86|Technological Integration and Income Gaps|Leontief (1963) claimed that underdeveloped countries are poor because they are by far less economically diversified. This paper shows that a general equilibrium model with a stable input-output structure and a productivity externality due to input diversification may be consistent with Leontief´s hypothesis. An open economy version of the model yields the possibility of breaking the factor price equalization theorem so that developed economies enjoy higher capital remuneration and higher income level. Some empirical evidence on the relationship between technological integration and real income is provided.
N86|Technological Integration and Income Gaps|Resumen: Leontief (1963) sostiene que los países subdesarrollados son pobres porque son en gran medida, económicamente menos diversificados. Este artículo muestra que un modelo de equilibrio general con una estructura de insumo-producto estable y con una externalidad de la productividad generada por diversificación de factores, puede ser consistente con la hipótesis de Leontief. Una versión del modelo en economía abierta permite la posibilidad de violar el teorema de la igualación del precio de los factores, permitiendo así que las economías desarrolladas obtengan una alta remuneración de capital y un alto nivel de ingreso. Se presenta alguna evidencia empírica sobre la relación entre la integración tecnológica y el ingreso real.
N86|Juan Gonzalo Restrepo Londoño. Semblanzas de un empresario|Es este un breve recorrido por la vida de Juan Gonzalo Restrepo Londoño,quien además de tener la fortuna de crecer en el seno de una familia tradicional antioqueña, fue haciéndose portador de invaluables conocimientos que le permitirían engranarse exitosa mente en la maquinaria empresarial colombiana durante la segunda mitad del siglo XX. La institución de la familia, el conocimiento del entorno natural y social, y una marcada propensión al servicio de los intereses regionales, serán, entre otros, los elementos que caractericen y hagan comprensible las ejecutorias de este empresario multifacético e innovador.
N86|Causas da Mudança Tecnológica na Indústria de Bens de Capital no Estado de São Paulo na Década de 1930|"O artigo tem como objetivo explicar os resultados encontrados em trabalho anterior (Marson 2007), que identificou mudança tecnológica na indústria de bens de capital no Estado de São Paulo na década de 1930, através da analise das fontes de crescimento dessa indústria no período, pela metodologia da contabilidade do crescimento"" (growth accounting). Os resultados encontrados foram que entre 1928 e 1932 o crescimento é resultado de um aprofundamento do capital (capital deepening), ou seja, um ajuste para um nível mais alto de capital por trabalhador efetivo. Para o período de 1933 a 1937 o fator responsável pelo crescimento nessa indústria foi ou o progresso técnico, através do cálculo da Produtividade Total dos Fatores (Total Factor Productivity), ou o trabalho efetivo, dependendo da metodologia adotada. Nesse artigo tenta-se explicar estes resultados, analisando todas as empresas que produziam bens de capital no estado de São Paulo, através de uma Tabela Matriz compilada da fonte primária (Estatística Industrial do Estado de São Paulo), tentando identificar mudanças na forma organizacional, ou seja, analisando se o sistema de produção sofreu alterações do modo artesanal (oficinas) para o sistema fabril (fábricas); e mudanças na mecanização da industria. Os resultados encontrados explicam as causas da mudança tecnológica na indústria de bens de capital na década de 1930."
N86|Crescimento e Mudança Tecnológica na Indústria de Bens de Capital no Estado de São Paulo, 1928-1937|No abstract is available for this item.
N86|Pitfalls and Opportunities in Knowledge Sharing - Experiences from a research capacity building project in Central America|A number of attempts have been made in the North to assist in the formation of independent research capacities in the South by establishing knowledge sharing through North-South research collaboration. One such attempt was initiated by Danida through its programme for Enhancement of Research Capacity (ENRECA). Aalborg University was approached by the National University of Costa Rica to make a joint research venture within the field of sustainable development. The project got a Central American (CA) regional perspective by including participants from Nicaragua and El Salvador. The project was titled Sustainable Development Strategies for Central America (SUDESCA) and aimed at support of relevant CA research activities, including the formation of adequate organizational setups that would eventually sustain forthwith. The project focused on two theoretical themes, i.e. the National Systems of Innovation and the Social Construction of Technology approaches. In this paper the CA universities are viewed as important sub-systems of the respective national systems of innovation. Thus, the following is an analysis of the institutional sustainability of the research capacity of universities perceived as parts of the national systems of innovation. To what extent did the knowledge transfer and exchange as well as the organizational capacity building efforts succeed? What were the main pitfalls and opportunities experienced? What did the Aalborg team learn about its own research capacity set-up? Our overall conclusion is that it is a mistake to assume that research capacity may be more or less directly transferred from the North to the South. Research capacity existing in the North has to be carefully adapted to the specific conditions where it may be expected to be useful.
N86|Inovação de produto ou saída para a crise? O lançamento da cerveja Brahma Chopp no verão de 1934|This essay examines the history of Brazil's beer industry with a particular focus on one of its best known trademarks, Brahma Chopp. Presented by the advertising campaign made at the time of its launching as a product innovation, the new brand of beer represented, on one hand, an answer of Brahma Co. to the consumer market crisis brought by the 1929 crash. On the other hand, the advertising campaign reflected the process of Brahma's public image nationalization. Founded as a German owned enterprise in the of nineteenth century, the company felt the pressures of the anti German public opinion mood during the First World War. By studying Brahma Chopp's success, we examine a set of issues related to the history of consumer goods industry in Brazil: the long lasting political effects of the War, the impact of the 1929 crisis on that industry, competition in the beer market of Rio de Janeiro, and the role played by marketing and advertising in the economic and symbolic affirmation of an enterprise in its market.
N86|Lorica, una colonia árabe a orillas del río Sinú|En este artículo se estudian las circunstancias como llegaron los primeros inmigrantes árabes a Colombia desde finales del siglo XIX, así como sus actividades económicas más importantes. La investigación escogió a Lorica como punto de referencia, al ser una de las poblaciones más próspera de la subregión del Sinú durante el siglo XIX y primeras décadas del siguiente, en donde se estableció una de las comunidades árabes más numerosas de Colombia. Para mediados de siglo XX, la sedimentación del río Sinú y la construcción de las primeras carreteras troncales llevaron a la decadencia comercial de Lorica. Esta problemática originó la salida de muchos comerciantes sirio-libaneses, que marcharon a ciudades más dinámicas como Barranquilla, Cartagena o Montería, en busca de nuevas oportunidades de negocio y una mejor educación para sus hijos. En el documento se presentan algunos estudios de caso como la evidencia empírica del ascenso y aceptación social de los inmigrantes y sus descendientes en el Caribe colombiano.
N86|Lorica, una colonia árabe a orillas del río Sinú|En este artículo se estudian las circunstancias como llegaron los primeros inmigrantes árabes a Colombia desde finales del siglo XIX, así como sus actividades económicas más importantes. La investigación escogió a Lorica como punto de referencia, al ser una de las poblaciones más próspera de la subregión del Sinú durante el siglo XIX y primeras décadas del siguiente, en donde se estableció una de las comunidades árabes más numerosas de Colombia. Para mediados de siglo XX, la sedimentación del río Sinú y la construcción de las primeras carreteras troncales llevaron a la decadencia comercial de Lorica. Esta problemática originó la salida de muchos comerciantes sirio-libaneses, que marcharon a ciudades más dinámicas como Barranquilla, Cartagena o Montería, en busca de nuevas oportunidades de negocio y una mejor educación para sus hijos. En el documento se presentan algunos estudios de caso como la evidencia empírica del ascenso y aceptación social de los inmigrantes y sus descendientes en el Caribe colombiano.
N86|La concesion de Mares, el interes industrial y la fundacion de la empresa colombiana de petroleos, ECOPETROL|This article studies the reversion of the de Mares Concession managed by the Tropical Oil Company, a subsidiary of Standard Oil of New Jersey, and the creation of the Colombian Petroleum Company, ECOPETROL, in 1951. The role of different social and political actors is analyzed. Special attention is lent to the powerful National Association of Industrialists, ANDI. In contrast to other Latin American cases during the first half of the twentieth century, ECOPETROL was the result of the expiry of a contract with a multinational enterprise, not the consequence of nationalist pressures and/or expropriations. Besides this, the evidence shows that the Colombian petroleum workers did not play a major role in the creation of ECOPETROL; this refutes the existing literature on the topic. ECOPETROL was the result of negotiations that took place exclusively among sectors of the Colombian elite, North American capital, and the U.S. government.
N86|Políticas corporativas en México: el caso de la Compañía Telefónica Mexicana, 1881-1911<BR>[Corporate strategy in Mexico: the case of Compañía Telefónica Mexicana, 1881-1911]|Since its inception in Mexico City the Mexican Telephone Company tried to deal with a budding market in an organized way. to do so it used several methods and approaches, including monopy pricing, suing potential competitors for patent violations, and controling the supply of technology. This essay intends to analyze the Mexican Telephone Company's corporate policies in Mexico City during the Porfirian Age (1881-1911)
N86|Are Prices Higher For the Poor in New York City?|Despite earlier evidence to the contrary, recent inquiries appear to reach a consensus that the poor pay more for food. However, these studies utilize samples drawn on the basis of prior knowledge of unfair pricing strategies, proximity of volunteer surveyors, or other non-random methods. This paper revisits the issue of price discrimination by analyzing price data collected using a stratified, random sample design to answer the question of whether prices are higher in poor, urban neighborhoods. Contrary to the recent literature, I find that market prices in poor neighborhoods are not higher than those in more affluent areas.
