N87|Historical Legacies and African Development|"As Africa's role on the global stage is rising, so does the need to understand the shadow of history on the continent's economy and polity. We discuss recent works that shed light on Africa's colonial and precolonial legacies. The emerging corpus is remarkably interdisciplinary. Archives, ethnographic materials, georeferenced censuses, surveys, and satellite imagery are some of the sources often combined to test influential conjectures put forward in African historiography. Exploiting within-country variation and employing credible, albeit mostly local, identification techniques, this recent literature has uncovered strong evidence of historical continuity as well as instances of rupture in the evolution of the African economy. The exposition proceeds in reverse chronological order. Starting from the colonial period, which has been linked to almost all of Africa's post-independence maladies, we first review works that uncover the lasting legacies of colonial investments in infrastructure and human capital and quantify the role of various extractive institutions, such as indirect rule and oppression associated with concessionary agreements. Second, we discuss the long-lasting impact of the ""Scramble for Africa"" which led to ethnic partitioning and the creation of artificial modern states. Third, we cover studies on the multi-faceted legacy of the slave trades. Fourth, we analyze the contemporary role of various precolonial, ethnic-specific, institutional and social traits, such as political centralization. We conclude by offering some thoughts on what we view as open questions."
N87|The Relationship of Patenting Applications and Expenditure with Output and Real GDP in Nineteenth Century Colonial New Zealand|The relationship between patenting and both output series and real GDP was examined using nineteenth century New Zealand patent applications, and applications weighted by fees and required advertising expenditure. For individual output series and real GDP there were considerably more cointegrating relationships with Granger causality for expenditure than for application counts, suggesting the expenditure data provides a better measure of the value of patents. Output series and real GDP usually led patenting, particularly using patent expenditure data, which indicates patentees were concentrating on economic needs. In some of the results, however, output series and real GDP followed patenting.
N87|Dealing With Liability Of Foreignness: The Case Of Philips In Australia, 1945-1980|How do multinational enterprises (MNE) respond to the ‘liability of foreignness’ (LoF) they experience in foreign markets? The case study in this paper demonstrates that firms develop dynamic, interactive strategies to minimise the LoF risks they perceive. The Australian subsidiary of Dutch MNE Philips Electronics experienced a significant LoF during 1939-1943, when it came close to being nationalised. In response, Philips Australia set out to build ‘FDI legitimacy’ after 1945 in order to maximise both its ‘national embeddedness’ in the host country and its influence on government policy that guided the rapid development of Australia’s postwar electronics industry. This strategy aimed to minimise risk and maximise commercial opportunities for the firm. Philips Australia localised senior management, maximised local procurement and local manufacturing, took a leading role in industry associations, engaged politically influential board members and used marketing tools to build a strong brand and a positive public profile in Australia. The firm became aware of the limitations of this strategy in 1973, when a new Labor government reduced trade protection. Increasing competition from Japanese electronics firms forced Philips Australia to restructure and downsize its production operations. Despite increasing reliance on imports from the parent company’s regional supply centres and efforts to specialise production on high- value added products, the firm saw its profitability and market share in Australia decrease. The case demonstrates that the success of strategic responses to minimise LoF and maximise ‘FDI legitimacy’ is highly context-dependent.
N87|The Samurai Bond: Credit Supply And Economic Growth In Pre-War Japan|While credit supply growth is associated with exacerbating financial crises, its impact on general economic activity and long run development are unclear. To identify a causal impact, we use bond payments to samurai in nineteenth century Japan as a quasi-natural experiment and exploit variation between regions. Our proxy for credit supply, samurai population shares, is positively associated with per capita levels of firm establishment and capital investment and average firm capital. Initial samurai population share affects output per capita in the short and long run only in regions with early access to railways, mainly through the tertiary sector. Our interpretation is that increased credit supply may have a positive and persistent impact on output if a region has productivity-enhancing investment opportunities.
N87|Managing Political Imperatives: Strategic Responses of Philips in Australia, 1939-1945|The Australian subsidiary of Dutch MNE Philips came under secret service surveillance and faced risk of government takeover as enemy property during World War II. It was also excluded from government contracts for communications equipment, while forced to reduce civilian production. These threats to its assets and operations required the firm to develop an adaptive corporate strategy in order to minimise political risk and also take advantage of opportunities that war production offered. This case study offers a rich insight into the processes an MNE employs to pursue dynamic strategic responses to host country political imperatives, confirming hypotheses of Ring et al. (1990). It demonstrates the relevance of historical cases to substantiating theory in strategic management.
N87|European Integration and Australian Manufacturing Industry: The Case of Philips Electronics, 1960s–1970s|The creation of the Common Market in the European Community required electronics multinational Philips to integrate production operations across European countries. This effort had consequences for its Australian subsidiary. Rather than become a regional Philips hub with the support of its parent, as intended in the 1960s, it was absorbed by addressing changes in Australian trade policy and increased Japanese imports. The parent company’s establishment of regional supply centres in Europe and Asia left no role for the small Australian production facilities in the company’s global structure. Production and employment at Philips Australia were scaled back drastically during the 1970s.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N87|Explaining the performance of contract farming in Ghana: The role of self-efficacy and social capital|Self-efficacy is the belief of an individual to have the ability to be successful in a given domain. Social capital is the economic value of a person’s relationships. In the context of this study, self-efficacy is the belief of a farmer to be able to improve her income with contract farming, which increases her actual ability. Social capital increases the ability of the farmers through social support.
N87|L'agence sociale compte! - Des entrepreneurs migrants africains et chinois comme acteurs de changement<BR>[Social Agency matters! - African and Chinese migrant entrepreneurs as agents of change]|"English Abstract: [Social Agency matters! - African and Chinese entrepreneurs as agents of change] - The book reviewed, edited by Laurence Marfaing and Karsten Giese, documents a research project, on-going since six years, at the German Institute of Global and Area Studies (GIGA-Hamburg) which combines African and Sinologist perspectives. The publication in French, can be seen as advantage and disadvantage at the same time. Considering the lack of French edited publications on this subject and the deplorable language-divide between Anglophone and Francophone Africa, the chapters (some of them translated from English) are certainly most welcomed by French speaking African readers and scholars alike. Thus, they gain the unique possibility to become familiar with the results of painstaking studies by spearheading researchers in this field of study. Some of the contributions are revised papers, originally presented at a workshop at Dakar organised by the editors in January 2013 within the framework of the program Point Sud, an International Centre for Research on Local Knowledge in Bamako (Mali). The introduction by the editors, written jointly with their research collaborator, Alena Thiel, develops the Leitmotiv of the book. It aptly captures the essence of the research findings presented in its title: ""From rejecting the other to mutual involvement of both parties in the dynamics of social change"". In fact, the relations of Chinese and African petty traders and their mutual perception have changed fundamentally since the xenophobe manifestations against 'the Chinese' in several African towns as well as mutual incomprehension of both in Chinese towns (mostly in the urban districts Xiaobei and Sanyuanli of Guangzhou) where migrant African entrepreneurs arrived in the early 2000s. Many, if not most of them did not come to stay in the host country permanently, but they acted rather as sojourner, exploring the terrain in search of profitable trade, that is, Chinese imports of cheap consumer goods to Africa. Their mutual economic interest was based not so much on the general impact of political and economic globalisation but more specifically on the development of Chinese industrial production that facilitated Africans access to the desired Western products at an affordable price. Thus, these entrepreneurial migrants, who incorporated globalisation from below in their very transnational economic practices, became themselves carriers of social and economic transformations in their respective host countries. The realm of these transformations covered a remarkable range, from specific access strategies to resources and social mobility, changing consumer behaviour, new norms and practices up to modifications of taste and ways of life. French Abstract: [L'agence sociale compte! - Les entrepreneurs africains et chinois en tant qu'agents du changement] - Le livre revu, édité par Laurence Marfaing et Karsten Giese, documente un projet de recherche en cours depuis six ans à l'Institut allemand des études mondiales et régionales (GIGA-Hambourg). Les cultures africaines et chinoises sont analysé simultanément d'un point de vue africain et sinologique. La publication en français peut être considéré comme un avantage et un inconvénient en même temps. Considérant le manque de publications éditées en français sur ce sujet et le fossé linguistique déplorable entre l'Afrique anglophone et l'Afrique francophone, les chapitres (certains d'entre eux traduits de l'anglais) sont certainement les bienvenus parmi les lecteurs et chercheurs africains francophones. Ainsi, ils ont la possibilité unique de se familiariser avec les résultats d'études minutieuses des chercheurs specialisés dans ce domaine d'étude. Certaines des contributions sont des documents révisés, initialement présentés lors d'un atelier organisé à Dakar par les éditeurs en janvier 2013 dans le cadre du programme Point Sud, un Centre international de recherche sur les savoirs locaux à Bamako (Mali). L'introduction par les rédacteurs, écrite conjointement avec leur collaborateur de recherche, Alena Thiel, développe le Leitmotiv du livre. Il capture judicieusement l'essence des résultats de recherche présentés dans son titre: «De reject de l'autre à l'implication mutuelle des deux parties dans la dynamique du changement social». En fait, les relations des petits commerçants chinois et africains et leur perception mutuelle ont changé fondamentalement depuis les manifestations xénophobes contre les «Chinois» dans plusieurs villes africaines ainsi que l'incompréhension mutuelle des deux groupes dans les villes chinoises (principalement dans les districts urbains Xiaobei et Sanyuanli de Guangzhou) où les entrepreneurs africains migrants sont arrivés au début des années 2000. Beaucoup, sinon la plupart d'entre eux ne sont pas restés dans le pays d'accueil en permanence, mais ils ont plutôt agi en tant que agents, explorant le terrain à la recherche de commerce rentable, c'est-à-dire des importations chinoises de biens de consommation bon marché. Leur intérêt économique mutuel ne reposait pas tant sur l'impact général de la mondialisation politique et économique que sur le développement de la production industrielle chinoise qui facilitait l'accès des Africains aux produits occidentaux désirés à un prix abordable. Ainsi, ces migrants entrepreneurs, qui ont intégré la mondialisation d'en bas dans leurs pratiques économiques très transnationales, sont devenus eux-mêmes porteurs de transformations sociales et économiques dans leurs pays d'accueil respectifs. Le domaine de ces transformations couvrait une gamme remarquable allant des stratégies d'accès spécifiques aux ressources et à la mobilité sociale, en passant par le changement du comportement des consommateurs, de nouvelles normes et pratiques jusqu'aux modifications du goût et des modes de vie. German Abstract: [Gesellschaftliches Handeln zählt! - Afrikanische und chinesische Unternehmer als Motor des Wandels] - Das rezensierte Buch, herausgegeben von Laurence Marfaing und Karsten Giese, dokumentiert ein seit sechs Jahren laufendes Forschungsprojekt am German Institute of Global and Area Studies (GIGA-Hamburg), das afrikanische und afrikanische Kulturen simultan analysiert, sowohl aus afrikanischer als auch sinologischer Perspektive. Die Publikation in Französisch, kann sowohl als Vorteil, als auch als Nachteil zugleich gesehen werden. In Anbetracht des Mangels an französischen Publikationen zu diesem Thema und der beklagenswerten Kluft zwischen dem anglophonen und dem frankophonen Afrika, sind die Kapitel (von denen einige aus dem Englischen übersetzt wurden) sicherlich bei französischsprachigen afrikanischen Lesern und Wissenschaftlern sehr willkommen. Dadurch erhalten sie die einzigartige Möglichkeit, sich mit den Ergebnissen der fundierten Studien von führenden Forschern auf diesem Gebiet vertraut zu machen. Einige der Beiträge sind überarbeitete und aktualisierte Studien, die ursprünglich im Rahmen eines im Januar 2013 organisierten Workshops in Dakar im Rahmen des Programms Point Sud, einem internationalen Zentrum für lokale Wissensforschung in Bamako (Mali), vorgestellt wurden. Die Einführung des Buches, von den Herausgebern gemeinsam mit ihrer Forschungskollegin Alena Thiel geschrieben, entwickelt das Leitmotiv des Buches. Es fasst treffend die Essenz der Forschungsergebnisse zusammen, die in seinem Titel dargestellt sind: ""Von der Ablehnung des Anderen zur gegenseitigen Beteiligung beider Parteien an der Dynamik des sozialen Wandels"". In der Tat haben sich die Beziehungen zwischen chinesischen und afrikanischen Kleinhändlern und ihre gegenseitige Wahrnehmung seit den fremdenfeindlichen Kundgebungen gegen ""die Chinesen"" in mehreren afrikanischen sowie chinesischen Städten (hauptsächlich in den Stadtbezirken Xiaobei und Sanyuanli von Guangzhou), wo afrikanische Unternehmer zu Beginn der 2000er Jahre eintrafen, grundlegend verändert. Viele, wenn nicht die meisten von ihnen, blieben nicht dauerhaft im Gastland, sondern sie agierten eher als Reisende, die das Terrain auf der Suche nach profitablem Handel erkundeten, d.h. nach chinesischen Importen billiger Konsumgüter nach Afrika. Ihr beiderseitiges wirtschaftliches Interesse basierte nicht so sehr auf den allgemeinen Auswirkungen der politischen und wirtschaftlichen Globalisierung, sondern insbesondere auf der Entwicklung der chinesischen Industrieproduktion, die den Afrikanern den Zugang zu den (nachgebauten) gewünschten westlichen Produkten zu einem erschwinglichen Preis erleichterte. So wurden diese unternehmerischen Migranten, die die Globalisierung von unten in ihre transnationalen Wirtschaftspraktiken einbrachten, selbst Träger von sozialen und wirtschaftlichen Transformationen in ihren jeweiligen Gastländern. Die Bandbreite dieser Transformationen reichte von spezifischen Zugangsstrategien über Ressourcen und soziale Mobilität, wechselndes Konsumverhalten, neue Normen und Praktiken bis hin zu Geschmacks- und Lebensmodifikationen."
N87|Social Obstacles to Technology, Technological Change, and the Economic Growth of African Countries: Some Anecdotal Evidence from Economic History|This paper comments on a number of social obstacles to the economic growth and technological change of African economies from the perspective of economic history. Economic history is full of evidence about what held African economies back for years. Some obstacles are of domestic origin such as excessive consumption and luxury masqueraded as public investment. Other obstacles were imposed from outside such as the destruction and weakening of traditional African religions and religious leadership as well as other wide ranging institutions. The combined effects can be summed up in one word: de-institutionalization. De-institutionalization devalued local knowledge (technology) thereby reducing performance. It is not possible to turn the clock back, but current policy is better-off bringing these obstacles into discussion as they stand a good chance of lowering the socalled “Africa dummy” variable common to growth regressions. Future research would also benefit if it sought to adjust conventional economic theory to allow space for the special features of African economies. Market theory is misleading in treating private use rights as antithetical to private ownership rights. For example, the suggestion that land tenure in Africa is anti-growth is inconsistent with the spectacular growth China has experienced even without private property rights.
N87|La Compañía Española de Minas del Rif y el Estado franquista ante la independencia de Marruecos. Facetas de la instrumentación recíproca (1951-1973)|Relationships between the Rif Mines Spanish Company and Francoist State during the independence of Morocco are a good testing ground to analyze the usefulness of the concept of mutual reciprocity agreements, overcoming the notion of State capture. The article is based on archive sources in order to explore the influence of private interests in policy decisions under Franco. It concludes that such influence occurred, but not in an absolute manner, and that political power was not subordinated to private interests, while these interests did not accept the political decisions that were contrary to them without resistance. In short, there were mutual reciprocity, negotiation and tension on both sides, and business interests cannot, in any way, be defined as ‘powerless privileged’. KEY Classification-JEL: N47. N57. N84. N87
N87|The Empiricists' Insurgency|Research on insurgency has been invigorated this past decade by better data, improved methods, and the urgency of understanding active engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan. This empiricists’ insurgency reinforces a classic literature on the essential role of civilians while challenging older theories about how they affect conflict outcomes. It provides a general framework describing “irregular” insurgencies (where government capacity exceeds rebel capacity), which is analytically cohesive and empirically tested using subnational data from multiple conflicts. The new research provides guidance on intervention design, including governance improvement, development programs, and rules of engagement. The design of interventions matters: some key evidence comes from measuring the effects of misguided policies. The framework may enable better conceived and implemented interventions, including foreign engagements with and without troop deployment, depending on the type of insurgency and mindful of political limitations. We position these findings in the literature, and highlight directions for future research, including legal aspects of countering insurgency.
N87|Moving Forward in African Economic History: Bridging the Gap Between Methods and Sources|The field of African economic history is in resurgence. This paper reviews recent and on-going research contributions and notes strengths in their wide methodological, conceptual and topical variety. In these strengths there is also a challenge: different methodological approaches may also result in divisions, particularly on the quantitative versus qualitative axis. The African Economic History Network has recently been formed to bridge the gap between methods and sources and to facilitate intellectual exchanges among the widest possible range of scholars working on Sub-Saharan economic history. This paper outlines current research projects and calls for future research as well as suggesting promising lines of enquiry in the discipline.
N87|Moving Forward in African Economic History. Bridging the Gap Between Methods and Sources|The field of African economic history is in resurgence. This paper reviews recent and on-going research contributions and notes strengths in their wide methodological, conceptual and topical variety. In these strengths there is also a challenge: different methodological approaches may also result in divisions, particularly on the quantitative versus qualitative axis. The African Economic History Network has recently been formed to bridge the gap between methods and sources and to facilitate intellectual exchanges among the widest possible range of scholars working on Sub-Saharan economic history. This paper outlines current research projects and calls for future research as well as suggesting promising lines of enquiry in the discipline.
N87|The silence of the archive: post-colonialism and the practice of historical reconstruction from archival evidence|History as a discipline has been accused of being a-theoretical. For business historians working at business schools, however, the issue of methodology looms larger, as it is hard to make contributions to social science debates without explicating one’s disciplinary methodology. This paper seeks to outline an important aspect of historical methodology, which is data collection from archives. In this area, postcolonialism has made significant methodological contributions not just for non-Western history, as it has emphasized the importance of considering how archives were created, and how one can legitimately use them despite their limitations.
N87|"""Global since Gold"" The Globalisation of Conglomerates: Explaining the Experience from South Africa, 1990 - 2009"|The internationalisation of enterprises is one of the essential ways to strengthen the competitiveness of firms from developing countries (UNCTAD, 2005c: 3). Strong growth in outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) from developing countries has become the distinguishing feature of the twenty-first century. This OFDI flows from state-owned enterprises, sovereign wealth funds (SWF) as well as private enterprises operating as multinational companies from a home base or as free-standing companies. Multinational corporations have commenced activities since the 1960s by moving operations to resource-rich, low-cost labour and capital markets (Wilkins, 1970; 1974; 1988; Jones, 1994; 2005). The first wave of OFDI during the 1960s and 1970s was motivated by efficiency and market-seeking factors. This wave was dominated by firms from Asia and Latin America. A second wave of OFDI followed in the 1980s, led by strategic assetseeking enterprises from Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore and South Korea (Dunning et al., 1996; UNCTAD, 2005b: 3s). Since the 1990s China, Brazil, India, Russia (the so-called BRIC countries) Malaysia, Turkey and South Africa are among the countries expected to add significantly to OFDI growth (UNCTAD, 2005c: 4). The flow of investment funds from developed countries was expected, but the reverse trend displayed the emerging capacities in countries and firms outside the core of the international economy, which challenged the dominance of developed countries and companies from developed countries. These developments have prompted several questions: how do developing country firms succeed in entering global markets? Do these firms improve their competitiveness through OFDI? This paper investigates this phenomenon from the experience of South Africa. The emergence of EMNC (Emerging Market Multinational Corporations) prompted extensive analysis and debates about the nature of and motives for EMNCs, but has also led to more in-depth analysis of specific country characteristics and firm-specific reasons for OFDI.
N87|Are the Chinese in Africa More Innovative than the Africans? Comparing Chinese and Nigerian Entrepreneurial Migrants' Cultures of Innovation|The remarkable influx of Chinese migrant entrepreneurs in West Africa has been met with growing resistance from established African entrepreneurs. Whether the former have a competitive edge over the latter because of distinctive sociocultural traits or whether the Chinese's supposed effectiveness is just a characteristic feature of any trading diaspora is open to question. This comparative exploratory study of Chinese and Nigerian entrepreneurial migrants in Ghana and Benin provides initial answers to these questions. Apparently, the cultural stimuli for migrant drivers of change are not restricted to inherited value systems or religions, such as a Protestant ethic or Confucianism; rather, they are continually adapted and invented anew by transnational migration networks in a globalized world. There is no evidence of the supposed superiority of the innovative culture of Chinese entrepreneurial migrants versus that of African entrepreneurial migrants. Rather, there exist trading diasporas which have a generally enhanced innovative capacity vis-à-vis local entrepreneurs, regardless of the national culture in which they are embedded. In addition, the rivalry of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in African markets does not necessarily lead to the often suspected cut-throat competition. Often the actions of each group are complementary to those of the other. Under certain conditions they even contribute to poverty alleviation in the host country.
N87|Are the Chinese in Africa More Innovative than the Africans? Comparing Chinese and Nigerian Entrepreneurial Migrants' Cultures of Innovation|The remarkable influx of Chinese migrant entrepreneurs in West Africa has been met with growing resistance from established African entrepreneurs. Whether the Chinese have a competitive edge over Africans because of distinctive sociocultural traits or whether the Chineseʹs supposed effectiveness is just a characteristic feature of any trading diaspora is open to question. This comparative exploratory study of Chinese and Nigerian entrepreneurial migrants in Ghana and Benin provides initial answers to these questions. Apparently, the cultural stimuli for migrant drivers of change are not restricted to inherited value systems and religions, such as a Protestant ethic or Confucianism. Rather, they are continually adapted and invented anew by transnational migration networks in a globalized world. There is no evidence of the supposed superiority of the innovative culture of Chinese entrepreneurial migrants versus that of African entrepreneurial migrants. Instead, there exist trading diasporas which have a generally enhanced innovative capacity vis-àvis local entrepreneurs, regardless of the national culture in which they are embedded. In addition, the rivalry of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in African markets does not necessarily lead to the often suspected cut-throat competition. Often the actions of each group are complementary and mutual benefiting to those of the other. Under certain conditions they even contribute to poverty alleviation in the host country.
N87|Drivers of change or cut-throat competitors? Challenging Cultures of Innovation of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in West Africa|The remarkable influx of Chinese migrant entrepreneurs in different West African countries in recent years has been met with growing resistance by established local entrepreneurs. Whether the former have a competitive edge over the latter because of distinctive socio-cultural traits, or whether the Chinese supposed effectiveness is just a characteristic feature of any trading Diaspora, is open to question. This exploratory study of Chinese and Nigerian entrepreneurial migrants in Ghana and Benin tries to answer this question. Apparently, the cultural motive powers of migrant drivers of change are not restricted to inherited value systems or religions like a protestant ethic or Confucianism, but they are permanently adapted and invented anew by transnational networks of migration in a globalized world. There is no evidence for a supposed superiority of Chinese versus African innovative cultures of entrepreneurial migrants. Rather there exists an enhanced innovative capacity of a trading Diaspora in general vis-à-vis local entrepreneurs, regardless of the background national culture in which it is embedded. In addition, the rivalry of Chinese and Nigerian migrant entrepreneurs in African markets does not necessarily lead to the often suspected cut-throat competition under the impact of globalization. Often both groups act rather complementary. This contributes under certain conditions even to poverty alleviation in the host country.
N87|Attractiveness and agglomeration of automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia: A comparative analysis (In French)|The paper proposes a comparative analysis of the development of the automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia. In its first part, it analyses the convergence in the forms of international integration, oriented towards a subcontracting towards European Union, which leads to competition and also complementarities between these two countries. The role of multinational firms and governmental policies is discussed. Location of these automotive activities is analyzed in Part 2 to evaluate the agglomeration factors and the limits of spatial concentration.
N87|Attractiveness and agglomeration of automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia: A comparative analysis (In French)|The paper proposes a comparative analysis of the development of the automotive industry in Morocco and Tunisia. In its first part, it analyses the convergence in the forms of international integration, oriented towards a subcontracting towards European Union, which leads to competition and also complementarities between these two countries. The role of multinational firms and governmental policies is discussed. Location of these automotive activities is analyzed in Part 2 to evaluate the agglomeration factors and the limits of spatial concentration.
N87|Management and the Free Standing Company – The New Zealand and Australia Land Company c. 1866 – 1900|This paper is based on archival work carried out on the papers of the New Zealand and Australian Land Company Ltd., a Scottish free-standing company founded in Edinburgh in 1867. It explores the development of a hierarchical management system within the company, looking at how the company managed properties on the other side of the world from its Edinburgh headquarters. It concludes that the company was capable of building competitive advantage through its management system in a sustainable fashion, encouraging a positive economic outcome in the host countries.
N87|Les Nouvelles Configurations De L'Espace Automobile Méditerranéen|Analyzing the multinational firms’ strategies (car and component makers), changes in automotive production and trade in the area, the paper discusses the hypothesis of the emergence of a fuzzy automobile space within the Mediterranean area. The Mediterranean automobile space cannot be described as an autonomous space, but as an intermediary level based on the European automobile system. The impact of the development of the automobile industry in CEEC – especially in Turkey – and on Northern Mediterranean countries, is analysed (Part 1) before studying the recent trends in the South, including the development of relationships within the Mediterranean area (Part 2).
N87|Poverty And Microfinance In Eritrea – A Discourse|The poverty levels in Eritrea are alarming. In the light of the escalating nature of poverty, there is an urgent need for a poverty alleviation initiative to reduce miseries of the majority of the poor. An attempt is made in this paper to analyse the incidence of poverty in the country with a particular focus on Agriculture. It also shed a light on the agriculture sector and its crucial role in providing 75 per cent jobs to its people. The paper also delves with the microfinance institutions particularly the Saving and Micro Credit Porgramme and its impact in reducing the poverty. It concludes that microfinance has strong capacity to drive economic growth and poverty reduction in Eritrea.
N87|The Relocation of the Market for Australian Wool, 1880-1939|Between the 1880s and 1930s the international wool auction market shifted decisively from Britain to Australia. A series of historical developments altered the efficiency criteria for the existing institutional arrangements, notably the growing international dominance of Australian wool production, the evolution of the small grazier, the geographical diversification of demand, and improved international transport and communications. Central to this market shift was the role of large pastoral agent firms based in Australia who employed their local knowledge, producer contacts, and trade specialisation to reduce costs. Australian graziers benefited from local market signals and quicker sale realisation. Overseas buyers increasingly came from outside Britain, and their contacts with Australia were aided by much improved long distance shipping and telegram communications.
N87|From Bismarck to Maastricht: The March to European Union and the Labor Compact|This paper considers the likely impact that European Union (EU) will have on the labor compact. It is argued that, despite increased economic integration in Europe, countries will still be able to maintain distinct labor practices if they are willing to bear the cost of those practices. The incidence of many social protections probably already falls on workers. In addition, it is argued that imperfect mobility of capital, labor, goods and services will limit the pressure that integration will place on the labor compact. Evidence is presented suggesting that labor mobility among EU countries has not increased after the elimination of remaining restrictions on intra-EU labor mobility in 1993. Moreover, immigration from non-EU countries, which is much larger than intra-EU migration, has declined since 1993. Evidence is also reviewed suggesting that the demand for social protection rises when countries are more open, and therefore subject to more severe external shocks. This finding suggests that increased economic integration and European Monetary Union could lead to greater demand for social protection. The U.S. experience with state workers' compensation insurance programs is offered as an example of enduring differences in labor market protections in highly integrated regional economies with a common currency.
N87|New Markets for Local Experts in Africa?|In the past decades the involvement of local experts in the planning and evaluation of development programs has steadily increased. Ownership of development planning is propagated as major aim of bilateral and international development co-operation. Yet, the quality and performance of many local experts is still open to question, last but not least, because they share the same technocratic bias as quite a number of their Western counterparts, notably concerning pro-poor development policies, empowerment and ill-adapted technology transfer. An unreserved replacement of expatriates by local experts, or the substitution of technical assistance by unconditioned budget aid would be counter-productive with respect to poverty-oriented development policies.
