N90|China and the World Bank - How Contrasting Development Approaches Affect the Stability of African States|China’s development model challenges the approaches of traditional Western donors like the World Bank. We argue that both aim at stability, but differ in the norms propagated to achieve that. Using fixed effects and IV estimations, we analyze a broad range of subnational stability measures in Africa. Aid by both the WB and China does not increase outright conflict nor any type of citizen protest, on average. Both even reduce outright conflict by governments against civilians. Still, Chinese aid is associated with more government repression and an increased acceptance of authoritarian norms, while WB projects strengthen democratic values.
N90|Whitelashing: Black Politicians, Taxes, and Violence|This paper provides the first evidence of the effect of tax policy on the likelihood of violent attacks against black politicians. I find a strong positive effect of local tax revenue on subsequent violence against black politicians. A dollar increase in per capita county taxes increases the likelihood of a violent attack by more than 25%. The result is robust to numerous economic, social, historical, and political factors. I also find that counties where black officeholders were attacked had the largest negative tax revenue changes between 1870 and 1880 and that violence against black politicians is unrelated to other forms of post-Reconstruction racial violence. This provides the first quantitative evidence that political violence at Reconstruction's end was related to black political efficacy.
N90|Regional economic development in Europe, 1900-2010: a description of the patterns|We provide the first long-run dataset of regional employment structures and regional GDP and GDP per capita in 1990 international dollars, stretching over more than 100 years. These data allow us to compare regions over time, among each other, and to other parts of the world. After some brief notes on methodology we describe the basic patterns in the data in terms of some key dimensions: variation in the density of population and economic activity, the spread of industry and services and the declining role of agriculture, and changes in the levels of GDP and GDP per capita. We next discuss patterns of convergence and divergence over time and their explanations in terms of short-run adjustment and long-run fundamentals. Also, we document for the first time a secular decrease in spatial coherence from 1900 to 2010. We find a U-shaped development in geographic concentration and regional income inequality, similar to the finding of a U-shaped pattern of personal income inequality.
N90|Regional Resources and Democratic Secessionism|Although regional resources have been shown to influence secessionist conflicts in developing countries, their effect in established democracies has largely been neglected. We integrate regional resource value and inter-regional transfers in a model on the optimal size of nations, and show that regional wealth correlates positively with secessionist party success in a large panel of regions. To establish causality, our difference-in-differences and triple-differences designs exploit that Scotland and Wales both feature separatist parties, but only an independent Scotland would profit from oil discoveries off its coast. We document an economically and statistically significant positive effect of regional resources and rule out plausible alternative explanations.
N90|European goods market integration in the very long run: from the Black Death to the First World War|The paper examines price convergence and increases in the efficiency of wheat markets across Europe from the mid-fourteenth to the early twentieth century. The analysis is based on a new data set of prices from more than 500 markets. Unlike previous research, we find that convergence was a predominantly pre-modern phenomenon. It started in the late fifteenth and reached a first high point in the early seventeenth century - a level of integration that was surpassed only in the nineteenth century. In terms of market integration, the ‘little divergence’ between parts of North-Western Europe and the rest of the continent appears since about 1600. Long-term improvements in market efficiency began in the early sixteenth century, with advances being temporarily as uneven as in price convergence. We trace this to uneven institutional change and the non-synchronous spread of modern media and systems of information transmission that affected the ability of merchants to react to news.
N90|A New Analysis of Population History in Sabah and Sarawak|Objective - This study is a comprehensive account of contemporary knowledge concerning pre-historic communities in Sabah and Sarawak based on newly available evidence from genomic and archaeological research. Methodology/Technique - The data presented in this review was obtained from primary literature including recent reports on several Neolithic excavation sites including Gua Sireh, Bukit Tengkorak, Melanta Tutup, and Bukit Kamiri. Findings - Pre-neolithic populations existed in Borneo long before the arrival of Austronesians as is evident from Niah Cave remains. These considerably pre-date the arrival of the latter new immigrants around 3,500 years ago. Further genetic research is needed, as the current view of the history of the population is based on a limited number of ethnic groups among those currently living in Borneo and to date, no trace has been found of any surviving genetic lineages from the earliest settlers. Novelty - This review paints a contemporary picture from existing information. In particular, it highlights the need for further research on the topic, as the current view of the genetic history of the population in Sabah and Sarawak is only available on a limited number of ethnic groups currently living in Borneo. Developing a conclusive and composite view on this topic will require widespread genetic surveys of many more ethnic groups scattered throughout the Sabah and Sarawak areas. This will require large-scale next-generation techniques (such as genome-wide SNP surveys and whole genome sequencing etc.). These methods should be enhanced by examination of ancient materials including human remains and their associated artefacts. These initiatives will require a number of well-planned excavations of recent settlements (last 10,000 years) and the application of trace and ancient DNA methodology.
N90|Long-Lasting Social Capital and its Impact on Economic Development: The Legacy of the Commons|This paper analyzes the historical determinants and long-term persistence of social capital, as well as its effect on economic development, by looking at the legacy of the commons in a Spanish region. In medieval times, common goods were granted to townships and were managed collectively by local citizens. This enabled the establishment of institutions for collective action and self-government. Common goods persisted until the second half of the nineteenth century. We argue that the experience of cooperation among villagers, repeated over the centuries, increased the social capital in each local community. In 1845, a law forced small villages to merge with others, a fact which generated exogenous variation in the number of mergers (i.e., cooperative networks) that each modern municipality was required to have. We exploit this change in an IV and RD setting and find that current municipalities formed by a greater number of old townships have a denser network of associations. We also find that higher social capital is associated with more economic development.
N90|Case Study of Tsalka, Georgia: Social Identity and Adaptation to a New Living Environment|Migration is associated with adaptation problems and has a great impact on migrated people?s identity and quality of life. This case study explains how adaptation process is related to social identity transformation among eco-migrants settled in Tsalka, Georgia. Tsalka is a town in eastern Georgia with a multi-ethnic population (Georgians, Armenians, Greeks, and Azerbaijanis). It has been a location where eco-migrants from mountain regions of Georgia rushed into and settled in 1997-2006. 32 eco-migrants from 20 households participated in in-depth interviews. The results showed that there are two types of eco-migrants: with state shelter and private accomodation. Besides that initial ethnic conflicts between eco-migrants and host inhabitants ended up having a positive impact on the adaptation process. Eco-migrants who have the private property and stable jobs have a better chance for adaptation and in general, they described themselves as satisfied in their lives. Overall, the present study suggests that well-adapted eco-migrants have multiple identities, they perceive themselves as a part of a new community and at the same time, they can?t forget their old ??roots??, as they say, which is related to their welfare.
N90|Commercial and Economic Goals of the British in the Safavid Persia And the countries of South Caucasus in the 16th century|It is indisputable that the active work of the trade companies in the Tudor period was one of the factors determining economic power of England. Before the British East-India Company began to struggle with the Portuguese for the positions in India the representatives of the English ?Muscovy Company? had 7 visits in the East in 1558-1581.?After entering the Moscow market, the British tried to use the Volga rout and to establish trade relationship with India and China through Central Asia and Persia, but the trade with China was actually reduced to nil due to turbulent situation in oriental countries. Trade with India did not seem prospective either ? their hot climate and poverty of local people was not a favorable prospect for English broadcloth. ? Disillusioned with his plan about China and India, Jenkinson turned his attention to Safavid Persia (where the main export product was silk, so desirable for Europeans) and obtained a sanction from the ?Muscovy Company? to trade in that direction. However, he also needed permission of the Moscow ruler, Ivan Grozny for which Jenkinson offered his service that is apparent from the relazione about his trip to Persia. ?Jenkinson's notifications (which provides significant information about Shirvan located on the shores of the Caspian Sea and its neighboring Georgian kingdoms in the South Caucasus, where the raw silk was produced) clearly demonstrates the wide profile of the trips of British merchants - diplomatic flexibility and understanding of political situation, in addition to their primary economic interests. After reading and analyzing the entire context of his report, if we try to connect the facts of the fragments, where Anthony Jenkinson mentions the Georgians and compare them with the Persian and Georgian sources of that period, we can reconstruct of the historical events and correct understanding of the processes in 16th century Georgia.?Although, Jenkinson could not achieve privilegies in Kazvin, he managed to make contacts with Indian merchants, who gave him hope that he could trade with spices throughout Persia. More specific result was waiting for him on the way back to the South Caucasus, where he visited one of his most desirable hosts in all the Safavid Iran - the ruler of Shirvan, Abdula Han. He received the separate and valuable privilegies from him that allowed him to exchange English wool products into the Iranian silk.
N90|Russian Empire?s Policy of Acculturation for Christian Sectarians (XIX ? the Beginning of the 20th Centuries)|"This research is about features of a policy of acculturation for Christian sectarians in the territory of Orenburg region of XIX ? the beginnings of the 20th centuries. The subject of the relationship of the Orthodox Russian Empire with Christian sectarians repeatedly rose in modern scientific literature. However the situation in the huge suburban Eurasian region on the border of Europe and Asia ? the Orenburg region ? wasn't analyzed systemically. The purpose of our research ? to study a question on the basis of primary sources from the local archive. The government sought to provide stability in the Orenburg province and incorporation of the region in the structure of the Empire by means of acculturation policy. This policy concerned not only the Muslims living here but also Christian sectarians. Christian sectarianism in a mass look has appeared in the Orenburg region from the second half of the 19th century. The activity of Russian Orthodox Church in the Orenburg diocese has been directed to the identification of sectarians and ""their return to a bosom of a church"" through explanations and education. If efforts of the church didn't result in desirable results, then more drastic measures with an involvement of the Orenburg provincial administration and police were taken. As a result in the region, steady process of formal transition to Orthodoxy at a secret observance of former ceremonies was supported. The factor complicating work of the Orthodox Church with sectarians in the territory of the Orenburg province was her status of the territory in large quantities accepting immigrants among whom sectarians have been presented in a large number. The research is executed at the expense of a grant of the Russian Science Foundation (project No. 17-18-01008) in the Orenburg State Pedagogical University."
N90|The use of the military potential of baptized Kalmyks in the Russian Army as a manifestation of the imperial policy of acculturation (18th ? the beginning of the 20th century)|"The settlement of baptized Kalmyks in the Middle Volga region, received the name Stavropol, was established in 1737. At the initiative of the first Orenburg governor Neplyuyev, it was transformed into an irregular army. The creation of the Kalmyk settlement took place in an environment where the Russian state fought decisively to establish its presence in the interfluve of the Volga and Yaik. Baptized Kalmyks significantly increased both the strength and the combat capability of Russian troops deployed in the Orenburg region. The first documented mention of the involvement of the Stavropol Kalmyks in military service dates back to 1739. As part of the government troops, they participated in punitive operations aimed at suppressing popular unrest in Bashkortostan. The military Cossack service became the main duty of baptized Kalmyks. Until 1815, it was expressed not only in the protection of state borders and the performance of police duties within the country but also in participating in wars with Prussia, Sweden, and Napoleonic France. Long-term interaction in combat conditions with Russian soldiers and Cossacks, a subordination of Kalmyk contingents to army officers exerted a strong accultural influence on the world view of the Kalmyks. However, later, in the conditions of the further modernization of the Russian army, the inefficiency of preserving the Stavropol Kalmyk regiment as a separate military unit became more evident for the authorities. In the 1830s, the commanders of the Orenburg Corps began to draw the government's attention to the unsatisfactory level of military training of Kalmyk servicemen, the lack of military education and combat experience among the command staff, and the lack of the Stavropol Kalmyk regiment. The noted shortcomings eventually gave rise to the disbandment of both the regiment itself and the entire Kalmyk army. After the annexation of the Stavropol Kalmyks to the Orenburg army, until 1917 they performed military service jointly and on common grounds with the Orenburg Cossacks. This was an important step in the development of the imperial policy of acculturation of baptized Kalmyks, aimed at their full ""exposure"". The research is executed at the expense of a grant of the Russian Science Foundation (project No. 17-18-01008) in the Orenburg State Pedagogical University."
N90|Do Software and Videogames firms share location patterns across cities? Evidence from Barcelona, Lyon and Hamburg| The aim of this paper is to analyse common location patterns of Software and Videogames (SVE) industry in Barcelona, Lyon and Hamburg. This is a key industry in developed countries that mainly located at core of bigger metropolitan areas, looking for agglomeration economies, skilled labour and a wide range of spillover effects existent there. Cities used in our empirical application share some common features in terms of size, manufacturing tradition and, specially, economic strategies, as they have managed to promote high-tech neighbourhoods through ambitious urban renewal policies. When analysing location patterns of firms from these industries, although our results highlight predominant role of urban cores of three cities, also indicate important specificities in terms of core-periphery. distribution of SVEâ€™s firms. JEL Codes: R12, C60, L86, N90. Keywords: Software Industry, microgeographic analysis, spatial location patterns, Barcelona, Hamburg, Lyon
N90|Long-lasting social capital and its impact on economic development: the legacy of the commons|This paper analyzes the historical determinants and long-term persistence of social capital, as well as its effect on economic development, by looking at the legacy of the commons in a Spanish region. In medieval times, common goods were granted to townships and were managed collectively by local citizens. This enabled the establishment of institutions for collective action and self-government. Common goods persisted until the second half of the nineteenth century. We argue that the experience of cooperation among villagers, repeated over the centuries, increased the social capital in each local community. In 1845, a law forced small villages to merge with others, a fact which generated exogenous variation in the number of mergers (i.e., cooperative networks) that each modern municipality was required to have. We exploit this change in an IV and RD setting and find that current municipalities formed by a greater number of old townships have a denser network of associations. We also find that higher social capital is associated with more economic development.
N90|No Price Like Home: Global House Prices, 1870-2012|How have house prices evolved over the long run? This paper presents annual house prices for 14 advanced economies since 1870. We show that real house prices stayed constant from the nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century, but rose strongly and with substantial cross-country variation in the second half of the twentieth century. Land prices, not replacement costs, are the key to understanding the trajectory of house prices. Rising land prices explain about 80 percent of the global house price boom that has taken place since World War II. Our findings have implications for the evolution of wealth-to-income ratios, the growth effects of agglomeration, and the price elasticity of housing supply.
N90|Historical Antisemitism, Ethnic Specialization, and Financial Development|For centuries, Jews in Europe have specialized in financial services. At the same time, they have been the victims of historical antisemitism on the part of the Christian majority. We find that present-day financial development is lower in German counties where historical antisemitism was higher, compared to otherwise similar counties. Households in counties with high historical antisemitism have similar savings rates but invest less in stocks, hold lower bank deposits, and are less likely to get a mortgage–but not to own a house–after controlling for wealth and a rich set of current and historical covariates. Present-day antisemitism and supply-side forces do not appear to fully explain the results. Present-day households in counties where historical antisemitism was higher express lower trust in finance, but have levels of generalized trust similar to other households.
N90|Natural Amenities, Neighbourhood Dynamics, and Persistence in the Spatial Distribution of Income|We present theory and evidence highlighting the role of natural amenities in neighbourhood dynamics, suburbanization, and variation across cities in the persistence of the spatial distribution of income. Our model generates three predictions that we confirm using a novel database of consistent-boundary neighbourhoods in U.S. metropolitan areas, 1880–2010, and spatial data for natural features such as coastlines and hills. First, persistent natural amenities anchor neighbourhoods to high incomes over time. Secondly, naturally heterogeneous cities exhibit persistent spatial distributions of income. Thirdly, downtown neighbourhoods in coastal cities were less susceptible to the widespread decentralization of income in the mid-twentieth century and experienced an increase in income more quickly after 1980.
N90|Historical Antisemitism, Ethnic Specialization, and Financial Development|For centuries, Jews in Europe have specialized in financial services. At the same time, they have been the victims of historical antisemitism on the part of the Christian majority. We find that present-day financial development is lower in German counties where historical antisemitism was higher, compared to otherwise similar counties. Households in counties with high historical antisemitism have similar savings rates but invest less in stocks, hold lower bank deposits, and are less likely to get a mortgage-but not to own a house-after controlling for wealth and a rich set of current and historical covariates. Present-day antisemitism and supply-side forces do not appear to fully explain the results. Present-day households in counties where historical antisemitism was higher express lower trust in finance, but have levels of generalized trust similar to other households.
N90|The silk handloom industry in Nadia district of West Bengal : a study on its history, performance & current problems|Handloom industry provides widest employment opportunities in West Bengal, where 5.8% of the households involved have been found to be silk handloom weavers, which bears a rich legacy. Shantipur and Phulia in Nadia district are the two major handloom concentrated areas in West Bengal. The main objective of this paper is to make a situational analysis of the handloom workers by focusing on the problems of the handloom weavers of Nadia district. The paper briefly elaborates the historical perspective of handloom clusters over this region at the backdrop of the then Bengal. It also analyzes the present crisis faced by the weavers of Phulia and Shantipur region of Nadia district. It makes a SWOT analysis of the handloom industry where strength, weakness, opportunity and threat of the handlooms sector has been analyzed. The paper recommends several measures like awareness campaign, financial literacy programme, SHG and consortium formation, common facility centre, dye house, market exposure to upgrade the present situation of the handloom industry.
N90|European Union and Romanian Tourism – ß and s Convergence in the Economic Development Regions of Romania|At present, both in Romania and in Europe, tourism tends to become one of the biggest industries, with great development possibilities in the future. The economic development of Romania including tourism benefits from the support of the European Union, and has the purpose to reduce the gaps in this concern, compared to both the European Union average and more developed countries. The purpose of this paper is to analyse ß and s convergence in the 8 Economic Development Regions of Romania by a tourism approach. The concept of ß-convergence represents the process of quicker development of poor regions than the rich ones, and s-convergence is evaluating the process of decrease of regional economic disparities in time. The analysis based on ß-convergence was performed using econometric modelling techniques of linear correlation. For s-convergence, we measured the dispersion of real GDPT per in habitant by the use of the variation coefficient t ? . The purpose is to check the hypothesis according to which the ß-convergence approach and the s- convergence concept can lead to different results for the Economic Development Regions of Romania. The period analysed is between 2007 and 2013.
N90|The long-run impact of human capital on innovation and economic development in the regions of Europe| Human capital is supposed to be an important factor for innovation and economic development. However, the long-run impact of human capital on current innovation and economic development is still a black box, in particular at the regional level. Therefore, this paper makes the link between the past and the present. Using a large new dataset on regional human capital and other factors in the 19th and 20th century, we find that past regional human capital is a key factor explaining current regional disparities in innovation and economic development.
N90|East Side Story: Historical Pollution and Persistent Neighborhood Sorting|Why are the East sides of former industrial cities like London or New York poorer and more deprived? We argue that this observation is the most visible consequence of the historically unequal distribution of air pollutants across neighborhoods. In this paper, we geolocate nearly 5,000 industrial chimneys in 70 English cities in 1880 and use an atmospheric dispersion model to recreate the spatial distribution of pollution. First, individual-level census data show that pollution induced neighborhood sorting during the course of the nineteenth century. Historical pollution patterns explain up to 15% of withincity deprivation in 1881. Second, these equilibria persist to this day even though the pollution that initially caused them has waned. A quantitative model shows the role of non-linearities and tipping-like dynamics in such persistence.
N90|East Side Story: Historical Pollution and Persistent Neighborhood Sorting|Why are the east sides of formerly industrial cities often the more deprived? Using individual-level census data together with newly created historical pollution patterns derived from the locations of 5,000 industrial chimneys and an atmospheric model, we show that this results from the persistence of neighborhood sorting that ?rst emerged during the Industrial Revolution when prevailing winds blew pollution eastwards. Past pollution explains up to 20% of the observed neighborhood segregation in 2011, even though coal pollution stopped in the 1970s. A quantitative model identi?es the role of non-linearities and tipping-like dynamics underlying this persistence.
N90|Who was colonized and when? A cross-country analysis of determinants|The process of colonization has shaped the economic and demographic contours of the modern world. In this paper, we study the determinants of the occurrence and timing of colonization of non-European countries by Western European powers. Of particular interest is the role of early development measures that are known to be strong correlates of present-day levels of income. We show that non-European societies with longer histories of agriculture and statehood and higher levels of technology adoption in 1500 were less likely to be colonized, and tended to be colonized later if at all. We also find that proximity to the colonizing powers, disease environment, and latitude are significant predictors of the occurrence and timing of colonization, although their impacts are less robust to choice of country sample. Our models have high explanatory power, and their support for the significance of early development is robust to the use of alternative indicators of early development and disease, to the use of instruments to focus on the exogenous component of early development, and to the joint estimation of the colonization and timing equations to correct for potential selection bias.
N90|Unequal lands: Soil type, nutrition and child mortality in southern Sweden, 1850-1914|Child mortality differed greatly within rural regions in Europe before and during the mortality decline. Not much is known about the role of nutrition in such geographic differences, and about the factors affecting the nutritional level and hence the resistance to diseases. Focusing on nutrition, we analyse the effects of soil type, used as an indicator of the farm-level agricultural productivity and hence of nutritional status, on mortality of children aged 1-15 living in five rural parishes in southern Sweden, 1850-1914. Using longitudinal demographic data combined with unique geographic micro-data on residential histories, the effect of soil type on the mortality risks are analysed considering as outcome all-cause mortality and mortality from non-airborne and airborne infectious diseases. Soil type primarily affected the mortality of farmers’ children, but not labourers’ children. Particularly, farmers’ children residing in areas with very high proportions of clayey till (75-100% coverage) experienced lower risks of dying compared to children residing in areas with other soil types such as clay and sandy soils. Certain soil types seem to have influenced the agricultural productivity, which, in turn, affected the nutrition of the farmers’ children and thus their likelihood of dying. The results indicate a relatively important role of nutrition as a mortality predictor for these children. As, to our knowledge, the first longitudinal study on the micro-level that analyses the effects of soil type on mortality in a historical rural society, we contribute to the literature on the role of nutrition on the risk of dying in a pre-industrial society
N90|The Russian Federation and China: a brief review of the history of bilateral relations|The article has the purpose to review the main historical events that have marked throughout history the relations between the Russian Federation and China. These two global players have passed through periods of equilibrium and colonization, civil wars and revolutions, friendship, confrontation and normalization, culminating by a strategic partnership that is considered one of the most intense form of cooperation ever known in the history of Sino-Russian relationship. The research is supported by a qualitative analysis based on the official bilateral treaties, agreements and declarations signed between the two countries since 1689 to the present. The analysis has highlighted the role of border and territorial disputes between the Russian Federation and China, which negatively marked their bilateral relations. The completion of the legal delimitation process of Sino-Russian border on its entire length is declared by the Russian authorities to be one of the most important achievements of the foreign policy towards China. Border demarcation has eliminated the potential threat of a territorial conflict and the last point of contention between Russia and China.
N90|We start from here|Abstract As James Buchanan often asserted, in constitutional design “we start from here” which is to say we design a constitution to fit the institutions, social practices and so forth that we already have. Comparison of the complicated case of the US constitution and the failed attempt at constitutionalism in contemporary Egypt suggest that many societies are not yet ready for serious constitutional design. The English civil wars were about religion; the US constitution ignores religion and thereby avoids the grim conflict of church and state.
N90|Urbanization with and without industrialization|We document a strong positive relationship between natural resource exports and urbanization in a sample of 116 developing nations over the period 1960–2010. In countries that are heavily dependent on resource exports, urbanization appears to be concentrated in “consumption cities” where the economies consist primarily of non-tradable services. These contrast with “production cities” that are more dependent on manufacturing in countries that have industrialized. Consumption cities in resource exporters also appear to perform worse along several measures of welfare. We offer a simple model of structural change that can explain the observed patterns of urbanization and the associated differences in city types. We note that although the development literature often assumes that urbanization is synonymous with industrialization, patterns differ markedly across developing countries. We discuss several possible implications for policy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
N90|Urbanization with and without industrialization|Abstract We document a strong positive relationship between natural resource exports and urbanization in a sample of 116 developing nations over the period 1960–2010. In countries that are heavily dependent on resource exports, urbanization appears to be concentrated in “consumption cities” where the economies consist primarily of non-tradable services. These contrast with “production cities” that are more dependent on manufacturing in countries that have industrialized. Consumption cities in resource exporters also appear to perform worse along several measures of welfare. We offer a simple model of structural change that can explain the observed patterns of urbanization and the associated differences in city types. We note that although the development literature often assumes that urbanization is synonymous with industrialization, patterns differ markedly across developing countries. We discuss several possible implications for policy.
N90|Military conflict and the rise of urban Europe|Abstract We present new evidence about the relationship between military conflict and city population growth in Europe from the fall of Charlemagne’s empire to the start of the Industrial Revolution. Military conflict was a main feature of European history. We argue that cities were safe harbors from conflict threats. To test this argument, we construct a novel database that geocodes the locations of more than 800 conflicts between 800 and 1799. We find a significant, positive, and robust relationship that runs from conflict exposure to city population growth. Our analysis suggests that military conflict played a key role in the rise of urban Europe.
N90|Israel and the 1990-2015 Global Developments: Riding with the Global Flows and Weathering the Storms|The global economy has been buffeted by several unprecedented economic events during the past 35 years. Israel had a remarkable development, from a low income high-inflation developing economy in the 1970s, to a medium to high income stable- inflation advanced economy in the 2000s, while increasingly integrated into the world economy. We survey the impact of these events on Israel's development, institutions, and economic policies. The extraordinary events surveyed include: (1) The collapse of the Soviet Union and the massive immigration to Israel which followed; (2) The Great Moderation in inflation and employment fluctuations in the advanced economies; (3) The 2008 global financial crisis, epi-centered in the US, and the contagion of the financial crisis to Europe; and (4) The rise of East Asia high-growth economies. Moderating spillovers from the advanced economies during the Great Moderation, the global information technology revolution, the influx of skilled immigrants from the former Soviet Union, the gradual buildup of robust and well-regulated financial institutions over decades after the hyper-inflation crisis, and the deep and extensive integration into the global economy, all provided the Israeli economy with an entry 'ticket' to the OECD; the 35-member group of the world advanced economies. . However, it came at the cost of growing income inequality.
N90|Transforming Cities: Does Urbanization Promote Democratic Change?|Could urbanization lead to more democracy and better government for the mega-cities of the developing world? This paper reviews three channels through which urbanization may generate political change. First, cities facilitate coordinated public action and enhance the effectiveness of uprisings. Second, cities may increase the demand for democracy relative to dictatorship. Third, cities may engender the development of “civic capital” which enables citizens to improve their own institutions. History and empirics provide significant support for the first channel, but less evidence exists for the others. Urbanization may improve the quality of poor-world governments, but more research is needed to draw that conclusion.
N90|Trees And Semi-Lattices: Analysing Space Configuration Of Two Urban Systems In Lisbon Region|This study examines patterns of order and structure in street networks and its relationships with spatial life of two urban neighborhoods (housing estates). It explores the concepts of “tree” and “semi-lattice” as two different ways of looking and thinking about the structure of cities, each one generating a different form of life and community place (Alexander, 1965). The authors propose a configurational analysis of street networks of two urban plans designed according to different city ideologies and historical background. Based on space syntax methodology the street network was represented both as convex spaces and axial lines as nodes of a graph. The network was then analyzed in terms of the mathematical properties of the graph. The objective was to address a comparative study of structural properties of the urban street networks in order to speculate some implications on social life of each neighborhood. Syntactic measures have shown that conceptual designs have different spatial and social patterns both at global and local scales. It was corroborated that the difference between the characteristics of topological properties which reflects the mathematical principle of tree and semi-lattice is responsible for the different character of public life we found in each urban area.
N90|Witch Memories Remain: a landscape history of Salem, Massachusetts|This paper aims to explore how Salem, Massachusetts has remembered the 1692 Witchcraft Trials. This is a very large and comprehensive topic so focus has been narrowed to observe how the landscape of Salem has been transformed in memoriam. In the period post-1692 Witch Trials there was active forgetting in Salem. A stigma surrounded the trials and their occurrence was sidelined in favour of industrializing the city. Beginning just prior to the 1960s were small, concerted efforts to bring the trials to the attention of the public. The landscape of the city began to alter ? a process that has continued till this day. In the 1990s and 2000s, full-scale memorialization of the Witch Trials has left its mark on the landscape. Memorials, museums and stores are now found at the heart of the city all recapturing a once forgotten memory.This paper will specifically focus on the Witch Trials Memorial unveiled in 1992. The memorial has replaced an abandoned park in the middle of Salem, adjusting the tone of the space and its purpose. From this one memorial the culmination of Salem?s memorialization process can be observed and its impact on the landscape understood.
N90|"Spatial Development Indicators, Used in the Framework of the ""New Economic Geography"" and How They Can Be Used in the Strategic Planning of Spatial Development of the Russian Federation"|"The article discusses the main elements of the ""new"" economic geography, adequately describes the current patterns of spatial development. In the context of reducing the share of transportation costs in the total cost of production is enhanced agglomeration effect, resulting in a further concentration of production and population. The article presents the basic tools and measures used by the ""new"" economic geography. The article formulates proposals for the application of developments and achievements of the ""new"" economic geography in the strategic planning of spatial development of the Russian Federation. Forecasting and strategic planning indicators are proposed, which most adequately reflect the processes of spatial development taking place in the modern economy"
N90|Exuberance, Bubbles or Froth? Some Historical Results using Long Run House Price Data for Amsterdam, Norway and Paris|It has been argued that house prices may exhibit a period of bubbles and that they may also be either a cause or an effect of, for example, the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). In this paper, we test econometrically whether house price bubbles have historical precedents and also whether contagion from other financial crises are mirrored in these housing markets. We apply the generalized sup ADF (GSADF) test based procedure of Phillips, Shi, and Yu (2015a) to test for the evidence of exuberance or bubbles in historical housing price indices for the Herengracht index of Amsterdam (1649-2010), Norway (1819-2014) and Paris (1650-2012) based upon the right-tailed unit root null hypothesis with or without an intercept. We find, firstly, there is little evidence of exuberance in the real Herengracht index or of bubbles in the house price-rent ratio for Amsterdam. Secondly, our empirical results provide evidence of exuberance in Norwegian house prices where our identified episodes coincide with the major financial crisis in Norwegian history. Thirdly, no significant evidence of exuberance is found in the historical house price series of Paris under most model specifications.
N90|Evolution of ICT and software industry: Crisis, resilience and the role of emerging clusters|The ICT and software industry have evolved as twin global industries now spanning a large number of interconnected clusters in the developed and emerging countries. Firms, governments and other actors have re-established different relationships and structures throughout 1980-1984, early 1990s, 2000-2001 and 2007-2008 crises, often resulting in decline of older clusters and emergence or solidification of newer ones. Studies indicate that a cluster's evolution, its position in the technological life-cycle, and dominancy are quite relevant with resilience of the cluster. On the other hand, region-specific factors seem to be important for specialization of ICT-software clusters, which, may work or against their benefit due to strategic geographic responses of larger actors in the industry, such as promotion of offshore outsourcing or onshore in-house activities. There is increasing evidence that these factors are recently used better by regional and national governments against clusters in more advanced regions, particularly by strategic use of timely legal reforms, state-sponsored large ICT-software projects and attempts to grow local ICT-software markets. Yet, the knowledge externalities created by these efforts are captured not only by large MNCs, but also by an increasing number of local companies, which are increasingly transforming into multi-national actors. This paper tries to evaluate how governments, local companies and MNCs establish strategic collaborations and promote growth of clusters in emerging country context, in the case of ICT-software industries. The study relies on secondary data resources and the literature in evaluating emerging country contexts, but also makes use of primary data, local and national strategic planning documents and interview interpretations in the context of Turkey's clusters. The study's main contribution lies in demonstrating how mixed core/periphery features, collaboration of local/national actors with global actors, and emerging new technologies play a role in the emergence of new forms and functional structures at industry level.
N90|History and the Sizes of Cities|We contrast evidence of urban path dependence with efforts to analyze calibrated models of city sizes. Recent evidence of persistent city sizes following the obsolescence of historical advantages suggests that path dependence cannot be understood as the medium-run effect of legacy capital but instead as the long-run effect of equilibrium selection. In contrast, a different, recent literature uses stylized models in which fundamentals uniquely determine city size. We show that a commonly used model is inconsistent with evidence of long run persistence in city sizes and propose several modifications that might allow for multiplicity and thus historical path dependence.
N90|Killer Cities: Past and Present|The industrial cities of the 19th century were incredibly unhealthy places to live. How much progress has been made in reducing these negative health effects over the past 150 years? To help answer this question, we compare mortality patterns in 19th century England to those in Chinese urban areas in 2000. We document that substantial improvements have been made in improving health in cities over this period. Unlike historical English cities, large cities in China have lower mortality than less populated areas. However, we also provide evidence that in China a substantial relationship between industrial pollution and mortality remains.
N90|Agglomeration economies in classical music|This study investigates agglomeration effects for classical music production in a wide range of cities for a global sample of composers born between 1750 and 1899. Theory suggests a trade-off between agglomeration economies (peer effects) and diseconomies (peer crowding). I test this hypothesis using historical data on composers and employ a unique instrumental variable – a measure of birth centrality, calculated as the average distance between a composer's birthplace and the birthplace of his peers. I find a strong causal impact of peer group size on the number of important compositions written in a given year. Consistent with theory, the productivity gain eventually decreases and is characterized by an inverted U-shaped relationship. These results are robust to a large series of tests, including checks for quality of peers, city characteristics, various measures of composers' productivity, and across different estimations in which also time-varying birth centrality measures are used as instrumental variables.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N90|In fatal pursuit of immortal fame: Peer competition and early mortality of music composers|We investigate the impact of peer competition on longevity using a unique historical data set of 144 prominent music composers born in the 19th century. We approximate for peer competition measuring (a) the number or (b) the share of composers located in the same area and time, (c) the time spent in one of the main cities for classical music, and (d) the quality of fellow composers. These measures suggest that composers' longevity is reduced, if they located in agglomerations with a larger group of peers or of a higher quality. The point estimates imply that, all else equal, a one percent increase in the number of composers reduces composer longevity by ∼7.2 weeks. Our analysis showed that the utilized concentration measures are stronger than the personal factors in determining longevity, indicating that individuals' backgrounds have minimal impact on mitigating the effect of experienced peer pressure. The negative externality of peer competition is experienced in all cities, fairly independent of their population size. Our results are reaffirmed using an instrumental variable approach and are consistent throughout a range of robustness tests. In addition to the widely known economic benefits associated with competition, these findings suggest that significant negative welfare externalities exist as well.
N90|Globalization: Countries, Cities and Multinationals|This book presents some of Zoltán J. Ács’ most important contributions since the turn of the the new millennium, with a particular intellectual focus on the knowledge spillover theory of entrepreneurship. This approach was shaped by three major events: the rapid globalization that occurred in the first decade of the 21st century; research on the role institutions have played in economic development during the past few decades; and the spread of entrepreneurial activity around the world following the collapse of communism at the end of the 20th century. This entrepreneurial activity has given rise to many questions of theory, measurement and policy.
N90|Globalization: Countries, Cities and Multinationals| McCann P. and Acs Z. J. Globalization: countries, cities and multinationals, Regional Studies. This paper explores the relationship between the size of a country, the size of its cities, and the importance of economies of scale in the modern era of globalization. In order to do this, it integrates three different literatures, namely the literature on the optimal size of a country, the literature on historical processes of urbanization and the performance of cities, and the literature on the role of multinational firms in the global economy. Using an economic geography perspective, but looking at these issues through the lens of economic history, it is demonstrated that the importance of agglomeration effects, and in particular relationship between city size and the prosperity of the nation-state, has changed over the different eras of globalization. In earlier eras of globalization, the importance of agglomeration was represented by a fairly simple relationship between the scale of the city and the scale of country-empire, whereas during the inter-war years of the twentieth century, this relationship began to change and to evolve into a much more complex set of relationships that are seen today. In the modern era of globalization the role of multinational companies has become critical for the global connectivity of a city-region, and city-regions in turn are seen increasingly to drive national economies. For industrialized countries the size of a city is nowadays much less important than its level of global connectivity, whereas the size of the city is still dominant in newly industrializing countries. As such, the relationships between firms, cities, and countries have in many ways been largely reversed, thereby casting doubt on various institutional economic theories regarding the optimal size of a country. [image omitted] McCann P. et Acs Z. J. La mondialisation: les pays, les grandes villes et les societes multinationales, Regional Studies. Cet article cherche a examiner le rapport entre la superficie d'un pays, la taille de ses grandes villes, et l'importance des economies d'echelle a l'heure de la mondialisation. Pour le faire, on combine trois sources de documentation, a savoir la documentation a propos de la taille optimale d'un pays, la documentation sur les processus historiques de l'urbanisation et la performance des grandes villes, et la documentation au sujet du role des societes multinationales dans l'economie mondiale. A partir de la geographie economique, et en examinant ces questions sous l'optique de l'histoire economique aussi, on demontre que l'importance des effets d'agglomeration, et notamment le rapport entre la taille des grandes villes et la richesse de l'Etat-nation, a change sur le temps au fur et a mesure de la mondialisation. Aux premieres phases de la mondialisation, l'importance de l'agglomeration a ete representee par un rapport relativement simple entre l'envergure des grandes villes et celle de l'Empire-nation, tandis que, pendant l'entre-deux-guerres du vingtieme siecle, ce rapport a commence a changer et a evoluer vers un ensemble beaucoup plus complexe de rapports qui persistent aujourd'hui. A l'etape actuelle de la mondialisation, le role des societes multinationales est devenu decisif pour ce qui est de la connectivite mondiale d'une region-cite, et, a leur tour, les regions-cites sont considerees de plus en plus les forces motrices des economies nationales. Pour les pays industrialises, la taille des grandes villes est de nos jours beaucoup moins importante que ne l'est son niveau de connectivite mondiale, alors que la taille des grandes villes predomine dans les pays en voie d'industrialisation. Par la suite, les rapports entre les entreprises, les grandes villes et les pays ont ete dans une large mesure inverses, mettant ainsi en doute diverses theories economiques recues quant a la superficie optimale d'un pays. Echelle Grandes villes Pays Societes multinationals Mondialisation McCann P. und Acs Z. J. Globalisierung: Lander, Stadte und multinationale Firmen, Regional Studies. In diesem Beitrag wird das Verhaltnis zwischen der Grosse eines Landes, der Grosse der Stadte dieses Landes und der Bedeutung der Rationalisierungseffekte im modernen Zeitalter der Globalisierung untersucht. Hierfur werden drei verschiedene Literaturen miteinander komsbiniert: die Literatur uber die optimale Grosse eines Landes, die Literatur uber die geschichtlichen Prozesse der Urbanisierung und Leistungsfahigkeit von Stadten sowie die Literatur uber die Rolle von multinationalen Firmen in der Weltwirtschaft. Anhand einer wirtschaftlichen Geografieperspektive, doch bei gleichzeitiger Betrachtung durch das Objektiv der Wirtschaftsgeschichte, wird nachgewiesen, dass sich die Bedeutung von Agglomerationseffekten und insbesondere der Beziehung zwischen der Stadtgrosse und dem Wohlstand des Nationalstaats in den verschiedenen Zeitaltern der Globalisierung geandert hat. In fruheren Zeitaltern der Globalisierung zeigte sich die Bedeutung der Agglomeration in einer relativ einfachen Beziehung zwischen der Grosse der Stadt und der Grosse des Landesreichs. Diese Beziehung anderte sich im 20. Jahrhundert in den Jahren zwischen den Weltkriegen allmahlich und entwickelte sich zu einem weitaus komplexeren Geflecht aus Beziehungen, wie wir es heute sehen. Im modernen Zeitalter der Globalisierung ist die Rolle der multinationalen Unternehmen fur die weltweite Anbindung einer Stadtregion unverzichtbar geworden, wahrend die Stadtregionen zunehmend als Antriebskrafte fur die nationalen Okonomien gelten. Fur industrialisierte Lander ist die Grosse einer Stadt heutzutage deutlich weniger wichtig als das Ausmass ihrer weltweiten Anbindung, wahrend in sich neu industrialisierenden Landern die Grosse einer Stadt weiterhin eine dominierende Rolle spielt. Daher haben sich die Beziehungen zwischen Firmen, Stadten und Landern in vielerlei Hinsicht grosstenteils umgekehrt, was Zweifel an den verschiedenen institutionellen Wirtschaftstheorien uber die optimale Grosse eines Landes aufkommen lasst. Massstab Stadte Lander Multinationale Firmen Globalisierung McCann P. y Acs Z. J. Globalizacion: paises, ciudades y multinacionales, Regional Studies. En este articulo analizamos la relacion entre el tamano de un pais, el tamano de sus ciudades y la importancia de las economias de escala en la moderna era de la globalizacion. Para ello, combinamos tres literaturas diferentes: la literatura sobre el tamano optimo de un pais, la literatura sobre los procesos historicos de urbanizacion y el desempeno de las ciudades y la literatura sobre el papel de las empresas multinacionales en la economia internacional. A partir de una perspectiva geografica economica y a la vez analizando estas cuestiones por el tamiz de la historia economica, demostramos que la importancia de los efectos de aglomeracion y en particular la relacion entre el tamano de las ciudades y la prosperidad del estado nacional, ha cambiado en las diferentes eras de la globalizacion. En periodos anteriores de la globalizacion, la importancia de la aglomeracion estaba representada mediante una relacion bastante sencilla entre la escala de la ciudad y la escala del pais-imperio, mientras que durante el periodo de entreguerras del siglo XX, esta relacion empezo a cambiar y convertirse en una serie de relaciones mucho mas complejas, tales como las conocemos hoy dia. En la era modera de la globalizacion, el papel de las sociedades multinacionales ha sido cada vez mas importante para la conectividad global de una region metropolitana mientras que se cree que las regiones metropolitanas impulsan cada vez mas las economias nacionales. Para los paises industrializados, el tamano de una ciudad es hoy dia mucho menos importante que su nivel de conectividad global mientras que el tamano de la ciudad todavia desempena un papel importante en los paises recien industrializados. De tal modo que las relaciones entre empresas, ciudades y paises se ha invertido en gran medida cuestionando las diferentes teorias economicas institucionales con respecto al tamano optimo de un pais. Escala Ciudades Paises Sociedades multinacionales Globalizacion
N90|The Mortality Transition, Malthusian Dynamics, and the Rise of Poor Mega-Cities|The largest cities in the world today lie mainly in relatively poor countries, which is a departure from historical experience, when the largest cities were typically found in the richest places. Using new data on the demographic history of the 100 largest mega-cities of today, we establish several new stylized facts distinguishing poor mega-cities from historically rich mega-cities. To account for these facts we develop a model that combines Malthusian models of endogenous population growth with urban models of agglomeration and congestion, and it shows that the absolute growth of the urban population determines whether a city becomes a poor or rich mega-city. We posit that poor mega-cities arose in part because the post-war mortality transition raised their absolute growth above a crucial threshold. Poor mega-cities continue to grow in size but not in living standards because their poverty keeps population growth high. By expanding prior to the mortality transition, historical mega-cities experienced smaller absolute growth that allowed them to sustain wage growth and kept population growth relatively low.
N90|Something New: Where do new industries come from?|The focus of this paper is on the question of how new industries originate in places. There is often confusion between the process of diffusion and the locational factors that give rise to early stage creative discovery. There is a long and distinguished literature that considers the diffusion of ideas. Diffusion is important as it influences the general uptake and implementation of ideas across geography but it is a different process than our focus here. We advance the argument that the creation of new industries is a process that has inherently geographic features. Something new is created out of prior knowledge but a more complex process is required to develop an industry and reap the economic benefits.
N90|Commercial and Economic Aspects of Antarctic Exploration From the Earliest Discoveries into the 19th Century|Antarctic exploration always had strong scientific as well as political motives. This paper argues that commercial motivations more often than not, also were an interwoven part of the rationale of the expeditions. The paper analyses the commercial and economic motivation in early Antarctic exploration, by the explorers themselves as well as their sponsors (governments, private businessmen, scientific communities). It reviews the earliest expeditions that searched for the still unknown continent that was hoped to advance commerce and trade. The eventual discoveries did not reveal a prosperous continent in a traditional sense. The exploitable resources – seals and whales were instead found in the ocean, at the islands and around the continent. The paper reviews the earliest discoveries and plans to exploit those resources, and the origins of what was to become the first industries of the Antarctic region. The paper deals primarily with the period before the ‘Heroic Age’ when the focus of the explorers became the penetration of the Antarctic continent itself.
N90|The Economic Legacy of Warfare: Evidence from European Regions|Historical warfare in Europe inflicted numerous costs on rural populations. To reduce such costs, rural populations relocated behind the relative safety of urban fortifications. We argue that war-related urbanization had positive consequences for long-run regional economic development. We geocode the locations of more than 600 conflicts in early modern Europe. We find a positive and significant relationship between historical conflict exposure and regional economic development today. Our results are robust to a wide range of econometric techniques, alternative samples, and economic outcomes. Human capital accumulation stands out as one channel through which war-related urbanization translated into regional economic development. Our results highlight the military origins of European wealthy urban belt.
N90|Passive modernization? The new human development index and its components in Italy's regions (1871–2007)|"The article presents and discusses estimates of social and economic indicators for Italy and its regions in benchmark years roughly from Unification to the present day: life expectancy, education, gross domestic product (GDP) per capita at purchasing power parity, and the new Human Development Index (HDI). A broad interpretative hypothesis, based on the distinction between ""active"" and ""passive"" modernization, is proposed to account for the evolution of regional imbalances. In the lack of active modernization, Southern Italy converged thanks to passive modernization. However, this was more effective in life expectancy, less successful in education, expensive, and as a whole ineffective in GDP. As a consequence, convergence in the HDI occurred from the late nineteenth century to the 1970s, but came to a sudden halt in the last decades of the twentieth century."
N90|Rethinking the industrial district: 35 years later|The year 2014 marked a double anniversary: the 35th and 25th anniversaries of the publication of two seminal papers of Giacomo Becattini on the industrial district. The first paper (Becattini, 1979) conceptualizes the industrial district as a «unit of investigation», while the second (Becattini, 1989) conceptualizes the industrial district as a «model of production». Between the two papers there is a mutual dependence. The industrial district as a «model of production» deprived of the industrial district as a «unit of investigation» loses its originality as a way of interpreting economic change and becomes merely «one type of a cluster». This paper deals with the relationship between district and cluster, then also between the industrial district as a singular theoretical construct and the many industrial districts described by empirical investigations, and concludes with some remarks on the topicality of the industrial district.
N90|History of Relations Between Turkey and the European Union|"Turkey is the only pluralist secular democracy in the Moslem world and has always attached great importance to developing its relations with other European countries. Historically, Turkish culture has had a profound impact over much of Eastern and Southern Europe. Turkey began ""westernising"" its economic, political and social structures in the 19th century. Following the First World War and the proclamation of the Republic in 1923, it chose Western Europe as the model for its new secular structure. Turkey has ever since closely aligned itself with the West and has become a founding member of the United Nations, a member of NATO, the Council of Europe, the OECD and an associate member of the Western European Union. During the Cold War Turkey was part of the Western alliance, defending freedom, democracy and human rights. In this respect, Turkey has played and continues to play a vital role in the defence of the European continent and the principal elements of its foreign policy have converged with those of its European partners. Having thus entered into very close cooperation with Western Europe in the political field, it was therefore only natural for Turkey to complete this in the economic area. Thus, Turkey chose to begin close cooperation with the fledgling EEC in 1959."
N90|The formal-informal economy dualism in a retrospective of economic thought since the 1940s|Central to the scientific debate about the 'informal sector' and the validity of the concept used to be a twofold challenge. The crux laid not only in the objective to explain the widely visible persistence of the informal economy in developing countries, but also in the identification of its roots and the proliferation conditions to be met ex ante. The present paper aims at establishing a link between the theories on informality and marginalization which is another important issue that has arisen within the discussions on the causes of persistent poverty a few years ago. Both concepts are interlinked and self-enforcing. On the macroeconomic level, any economy - be it formal or informal - consists of a set of different economic sectors and any of these sectors basically consists of an accumulation of people on the microeconomic level. Every time one looks at the macro level where political and economic conditions frame the dynamics of the formal and the informal economy, one has at the same time to look at the micro-level where the social and economic conditions determine the incentives for every actor to participate either in the formal, the informal or in both economies. Informality has multiple sources depending on whether the agent took a voluntary choice or had to involuntary opt-out from an institutional system. In this paper, the connection between informality and involuntary exclusion shall be examined in a retrospective of economic thought since the 1940s. The roots of the intertwined concepts of informality and economic exclusion have been laid in the dual economy theories of the 1940s-1950s. Recapitulating the works of Julius BOEKE, Arthur LEWIS, John HARRIS & Michael TODARO, Albert HIRSCHMAN and other socio-economists of that time, it will be argued that one of the necessary reasons for the persistence of the informal economy in developing countries is the dualism in institutional frameworks that leads to the marginalization of social groups and their subsequent exclusion from formal economic activities. By referring to the groundbreaking Africa studies of Keith HART (1971) and the INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (1972), special emphasis will be given to the causal reciprocity between informality, marginalization and economic exclusion. The paper closes with a brief overview of current schools of thought that deal very differently with the issue of informality and economic exclusion.
N90|The IOC's Midas Touch: Summer Olympics and City Growth|Hosting a mega-event is a costly activity of short duration. Still, cities frequently compete to become host of all types of events. This paper examines the effect of staging the largest and most important sporting event in the world, the Summer Olympic Games, on the host city. Applying a difference-in-differences methodology, we analyze the rates of population growth of Olympic cities, candidate cities and other large cities in host and candidate countries over the period from 1860 to 2010. We find that, following the Games, host cities experience a measurable decline in population growth relative to cities in the control group. Our results indicate that being awarded the Summer Olympics has, on average, a negative impact on cities.
N90|Social capital, economics and political economy|"The volume collects the essays presented at the conference ""Social capital, economics and political economy"" held in Rome on 27 June 2014. The first session analyzes definition and measurement issues about social capital. The second and third sessions examine its determinants and economic effects, respectively. The fourth session is devoted to the relationship between social capital and the public sector while the last session concentrates on the role of social capital in credit markets."
N90|The Francophone Area In The Context Of Globalization|In this work there is underlined how the Francophone area has developed from historical and political points of view, with an economic and geographic extension at the global level. Its economical growth was imposed by local and global politics, as well as a general economic evolution in terms of progress or gaps. The francophone area has influenced the global society in many ways and directly contributed to 'the phenomenon of Europeanizing' consolidation.
N90|The Evolution Of The Concept Of Poverty: A Diachronic Analysis|Anyone who has studied poverty cannot help but be struck by the importance of family and community as enduring resources for those in need. Poverty is a perennial problem in world history, but over time its causes have shifted from local issues like natural disasters or warfare to more global economic issues which impact on available resources, systems of distribution and potential solutions. This paper focuses upon the period from around 1500 onward when poverty became a global issue, and uses the process of globalization as the chief lens through which to study and understand poverty in world history. The result is an examination of changing attitudes toward poverty and poor relief throughout centuries.
N90|State Formation And Frontier Society: An Empirical Examination|"How is state capacity consolidated? While there is a growing literature on state formation and the long-term rise of state capacity, this literature typically deals with differences between countries, neglecting the fact that state formation also occurs differentially within a country over time. This article examines legacies of state formation spatially, by looking at variation within ""frontier"" states - countries which in recent centuries have extended rule over new territories adjacent to their core regions. Frontier zones within such countries are found to have ongoing lower levels of public order and deficient public goods provision. Several theories are examined to explain this discrepancy, including internal resettlement, costs of monitoring and enforcement, and the relationship between settlers and the indigenous population. It is argued that the formation of strong social institutions among settlers leads to resistance to attempts to impose governance over frontier regions, and to `select for' lower fiscal capacity and lower provision of public goods."
N90|The Role of Historical Resource Constraints in Modern Gender Inequality: A Cross-Country Analysis|We posit that historical resource scarcities played a role in the emergence of gender norms inimical to women that persist to this day. This thesis is supported by our finding that nations’ historical resource endowments, as measured by the historical availability of arable land, are statistically significantly negatively related to their present levels of gender inequality, as gauged by the United Nations Development Programme’s Gender Inequality Index.
N90|Understanding the culture of markets: A reflection|This essay examines Virgil Storr’s ( 2013 ) Understanding the Culture of Markets, particularly the relationship between cultures and constitutions and the particulars of the ideal-typical ‘spirit’ of capitalism. Culture cannot be viewed as a constitution, I argue, because of fundamental differences between the two types of guidance to conduct, both for the actors within them and the researchers studying them. I also consider possibly conflicting interpretations of the idea of the animating spirit(s) of a market in the context of Storr’s example of the economic culture of the Bahamas. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
N90|Development Strategies of Old Industrial Cities|The situation in old industrial cities all over the world is very different. Nevertheless, each city goes through a crisis. The article deals with the strategies of the cities that weathered the most severe crisis. Case-study approach helps to analyze both the principles of successes strategies and the reasons of failure. The author makes a conclusion that the main factor of successful development of Russian old industrial cities is the recognition of crisis tendencies and the need to change approaches of strategic decision making at an early stage.
N90|Urbanization in Southeast Asia during the World War II Japanese Occupation and Its Aftermath|This working paper analyzes demographic change in Southeast Asia's main cities during and soon after the World War II Japanese occupation. We argue that two main patterns of population movements are evident. In food-deficient areas, a search for food security typically led to large net inflows to main urban centres. By contrast, an urban exodus dominated in food surplus regions because the chief risk was to personal safety, especially from Japanese and Allied bombing. Black markets were ubiquitous, and essential to sustaining livelihoods in cities with food-deficit hinterlands. In Rangoon and Manila, wartime population fluctuations were enormous. Famines in Java and northern Indochina severely impacted Jakarta and Hanoi through inflows of people from rural areas. In most countries, the war's aftermath of refugees, revolution and political disruption generated major rural-urban population relocations. Turmoil in the 1940s had the permanent consequences of augmenting the primacy of Southeast Asia's main cities and promoting squatter settlement.
N90|Urban Sprawl|Prior to the 19th and 20th centuries, the idea and/or concept of urban sprawl had not existed. The term urban sprawl was generated around the second half of the 20th century due to the accelerated growth of suburban areas. Although loosely defined; by general definition urban sprawl is known as ?The unplanned, uncontrolled spreading of urban development into areas adjoining the edge of a city? Still, urban sprawl has become a controversial issue raising numerous concerns due to the negative impacts it creates on a person?s health, the environment, wildlife habitat, and racial and economic disparity among several other issues. Nonetheless, because all cities are unique in design and services, each will have to establish policies and procedures regarding sprawl that fit their specific needs. Civilizing our current development tools and strategies is essential to achieving successful end results.
N90|The access to corporative craftsmanship in eighteenth-century Madrid: an analysis of guild master diplomas|Este artículo se enmarca dentro de la profunda revisión del papel de los gremios que está teniendo lugar en Europa desde hace al menos 2 décadas. La realidad corporativa era diversa, de modo que el vaciado de 3.343 cartas de examen de oficiales que pasaron a ser maestros en el Madrid del siglo XVIII permite sostener que no hubo un solo camino hacia la maestría y que el grueso de la mano de obra cualificada de la ciudad ni procedía de esta ni sus padres pertenecían a las corporaciones a las que accedían sus hijos. En Madrid, la reproducción de los gremios estuvo muy vinculada con los requerimientos políticos, lo que no impidió que las corporaciones organizasen sus propios mercados de trabajo cualificado. Estos datos cuestionan la explicación canónica que sitúa la endogamia corporativa como la causa principal de la crisis del sistema gremial. KEY Classification-JEL: N33. N63. N90. N93.
N90|Urbanization and Mortality Decline|We investigate the relationship between mortality decline and urbanization, which has hitherto been proposed by demographers but has yet to be tested. Using pooled-OLS, fixed effects first differences and long differences we find evidence for a robust negative correlation between crude death rates and urbanization. The use of Granger causality tests and instrumental variables suggest that this relationship is causal. Our preliminary results suggest that mortality decline causes urbanization through the creation of new cities rather than promoting urban growth in already-extant cities.
N90|Traite négrière transatlantique : comment a été pérennisée la production du bien esclave?|Cet article montre que contrairement à ce que pouvaient laisser croire une littérature historique classique et une opinion largement répandue, la traite négrière transatlantique (TNTA) ne s’était pas développée à partir d’un esclavage interne africain préalable ou à partir de la traite musulmane qui l’avait précédée mais qu’il possédait des mécanismes vitaux propres. L’article met en évidence ces mécanismes vitaux propres et montre comment la dynamique économique qui en a résulté a assuré la pérennisation de la TNTA. Mots clés : Traite négrière, transatlantique, captif, esclave, production, dynamique, pérennisation. JEL classification : N000, N90, N97
N90|Ulaþtýrma Altyapýsý ve Bölgesel Gelir Farklýlýklarý: Türkiye için Ampirik Bir Analiz|Bu çalýþmada ulaþtýrma altyapýsýnýn Türkiye’deki bölgesel gelir farklýlýklarý üzerindeki etkisi araþtýrýlmýþtýr. Çalýþmada, 26 bölgenin 2006-2008 dönemi verileri kullanýlarak yatay-kesit regresyon analizleri yapýlmýþtýr. Çalýþmanýn sonucu ulaþtýrma altyapýsýnýn bölgesel gelir düzeyi üzerinde pozitif bir etkisi olduðunu göstermektedir. Regresyon analizlerinin sonuçlarýna göre, ulaþtýrma altyapýsýndaki %1’lik geliþme, bölgesel kiþi baþýna gelir düzeyini %0.29-0.34 arasýnda arttýrmaktadýr. Bu da ulaþtýrma altyapýsýnýn Türkiye’deki bölgesel gelir farklýlýklarý üzerinde önemli bir rol oynadýðýný göstermektedir.
N90|Institutions, social capability, and economic growth|I discuss correlations between the historical growth of social capabilities and patterns of economic growth across world regions since the industrial revolution and especially in recent decades. Based on this analysis, I argue that the apparent relationship between institutions and economic growth results in part because better institutional performance goes hand in hand with more advanced social capabilities.
N90|Geographic clustering and productivity: An instrumental variable approach for classical composers|It is difficult to estimate the impact of geographic clustering on productivity because of endogeneity issues. I use birthplace–cluster distance as an instrumental variable for the incidence of clustering of prominent classical composers born between 1750 and 1899. I find that geographic clustering causally impacts productivity: composers were writing around one additional influential work every 3 years they spent in a cluster. The best composers and those who migrated to Paris appear to be the greatest beneficiaries of clustering. Placebo tests disclose that the effects are attributable to locating in contemporaneous cluster cities, as opposed to historical cluster locations or large cities in general.
N90|Democracy and economic outcomes: Evidence from the superstars of modern art|This paper analyses the impact of the political environment on the value of artistic outcomes as measured by the price of paintings produced over the period from 1820 to 2007. The analysis is based on a unique dataset encompassing a global sample of 273 superstars of modern art born between 1800 and 1945, auction results of their paintings, and data on the political environment in the respective production countries. Controlling for a variety of economic and hedonic variables, there is a statistically significant, positive link between the level of democracy and the value of artistic output. Moreover, we find that democracy has a significant positive impact both on the density of superstar painters and the collective artistic human capital in a country.
N90|Military conflict and the economic rise of urban Europe|"""We present new city-level evidence about the military origins of Europe’s economic “backbone,” the prosperous urban belt that runs from the Low Countries to northern Italy. Military conflict was a defining feature of pre-industrial Europe. The destructive effects of warfare were worse in the countryside, leading rural inhabitants under the threat of con- flict to relocate behind urban fortifications. Conflict-related city population growth in turn had long-run economic consequences. Using GIS software, we construct a novel conflict exposure measure that computes city distances from 231 major conflicts from 1300 to 1799. We find a significant, positive, and robust relationship between conflict exposure and his- torical city population growth. Next, we use luminosity data to construct a novel measure of current city-level economic activity. We show evidence that the economic legacy of historical conflict exposure endures to the present day."""
N90|Is Growth of Large Cities Linked to Economic and Institutional Weaknesses?|"We progress from the initial idea of there being urbanization processes of different quality, and analyze the growth of world cities over the period 1960-2000, attempting to find the factors behind the growth of ""big"" cities (Mega, Big and Midsize cities, in the UN classification). We use a new dataset with demographic, economic, institutional and geographic variables regarding almost 2,000 cities in 135 countries. The methodological approach is based on OLS cross-country analyses, and controls for collinearity. Results indicate that growth in very large agglomerations is linked to indicators of economic and institutional backwardness. Problems of reverse causality, that is, the effects of big urban agglomerations on long term economic growth, is not within the scope of our research. This question needs further research. ."
N90|Internal Empires I: Social Institutions of the Frontier|One of the attributes most consistently highlighted in the literature on frontier society is the tendency to spontaneous social organisation. However, despite the resilience of the ‘frontier thesis’ within sociology and political science, it has not been subject to a rigorous empirical examination. Does it constitute a description of the social norms and institution of the western United States, or is it one manifestation of a more general ‘frontier phenomenon’, found in other times and places? In order to answer these questions, this article examines data on the nature of social relations in frontier zones in four countries: Brazil, Russia, Canada and the United States. Taking a wide range of survey items, we find that higher levels of voluntary activity, social trust, tolerance of outgroups, and civic protest are distinctive features of frontier life, and not simply a feature of the American historical experience.
N90|World-System Analysis as a Basis of a Textbook on Economic History|"(On the book by G. D. Gloveli ""Economic History: Textbook for B.A. Students. Advanced Course "") The article deals with the problem of the world-system analysis as a methodological basis for writing a textbook on world economic history for universities. An attempt is made to formulate what a textbook on such a basis should be. Strong and weak points of this scientific approach are distinguished. A conclusion is made that the author of the textbook under study has successfully achieved the goal — to present a panorama of economic history from the ancient times to the early twenty-first century consistently using the world-system paradigm."
N90|Vâlcan Gorge - A Bridge Between the Carpathian Provinces|Situated in the Southern Carpathians of Romania, Vâlcan Gorge was, from the Antiquity to the end of the XIX-th century, the main connection between southern Transylvania/Haţeg County and northern Oltenia/Gorj area. Under the circumstances, the area situated at the source of the Jiu Rivers, generically named the Jiu Valley and crossed by the road coming from Crivadia and going up in Vâlcan Gorge, sometimes benefited from being a transit area for those who traveled from one side of the Southern Carpathians to the other, but it was also always in the way of invasions that lasted up to the beginning of the modern age. Today, this road seems to regain the attention of local authorities as a possible touristic route, losing its initial role at the end of the XIX-th century when, on September 4, 1894, the present road through Jiu Gorge was inaugurated.
N90|Hispaniola and its Economic Divergence|Haiti and the Dominican Republic, which are respectively on the left and right side of the island of Hispaniola, represent an interesting case of economic divergence: whereas in colonial times Haiti was richer than the current Dominican Republic, it is now one of the poorest countries in the Northern hemisphere, while the Dominican Republic is a developing country with a relatively good income per capita.We analyze possible institutional causes of this divergence, focusing on the effects of the different percentage of European colonizers on the island in the 17th century, the allocation of land in the 19th century, and the role of the US.
N90|Does travel inspire? Evidence from the superstars of modern art|This paper investigates whether travel increases the value of paintings produced by modern visual artists. The analysis is based on the 214 most prominent modern visual artists born between 1850 and 1945 and auction records of their paintings over the past 20 years. We find that artworks produced in the year of a journey are 7% more valuable than paintings produced in periods with no travel. We attribute this effect to human capital investments, knowledge spillovers and inspiration from the travel destination itself. There are persistent, but declining benefits to travel over the subsequent 4 years. The analysis shows that the impact of travel is smaller for later periods as modern art becomes more abstract. The effect on the value of paintings differs depending on the purpose of a journey: work-related, recreational and politically motivated journeys have a positive contemporaneous effect on value, whereas educational journeys have a negative effect. In addition, we find that France, Germany and the United States are the most frequently visited destinations for modern artists and also yield considerable benefits during times of strong innovation. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
N90|From Baghdad to London: Unraveling Urban Development in Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa, 800–1800| This paper empirically investigates why, between 800 and 1800, the urban center of gravity moved from the Islamic world to Europe. Using a large new city-specific data set covering Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa, we unravel the role of geography and institutions in determining long-run city development in the two regions. We find that the main reasons for the Islamic world's stagnation and Europe's long-term success are specific to each region: any significant positive interaction between cities in the two regions hampered by their different main religious orientation. Together, the long-term consequences of a different choice of main transport mode (camel versus ship) and the development of forms of local participative government in Europe that made cities less dependent on the state explain why Europe's urban development eventually outpaced that in the Islamic world. © 2013 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N90|Testing for common cycles in non-stationary VARs with varied frecquency data|This paper proposes a new way for detecting the presence of common cyclical featureswhen several time series are observed/sampled at different frequencies, hence generalizingthe common-frequency approach introduced by Engle and Kozicki 1993 and Vahid andEngle 1993. We start with the mixed-frequency VAR representation investigated in Ghysels2012 for stationary time series. For non-stationary time series in levels, we showthat one has to account for the presence of two sets of long-run relationships. The First setis implied by identities stemming from the fact that the differences of the high-frequencyI1 regressors are stationary. The second set comes from possible additional long-run relationshipsbetween one of the high-frequency series and the low-frequency variables. Ourtransformed VECM representations extend the results of Ghysels 2012 and are very importantfor determining the correct set of variables to be used in a subsequent commoncycle investigation. This has some empirical implications both for the behavior of the teststatistics as well as for forecasting. Empirical analyses with the quarterly real GNP andmonthly industrial production indices for, respectively, the U.S. and Germany illustrate ournew approach. This is also investigated in a Monte Carlo study, where we compare our proposedmixed-frequency models with models stemming from classical temporal aggregationmethods.
N90|Historical Patterns Based on Automatically Extracted Data : The Case of Classical Composers|The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the potential for generating interesting aggregate data on certain aspect of the lives of thousands of composers, and indeed other creative groups, from large on-line dictionaries and to be able to do so relatively quickly. A purpose-built java application that automatically extracts and processes information was developed to generate data on the birth location, occupations and importance (using word count methods) of over 12,000 composers over six centuries. Quantitative measures of the relative importance of different types of music and of the different music instruments over the centuries were also generated. Finally quantitative indicators of the importance of different cities over the different centuries in the lives of these composers are constructed. A range of interesting findings emerge in relation to all of these aspects of the lives of composers, which might provide insight and productive lines of enquiry for further work as to why certain composers were so successful in different historical periods.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N90|A horvát-magyar határ menti együttműködés főbb aspektusai és leképeződései Barcs és Zala megye példáján|A trianoni béke diktátumig déli szomszédunkat és hazánkat csak egy közigazgatási határ választotta el egymástól. A két világháború között az átjárhatóság és a gazdasági kooperáció akadálytalan működött. Gyakori volt, hogy a szomszédos államban jelentős határ menti földbirtokkal rendelkeztek a másik fél állampolgárai. Ez jelentősen megváltozott az államszocializmus idején. Az ötvenes évek ellenséges viszonyát, a hatvanas évektől – elsősorban a mezőgazdaságban és a kereskedelemben megnyilvánuló – kooperáció váltotta fel. A rendszerváltozás utáni polgárháborús időszak rövid időre megállította a kedvező tendenciákat. Csak az ezredforduló után, az EU-hoz való közeledésünkkel, majd a magyar csatlakozással kapott a kooperáció újabb lendület. A tanulmányban két esettanulmány, Barcs és a horvát-magyar-szlovén hármas határ alapján szeretnénk bemutatni a határ mente sajátosságait és jövőbeli fejlődési lehetőségeit. Ez utóbbiak megvalósulásához szükséges Horvátország EU csatlakozása és a schengeni övezetbe való belépése.
N90|Corporations, Entrepreneurs And Urban Development|The state, local administration, corporations (private/ joint ventures/ multinational corporations), banks and syndicates represent the most important actors in urban management. Following the financial crisis, governments seek to attract and maintain high-growth firms that will fuel job growth after the recession. Still a lot of governments have failed in their roles to assure a sustainable level of foreign direct investments, to boost venture capital and entrepreneurship. The main reasons for this failure are the poor expertise and lack of understanding for the financing process, the incapacity or unwillingness to assure a competitive economic environment for entrepreneurs and the lack of interest to create attractive conditions for foreign investors. An important key to success is also the legal framework and the institutional process, which creates the reputation of a market in terms of transparency of information and flexibility for business development. In this paper I investigated the importance of corporations, entrepreneurs and legal framework in order to create urban growth. I also analyzed the case of Dacia Pitesti plant and the positive effects that the automotive activity has for the Romanian economy, local employment, staff skills and technical competences development, local suppliers and entrepreneur’s growth.
N90|Rust Belt Politics: The national NAFTA debate during recent US presidential election cycles|The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) once again became a newsworthy topic in the US media, this time during the contested Spring 2008 Democratic primary for the US presidency, particularly from campaign talking-points originating within Midwestern Rust-Belt states. Although the merits of NAFTA were central to the dialogue during this campaign season, similar debate did not warrant deliberation during the time of the general election in the Fall of 2008. An examination of media coverage dedicated to NAFTA in the lead-up to the past three American general elections confirmed these tendencies. Even though the Rust Belt, which is considered the key political toss-up region in the for the US presidency, has the most at stake concerning NAFTA’s effects, it remains to be seen if the trade pact will elicit debate from the presidential candidates during the Fall election in 2012.
N90|Market, civic virtues, and civic bargaining in the medieval and early modern age: some evidence from sixteenth century Italy|In the last decades, historians have shown that the modern market is rooted in the institutional system created in European towns since the middle ages. This approach leads us beyond the usual opposition between market and society or between public and private market. Indeed, in the medieval and early modern age, the market was part of a wider institutional design of civil life, which had a basic conceptual frame of reference in the notion of the common good, a feature typical of such organicistic and hierarchical societies. This paper explores the process of market construction in the medieval and early modern age. I firstly analysed the role of the market in these societies and then focused on the case of foodstuff provision: a key element of the non-written, ancient pact between rulers and people, based on the assurance of subsistence. As a basis for the study, I employed sixteenth century documents regarding Vicenza, a medium-sized town in the Republic of Venice. These show very clearly that, in general, market and price regulation was not the result of arbitrary interventions by public authorities; on the contrary, it was the result of a process of negotiation, which I call civic bargaining. This process involved—to various degrees—public authorities, landowners, merchants and guilds, and the town’s people, the pursuit of the common good being, in practice, a matter of balancing various needs and interests. Present-day economic and social public policies are, in many aspects, an inheritance of the institutional system created in the medieval and early modern age: knowledge of these origins is useful in the present debate regarding economic versus social development, as discussed at the end of the paper. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2012
N90|Precios y salarios en Madrid, 1680-1800|The essential aim of this article is to analyze the evolution of prices and real wages in Madrid between 1680 and 1800. The basic source for this research consists of the account books from different charity institutions. The main conclusions are: 1) after 1690, the cost of living in Madrid and in most European cities evolved in a similar way; 2) year on year price fluctuations were less steep in Madrid than in Palencia, Seville and Toledo; 3) in the second half of the 18th century, Madrid was one of Europe's cities where wages of unskilled workers fell more abruptly; 4) during the 18th century, skill premium remained in high levels in construction and increased notably in the services sector; and, 5) the wage gap between men and women decreased during the century owing, probably, to the relative increment in demand for female labour in the important sector of Madrid's domestic services. KEY Classification-JEL: N33, N63, N90, N93
N90|Development Strategy of Old Industrial Cities: International Experience and Prospects in Russia|Present research deals with socio-economic development of old industrial cities in postindustrial era. The authors analyze both theoretical ideas of urban development and specific examples of economic transformation in old industrial cities in Western countries (USA, France, Italy, Germany and Great Britain). In each case the authors investigate stages of urban industrial development, causes and evolution of the industrial model crisis, successful and unsuccessful strategies of overcoming the crisis. A number of conclusions based on the analysis and which are important from the point of view of old industrial cities’ strategy and urban development on the whole were made.
N90|Conturarea identitatii europene prin prisma raportului dintre Turcia si Uniunea Europeana - Shaping the European Identity Through the Relationship Between Turkey and the European Union (Romanian version)|Through this article we want to follow the path of the studies to date on cultural and political dimension of European Identity, focusing on the role of otherness in shaping it. To this end is brought into question the relationship between the European Union and Turkey, as an aspirant to membership of the Community, highlighting the fact that the way the case of the Turkish state is managed reflects what we are or want to be as a United Europe. Thus, if in studies conducted on the topic of how people of Europe define their collective identity, Turkey is used for comparison, the research that we propose focuses on the perception of young Turkish on European values and institutions, to capture the degree of their affiliation to them. It has been elected the social category of youth, with and without higher education, aged between 18 and 24 years, as it constitutes the main target of Europeanisation policies undertaken by European leaders.
N90|EU Africa Joint Action Plan 2011-2013. A Win-Win game? (English version)|This paper examines the EU-Africa Joint Action Plan 2011-2013 and discusses its potential to be a win-win game. Should it prove to be functional, the Joint Action Plan will be a step forward towards other kind of alliances for security (not necessarily military alliances) made to assure the security for both the EU and Africa. After a discussion of the necessity of this Plan, it is analyzed on what the EU-Africa partnership is based. In the third part, it will analyze the areas in which the Joint Action Plan will function. Finally, the author will analyze if the Plan is feasible, referring here to issues of human security, security challenges, the conflicts, the political instability and other challenges confronted by the African states.
N90|Absorption of European Funds Priority Objective for Local Communities Development (English version)|This paper analyzes the absorption capacity of structural funds in Romania in the programming period 2007-2013 and its impact on the development of local communities from the administrative point of view. The paper also focuses on the need to invest in institutional capacity and efficiency of public administrations using the Operational Programme for Administrative Capacity Development 2007-2013 which is a part of ESF funds that have as general objective to contribute to the creation of a more efficient and effective public administration for the socioeconomic benefit of local communities. Finally, the study reveals the problems and challenges related to local administration and its limited capacity to absorb european funds wich is a sensitive issue, especially because 2011 represents the fifth year of EU assistance for Romania to reach the stage of development of other member states.
N90|Why Geographic Factors are Necessary in Development Studies|This paper proposes that the resurgence of geographic factors in the study of uneven development is not due simply to the recurrent nature of intellectual fashions, nor necessarily because arguments that rely on geographic factors are less simplistic than before, nor because they avoid racialist, imperialistic, and deterministic forms they sometimes took in the past. Rather, this paper argues that geographic factors have been turned to once again because they are an indispensable part of explanation, playing a special role that has not been properly understood, a role especially crucial for the explanation of the inherently spatial questions that development studies seek to address. The paper is made up of two sections and an appendix. The first section discusses why geographic factors are necessary for explanations of uneven development with a brief example from the ‘institutions versus geography’ debate. The second section discusses why the reflexive rejection by social scientists of geographic and environmental factors is misguided, with a separate note on geography and geographers. The ideas in this paper were in part arrived at inductively while surveying instances where social scientists in some way attempt to account for real-world locations/distributions of social phenomena (as opposed to discussing a social theory or process aspatially or with its distribution taken as a starting point). A number of these are included with discussion as an appendix.
N90|Alfred Marshall in Spain: from his omission until his refund by territorial industrial policy|In Spanish literature on regional economic analysis, is quoted with some profusion the work of Alfred Marshall. In this paper analyzes the reasons that his work was known with some delay in Spain and why are the issues related to territorial policy —especially topics related to industrial districts and regional clusters— those with a greater focus has been extended.
N90|Foreigns In “Terra Di Lavoro” During The Middle Ages|The presence of many foreigner merchants in “Terra di Lavoro”-Italy, during the Middle Ages drives civilisation historians to wonder about the role they had, what their culture and mentality were like, in which way they integrated with other foreign merchants (among which Greek, Rumanian and Hungarian ones), how they adjust themselves to native population and other Judaic ethny living in the wide territory way of living and customs.
N90|Does Competition Kill? The Case of Classical Composers|We investigate the impact of peer competition on longevity using a unique historical data set of classical composers. We measure the geographic concentration of peers by the number of composers located in the same area and the time spent in one of the main geographic clusters for classical music. Using instrumental variables, we find a significant negative effect of geographic concentration. An additional composer based in the same location decreases longevity by 2.3 years, on average. Besides the widely known economic benefits associated with competition, these findings suggest that significant negative welfare externalities exist as well.
N90|Financial Development and City Growth: Evidence from Northeastern American Cities, 1790-1870|In this paper we argue that in 19th century U.S, households and firms that were located in cities with banks enjoyed a higher level of both consumption and production amenities than those who were located in cities without banks. We use data on banks location and city population growth in the Northeastern United States in 1830-1870 and document a positive and strong correlation between financial development and subsequent population growth. The correlation is robust to controls for geographical characteristics of the city, the percentage of population working in different sectors, and its initial population. Propensity score matching estimators that compare similar cities in terms of observables also yield a positive association between finance and urban growth. Our estimates suggest that the presence of a bank at a given location in the late 1830s is associated with increases its population growth in the 1840s by one to one and a half percentage points per year. Because urban growth was correlated with economic development in the nineteenth-century U.S, we believe our results provide further support for the finance-growth nexus.
N90|The economics of “Certaine Lewd and Ill-Disposed Persons”: Comment on Leeson|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Financial development and city growth: Evidence from Northeastern American cities, 1790-1870|We find a positive and strong correlation between financial development and subsequent city growth in the Northeastern United States between 1790 and 1870. The correlation is robust to controls for geographical characteristics of the city, the percentage of population working in different sectors, and its initial population. Our estimates suggest that the presence of a bank at a given location increases its subsequent growth by one to two percentage points per year. Because urban growth was correlated with economic development in the nineteenth-century US, we believe our results provide further support for the finance-growth nexus.
N90|The Unchanging Profile of Development: A Historical Study of the Punjab 1961–2008|This paper aims to examine the spatial patterns of development in the Punjab over the past five decades. The importance of initial conditions as the driving forces of development is studied to deduce the contributing factors that provide the necessary push to break away from the low development trap. A longitudinal analysis is conducted to assist in understanding several aspects of development, such as whether the welfare status of a region has improved, worsened, or remained stagnant over time; how the regions within Punjab have performed relative to each other and what the causes for their differential performances are; and also if the urban centres have had any positive spillovers on the peripheral regions. A development index is created from a selection of indicators from three sectors: education, health, and living standards. This index serves as a proxy for the level of development and assists in making comparisons over space and time. The data is taken from the Population Census Reports, the Punjab Development Statistics, and the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey 2007-08. From the results, a clear north-south divide within Punjab has been observed, such that the northern and north-central districts consistently display higher development levels in comparison with the southern and western districts. The socioeconomic conditions prevailing in 1961 seem to persist even today. There is a need to formulate well-targeted strategic and financial policies at the district level that can thrust the districts forward and accelerate the lagging development process.
N90|Politics, globalization, and food crisis discourse|The literature on food security has mainly been focused on causes, effects, and/or the nature of the crisis. However, there have been only a few attempts to understand how the discourse on the subject matter was shaped and is still being shaped at present. Food security is at the intersection of many disciplines, and the factors perpetuating the crisis are largely diverse - population, social inequalities, nutrition and health, power monopolies in the international stage, and giant market drivers, among others. The paper aims at shedding light as to how nations really become food insecure to begin with. The discussion traces the globalization of food security as a product of discursive processes. By putting together and analyzing the factors like world politics, the entry of globalization, shifting trade patterns and even culture - through the years - a better understanding of why the problem came to exist and what it is all about is provided.
N90|A Brief History of the Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness Department at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville 1924-2009|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Coste de la vida y salarios en Madrid, 1680-1800|The presentation and analysis of a cost of living index and of different wage indices for the city of Madrid, covering the period 1680-1800 is the essential aim of this article. The accounts books of several charitable institutions have been the basic source of information for this research. The main conclusions of the work are as follows: 1) in the eighteenth century the evolution of prices in Madrid was quite similar to those in most western and central European cities; 2) yearly fluctuations in the cost of living were lower in Madrid than Palencia, Toledo and Seville; 3) in the second half of that century, Madrid was one of the cities of the old continent which showed the most abrupt fall in the wages of unskilled workers; 4) during the eighteenth century, the ‚'skill premium' increased quite noticeably in the Madrid service sector; and 5) the wage differential between men and women fell in that century, due, probably, to the considerable raise in the weight of female work in the important domestic service sector in Madrid
N90|An anthropometric study of inequality and social segregation in a castilian city. Zamora, 1840-1936|this paper proposes several indicators for income distribution derived from the height of individuals. From the study of these indicators, we can conclude that the economic backwardness that zamora suffered led a further deterioration of living standards compared to other more economically advanced areas in the region, but less drastic changes in income distribution. Even so, anthropometric indicators show the strong bias and discrimination suffered by unskilled workers as well as the social segregation of the needy, who were isolated in the marginal areas of the city. (paper in Spanish)
N90|Was Germany Ever United? Evidence from Intra- and International Trade, 1885–1933|When did Germany become economically integrated? Within the framework of a gravity model, based on a new data set of about 40,000 observations on trade flows within and across the borders of Germany over the period 1885 – 1933, I explore the geography of trade costs across Central Europe. There are three key results. First, the German Empire before 1914 was a poorly integrated economy, both relative to integration across the borders of the German state and in absolute terms. Second, this internal fragmentation resulted from cultural heterogeneity, from administrative borders within Germany, and from geographical barriers that divided Germany along natural trade routes into eastern and western parts. Third, internal integration improved, while external integration worsened after World War I and again with the Great Depression, in part because of border changes along the lines of ethno-linguistic heterogeneity. By the end of the Weimar Republic in 1933, Germany was reasonably well integrated.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N90|La desigualdad del ingreso regional: propuesta de un modelo causal|From the theoretical discussion in uniformity and income distribution, the aim of the following remarks is to propose a causal model in order to its explanation. Economic growth process seeks for equity in income distribution. Notwithstanding turns out to be insufficient to reduce poverty, in a macroeconomic scale. It is due to the fact that in urban sphere, as well as in rural one, developing economies are characterized by poverty, having in mind their structural heterogeneity.
N90|The role of selected soft factors in the transformation of old industrial regions|This paper deals with immaterial factors of regional development. As it is shown in two case studies, intangible items, such as image, stereotypes or overall atmosphere of the place can hamper the development in many territories. From this point of view, old industrial areas represent particularly sensitive entities. As suggested, it is useful to examine the sources of formation of mental maps on the one hand and actively influence them on the other hand.
N90|Early and Late Demographic Transitions: the Role of Urbanization|This paper uses new estimates of the dates on which different countries have experienced their demographic transition to address two empirical questions. First, I study the importance of different socioeconomic variables on the timing of these transitions. Second, I distinguish between countries that have experienced early and late demographic transitions and compare their relative income around the transition date. My results indicate that the size of a country’s urban population plays a crucial role in triggering its demographic transition. In particular, after controlling for income and total population, more urbanized countries tend to experience an earlier demographic transition. Moreover, countries that experience an early demographic transition (before 1950) are much richer than latecomers, suggesting that urbanization plays a more important role than income in the latter. One interpretation of these results is that a country’s level of income and rate of urbanization are substitutable factors that trigger the country’s demographic transition. Finally, if one accepts the premise that urban agglomerations enhance both technological progress and the demand for human capital, the results provide indirect support for theories that highlight these factors as triggers of the demographic transition or the escape from Malthusian traps.
N90|Between History And Town-Planning: Danitis, Maccabees, Sadducees, Medicis, Suricis, Christians And Marranos In Terra Di Lavoro In The Middle Ages|The coexistence of different peoples and civilization in ‘Terra di Lavoro’ Caserta - Italy during the Middle Ages urged the Author to ask himself what role everyone of them played there. In particular from the analysis the reader can learn about the minority Hebraic ethnic groups of Danitis, Maccabees, Medicis, Sadducees, Suricis and of others, whose traces had been lost since the destruction of the second Temple in 70 A .D. These peoples were certainly Christianity brokers in the huge area which was the target of the historical research.
N90|Review of Philip Anderson, 2008, The Secret Life of Real Estate|"Anderson establishes the reality of an 18-year cycle in real estate prices, 1800 to date, emphasizing the land element, mainly urban land and subsoil resources. He relates this to privatization, which he calls ""enclosure"", although he does not trace the history back to the 16th Century enclosure movement in England, nor recommend undoing privatization. He supports his thesis with a wealth of data, surveying a wide literature of secondary sources. He finds the same sequence of leading and lagging indicators in each cycle. Other dips are trivial relative to those based on the real estate cycle, and he faults other economists for failing to notice this. The work is flawed in some particulars, but on the whole persuasive."
N90|From Baghdad to London: The Dynamics of Urban Growth in Europe and the Arab World, 800-1800|On the basis of a large (new) dataset of cities in Europe, North Africa and the Middle East in the millennium between 800 and 1800, we try to provide an answer to the question why, during this millennium, the urban center of gravity moved from Iraq (or more generally the Arab world) to Western Europe and to the shores of the Atlantic (during the 17th and 18th century) in particular. We study the characteristics of the European and Arab urban systems involved, amongst others focusing on the interaction between cities, and explain why one system was much more dynamic in the long run than the other. Also we assess the importance of various geographical, religious and institutional factors as the driving forces of urban expansion. Overall, we provide a better understanding of the dynamics of urban growth in the centuries leading up to the Industrial Revolution and an answer to the question why London, an economic backwater in 800, was able to overtake Baghdad, in 800 the thriving capital of the Abbasid caliphate, as the largest city in this part of the world.
N90|Tíogar Ceilteach (Ireland) - An Enlargement Country of the 1970s as Showcase?|Ireland was the poorer country in 1971 European Economic Community Enlargement. This paper discusses the possible application of its historical path as a showcase for current and future UE enlargements.
N90|The Rise and Decline of Catching Up Development. An Experience of Russia and Latin America with Implications for Asian 'Tigers'|This book deals with the general problems of catching up development, which have been considered through lenses of the concrete cases studies of the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia, Latin American and East Asian countries. The book is subdivided into two parts. In the first part, some general problems of development in the past century are considered and draw attention to the cases of Russia and Latin American countries. The second part is devoted to the NICs of E/SEA.
N90|Fundamentos econômicos da participação política do sul de Minas na construção do Estado brasileiro nos anos 1822-1840|Economics foundations of the participation of Minas South in the construction of the Brazilian State among the years 1822-1840 ? This article intends to analyze the economic foundations of the south-economic elite politics participation when the Brazilian National State was being constituted, between the decades of 20 and 40 of the XIX century. It presumes that the several levels of social life do not identify themselves, although they have a mutual influence on each other. The politic process that it took part of had been based on an economic system marked by the production of the goods that were directed for the unity productions supplying and the various commercial places, overall, in Rio de Janeiro. In fighting for the social and political order, its desire was also to guarantee the conditions for the reproduction of the socio-economic situation, the source of its power and status.
N90|Synopsis of global scenario and forecasting surveys scenarios in risk habitat megacity (RHM)|The main objective of the paper is to provide a synopsis of global scenario and forecasting surveys. First, the paper will give an overview on existing global scenario and forecasting surveys and their specific scenario philosophies and storylines. Second, the major driving forces that shape and characterise the different scenarios will be identified. The scenario analysis has been provided for the research project Risk Habitat Megacity (HRM) that aims at developing strategies for sustainable development in megacities and urban agglomerations. The analysis of international scenario surveys is an essential component within RHM. The scenario analysis will be the basis and source for the development of own RHM-framework scenarios and for defining specific driving forces of change.
N90|Economic and political world order: Trends, issues and prospects|This paper is extracted from my forthcoming book on the World Order. The main theme relates to the disillusionment in our day following the euphoria at the end of the last century. Globalization, which was heralded as the key to worlwide economic paradise, has not delivered; nor has the world entered a political era of Kantian “perpetual peace” at the “end of history.” New issues have arisen. Vindicating the factor price equalization theorem, increased mobility of technology has eroded the competitiveness of the old industrial countries while improving the economic growth prospects of the developing world. In Western economies, current concerns relate to adjustments to slow growth. On the other hand, although many developing countries are expected to catch up with the material prosperity of the Western world in the next generation or two, it is not clear that they will also provide their inhabitants with higher levels of communal civic life. And on the political front, with the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the weakening of American military power, it is not clear what will replace either the stalemate of the Cold War or the American Hegemony.
N90|Territorial development reconsidered|Lamentations on societal and environmental developments become increasingly audible in our times. Currently, we can hear almost every day about reaching the balance in a very sensitive triangle economic sustainability-social sustainability-environmental sustainability. It is largely omitted that concepts of self-governance and self-government constitute one of greatest challenges and opportunities for truly sustainable development in our common future.
N90|A Model of Sequential City Growth|Strong evidence indicates that in most countries cities tend to develop sequentially, with the initially largest cities growing first. This paper presents a model of city growth that rationalizes this pattern. Increasing returns to scale constitute the force that favors agglomeration of resources in a city, and convex costs associated with the stock of installed capital represent the congestion force that limits city size. The key to generating sequential city growth is the assumption of irreversible investment in physical capital. As expected, the presence of a positive external effect of aggregate city capital on individual firms makes the competitive equilibrium inefficient.
N90|Conducerea Orasului Viitorului Asistata De Modele De Simulare Urbana|Sistemele urbane devin din ce in ce mai complexe, la fel si structurile si normele politice si sociale, sistemele de infrastructura si tehnologiile elaborate. Se impune in acest context elaborarea unor modele de simulare urbana operationale care sa conduca la o imbunatatire a calitatii deciziilor privind politicile din domeniul urban si implicit la dezvoltare urbana durabila.
N90|Locuirea Urbana|Locuirea urbana constituie rezultatul complexelor functii socio-economice la nivel de grup si individuale care au loc in spatiul orasului. Calitatea urbana consta in gradul de confort de care beneficiaza populatia orasului, mai ridicat decat in restul teritoriului, rezultat al nivelului de echipare complexa al acestor asezari. Locuirea presupune de asemenea si legatura intre locuinte, dotari tehnico-edilitare si social-culturale iIntr-un scop unic, acela al satisfacerii preferintelor si aspiratiilor membrilor comunitatilor. Problemele locuintei asadar, nu mai au doar un caracter functional si utilitar, ci si un pronuntat caracter social si politic.
N90|The Rise and Decline of Catching Up Development. An Experience of Russia and Latin America with Implications for Asian 'Tigers'|This book deals with the general problems of catching up development, which have been considered through lenses of the concrete cases studies of the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia, Latin American and East Asian countries. The book is subdivided into two parts. In the first part, some general problems of development in the past century are considered and draw attention to the cases of Russia and Latin American countries. The second part is devoted to the NICs of E/SEA.
N90|The Knowledge Filter, Entrepreneurship, and Economic Growth|"This paper explores the relationship between knowledge creation, entrepreneurship, and economic growth in the United States over the last 150 years. According to the ""new growth theory"", investments in knowledge and human capital generate economic growth via spillovers of knowledge. But the theory does not explain how or why spillovers occur, or why large investments in R+D do not always result in economic growth. What is missing is ""the knowledge filter"" - the distinction between general knowledge and economically useful knowledge. Also missing is a mechanism (such as entrepreneurship) converting economically relevant knowledge into economic activity. This paper shows that the unprecedented increase in R+D spending in the United States during and after World War II was converted into economic activity via incumbent firms in the early postwar period and increasingly via new ventures in the last few decades."
N90|Levnadsstandarden speglad i bouppteckningar : En undersökning av två metoder att använda svenska bouppteckningar för en levnadsstandardsundersökning samt en internationell jämförelse|The standard of living in the pre-industrial world is an interesting but challenging subject. No single method alone can solve the problem. In order to grasp the standard of living several methods must be used, and work must be done across discipline borderlines. In this paper I discuss methods for using post mortal inventories (estate inventories) in order to indicate the material standard of living in Sweden. Similar methods have been used in France, Great Britain and North America. To adapt these methods to Swedish conditions have been the main focus of the paper. The first method tested here uses the valuation of all objects stated in the post mortal inventory (not including houses and farms). This method had previously been tested on English and North American inventories. All values in the Swedish material have been converted to British pounds in order to facilitate comparisons. The second method tested uses the objects in the estate inventory to create an index of the material standard of living. This index was first used in France and later in Canada. Some preliminary results in this work indicate that Swedish farmers by 1750 were well below English and French farmers in material standard of living. However, during the fifty years that followed a noticeable change took place.
N90|The knowledge filter, Entrepreneurship and Economic Growth|This paper explores the relationship between knowledge creation, entrepreneurship, and economic growth in the United States over the last 150 years. According to the “new growth theory,” investments in knowledge and human capital generate economic growth via spillovers of knowledge. But the theory does not explain how or why spillovers occur, or why large investments in R&D do not always result in economic growth. What is missing is “the knowledge filter” - the distinction between general knowledge and economically useful knowledge. Also missing is a mechanism (such as entrepreneurship) converting economically relevant knowledge into economic activity. This paper shows that the unprecedented increase in R&D spending in the United States during and after World War II was converted into economic activity via incumbent firms in the early postwar period and increasingly via new ventures in the last few decades.
N90|Factori Care Contribuie La Cresterea Competitivitatii Urbane. Abordari Ale Strategiei De Dezvoltare Durabila In Judetul Constanta|Strategia de dezvoltare a oraselor din judetul Constanta vizeaza valorificarea durabila a resurselor umane, economice, institutionale, financiare, culturale si naturale In scopul afirmarii lor la nivel regional si national. Agenda Locala 21 este un proiect care a sprijinit doua strategii de dezvoltare durabila in judetul Constanta, pentru orasele Constanta si Medgidia. Strategiile de dezvoltare durabila ale oraselor Mangalia si Cernavoda au fost elaborate fara ajutor financiar extern.
N90|Urbanismul Spatial - Solutia Rezolvarii Problemei Suprapopularii Oraselor|Explozia demografica a devenit una dintre alarmele marilor schimbari epocale care i-a determinat pe marii arhitecti sa conceapa modele posibile ale orasului viitorului. Urbanismul spatial reprezinta una dintre marile sfidari culturale si tehnice ale viitorului, adica proiecte urbanistice formate pe conceptul de oras tridimensional, care se extind nu doar ocupand teritorii, dar totodata bucurandu-se din plin de a treia dimensiune spatiala.
N90|pRINCIPIILE DEZVOLTARII DURABILE|Scopul proiectarii durabile este gasirea solutiilor constructive, care se reflecta in caracteristicile constructiilor, care sa garanteze pe de o parte bunastarea si pe de alta parte coexistenta celor trei grupuri care alcatuiesc ecosistemul global (elementele anorganice, organismele vii si oamenii). Atingerea scopului proiectarii durabile se face prin educarea intr-un cadru conceptual care are trei niveluri :principii, strategii si metode. Acestea corespund celor trei obiective ale educatiei arhitecturale privind mediul : crearea grijii fata de mediu, explicarea ecosistemului cladire si invatarea cum pot fi proiectate cladirile in conceptul dezvoltarii durabile. Fiecare dintre aceste principii inglobeaza un set unic de strategii, a caror studiere conduce la o intelegere mai buna a interactiunii cu mediul. Aceasta creeaza premiza pentru analizarea metodelor specifice pe care constructorii Impreuna cu arhitectii si cu alti specialisti o pot aplica pentru a reduce impactul cladirilor pe care le realizeaza, cu mediul.
N90|pOLITICA ENERGETICA SI DE URBANISM LA NIVEL LOCAL|Orice element si orice act al vietii urbane are un continut si un cost energetic. In toate epocile, orasul a fost un loc privilegiat, in care s-a concentrat cererea de energie. Principalele sectoare cu consum energetic, in mediul urban, sunt industria, menajele - la care se adauga in mod traditional sectorul tertiar, deoarece consumurile lor sunt de natura si caracteristici compatibile, si in cele din urma transporturile. Un rationament simplist ne-ar conduce la ideea stabilirii unei corelatii permanente intre dezvoltarea economica, urbanizare si cererea de energie. Insa aceasta corelatie stricta a fost adesea contrazisa in practica. Fara indoiala, nici o forma urbana nu se poate lipsi de un suport energetic, iar acesta din urma este strans modulat prin nivelul de dezvoltare economica si tehnologica. Lucrarea de fata isi propune sa analizeze legaturile care exista intre dezvoltare, energie si urbanism asupra carora planeaza inca o atmosfera de ambiguitate.
N90|pREMISE PENTRU UN MODEL DURABIL AL DEZVOLTARII ORASELOR|Obiectivele dezvoltarii durabile ale asezarilor umane sunt legate de controlul evolutiei spatiului urban, in vederea edificarii unui sistem mai echilibrat,in special urmarirea dinamicii cresterii oraselor, atenuarea segregarii spatiale si sociale Indeosebi in marile orase, problemele de mediu si cele generate de transport. Aceste obiective impun integrarea si continuitatea politicilor de dezvoltare socio-economice, in particular a celor privind dezvoltarea urbana, atat pe verticala (la toate nivelele : local, regional, national si international), cat si pe orizontala, intre toate componentele sistemului social, administrativ si economic.
N90|Between History And Town-Planning: Romanian, Russians, Greeks, Hungarians And Saracens In Terra Di Lavoro During The Middle Ages|This research fills up a historio-geographical gap about the importance of the presence of merchant and ethnic minorities in the area of Capua in the Middle Ages, trying to bring to life some more features of the environment, mentality every day life, society, town planning, toponymy, through documents which have rarely been published.
N90|Echilibrul Sistemelor Urbane|Dificultatile generate de marea concentrare a populatiei umane, pun sub semnul intrebarii viabilitatea pe termen lung a acesteia, mai ales daca sunt puse in legatura cu marile resurse necesare intretinerii functionarii marilor aglomerari urbane. Obiectivele dezvoltarii durabile ale asezarilor umane sunt legate de controlul evolutiei spatiului urban, in vederea obtinerii unui sistem mai echilibrat, in special urmarirea dinamicii cresterii oraselor, atenuarea segregarii spatiale si sociale indeosebi In marile orase, problemele de mediu si cele generate de transport. Aceste obiective impun integrarea si continuitatea politicilor de dezvoltare socio-economice, in particular a celor privind dezvoltarea urbana la toate nivelurile : local, regional, national si international, dar si intre toate componentele sistemului social, administrativ si economic.
N90|El consumo de leche fresca en Cataluña entre mediados del siglo XIX y 1935: la difusión de un nuevo alimento|The spread of milk consumption was a significant change in the diet of Europeans; a fact however that has not been greatly studied with regard to populations of the Mediterranean Europe. In this article we shall analyse the main circumstances that conditioned that process in Catalonia between the mid-19th century and 1936. In our study we shall argue that the consumption of milk in this area was only relevant in the 19th century in situations of illness or old age, and that it subsequently increased acquiring a new significance as a result of various factors. In particular, we shall emphasise: (a) scientific advances in microbiology and nutrition, (b) activities carried out by doctors and various public institutions to promote fresh milk consumption, and (c) technological innovations in the milk producing sector.
N90|Relatiile SUA-UE la inceputul secolului XXI: noile raporturi transatlantice/ SUA – UE Relations at the Beggining of the XXI Century: New Transatlantic Relationships (Romanian Version)|This paper aims to achieve an analysis of relations between the U.S. and EU in XXI century. Research focuses mainly on the political dimension, economic and security relevant, in our opinion, the analysis of transatlantic relations. We will explore the dynamics of transatlantic relations, focusing on those elements of continuity and change. No. pg. 183
N90|Prehistoric Origins Of European Economic Integration|Recent archaeological findings indicate that the Hellenistic and Roman economy was a specialized market economy that obtained levels of factor productivity that appear to be on a par with levels current on the eve of the Industrial Revolution. This raises the question when that economy began to form. The present paper shows that the most likely dating for the ‘birth of the European economy was the middle third of the first millennium BC. It attributes the knitting of trans-European connections to advances in marine technology in the Middle Bronze Age, the discovery and exploitation of the Iberian silver deposits as specie for the Middle Eastern economies, the advent of iron, and the development of the wine trade between the Mediterranean and Eastern Europe. The final factor was the spread of alphabetic writing. Each of these developments has an independent history, suggesting that early European integration was in many respects the product of a random concatenation of quite distinct causes, rather than the joint outcome of a general cause like population growth or changing property rights institutions.
N90|Orasul Prezent - Orasul Viitorului|"Dezvoltarea economiei bazate pe cunoastere a schimbat in mod dramatic fortele calauzitoare ale dezvoltarii urbane din Europa. In conditiile globalizarii, competitivitatea oraselor nu depinde doar de infrastructura de baza - drumuri, energie, apa si salubritate - acestea fiind nevoite sa lupte si pe teritoriul tehnologiei prin adoptarea de structuri manageriale moderne. Astfel, furnizarea de servicii la nivel superior devine activitatea principala din orase, ducand la aparitia unui nou concept, cel al ""oraselor inteligente""."
N90|Evolutia Oraselor In Timp|Acest articol prezinta orasele sub aspect istoric aratand cum progresul tehnologic a influentat avantajul competitiv, economiile de scara si economiile aglomerarilor si cum aceste schimbari au favorizat dezvoltarea oraselor. Schimbarile in tehnologie au determinat cresterea sau declinul oraselor si, prin urmare, au dus la urbanizare.
N90|Was Germany ever united? Borders and domestic trade, 1885 - 1933|Was Germany ever united? Given the historical circumstances of Germany's unification in the 19th century there is no obvious answer to this question. But such an answer can affect the prospects of the post-1989 unification process, and beyond this of European integration. We provide an econometric analysis of Germany's economic integration across various internal borders from the foundation of the Kaiserreich until the end of the Weimar Republic. This analysis is based on a new comprehensive set of domestic trade flow data on railways and waterways, covering all parts of Germany 1885-1933. First, the disintegration effects by the separation of Alsace-Lorraine and Western Poland from Germany after the Versailles treaty were somewhat limited by previous disintegration of these regions. Second, while there is broad support for increasing integration across old political, administrative, and confessional borders between 1885 and 1933, a geographical divide between eastern and western parts of Germany had a persistent trade diverting effect well into the 1930s.
N90|Turning Qualitative into Quantitative Evidence: A Well-Used Method Made Explicit|Many historians now reject quantitative methods as inappropriate to understanding past societies. It is argued here, however, that no sharp distinction between qualitative and quantitative concepts can be drawn, as almost any concept used to describe a past society is implicitly quantitative. Many recent advances in understanding have been achieved by deriving quantitative evidence from qualitative evidence, and using it jointly and dialectically with the qualitative evidence from which it is derived. Its reliability as quantitative evidence can be improved by indexing it against other quantitative evidence from the same community or population during the same period. We suggest that this triangulation method can be extended to many apparently qualitative types of sources that have not previously been used in this way. The potential of turning qualitative into quantitative evidence, then, despite its successes over the past decades, has hardly begun to be exploited.
N90|Industrialization and Urbanization: Did the Steam Engine Contribute to the Growth of Cities in the United States?|Industrialization and urbanization are seen as interdependent processes of modern economic development. However, the exact nature of their causal relationship is still open to considerable debate. This paper uses firm-level data from the manuscripts of the decennial censuses between 1850 and 1880 to examine whether the adoption of the steam engine as the primary power source by manufacturers during industrialization contributed to urbanization. While the data indicate that steam-powered firms were more likely to locate in urban areas than water-powered firms, the adoption of the steam engine did not contribute substantially to urbanization.
N90|A journey without maps: The regional policies of the 1964-70 British Labour Government| O'Hara G. (2005) A journey without maps: the regional policies of the 1964-70 British Labour Government, Regional Studies 39 , 1183-1195. This paper examines four influences on British regional policy in the late 1960s: party politics in the context of the economic environment; the structure of government; the influence of the 'new regional economics'; and the impact of new knowledge and statistics. Much of the confusion of British regional policies in the 1960s is found to have been due to political and administrative divisions allowed by the fact that new theoretical approaches and data were so novel and uncertain. Policies are therefore advocated that are based on established research, clearly and simply defined, and determined democratically within regions themselves.
N90|Ways of Thinking and Looking at the Mediterranean City|It’s almost a decade that the social science attitude has changed in evaluating the history and reality of the Mediterranean basin geographic area. The decadence of capitalistic modernisation has created a void in social and cultural relationships. A process of cultural legitimisation has been started, focussed on the Mediterranean image and identity, which is pointing out the problem of local cultures’ knowledge and preservation as fundamental elements for planning and management. Searching for a definition of Mediterranean city, not only through geographical or morphological schemes, the paper considers also social, economic and cultural elements, like the borders’ permeability, the supremacy of the “family” on the State and the pervasiveness of the informal economy. Most of these urban realities reveal a “culture of the derogation” and a great rural immigration that give still significance to a classification of resident population, instead of those based on the service users. Moreover, the large Mediterranean urban areas are usually based on a unique centre, rich of economic and human resources, connected to a hinterland poor and degraded, without any kind of identity. On the economic side, the need of entering in the global market leads most of these cities facing the international scale and finding a strong characterisation. On the social side, it could increase the social exclusions with the danger of conflicts. Anyway, every solution must start from the regional scale with public policies, which aim to promote the consensus, exceeding the urban/rural distinctions and stimulating the local community participation.
N90|A Modern History of Exchange Rate Arrangements: Parallel Markets and Dual and Multiple Exchange Rates|"There are cases where the parallel (or secondary) exchange rate applies only to a few limited transactions. An example is the “switch pound” in the United Kingdom during September 1950 through April 1967. However, it is not unusual for dual or parallel markets (legal or otherwise) to account for the lion’s share of transactions with the official rate being little more than symbolic. The official rate typically diminishes in importance when the gap between the official and market-determined rate widens. To provide a sense of the comparative relevance of the dual or parallel market we proceed along two complimentary dimensions. First, we include a qualitative description in the country-specific chronologies of what transactions take place in the official market versus the secondary market. Second, we develop a quantitative measure of the potential size of the leakages into dual or parallel exchange markets. We classify episodes where there are dual/parallel markets into three tiers according to the level (in percent) of the parallel market premium: low (below 10 percent), moderate (10 percent or above but below 50), and high (50 percent and above). For the episodes of dual/parallel markets, we provide information about which category each episode falls in (by calculating the average premium for the duration of the episode). This is background material for ""The Modern History of Exchange Rate Arrangements: A Reinterpretation"""
N90|The Gender Gap in Top Corporate Jobs|Using the ExecuComp data set, which contains information on the five highest-paid executives in each of a large number of U.S. firms for the years 1992â€“97, the authors examine the gender compensation gap among high-level executives. Women, who represented about 2.5% of the sample, earned about 45% less than men. As much as 75% of this gap can be explained by the fact that women managed smaller companies and were less likely to be CEO, Chair, or company President. The unexplained gap falls to less than 5% with an allowance for the younger average age and lower average seniority of the female executives. These results do not rule out the possibility of discrimination via gender segregation or unequal promotion. Between 1992 and 1997, however, women nearly tripled their participation in the top executive ranks and also strongly improved their relative compensation, mostly by gaining representation in larger corporations.
N90|Ocupação do território e estrutura urbana|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Estrutura econômica regional e meio ambiente|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Fundamentos históricos e metodológicos da questão ambiental|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|A bacia hidrográfica como unidade de análise e realidade de integração disciplinar|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Atividades antrópicas e impactos ambientais|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Impactos antrópicos e biodiversidade aquática|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Impactos antrópicos e biodiversidade terrestre|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Sociedade, poder e meio ambiente|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Sociedade, poder e meio ambiente|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Análise integrada dos resultados|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Propostas de intervenção|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|Uma proposta metodológica interdisciplinar|No abstract is available for this item.
N90|The Geography of Multi-Speed Europe|This paper describes the possible impact of multi-speed integration on the location of economic activities in Europe. We present a model where two countries integrate their economies and leave a third temporarily outside because of its lower income. We analyse the effect of different integration sequences on industrial location and convergence during the transition period and in the long term, with and without agglomeration economies. Without agglomeration economies, income differentials at the time of integration are the main determinant of industry location. A long transition period may then be called for to avert concentration in the core countries. On the contrary, with migration the temporary exclusion of the poor country may trigger agglomeration in the rich integrated core.
N90|El consumo de leche fresca en Cataluña entre mediados del siglo XIX y 1936: la difusión de un nuevo alimento|La difusión del consumo de leche fresca fue un cambio significativo en la dieta de los europeos, pero que ha sido poco estudiado con respecto a las poblaciones de la Europa Mediterránea. En este artículo analizaremos las principales circunstancias que condicionaron aquel proceso en Cataluña entre mediados del siglo XIX y 1936. En nuestra exposición argumentaremos que el consumo de leche en aquella zona sólo era relevante en el siglo XIX en situaciones de enfermedad o vejez, y que después aumentó y adquirió un nuevo significado como resultado de varios factores. En especial destacaremos: (a) los progresos científicos en microbiología y nutrición, (b) las actividades que realizaron los médicos y diversas instituciones públicas para fomentar el consumo de leche fresca, y (c) las innovaciones tecnológicas en el sector lechero.
