N92|Freeway Revolts!|Freeway revolts were widespread protests across the U.S. following early urban Interstate construction in the mid-1950s. We present theory and evidence from panel data on neighborhoods and travel behavior to show that diminished quality of life from freeway disamenities inspired the revolts, aﬀected the allocation of freeways within cities, and changed city structure. First, actual freeway construction diverged from initial plans in the wake of the growing freeway revolts and subsequent policy responses, especially in central neighborhoods. Second, freeways caused slower growth in population, income, and land values in central areas, but faster growth in outlying areas. These patterns suggest that in central areas, freeway disamenity eﬀects exceeded small access beneﬁts. Third, in a quantitative general equilibrium spatial model, the aggregate beneﬁts from burying or capping freeways are large and concentrated downtown. This result suggests that targeted mitigation policies could improve welfare and helps explain why opposition to freeways is often observed in central neighborhoods. Disamenities from freeways, versus their commuting beneﬁts, likely played a signiﬁcant role in the decentralization of U.S. cities.
N92|Does Condominium Development Lead to Gentrification?|The condominium structure, which facilitates ownership of units in multi-family buildings, was only introduced to the US during the 1960s. We ask whether the subsequent development of condominiums encouraged high-income households to move to central cities. Although we document a strong positive correlation between condominium density and resident income, this association is entirely driven by endogenous development of condos in areas otherwise attractive to high-income households. When we instrument for condo density using the passage of municipal regulations limiting condo conversions, we find little association between condo development and resident income, education or race.
N92|Race, Representation and Local Governments in the US South: the effect of the Voting Rights Act|The Voting Rights Act of 1965 opened elective offices to blacks in the US South, but systematic evidence on its immediate effects remains scant. Using a novel data-set on black elected officials between 1964-1980, we assess the causal impact of the VRA on the racial make-up of local governments. Since the VRA mandated federal scrutiny (coverage) over a group of Southern counties, we deploy a differences-in-differences estimation strategy using non-covered counties as a comparison group. Our results show that coverage doubled the extent to which black enfranchisement led to gains in black office-holding, particularly among bodies controlling local public finances.
N92|Power to the Periphery? The failure of Regional Convergence in Canada, 1890-2006|Economic historians have long signalled the importance of location-specific resource booms in the Canadian development experience, but a full analysis of the dynamics of Canada's internal income dynamics is conspicuously absent. This article presents comprehensive estimates of regional inequality in Canada from 1890 to 2006 and assesses the sources of convergence and divergence across Canadian provinces. Our convergence decompositions support the central role of resource booms in accounting for regional income dynamics, and show that structural change contributing relatively little to the development process. Our findings are in sharp contrast to the historical experience of other countries, including the United States.
N92|Toxic Truth: Lead and Fertility|Using U.S county level data on lead in air for 1978-1988, this paper provides the first causal evidence on the effects of airborne lead exposure on the general fertility rate and the completed fertility rate in the broad population. Instrumental variable estimates show the increase in completed fertility implied by the average observed decrease in airborne lead is 0.14 children per woman, which is 6.4 percent of mean fertility. To explore the current relevance of our findings, we estimate the effect of lead historically accumulated in topsoil on fertility in the 2000s. The results suggest that lead may continue to impair fertility today, both in the United States and in other countries that have significant amounts of lead in topsoil.
N92|The Economics of African American Slavery: The Cliometrics Debate|This working paper explores the significant contributions to the history of African-American slavery made by the application of the tools of cliometrics. As used here “cliometrics” is defined as a method of scientific analysis marked by the explicit use of economic theory and quantitative methods. American slavery of the late antebellum period [1840-1860] was one of the earliest topics that cliometricians focused on and, arguably, the topic upon which they made the largest impact.
N92|A Long-Run Perspective on the Spatial Concentration of Manufacturing Industries in the United States|We construct spatially-weighted indices of the geographic concentration of U.S. manufacturing industries during the period 1880 to 1997 using data from the Census of Manufactures and Bureau of Labor Statistics. Several important new results emerge from this exercise. First, we find that average spatial concentration was much lower in the late 20th - than in the late 19th - century and that this was the outcome of a continuing reduction over time. Second, the persistent tendency to greater spatial dispersion was characteristic of most manufacturing industries. Third, even so, economically and statistically significant spatial concentration was pervasive throughout this period.
N92|The National Rise in Residential Segregation|This paper introduces a new measure of residential segregation based on individual-level data. We exploit complete census manuscript files to derive a measure of segregation based upon the racial similarity of next-door neighbors. Our measure allows us to analyze segregation consistently and comprehensively for all areas in the United States and allows for a richer view of the variation in segregation across time and space. We show that the fineness of our measure reveals aspects of racial sorting that cannot be captured by traditional segregation indices. Our measure can distinguish between the effects of increasing racial homogeneity of a location and the tendency to segregate within a location given a particular racial composition. Analysis of neighbor-based segregation over time establishes several new facts about segregation. First, segregation doubled nationally from 1880 to 1940. Second, contrary to previous estimates, we find that urban areas in the South were the most segregated in the country and remained so over time. Third, the dramatic increase in segregation in the twentieth century was not driven by urbanization, black migratory patterns, or white flight to suburban areas, but rather resulted from a national increase in racial sorting at the household level. The likelihood that an African American household had a non-African American neighbor declined by more than 15 percentage points (more than a 25% decrease) through the mid-twentieth century. In all areas of the United States -- North and South, urban and rural -- racial segregation increased dramatically.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|The settlement of the United States, 1800–2000: The long transition towards Gibrat’s law|Gibrat’s law, the orthogonality of growth with initial levels, has long been considered a stylized fact of local population growth. But throughout U.S. history, local population growth has significantly deviated from it. Across small locations, growth was strongly negatively correlated with initial population throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. This strong convergence gave way to moderate divergence beginning in the mid-twentieth century. Across intermediate and large locations, growth became moderately positively correlated with initial population starting in the late nineteenth century. This divergence eventually dissipated but never completely. A simple-one sector model combining the entry of new locations, a friction from population growth, and a decrease in the congestion arising from the supply of land closely matches these and a number of other evolving empirical relationships.
N92|Short- and Long-Run Impacts of Rural Electrification: Evidence from the Historical Rollout of the U.S. Power Grid|Electrification among American farm households increased from less than 10 percent to nearly 100 percent over a three decade span, 1930{1960. We exploit the historical rollout of the U.S. power grid to study the short- and long-run impacts of rural electrification on local economies. In the short run, rural electrification led to increases in agricultural employment, rural farm population, and rural property values, but there was little impact on the local non-agriculture economy. Benefits exceeded historical costs, even in rural areas with low population density. As for the long run, rural counties that gained early access to electricity experienced increased economic growth that persisted for decades after the country was fully electrified. In remote rural areas, local development was driven by a long-run expansion in the agricultural sector, while in rural counties near metropolitan areas, long-run population growth coincided with increases in housing costs and decreases in agricultural employment. This last result suggests that rural electrification stimulated suburban expansion.
N92|Migrants and the Making of America: The Short and Long Run Effects of Immigration during the Age of Mass Migration|We study the effects of European immigration to the United States during the Age of Mass Migration (1850-1920) on economic prosperity today. We exploit variation in the extent of immigration across counties arising from the interaction of fluctuations in aggregate immigrant flows and the gradual expansion of the railway network across the United States. We find that locations with more historical immigration today have higher incomes, less poverty, less unemployment, higher rates of urbanization, and greater educational attainment. The long-run effects appear to arise from the persistence of sizeable short-run benefits, including greater industrialization, increased agricultural productivity, and more innovation.
N92|Collective Action, White Flight, and the Origins of Formal Segregation Laws|This paper develops and tests a simple model to explain the origins of municipal segregation ordinances. Passed by cities between 1909 and 1917, these ordinances prohibited members of the majority racial group on a given city block from selling or renting property to members of another racial group. Our results suggest that prior to these laws cities had created and sustained residential segregation through private norms and vigilante activity. Only when these private arrangements began to break down during the early 1900s did whites start lobbying municipal governments for segregation ordinances.
N92|Intergovernmental Cooperation and Tax Enforcement|Improving the efficiency of tax collection is important for development and fairness purposes. I study the Audit Exchange Information Agreements, which are agreements between the states and the U.S. federal government to exchange information about income tax audit plans and techniques, signed between the 1950s and the 1970s. Adopting a difference-in-differences identification strategy, I show that the program increased state income tax revenues by about 15 percent. I show that mobility and the reported income do not appear to react to the policy, suggesting that the effects may be linked to higher quality auditing. The effects are stronger in places where there are more civic and social organizations, suggesting that tax compliance is higher when there is more cooperative gathering.
N92|The Rise and Demise of J.H. Todd and Sons, British Columbia’s Enduring Independent Salmon Canners|This paper examines J.H. Todd & Sons Ltd., a British Columbia family-owned and run fish packing company during the years 1881 through 1954. The research presented in this paper outlines the contribution of individual Todd members to both the success and eventual demise of the company. Also examined is the history of the B. C. salmon canning industry, the evolution of J.H. Todd & Sons Ltd., the role of the company in the broader context of the B. C. fishing industry; and the factors that led to the demise of the company. The research relies on documentary primary sources as well as extensive oral history collection obtained from Todd family members and employees.
N92|A Long-Run Perspective on the Spatial Concentration of Manufacturing Industries in the United States|We construct spatially-weighted indices of the geographic concentration of U.S. manufacturing industries during the period 1880 to 1997 using data from the Census of Manufactures. Several important new results emerge from this exercise. First, we find that average spatial concentration was much lower in the late 20th- than in the late 19th-century and that this was the outcome of a continuing reduction over time. Second, the persistent tendency to greater spatial dispersion was characteristic of most manufacturing industries. Third, even so, economically and statistically significant spatial concentration was pervasive throughout this period.Keywords: manufacturing belt; spatial concentration; transport costs. JEL Classification: N62; N92; R12.
N92|Race, Ethnicity, and Discriminatory Zoning|Zoning policies can have marked impacts on the spatial distribution of people and land use, yet there is little systematic evidence on their origin. Investigating the causes of these regulations is complicated by the fact that land use and zoning have been co-evolving for nearly a century. We employ a novel approach to overcome this challenge, studying the factors underpinning the introduction of comprehensive zoning in Chicago. We find evidence consistent with a precursor to exclusionary zoning as well as support for the hypothesis that industrial use zoning was disproportionately allocated to neighborhoods populated by ethnic and racial minorities.
N92|Tale of two cities. A comparative study of relationship between education and economic prosperity|Over the last century, the social function and the role of the universities and other higher education institutions (HEI) changed significantly. What the contemporary students expect to gain due to their university education is neither enlightenment nor insight, but rather skills and practical knowledge needed to successfully find and retain a job. In turn, the modern HEI ceased to be the entities isolated from their surroundings but became the institutions intertwined into community life. Hence, our purpose is to redefine the role of the universities in their communities with the emphasis put on the relationship between the HEI and the communities’ economic performance. The general discussion on the transition in academy’s place in the society is presented in the first section of the article, whereas its second part provides an overview of the potential contributions to the reciprocal development made by the universities and communities. Against such a background two illustrative examples are analyzed, i.e. Lodz, Poland and Brownsville, Texas. Both the theoretical inquiries and these examples’ analysis confirm that the relationship between the development of the universities and economic performance is bi-directional: on the one hand, the investments in HEI trigger stimuli towards economic growth, and on the other, the economic prosperity of the city commonly results in invigorating the scientific research. The article concludes that despite the fact the interrelatedness between universities and local communities’ economic performance is too complex to be boiled down to any simple rule, the communities’ investments in HEI may sow seeds of future economic growth and provide a safety net protecting the economy in times of stagnations or slumps.
N92|The Home Front: Rent Control and the Rapid Wartime Increase in Home Ownership|The US home ownership rate rose by 10 percentage points between 1940 and 1945, about half the size of the net change over the 20th century, despite severe restrictions on construction during World War II. I present evidence that wartime rent control which covered over 80 percent of the 1940 U.S. rental housing stock played an important role in this shift, as suggested by Friedman and Stigler (1946). The empirical test exploits features of the central authority's method of imposing rent control, which generated variation in the size of rent reductions for cities that had seen similar increases in rents prior to control. Greater rent reductions were associated with greater increases in home ownership over the rst half of the 1940's. This relationship does not appear to be driven by di erential trends in housing demand or other unobserved factors potentially correlated with variation in rent reductions. The estimates suggest that rent control may explain 65 percent of the urban increase in home ownership over the rst half of the 1940's.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|Canary in a Coal Mine: Infant Mortality, Property Values, and Tradeoffs Associated with Mid-20th Century Air Pollution|Investments in local development and infrastructure projects often generate negative externalities such as pollution. Previous work has either focused on the potential for these investments to stimulate local economic activity or the health costs associated with air pollution. This paper examines the tradeoffs associated with the historical expansion in coal-fired electricity generation in the United States, which fueled local development but produced large amounts of unregulated air pollution. We focus on a highly responsive measure of health tradeoffs: the infant mortality rate. Our analysis leverages newly digitized data on all major coal-fired power plants for the period 1938-1962, and two complementary difference-in-differences strategies based on the opening of power plants and new generating units at existing sites. We find that coal-fired power plants imposed large negative health externalities, which were partially offset by the benefits from local electricity generation. We uncover substantial heterogeneity in these tradeoffs, both across counties and over time. Expansions in coal capacity led to increases in infant mortality in counties with high base- line access to electricity, but had no effect in low-access counties. Initial expansions in coal capacity led to decreases in infant mortality, but subsequent additions led to increases in infant mortality. These evolving tradeoffs highlight the importance of accounting for both current and future payoffs when designing environmental regulation.
N92|Divergent Paths: Structural Change, Economic Rank, and the Evolution of Black-White Earnings Differences, 1940-2014|This paper presents new evidence on the evolution of black-white earnings differences among all men at different points in the distribution. We study two dimensions of earnings gaps: the black-white difference in earnings; and the difference between a black man’s position in the black earnings and the position he would hold in the white distribution. After narrowing from 1940 to the mid-1970s, the median black-white earning gap has since grown as large as it was in 1950. Even as his relative earnings improved then worsened, the median black man’s relative position in the earnings distribution has remained essentially constant. Black men at higher percentiles have experienced significant gains in relative earnings since 1940. Unlike blacks at the median and below, whose relative earnings changes have been chiefly the result of narrowing and stretching of the overall earnings distribution, higher percentile blacks have also experienced significant positional gains over the past 70 years.
N92|Witch Memories Remain: a landscape history of Salem, Massachusetts|This paper aims to explore how Salem, Massachusetts has remembered the 1692 Witchcraft Trials. This is a very large and comprehensive topic so focus has been narrowed to observe how the landscape of Salem has been transformed in memoriam. In the period post-1692 Witch Trials there was active forgetting in Salem. A stigma surrounded the trials and their occurrence was sidelined in favour of industrializing the city. Beginning just prior to the 1960s were small, concerted efforts to bring the trials to the attention of the public. The landscape of the city began to alter ? a process that has continued till this day. In the 1990s and 2000s, full-scale memorialization of the Witch Trials has left its mark on the landscape. Memorials, museums and stores are now found at the heart of the city all recapturing a once forgotten memory.This paper will specifically focus on the Witch Trials Memorial unveiled in 1992. The memorial has replaced an abandoned park in the middle of Salem, adjusting the tone of the space and its purpose. From this one memorial the culmination of Salem?s memorialization process can be observed and its impact on the landscape understood.
N92|A New Role for Cost-Benefit Analysis in Canadian Transportation Infrastructure Investment|Encouraging greater reliance on Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) as the organizing framework for facilitating discursive democratic procedures is an area in which the Canadian federal government can reinvigorate its role in the development of transportation infrastructure and physical infrastructure in general.The authors examine the microeconomic foundations of traditional CBA models. They find them too narrow to support the promise of CBA as a materially useful tool to help arrive at evidentiary consensus on major transportation infrastructure projects. To achieve its full promise, CBA requires an integration of advances in welfare economics, probability, discourse theory, and capability analysis.A framework for a reformulated CBA is presented along with an application of the approach in the case of gaining community evidentiary consensus on expansion of the Vancouver International Airport in the early 1990s. Potential implications for the federal government infrastructure policies today are explored and recommendations are made.
N92|Immigration and wages: new evidence from the African American Great Migration|Abstract During the African American Great Migration, millions of blacks left the Southern USA in favor of cities in the North. Despite the social and economic consequences of this migration, the question of its impacts on labor markets in the North has largely been overlooked in the literature. In this paper, I use both local wage comparisons and structural simulations of the aggregate Northern labor market to provide new evidence on the effects of the Great Migration on wages in the North, redoubling the evidence that it caused large declines in wages for blacks, with little effect for whites. The agreement between my local and aggregate wage effect estimates has implications for our general understanding of how immigration and wages are related and how that relationship can be measured.
N92|The Impact of the Great Migration on Mortality of African Americans: Evidence from the Deep South|The Great Migration–the massive migration of African Americans out of the rural South to largely urban locations in the North, Midwest, and West–was a landmark event in US history. Our paper shows that this migration increased mortality of African Americans born in the early twentieth century South. This inference comes from an analysis that uses proximity of birthplace to railroad lines as an instrument for migration. (JEL I12, J15, N31, N32, N91, N92, R23)
N92|Declining Mortality Inequality within Cities during the Health Transition|In the United States in the late 19th and early 20th century, large cities had extremely high death rates from infectious disease. Within major cities such as New York City and Philadelphia, there was significant variation at any point in time in the mortality rate across neighborhoods. Between 1900 and 1930 neighborhood mortality convergence took place in New York City and Philadelphia. We document these trends and discuss their consequences for neighborhood quality of life dynamics and the economic incidence of who gains from effective public health interventions.
N92|Agglomeration Economies and Productivity Growth: U.S. Cities, 1880-1930|We investigate the role of industrial structure in productivity growth in U.S. cities between 1880 and 1930 using a new dataset constructed from the Census of Manufactures. We find that increases in specialization were associated with faster productivity growth but that diversity only had positive effects on productivity performance in large cities. We interpret our results as providing strong support for the importance of Marshallian externalities. Industrial specialization increased considerably in U.S. cities in the early 20th century, probably as a result of improved transportation, and we estimate that this resulted in significant gains in labor productivity
N92|Agglomeration Economies and Productivity Growth: U.S. Cities, 1880-1930|We investigate the role of industrial structure in labor productivity growth in U.S. cities between 1880 and 1930 using a new dataset constructed from the Census of Manufactures. We find that increases in specialization were associated with faster productivity growth but that diversity only had positive effects on productivity performance in large cities. We interpret our results as providing strong support for the importance of Marshallian externalities. Industrial specialization increased considerably in U.S. cities in the early 20th century, probably as a result of improved transportation, and we estimate that this resulted in significant gains in labor productivity.
N92|Why did the Democrats Lose the South? Bringing New Data to an Old Debate|After generations of loyalty, Southern whites left the Democratic party en masse in the second half of the twentieth century. To what extent did Democrats' 1960s Civil Rights initiatives trigger this exodus, versus Southern economic development, rising political polarization or other trends that made the party unattractive to Southern whites? The lack of data on racial attitudes and political preferences spanning the 1960s Civil Rights era has hampered research on this central question of American political economy. We uncover and employ such data, drawn from Gallup surveys dating back to 1958. From 1958 to 1961, conservative racial views strongly predict Democratic identification among Southern whites, a correlation that disappears after President Kennedy introduces sweeping Civil Rights legislation in 1963. We find that defection among racially conservative whites explains all (three-fourths) of the decline in relative white Southern Democratic identification between 1958 and 1980 (2000). We offer corroborating quantitative analysis—drawn from sources such as Gallup questions on presidential approval and hypothetical presidential match-ups as well as textual analysis of newspapers—for the central role of racial views in explaining white Southern dealignment from the Democrats as far back as the 1940s.
N92|A Comparison Between The Segregation Policy Against African Americans And The Apartheid Policy|Segregation is a policy and practice of imposing the seperation of races. The segregation in America can be described as the endeavors of white Americans to keep African Americans in a subordinate status by denying the African American people?s equal access to public facilities (public schools, housing and/or industry) and also ensuring that blacks lived apart from whites.Apartheid is a system of racial segregation in South Africa enforced through legislation by the National Party governments from 1948 to 1994, under which the rights, associations, and movements of the black inhabitants were restricted.The fundamental difference between African Americans and Africans is the way they react to racism ans discrimination. They have also some differences in their culture, language and education system. Whereas they have similar hope, disappointment and disillusionment. In order to understand the deep relation between African Americans and Africans, the background of these two groups should be examined. The aim of this paper is to define the main points of the segregation and apartheid by making comparisons.
N92|Editor’s Overview|The 28th issue of the International Productivity Monitor features articles on the following topis: the measurement of industry contributions to labour productivity growth; the benefits of closing the Aboriginal education gap; the impact of public policies on bargaining power and the pay/productivity linkage; the relationship between employment and productivity growth; and the contribution of ICT diffusion and investment to labour productivity growth.
N92|Closing the Aboriginal Education Gap in Canada: The Impact on Employment, GDP, and Labour Productivity|Despite improvements between 2001 and 2011, Canada’s Aboriginal population continues to underperform in the labour market. The Aboriginal educational attainment gap is often seen as the major source of these disparities. Using data from the 2011 National Household Survey, projections of Aboriginal population growth, and forecasts of aggregate economic conditions, we estimate the economic impact of closing the educational attainment gap by 2031. We find that the benefits of achieving such a feat could be very large, both for the Aboriginal population and for the country as a whole. Closing the education gap would raise Aboriginal employment by 90 thousand workers, GDP by $28.3 billion (2010 dollars) and Aboriginal employment income by $11,236 per worker in 2031. Labour productivity would increase by 0.03 percentage points per year over the 2011-2031 period. Assuming improvement occurs at a constant pace, we estimate that the cumulative gains to Canadian GDP would be as large as $261 billion (2010 dollars) over the 2011-2031 period.
N92|Editor’s Overview|The 29th issue of the International Productivity Monitor features six articles on the following topics: the role of productivity in long-term economic projections for the Canadian provinces and territories; productivity trends in the residential care sector in Canada; agricultural productivity in Australia, Canada and the United States; a mathematical reconciliation of gross output-based total factor productivity (TFP) growth with value added-based TFP growth; an empirical illustration with Australian industry data of the relationship between the two TFP measures; and a review article on the OECD report The Future of Productivity.
N92|The Role of Productivity in Long-Term Economic and Fiscal Projections for the Canadian Provinces and Territories, 2014-2038|This article presents long-term projections for labour productivity and labour supply growth for the provinces and the territories for the 2014-2038 period, and discusses their implications for budgetary balance at the provincial/territorial level. We find that under our realistic assumptions, most provinces and territories will not be able to meet the test of balancing revenue growth with growth in public spending without either raising taxes or cutting program spending. Given the relative distaste for higher taxes and spending cuts, provincial/territorial governments in Canada must find ways to boost productivity and labour supply growth, and hence revenue growth, to maintain fiscal balance to 2038.
N92|Productivity in Residential Care Facilities in Canada, 1984-2009|This article examines the productivity performance of the residential care sector in Canada. The output of that sector is currently measured by inputs in the current national accounts and therefore cannot be compared with inputs to provide a meaningful indicator of productivity for the sector. In contrast, the output measure in this article is a direct output measure that can be used to estimate the productivity performance of the sector. We find that labour productivity was virtually unchanged in the sector in Canada over the 1984- 2009 period, with a large variation in labour productivity growth across the provinces. The level of labour productivity in residential care facilities also differs significantly across the provinces, reflecting differences in the ownership structure (private vs. public) and the size of residential care facilities.
N92|An Analysis of the Canada-U.S. ICT Investment Gap: An Update to 2013|Canada’s productivity performance reflects in large part our innovation record, both in terms of business sector R&D and information and communications technology (ICT) investment. The objective of this report is to examine the country’s ICT investment performance since 2000. The key finding is that, since the 2008 peak, business sector ICT investment in Canada has performed poorly, both relative to the Canadian non-business sector and to the business sector in the United States. By 2013, four years after the 2009 recession, nominal ICT investment in the business sector in Canada had failed to regain the 2008 level, falling on average 1.0 per cent per year over the 2008-2013 period. In contrast, despite government belttightening, nominal investment in the non-business sector in Canada advanced at a 2.0 per cent average annual rate. Equally, the United States, which experienced a more severe downturn than Canada, saw business sector nominal ICT investment grow at a 1.5 per cent average annual rate between 2008 and 2013. The fall in nominal ICT investment in Canada, combined with the increase in the United States, resulted in an 8.5 percentage point fall in the ICT investment per worker in Canada from 59.6 per cent of that of the US business sector in 2008 to 51.1 per cent in 2013. More research is needed to understand the reasons for the weak post-2008 ICT investment performance of Canada’s business sector.
N92|Closing the Aboriginal Education Gap in Canada: Assessing Progress and Estimating the Economic Benefits|This report has two major goals. The first goal is to assess progress on the gaps in educational attainment and labour market outcomes between 2001 and 2011 and the consequences of any progress (or lack thereof) for the Canadian economy. The second goal is to produce updated estimates of the benefits of eliminating the educational attainment gap. Utilizing projections of the Aboriginal population in 2031 and data from the 2011 National Household survey, we estimate the effects of closing the educational attainment gap on Aboriginal labour market outcomes and national economic performance. We provide breakdowns of the benefits by province, sex, age, Aboriginal identity, registered Indian status, and residence on- and off-reserve. We project that the direct cumulative economic benefits to Canada of closing the educational attainment gap between 2011 and 2031 could be as large as $261 billion.
N92|Ontario's Productivity Performance, 2000-2012: A Detailed Analysis|It is widely recognized that productivity growth is the key driver of long-run increases in living standards. Therefore, a slowdown in productivity growth is a major cause for concern. This has in fact been the situation in Ontario since 2000. After advancing at a 1.9 per cent average annual rate between 1987 and 2000, business sector productivity growth has fallen to 0.5 per cent per year between 2000 and 2012, the second lowest growth rate among the provinces. Indeed, given the relative size of Ontario’s economy, the province’s weak productivity growth has largely been responsible for Canada’s overall poor productivity performance. The objective of this report is to explain the slowdown in productivity growth in Ontario since 2000. The report provides an overview of the productivity performance of the Ontario economy, with a focus on the 2000-2012 period. The report also examines both the supply-side and demand-side factors that influenced Ontario’s productivity performance. The main cause of Ontario’s lackluster productivity growth is found to be the deterioration of external demand conditions. The drop in international exports, due to weak demand growth in the United States, loss of cost competitiveness linked to the appreciation of Canadian dollar and increasing international competition, played a direct role in the slowdown in Ontario’s productivity growth.
N92|When the Levee Breaks: Black Migration and Economic Development in the American South|In the American South, post-bellum economic development may have been restricted in part by white landowners' access to low-wage black labor. This paper examines the impact of the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 on black out-migration and subsequent agricultural development. Flooded counties experienced an immediate and persistent out-migration of black population. Over time, landowners in flooded counties modernized agricultural production and increased its capital intensity relative to landowners in nearby similar non-flooded counties. Landowners resisted black out-migration, however, benefiting from the status quo system of labor-intensive agricultural production.
N92|Selection and Economic Gains in the Great Migration of African Americans: New Evidence from Linked Census Data|"The onset of World War I spurred the ""Great Migration"" of African Americans from the US South, arguably the most important internal migration in US history. We create a new panel dataset of more than 5,000 men matched from the 1910 to 1930 census manuscripts to address three interconnected questions: To what extent was there selection into migration? How large were the migrants' gains? Did migration narrow the racial gap in economic status? We find evidence of positive selection, but the migrants' gains were large. A substantial amount of black-white convergence in this period is attributable to migration."
N92|Within U.S. Trade And The Long Shadow Of The American Secession|Using data from the US commodity flow surveys, we show that the historical Union- Confederacy border lowers contemporaneous trade between US states by about 16 percent relative to trade flows within the former alliances. Amongst one million placebos, there is no other constellation of state grouping that would yield a larger border effect. The finding is robust over different econometric models, treatment of the rest of the world, available survey waves, or levels of aggregation. Including contemporaneous controls, such as network, institutional or demographic variables, and Heckscher-Ohlin or Linder terms, lowers the estimate only slightly. Historical variables, such as the incidence of slavery, do not explain the effect away. Adding US states unaffected by the Civil War, we argue that the friction is not merely reflecting unmeasured North-South differences. Finally, the estimated border effect is larger for differentiated than for homogeneous goods, stressing the potential role for cultural factors and trust.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|The Power of Hydroelectric Dams: Agglomeration Spillovers|How much of the geographic clustering of economic activity is attributable to agglomeration spillovers as opposed to natural advantages? I present evidence on this question using data on the long-run effects of large scale hydroelectric dams built in the U.S. over the 20th century, obtained through a unique comparison between counties with or without dams but with similar hydropower potential. Until mid-century, the availability of cheap local power from hydroelectric dams conveyed an important advantage that attracted industry and population. By the 1950s, however, these advantages were attenuated by improvements in the efficiency of thermal power generation and the advent of high tension transmission lines. Using a novel combination of synthetic control methods and event-study techniques, I show that, on average, dams built before 1950 had substantial short run effects on local population and employment growth, whereas those built after 1950 had no such effects. Moreover, the impact of pre-1950 dams persisted and continued to grow after the advantages of cheap local hydroelectricity were attenuated, suggesting the presence of important agglomeration spillovers. Over a 50 year horizon, I estimate that at least one half of the long run effect of pre-1950 dams is due to spillovers. The estimated short and long run effects are highly robust to alternative procedures for selecting synthetic controls, to controls for confounding factors such as proximity to transportation networks, and to alternative sample restrictions, such as dropping dams built by the Tennessee Valley Authority or removing control counties with environmental regulations. I also find small local agglomeration effects from smaller dam projects, and small spillovers to nearby locations from large dams.
N92|An Empirical Analysis of a Regional Dutch Disease: The Case of Canada|While there has been extensive research on the Dutch Disease (DD), very little attention, if any, has been devoted to the regional mechanisms through which it may manifest itself. This is the first empirical attempt to research a ‘regional DD’ by looking at the local and spatial impacts of resource windfalls across Canadian provinces and territories. We construct a new panel dataset to examine separately the key DD channels; namely, the Spending Effect and the Resource Movement Effect. Our analysis reveals that the standard DD mechanisms are also relevant at the regional level; specifically, we find that: (a) Resource windfalls are associated with higher inflation and a labour (capital) shift from (to) non-primary tradable sectors. (b) Resource windfalls in neighbouring regions are associated with a capital (labour) shift from (to) non-primary tradable sectors in the source region. (c) The (spatial) DD explains (51 %) 20 % of the adverse effects of resource windfalls (in neighbouring regions) on region-specific non-mineral international exports (in the source region), and does not significantly affect domestic ones. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
N92|Local Economic Development, Agglomeration Economies, and the Big Push: 100 Years of Evidence from the Tennessee Valley Authority| We study the long-run effects of one of the most ambitious regional development programs in U.S. history: the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). Using as controls authorities that were proposed but never approved by Congress, we find that the TVA led to large gains in agricultural employment that were eventually reversed when the program's subsidies ended. Gains in manufacturing employment, by contrast, continued to intensify well after federal transfers had lapsed--a pattern consistent with the presence of agglomeration economies in manufacturing. Because manufacturing paid higher wages than agriculture, this shift raised aggregate income in the TVA region for an extended period of time. Economists have long cautioned that the local gains created by place-based policies may be offset by losses elsewhere. We develop a structured approach to assessing the TVA's aggregate consequences that is applicable to other place-based policies. In our model, the TVA affects the national economy both directly through infrastructure improvements and indirectly through agglomeration economies. The model's estimates suggest that the TVA's direct investments yielded a significant increase in national manufacturing productivity, with benefits exceeding the program's costs. However, the program's indirect effects appear to have been limited: agglomeration gains in the TVA region were offset by losses in the rest of the country. Spillovers in manufacturing appear to be the rare example of a localized market failure that cancels out in the aggregate. JEL Codes: R11, J20, N92, O40. Copyright 2014, Oxford University Press.
N92|Intangible Assets and their Contribution to Labour Productivity Growth in Ontario|Recent empirical studies confirm that the contribution of intangible capital investment to labour productivity growth is comparable to that of tangible capital investment for a wide range of countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, and France. Following Corrado et al. (2005) and Baldwin et al. (2012), this article assesses business sector investment in intangible assets and analyses the contribution of intangible capital to business sector labour productivity growth at the provincial level in Canada, in particular in Ontario. The results of this growth accounting exercise demonstrate that intangible capital contributes significantly to labour productivity growth in Ontario. In 1998-2008 intangible capital contributed on average 26.2 per cent to labour productivity growth while tangible capital contributed 17.9 per cent and labour composition contributed 8.7 per cent. Innovative property contributed the most among all categories of intangible capital, followed by economic competencies and computerized information.
N92|The Impact of the Oil Boom on Canada's Labour Productivity Performance, 2000-2012|The objective of this article is to evaluate the impact of the oil and gas industry on labour productivity growth in Canada since 2000 through an exploration of the various channels, both direct and indirect, by which the oil and gas sector affects aggregate productivity. The article sheds light on the paradoxical lack of a direct negative contribution of the oil and gas sector to aggregate labour productivity growth despite the very large fall in productivity experienced by the sector. It highlights the divergent productivity growth paths for the oil and gas sectors in Alberta and Newfoundland and Labrador, which drove the aggregate productivity performance of these two provinces. The article also discusses how developments in the oil and gas industry, notably the increase in the price and production of petroleum, have affected productivity growth in other parts of the economy.
N92|Sustainable Governance Indicators|A strong case can be made that the quality of governance provided by the government of Canada deteriorated somewhat from May 2011 to May 2013. While the government has constructed high-quality governance structures and implemented effective policies in many areas over many decades, the actions of the Conservative government since winning a majority of the seats in the House of Commons in May 2011 have jeopardized this situation. This report highlights a number of developments that lead to this conclusion.
N92|Convergence Across Provincial Economies in Canada: Trends, Drivers, and Implications|Canada has long been characterized by significant regional disparities. Such inequalities can create and exacerbate regional tensions and lead to demands for further redistribution of wealth. The objective of this study is to report on the current state of provincial differences in twenty-five economic variables related to income, productivity, the labour market, well-being and fiscal capacity, and to analyze trends toward or away from convergence for these economic variables. This report also examines the factors influencing these trends and discusses the implications for the federation.
N92|What Explains the Canada-U.S. Software Investment Intensity Gap?|In 2012, business sector software investment per worker in Canada was 40.7 per cent of that in the United States. The objective of this report is to deepen our understanding of the reasons for which Canadian businesses invest substantially less in software than their U.S. counterparts. The report reviews the state of the software investment landscape in Canada, discusses the views of industry experts obtained through key informant interviews, and assesses possible explanations for the software gap. About one-third of the gap can be assigned to differences in labour productivity, industry structure, and measurement methodologies between the two countries. The remaining two-thirds are more difficult to explain.
N92|Did Cuts in State Aid During the Great Recession Lead to Changes in Local Property Taxes?|The Great Recession led to marked declines in state revenue. In this paper we investigate whether (and how) local school districts modified their funding and taxing decisions in response to state aid declines in the post-recession period. Our results reveal school districts responded to state aid cuts in the post-recession period by countering these cuts. Relative to the pre-recession period, a unit decrease in state aid was associated with a relative increase in local funding. To further probe the school district role, we explore whether the property tax rate, which reflects decisions of districts facing budgetary needs, responded to state aid cuts. We find, relative to the pre-recession period, the post-recession period was characterized by a strong negative relationship between property tax rate and state aid per pupil. We also find important heterogeneities in these responses by region, property wealth, and importance of School Tax Relief Program revenue in district budgets. Â© 2014 Federal Reserve Bank of New York
N92|Maternal health and the baby boom| Fertility in the United States rose from a low of 2.27 children for women born in 1908 to a peak of 3.21 children for women born in 1932. It dropped to a new low of 1.74 children for women born in 1949, before stabilizing for subsequent cohorts. We propose a novel explanation for this boom–bust pattern, linking it to the huge improvements in maternal health that started in the mid‐1930s. Our hypothesis is that the improvements in maternal health contributed to the mid‐twentieth century baby boom and generated a rise in women's human capital, ultimately leading to a decline in desired fertility for subsequent cohorts. To examine this link empirically, we exploit the large cross‐state variation in the magnitude of the decline in pregnancy‐related mortality and the differential exposure by cohort. We find that the decline in maternal mortality is associated with a rise in fertility for women born between 1921 and 1940, with a rise in college and high school graduation rates for women born in 1933–1950 relative to previous cohorts, and with a decline in fertility for women born in 1941–1950 relative to those born in 1921–1940. The analysis provides new insights on the determinants of fertility in the United States and other countries that experienced similar improvements in maternal health.
N92|Do female officers improve law enforcement quality? Effects on crime reporting and domestic violence escalation|We study the impact of the integration of women in US policing between the late 1970s and early 1990s on violent crime reporting and domestic violence escalation. Along these two key dimensions, we find that female officers improved police quality. Using crime victimization data, we find that as female representation increases among officers in an area, violent crimes against women in that area, and especially domestic violence, are reported to the police at significantly higher rates. There are no such effects for violent crimes against men or from increases in the female share among civilian police employees. Furthermore, we find evidence that female officers help prevent the escalation of domestic violence. Increases in female officer representation are followed by significant declines in intimate partner homicide rates and in rates of repeated domestic abuse. These effects are all consistent between fixed effects models with controls for economic and policy variables and models that focus exclusively on increases in female police employment driven by externally imposed affirmative action plans resulting from employment discrimination cases.
N92|Slum Clearance and Urban Renewal in the United States|We study the local effects of a federal program that helped cities clear areas for redevelopment, rehabilitate structures, complete city plans, and enforce building codes. We use an instrumental variable strategy to estimate the program's effects on city-level measures of income, property values, employment and poverty rates, and population. The estimated effects on income, property values, and population are positive and economically significant. They are not driven by changes in demographic composition. Estimated effects on poverty reduction and employment are positive but imprecise. The results are consistent with a model in which local productivity is enhanced. (JEL I32, N32, N92, R23, R38, R58)
N92|Identifying the Effects of Bank Failures from a Natural Experiment in Mississippi during the Great Depression|I examine the causal effect of bank failures during the Great Depression using the quasi-experimental setup of Richardson and Troost (2009). The experiment is based on Mississippi being divided into two Federal Reserve districts, which followed different policies for liquidity provision. This translated into variation in bank failures across the state. Employing a plant-level sample from the Census of Manufactures, I find that banking failures had a negative effect on revenue stemming from a fall in physical output. I find no effect on employment at the plant-level and a large decline at the county-level. (JEL E32, E44, G21, G33, N12, N22, N92)
N92|How Do Mortgage Subsidies Affect Home Ownership? Evidence from the Mid-century GI Bills|The largest twentieth-century increase in US home ownership occurred between 1940 and 1960, associated largely with declining age at first ownership. I shed light on the contribution of coincident government mortgage market interventions by examining home loan benefits granted under the World War II and Korean War GI Bills. Veterans' benefits increased home ownership rates primarily by shifting purchase earlier in life, explaining 7.4 percent of the overall 1940-1960 increase, and 25 percent of the increase for affected cohorts. A rough extrapolation suggests that broader changes in mortgage terms can explain 40 percent of the 1940-1960 increase. (JEL G21, N22, N92, R21, R31)
N92|Task Specialization in U.S. Cities from 1880-2000|We develop a new methodology for quantifying the tasks undertaken within occupations using 3,000 verbs from around 12,000 occupational descriptions in the Dictionary of Occupational Titles (DOTs). Using micro-data from the United States from 1880-2000, we find an increase in the employment share of interactive occupations within sectors over time that is larger in metro areas than non-metro areas. We provide evidence that this increase in the interactiveness of employment is related to the dissemination of improvements in transport and communication technologies. Our findings highlight a change in the nature of agglomeration over time towards an increased emphasis on human interaction.
N92|Gravity Model Applications and Macroeconomic Perspectives|Die vorliegende Arbeit wurde von Jasmin Gröschl erstellt und besteht aus fünf eigenständigen empirischen Studien. Die Arbeit liefert einen Betrag zum Verständnis atypischer Determinanten von Handel und Migration: historische und kulturelle Merkmale in den USA (Kapitel 1), politisch bedingte Vorschriften für landwirtschaftliche Erzeugnisse und Lebensmittel (Kapitel 2) und Naturkatastrophen (Kapitel 3); und wie internationale Integration von Ländern deren Wirtschaftswachstum beeinflusst und hilft, die Kosten von Naturkatastrophen einzugrenzen: Handelsoffenheit und BIP pro Kopf (Kapitel 4) und Naturkatastrophen, internationale Integration und Wirtschaftswachstum (Kapitel 5).
N92|Wettbewerbsposition der Stadt Frankfurt im Verhältnis zum Umland|Das Gutachten untersucht den Standortwettbewerb zwischen Frankfurt und den umliegenden Gemeinden. Hierbei stellen sich Fragen nach einer möglichen Intensivierung des Standortwettbewerbs, der Position Frankfurts, und etwaigen Determinanten für Veränderungen. Es zeigt sich ab Ende der 90er-Jahre deutlich eine Intensivierung des Steuerwettbewerbs innerhalb der Region. Während die Elastizität des Steueraufkommens in Bezug auf den Gewerbesteuerhebesatz für Hessen insgesamt nahe bei Null liegt, zeigt sich bei den Gemeinden rund um Frankfurt eine negative Elastizität. Dabei wird festgestellt, dass sich der Steuerwettbewerb erst ungefähr seit 2000 so stark intensiviert hat, dass die Hebesatzsenkung einer Umlandgemeinde im Mittel positive Aufkommenseffekte hat. Das Gutachten zeigt mögliche Ursachen für die Intensivierung des Steuerwettbewerbs auf, wobei auf den Strukturwandel, die hohe Zergliederung des administrativen Gebietszuschnitts und die Anreizwirkung des kommunalen Finanzausgleichs fokussiert wird.
N92|Task Specialization in U.S. Cities from 1880-2000|We develop a new methodology for quantifying the tasks undertaken within occupations using 3,000 verbs from around 12,000 occupational descriptions in the Dictionary of Occupational Titles (DOTs). Using micro-data from the United States from 1880-2000, we find an increase in the employment share of interactive occupations within sectors over time that is larger in metro areas than non-metro areas. We provide evidence that this increase in the interactiveness of employment is related to the dissemination of improvements in transport and communication technologies. Our findings highlight a change in the nature of agglomeration over time towards an increased emphasis on human interaction.
N92|Women, wealth and economic change: An assessment of the impact of women's property law in Wentworth County, Ontario, 1872–1927|Historical wealth micro-data from Wentworth County, Ontario examines the evolution of female and male wealth holding in the wake of 19th century property rights legislation. The results reveal that male wealth was greater than female wealth in Wentworth County but that over time the gap declined. Female wealth rose continually in Wentworth County over the period 1872 to 1927 and by 1927 average female wealth was 61% that of males compared to about 17% in 1872.
N92|The effects of the Works Progress Administration's anti-malaria programs in Georgia 1932–1947|From 1900 to 1950, malaria rates declined rapidly in the southeast United States. At its peak, malaria infected over 30% of the population. Malaria declined over the period for several reasons: improvements in public infrastructure; development of new insecticides; improvements in agriculture that promoted drainage; increases in incomes; and changes in migration patterns. This paper focuses on public works constructed by the Works Progress Administration (WPA) during the 1930s and subsequent interventions during the 1940s. To estimate the relationship between these malaria programs and malaria rates, I construct a panel of annual county level malaria rates in Georgia from 1932 to 1947. Between 1932 and 1940 the malaria rate in counties that received WPA malaria projects fell from 25.9 deaths per 100,000 to 5.3 deaths per 100,000. The empirical estimates suggest that WPA malaria projects led to 9.1 fewer deaths per 100,000 or roughly 44% of the observed decline in treated counties. Additional public works constructed by the MCWA during World War II, and the introduction of DDT after 1945 completely eliminated malaria in Georgia by 1947.
N92|The Effects of the Works Progress Administration's Anti-Malaria Programs in Georgia 1932–1947|From 1900 to 1950, malaria rates declined rapidly in the southeast United States. At its peak, malaria infected over 30% of the population. Malaria declined over the period for several reasons: improvements in public infrastructure; development of new insecticides; improvements in agriculture that promoted drainage; increases in incomes; and changes in migration patterns. This paper focuses on public works constructed by the Works Progress Administration (WPA) during the 1930s and subsequent interventions during the 1940s. To estimate the relationship between these malaria programs and malaria rates, I construct a panel of annual county level malaria rates in Georgia from 1932 to 1947. Between 1932 and 1940 the malaria rate in counties that received WPA malaria projects fell from 25.9 deaths per 100,000 to 5.3 deaths per 100,000. The empirical estimates suggest that WPA malaria projects led to 9.1 fewer deaths per 100,000 or roughly 44% of the observed decline in treated counties. Additional public works constructed by the MCWA during World War II, and the introduction of DDT after 1945 completely eliminated malaria in Georgia by 1947.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|Sharing the Prize: The Economics of the Civil Rights Revolution in the American South|The civil rights movement was also a struggle for economic justice, one that until now has not had its own history. Sharing the Prize demonstrates the significant material gains black southerners made—in improved job opportunities, quality of education, and health care—from the 1960s to the 1970s and beyond. Because black advances did not come at the expense of southern whites, Gavin Wright argues, the civil rights struggle was that rarest of social revolutions: one that benefits both sides. From the beginning, black activists sought economic justice in addition to full legal rights. The southern bus boycotts and lunch counter sit-ins were famous acts of civil disobedience, but they were also demands for jobs in the very services being denied blacks. In the period of enforced desegregation following the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the wages of southern black workers increased dramatically. Wright’s painstaking documentation of this fact undermines beliefs that government intervention was unnecessary, that discrimination was irrational, and that segregation would gradually disappear once the market was allowed to work. Wright also explains why white southerners defended for so long a system that failed to serve their own best interests. Sharing the Prize makes clear that the material benefits of the civil rights acts of the 1960s are as significant as the moral ones—an especially timely achievement as these monumental pieces of legislation, and the efficacy of governmental intervention more broadly, face new challenges.
N92|Regional resilience|"In this paper, I study long-run population changes across U.S. metropolitan areas. First, I argue that changes over a long period of time in the geographic distribution of population can be informative about the so-called \resilience"" of regions. Using the censuses of population from1790 to 2010, I find that persistent declines, lasting two decades or more, are somewhat rare among metropolitan areas in U.S. history, though more common recently. Incorporating data on historical factors, I find that metropolitan areas that have experienced extended periods of weak population growth tend to be smaller in population, less industrially diverse, and less educated. These historical correlations inform the construction of a regional resilience index."
N92|New Multicity Estimates of the Changes in Home Values, 1920-1940|The boom and bust in housing during the 2000s has led to renewed interest in the boom and bust in housing between 1920 and 1940. The most commonly used housing value series for this period is reported by Robert Shiller in Irrational Exuberance. We investigate the changes in housing values in cities between 1920 and 1940 using a variety of alternative sources with many more cities available for comparison than in the Shiller series. We find that all nominal housing value series show a strong decline between the late 1920s and the early 1930s. However, all of the series except the Shiller series imply that housing values in 1920 were well below the 1930 value and thus imply much stronger growth rates in housing values during the 1920s housing boom. Only the Shiller series predicts a strong recovery in housing values to within 5 percent of the 1930 level. All of the others suggest that nominal housing values in 1940 remained at least 18 percent below the 1930 values and several series suggest that values lurched downward between 1933 and 1940. The results suggest that a significant reconsideration of the operation of housing markets in the 1920s and 1930s is required.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|Urbanization in the United States, 1800-2000|This handbook chapter seeks to document the economic forces that led the US to become an urban nation over its two hundred year history. We show that the urban wage premium in the US was remarkably stable over the past two centuries, ranging between 15 and 40 percent, while the rent premium was more variable. The urban wage premium rose through the mid-nineteenth century as new manufacturing technologies enhanced urban productivity; then fell from 1880 to 1940 (especially through 1915) as investments in public health infrastructure improved the urban quality of life; and finally rose sharply after 1980, coinciding with the skill- (and apparently also urban-) biased technological change of the computer revolution. The second half of the chapter focuses instead on the location of workers and firms within metropolitan areas. Over the twentieth century, both households and employment have relocated from the central city to the suburban ring. The two forces emphasized in the monocentric city model, rising incomes and falling commuting costs, can explain much of this pattern, while urban crime and racial diversity also played a role.
N92|An Empirical Analysis of a Regional Dutch Disease: The case of Canada|While there has been extensive research on the Dutch Disease (DD) very little attention, if any, has been devoted to the regional mechanisms through which it may manifest itself. This is the first empirical attempt to research a 'regional DD' by looking at the local and spatial impacts of resource windfalls across Canadian provinces and territories. We construct a new panel dataset to examine separately the key DD channels; namely, the Spending Effect (SE) and the Resource Movement Effect (RME). Our analysis reveals that the standard DD mechanisms are also relevant at the regional level; specifically, we find that: (a) Resource windfalls are associated with higher inflation and a labor (capital) shift from (to) non-primary tradable sectors. (b) Resource windfalls in neighboring regions are associated with a capital (labor) shift from (to) non-primary tradable sectors in the sourc eregion. (c) The (spatial) DD explains (51%) 20% of the adverse effects of resource windfalls (in neighboring regions) on region-specific non-mineral international exports (in the source region), and does not significantly affect domestic ones.
N92|The organization of an ethnic economy: Urban black communities in the early twentieth century|Pioneering investigations of urban black communities have asserted that during the early twentieth century, the diverse activities of black entrepreneurs were not organized into a coherent ethnic economy. However, in the present study, multivariate analyses of Census data cast doubt on this assertion. They show that in large northern cities, measures of black participation in numerous entrepreneurial and professional occupations were positively and significantly associated with one another and were, in some cases, positively associated with measures of black participation in various public service, artistic, entertainment, and mass media occupations. There is evidence, then, for a revisionist view of black enterprise that suggests that important economic and social endeavors coexisted in beneficial relationships within the black communities of cities that were the principal destinations of black migrants from the South in the early twentieth century.
N92|Beyond town and gown: university economic engagement and the legacy of the urban crisis|No abstract is available for this item.
N92|Voting with Your Feet: Political Competition and Internal Migration in the United States|"Do people ""vote with their feet"" due to a lack of political competition? We formalize the theory of political competition and migration to show that increasing political competition lowers political rent leading to net in-migration. Our empirical application using US data supports this prediction. We �find that an increase in political competition - in the order of magnitude observed in US Southern states during the post-war period - leads to an increase in net migration of approximately 36 individuals per 1000 population. In comparison, birth rates over the last century ranged between 70 and 150 births per 1000 population."
N92|The Wrong Side(s) of the Tracks: The Causal Effects of Racial Segregation on Urban Poverty and Inequality|A striking negative correlation exists between an area's residential racial segregation and its population characteristics, but it is recognized that this relationship may not be causal. I present a novel test of causality from segregation to population characteristics by exploiting the arrangements of railroad tracks in the nineteenth century to isolate plausibly exogenous variation in areas' susceptibility to segregation. I show that this variation satisfies the requirements for a valid instrument. Instrumental variables estimates demonstrate that segregation increases metropolitan rates of black poverty and overall black-white income disparities, while decreasing rates of white poverty and inequality within the white population. (JEL I32, J15, N31, N32, N91, N92, R23)
N92|Did Improvements in Household Technology Cause the Baby Boom? Evidence from Electrification, Appliance Diffusion, and the Amish|We examine the hypothesis that advances in household technology caused the US baby boom, and we find no support for this claim. Advances in household technology occurred before the baby boom, while fertility declined. From 1940 to 1960, levels/changes in county-level appliance ownership and electrification negatively predict levels/changes in fertility rates. Exposure to electricity in early adulthood and children-ever-born are negatively correlated for the relevant cohorts. The Amish, who used modern technologies much less than other US households, experienced a coincident baby boom. This evidence can be reconciled with economic theory if other home-produced goods are substitutes with children. (JEL D12, J13, N32, N92, O33)
N92|White Suburbanization and African-American Home Ownership, 1940-1980|Between 1940 and 1980, the homeownership rate among metropolitan African-American households increased by 27 percentage points. Nearly three-quarters of this increase occurred in central cities. We show that rising black homeownership in central cities was facilitated by the movement of white households to the suburban ring, which reduced the price of urban housing units conducive to owner-occupancy. Our OLS and IV estimates imply that 26 percent of the national increase in black homeownership over the period is explained by white suburbanization.
N92|Entre Carlos Lehder y los vaqueros de la cocaína. La consolidación de las redes de narcotraficantes colombianos en Miami en los años 70|Este artículo estudia las importaciones de cocaína y marihuana colombianas a Miami durante la década de 1970. Describe las redes organizadas para estas actividades ilícitas y señala que los colombianos cooperaban con traficantes de otras nacionalidades (principalmente cubanos y norteamericanos). Por último, se muestra que la violencia desatada por los narcotraficantes colombianos en Miami a finales de los años 70 iba plenamente dirigida a bandas rivales de la misma nacionalidad
N92|Análisis de reducción de la fecundidad en Colombia. Modelo de determinantes próximos|El proceso de reducción de la fecundidad es un fenómeno moderno de la sociedad. Como explicación existen diferentes concepciones que parten de la teoría de la transición demográfica y se fundamentan tradicionalmente en una visión económica, aun cuando existen aportes de otras ciencias sociales. El presente documento recoge en parte dichas teorías y analiza la reducción de la fecundidad para el caso de Colombia empleando el modelo de determinantes próximos de la fecundidad, siguiendo lo planteado por Bongaarts (1978) y Gertler y Molyneaux (1994).
N92|Actividades religiosas en Bucaramanga: una aproximación desde la economía|Este documento explora el comportamiento religioso de los habitantes de la ciudad de Bucaramanga desde la perspectiva analítica conocida como economía de la religión. Considerando la práctica religiosa como una elección racional de los individuos, se analizan las creencias, el nivel de oración y la frecuencia de asistencia al templo. Los resultados empíricos permiten concluir que: (i) la edad y la compatibilidad religiosa entre cónyuges son determinantes positivos de la asistencia a la iglesia y la oración y (ii) la educación y el ingreso se constituyen como factores que inciden negativamente en la intensidad de las prácticas religiosas.
N92|Repairing a Mortgage Crisis: HOLC Lending and Its Impact on Local Housing Markets|Between 1933 and 1936 the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation purchased more than a million delinquent mortgages from private lenders and refinanced those loans for the borrowers. Its primary goal was to break the cycle of foreclosure, forced property sales and decreases in home values that was affecting local housing markets throughout the nation. We find that the volume of HOLC lending was related to measures of distress in local (county-level) housing markets and that these interventions increased 1940 median home values and homeownership rates, but not new home building.
N92|When Wall Street Met Main Street: The Quest for an Investors' Democracy|The financial crisis that began in 2008 has made Americans keenly aware of the enormous impact Wall Street has on the economic well-being of the nation and its citizenry. How did financial markets and institutions—commonly perceived as marginal and elitist at the beginning of the twentieth century—come to be seen as the bedrock of American capitalism? How did stock investment—once considered disreputable and dangerous—first become a mass practice? Julia Ott tells the story of how, between the rise of giant industrial corporations and the Crash of 1929, the federal government, corporations, and financial institutions campaigned to universalize investment, with the goal of providing individual investors with a stake in the economy and the nation. As these distributors of stocks and bonds established a broad, national market for financial securities, they debated the distribution of economic power, the proper role of government, and the meaning of citizenship under modern capitalism. By 1929, the incidence of stock ownership had risen to engulf one quarter of American households in the looming financial disaster. Accordingly, the federal government assumed responsibility for protecting citizen-investors by regulating the financial securities markets. By recovering the forgotten history of this initial phase of mass investment and the issues surrounding it, Ott enriches and enlightens contemporary debates over economic reform.
N92|White Suburbanization And African-American Home Ownership, 1940-1980|Between 1940 and 1980, the rate of homeownership among African-American households increased by close to 40 percentage points. Most of this increase occurred in central cities. We show that rising black homeownership was facilitated by the filtering of the urban housing stock as white households moved to the suburbs, particularly in the slower growing cities of the Northeast and Midwest. Our OLS and IV estimates imply that up to one half of the national increase in black homeownership over the period can be attributed to white suburbanization.
N92|An Integrated Assessment of Water Markets: Australia, Chile, China, South Africa and the USA|The paper provides an integrated framework to assess water markets in terms of their institutional underpinnings and the three 'pillars' of integrated water resource management: economic efficiency, equity and environmental sustainability. This framework can be used: (1) to benchmark different water markets; (2) to track performance over time; and (3) to identify ways in which water markets might be adjusted by informed policy makers to achieve desired goals. The framework is used to identify strengths and limitations of water markets in: (1) Australia's Murray-Darling Basin; (2) Chile (in particular the Limarí Valley); (3) China (in particular, the North); (4) South Africa; and (5) the western United States. It identifies what water markets are currently able to contribute to integrated water resource management, what criteria underpin these markets, and which components of their performance may require further development.
N92|An Integrated Assessment of Water Markets: Australia, Chile, China, South Africa and the USA|The paper provides an integrated framework to assess water markets in terms of their institutional underpinnings and the three ‘pillars’ of integrated water resource management: economic efficiency, equity and environmental sustainability. This framework can be used: (1) to benchmark different water markets; (2) to track performance over time; and (3) to identify ways in which water markets might be adjusted by informed policy makers to achieve desired goals. The framework is used to identify strengths and limitations of water markets in: (1) Australia’s Murray-Darling Basin; (2) Chile (in particular the Limarí Valley); (3) China (in particular, the North); (4) South Africa; and (5) the western United States. It identifies what water markets are currently able to contribute to integrated water resource management, what criteria underpin these markets, and which components of their performance may require further development.
N92|An Integrated Assessment of Water Markets: Australia, Chile, China, South Africa and the USA|The paper provides an integrated framework to assess water markets in terms of their institutional underpinnings and the three ‘pillars’ of integrated water resource management: economic efficiency, equity and environmental sustainability. This framework can be used: (1) to benchmark different water markets; (2) to track performance over time; and (3) to identify ways in which water markets might be adjusted by informed policy makers to achieve desired goals. The framework is used to identify strengths and limitations of water markets in: (1) Australia’s Murray-Darling Basin; (2) Chile (in particular the Limarí Valley); (3) China (in particular, the North); (4) South Africa; and (5) the western United States. It identifies what water markets are currently able to contribute to integrated water resource management, what criteria underpin these markets, and which components of their performance may require further development.
N92|School Desegregation and Urban Change: Evidence from City Boundaries|I examine changes in the city-suburban housing price gap in metropolitan areas with and without court-ordered desegregation plans over the 1970s, narrowing my comparison to housing units on opposite sides of district boundaries. Desegregation of public schools in central cities reduced the demand for urban residence, leading urban housing prices and rents to decline by 6 percent relative to neighboring suburbs. Aversion to integration was due both to changes in peer composition and to student reassignment to nonneighborhood schools. The associated reduction in the urban tax base imposed a fiscal externality on remaining urban residents. (JEL H75, I21, I28, J15, R23, R31)
N92|Demography and Population Loss from Central Cities, 1950-2000|The share of metropolitan residents living in central cities declined dramatically from 1950 to 2000. We argue that cities would have lost even further ground if not for demographic trends such as renewed immigration, delayed child bearing, and a decline in the share of households headed by veterans. We provide causal estimates of the effect of children on residential location using the birth of twins. The effect of veteran status is identified from a discontinuity in the probability of military service during and after the mass mobilization for World War II. Our results suggest that these changes in demographic composition were strong enough to bolster city population but not to fully counteract socio-economic factors favoring suburban growth.
N92|US monetary and fiscal policy in the 1930s| The paper provides a survey of fiscal and monetary policies during the 1930s under the Hoover and Roosevelt administrations and how they influenced the policies during the recent Great Recession. The discussion of the causal impacts of monetary policy focuses on papers written in the last decade and the findings of scholars using dynamic structural general equilibrium modelling. The discussion of fiscal policy shows why economists do not see the New Deal as a Keynesian stimulus, describes the significant shift toward excise taxation during the 1930s, and surveys estimates of the impact of federal spending on local economies. The paper concludes with discussion of the lessons for the present from 1930s monetary and fiscal policy. Copyright 2010, Oxford University Press.
N92|Retail Trade by Federal Reserve District, 1919 to 1939: A Statistical History|Soon after beginning operations, the Federal Reserve established a nationwide network for collecting information about the economy. In 1919, the Fed began tabulating data by about retail sales, which it viewed as a fundamental measure of consumption. From 1920 until 1929, the Federal Reserve published data about retail sales each month by Federal Reserve district, but ceased to do so after 1929. It continued to compile monthly data on retail sales by reserve district, but this data remained in house. We collected these in-house reports from the archives of the Board of Governors and constructed a consistent series on retail trade at the district level. The new series enhances our understanding of economic trends during the Roaring „20s and Great Depression.
N92|The Economic Effects of Slum Clearance and Urban Renewal in the United States|The Housing Act of 1949 established a federally subsidized program that helped cities clear areas of existing buildings for redevelopment, rehabilitate deteriorating structures, complete comprehensive city plans, and enforce building codes. The program ended in 1974, but not before financing over 2,100 urban renewal projects and generating great controversy. We use an instrumental variable strategy to estimate the programï¿½s effects on city-level outcomes. The estimates are generally positive and economically significant and are not driven by differential changes in citiesï¿½ demographic composition. We caution that the results do not imply that the program was an equitable or optimal approach to dealing with central-city problems.
N92|War And Pestilence As Labor Market Shocks: U.S. Manufacturing Wage Growth 1914–1919|This paper explores the effect of mortalities from the 1918 influenza pandemic and World War I on wage growth in the manufacturing sector of U.S. states and cities from 1914–1919. The hypothesis is that both events decreased manufacturing labor supply, thereby initially increasing the marginal product of labor and wages. The results reveal that states and cities having had greater influenza mortalities experienced higher wage growth—roughly 2–3 percentage points for a 10% change in per capita mortalities. World War I combat mortalities also had a positive, but smaller, effect on wage growth. (JEL N62, N32, N92, I12)
N92|"Did New Deal and World War II Public Capital Investments Facilitate a ""Big Push"" in the American South?"|"The ""big push"" theory claims that publicly coordinated investment can break the cycle of poverty by helping developing economies overcome deficiencies in private incentives that prevent firms from adopting modern production techniques and achieving scale economies. Despite a flurry of research, however, scholars have offered scarce few real-world episodes that seem to fit the theoretical model. We argue that the postwar performance of the American South, which followed large public capital investments during the Great Depression and World War II, is such an application. Both econometric analysis and a contemporary survey of firms strongly support the notion that big-push dynamics were at work."
N92|Rules of Engagement: Architecture Theory and the Social Sciences in Frank Duffy's 1974 Thesis on Office Planning|This paper addresses the broad shift that took place in architectural theory and education in the 70s, where models of the discipline asserting the autonomy of architecture eclipsed models privileging architecture's ties to other disciplines, particularly technology and the social sciences. With Frank Duffy's Princeton thesis on open office planning (1974) as a focus, the paper explores the theoretical and institutional contexts of this shift and offers a critical reappraisal in light of contemporary issues facing architecture.
N92|Bedrock Depth and the Formation of the Manhattan Skyline, 1890-1915|"Skyscrapers in Manhattan need to be anchored to bedrock to prevent (possibly uneven) settling. This can potentially increase construction costs if the bedrock lies deep below the surface. The conventional wisdom holds that Manhattan developed two business centers--downtown and midtown--because the depth to the bedrock is close to the surface in these locations, with a bedrock ""valley"" in between. We measure the effects of building costs associated with bedrock depths, relative to other important economic variables in the location of early Manhattan skyscrapers (1890-1915). We find that bedrock depths had very little influence on the skyline; rather its polycentric development was due to residential and manufacturing patterns, and public transportation hubs."
N92|The New Deal and the Modernization of the South|This paper considers the impact of New Deal programs on the economy of the American South. Through investments in infrastructure (roads and electric power), environmental improvements (reforestation and soil conservation), and advances in public health (sanitation facilities and disease eradication), the federal government kickstarted modern economic development in the South. Although World War II is often identified as the turning point for regional growth, it is argued that wartime policies were a continuation of the region-building programs of the 1930s. There was no automatic connection, however, between economic modernization and liberalization of the South’s racial regime, which if anything became even more entrenched during this era. This perhaps-surprising proposition may be illustrated by an examination of two showcase New Deal programs: the TVA and the GI Bill.
N92|Is Canada Really All That Bad At Innovation?: A Tale of Two Industries|"This commentary raises questions about the degree to which global innovation indicators enable us to understand the historical dynamics of innovation in Canada, and about future directions for Canadian innovation policy. By focusing on the automotive and telecommunications sectors, two currently troubled Canadian industries with completely different histories, some of the major successes and mistakes of Canadian industrial policy are assessed critically. The conclusion is that the innovation problem in Canada has less to do with capabilities or opportunities, than with recent tendencies not to follow through when ambitious innovation initiatives in specific industries could be transformed into new national ""engines of growth""."
N92|Convergence of violent crime in the United States: Time series test of nonlinear|This study examines the violent crime convergence among the fifty one states in the United States. The chosen method for this analysis is nonlinear unit root test due to Kapetanios et al. (KSS, 2003), which was later extended by Chong et al. (CHLL, 2008). KSS-CHLL nonlinear unit root was applied for the test of nonlinear convergence among the fifty one states with respect to the national average for the period 1960 to 2007. Result of the study indicates that eight cases of long run converging, two cases of catching up, while the remainder forty one are diverging from the national average.
N92|The Economic Aftermath of the 1960s Riots in American Cities: Evidence from Property Values|In the 1960s numerous cities in the United States experienced violent, race-related civil disturbances. Although social scientists have long studied the causes of the riots, the consequences have received much less attention. This paper examines census data from 1950 to 1980 to measure the riots' impact on the value of central-city residential property, and especially on black-owned property. Both ordinary least squares and two-stage least squares estimates indicate that the riots depressed the median value of black-owned property between 1960 and 1970, with little or no rebound in the 1970s. Analysis of household-level data suggests that the racial gap in the value of property widened in riot-afflicted cities during the 1970s.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|A neighborhood-level view of riots, property values, and population loss: Cleveland 1950-1980|"We undertake a case study of riots in the context of Cleveland's economic decline between 1950 and 1980. Our empirical perspective emphasizes differential changes in property values and population levels across census tracts depending on their proximity to the riots' epicenter. We find patterns that are consistent with concentrated, negative, and long-lasting effects from the 1960s riots. These estimates do not depend on whether we use a narrow or a broad categorization for ""riot tracts"", whether we use simple difference-in-difference measures or detailed information on the distance of each tract from the riot center, or whether we use ordinary least squares or matching estimation techniques. Moreover, the negative relationship between riots and property value trends is not merely a reflection of the pre-existing trend in value, the pre-riot racial composition of the neighborhoods, the pre-riot proportion of neighborhood residents holding manufacturing jobs, the neighborhood crime rate, nor changes in the observable characteristics of the housing stock. ClevelandÕs economic difficulties did not start with the riots. Rather, we suggest that the impact of the riots was compounded by long-run forces that were already eroding ClevelandÕs economic base.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N92|Moving to nice weather|U.S. residents, both old and young, have been moving en masse to places with nice weather. Well known is the migration towards places with warmer winter weather, which is often attributed to the introduction of air conditioning. But people have also been moving to places with cooler and less-humid summer weather, which is the opposite of what would be expected from the introduction of air conditioning. Empirical evidence suggests that the main force driving weather-related moves is an increasing valuation of weather's contribution to quality of life. Cross-sectional population growth regressions are able to achieve a relatively good match with an a priori ranking of the weather's contribution to local quality of life.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N92|Reconciling Diversity with Equality: The Role of Intergovernmental Fiscal Arrangements in Maintaining an Effective State in Canada|Most countries, developed and developing, are fiscally decentralized with regional and local governments of varying importance. In many of these countries, some of these sub-national governments differ substantially from others in terms of wealth, ethnic, religious, or linguistic composition. This book considers how fiscal arrangements may strengthen or weaken national solidarity and the effectiveness with which public services are provided. In particular, the nation’s ability to cope with changes created by decentralization is explored.
N92|Escape from the City? The Role of Race, Income, and Local Public Goods in Post-War Suburbanization|Affluent towns often deliver high-quality public services to their residents. I estimate the willingness to pay to live in a high-income suburb, above and beyond the demand of wealthy neighbors, by measuring changes in housing prices across city-suburban borders as the income disparity between the two municipalities changes over time. I find that a $10,000 increase in town-level median income is associated with a seven percent increase in housing values at the border. The estimated demand for high-income municipalities is primarily driven by school quality and lower property tax rates.
N92|Race, Segregation, and Postal Employment: New Evidence on Spatial Mismatch|The spatial mismatch hypothesis posits that employment decentralization isolated urban blacks from work opportunities. This paper focuses on one large employer that has remained in the central city over the twentieth century - the U.S. Postal Service. We find that blacks substitute towards postal work as other employment opportunities leave the city circa 1960. The response is particularly strong in segregated areas, where black neighborhoods are clustered near the central business district. Furthermore, this pattern only holds for non-mail carriers, many of whom work in central processing facilities. More recently, the relationship between black postal employment and segregation has declined, suggesting that spatial mismatch has become less important over time.
N92|The New Promised Land: Black-White Convergence in the American South, 1960-2000|The black-white earnings gap has historically been larger in the South than in other regions of the United States. Since 1970, however, the male annual earnings gap outside the South has increased %u2013 dramatically, when the analysis factors in non-participants %u2013 while the gap within the South has narrowed, to the point where 2000 Census figures indicate significantly lower racial inequality in the South. Three proposed explanations for this trend focus on changing patterns of selective migration, labor market trends including reduced discrimination and the decline of manufacturing employment, and reductions in school segregation and school resource disparities in the South relative to the North. Evidence suggests that selective migration can explain about 40% of the South%u2019s relative advance, and virtually all of the relative advance after 1980. Earlier declines can be attributed in large part to reduced industrial segregation and other labor market advances in the South. Relative improvements in school quality for Southern blacks explain at most 20% of the overall trend.
N92|Did Big Government's Largesse Help the Locals? The Implications of WWII Spending for Local Economic Activity, 1939-1958|Studies of the development of local economies often point to large-scale World War II military spending as a source of long-term economic growth, even though the spending declined sharply after the demobilization. We examine the longer term impact of the temporary war spending on county economies using a variety of measures of socioeconomic activity: including per capita retail sales, the extent of manufacturing, population growth, the share of women in the work force, housing values and ownership, and per capita savings over the period 1940-1950. We find that in the longer term counties receiving more war spending per capita during the war experienced extensive growth due to increases in population but not intensive growth, as the war spending had very small impacts on per capita measures of economic activity.
N92|Smart Cities: Quality of Life, Productivity, and the Growth Effects of Human Capital| From 1940 to 1990, a 10% increase in a metropolitan area's concentration of college-educated residents was associated with a 0.8% increase in subsequent employment growth. Instrumental variables estimates support a causal relationship between college graduates and employment growth, but show no evidence of an effect of high school graduates. Using data on growth in wages, rents, and house values, I calibrate a neoclassical city growth model and find that roughly 60% of the employment growth effect of college graduates is due to enhanced productivity growth, the rest being caused by growth in the quality of life. This finding contrasts with the common argument that human capital generates employment growth in urban areas solely through changes in productivity. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
N92|Border Wars: Tax Revenues, Annexation, and Urban Growth in Phoenix (revised version)|"Phoenix and neighboring municipalities, like many in the South and West, pursued a growth strategy based on annexation in the decades after World War II. This paper explores the link between annexation and competition for tax revenues. After discussing arguments for annexation, it traces the history of annexation in the Phoenix metropolitan area. A long-running series of ""border wars"" entailed litigation, pre-emptive annexations, and considerable intergovernmental conflict. The paper argues that tax revenues have been a key motivation for annexation, particularly since the 1970s. It then considers several related policy issues and argues that while opportunities for annexation are becoming more limited, competition for tax revenues (particularly sales tax revenues) continues to be fierce and to create dilemmas for municipalities in the region(Paper revised July 2006.)"
N92|Border Wars: Tax Revenues, Annexation, and Urban Growth in Phoenix|"Phoenix and neighboring municipalities, like many in the South and West, pursued a growth strategy based on annexation in the decades after World War II. This paper explores the link between annexation and competition for tax revenues. After discussing arguments for annexation, it traces the history of annexation in the Phoenix metropolitan area. A long-running series of ""border wars"" entailed litigation, pre-emptive annexations, and considerable intergovernmental conflict. The paper argues that tax revenues have been a key motivation for annexation, particularly since the 1970s. It then considers several related policy issues and argues that while opportunities for annexation are becoming more limited, competition for tax revenues (particularly sales tax revenues) continues to be fierce and to create dilemmas for municipalities in the region. JEL Categories: H71, H77, N92, R51"
N92|Water, Race, and Disease|"Why, at the peak of the Jim Crow era early in the twentieth century, did life expectancy for African Americans rise dramatically? And why, when public officials were denying African Americans access to many other public services, did public water and sewer service for African Americans improve and expand? Using the qualitative and quantitative tools of demography, economics, geography, history, law, and medicine, Werner Troesken shows that the answers to these questions are closely connected. Arguing that in this case, racism led public officials not to deny services but to improve them -- the only way to ""protect"" white neighborhoods against waste from black neighborhoods was to install water and sewer systems in both -- Troesken shows that when cities and towns had working water and sewer systems, typhoid and other waterborne diseases were virtually eradicated. This contributed to the great improvements in life expectancy (both in absolute terms and relative to whites) among urban blacks between 1900 and 1940. Citing recent demographic and medical research findings that early exposure to typhoid increases the probability of heart problems later in life, Troesken argues that building water and sewer systems not only reduced waterborne disease rates, it also improved overall health and reduced mortality from other diseases. Troesken draws on many independent sources of evidence, including data from the Negro Mortality Project, econometric analysis of waterborne disease rates in blacks and whites, analysis of case law on discrimination in the provision of municipal services, and maps showing the location of black and white households. He argues that all evidence points to one conclusion: that there was much less discrimination in the provision of public water and sewer systems than would seem likely in the era of Jim Crow.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N92|Water, Race, and Disease|"Why, at the peak of the Jim Crow era early in the twentieth century, did life expectancy for African Americans rise dramatically? And why, when public officials were denying African Americans access to many other public services, did public water and sewer service for African Americans improve and expand? Using the qualitative and quantitative tools of demography, economics, geography, history, law, and medicine, Werner Troesken shows that the answers to these questions are closely connected. Arguing that in this case, racism led public officials not to deny services but to improve them -- the only way to ""protect"" white neighborhoods against waste from black neighborhoods was to install water and sewer systems in both -- Troesken shows that when cities and towns had working water and sewer systems, typhoid and other waterborne diseases were virtually eradicated. This contributed to the great improvements in life expectancy (both in absolute terms and relative to whites) among urban blacks between 1900 and 1940. Citing recent demographic and medical research findings that early exposure to typhoid increases the probability of heart problems later in life, Troesken argues that building water and sewer systems not only reduced waterborne disease rates, it also improved overall health and reduced mortality from other diseases. Troesken draws on many independent sources of evidence, including data from the Negro Mortality Project, econometric analysis of waterborne disease rates in blacks and whites, analysis of case law on discrimination in the provision of municipal services, and maps showing the location of black and white households. He argues that all evidence points to one conclusion: that there was much less discrimination in the provision of public water and sewer systems than would seem likely in the era of Jim Crow."
N92|The Economic Aftermath of the 1960s Riots: Evidence from Property Values|In the 1960s numerous cities in the United States experienced violent, race-related civil disturbances. Although social scientists have long studied the causes of the riots, the consequences have received much less attention. This paper examines census data from 1950 to 1980 to measure the riots' impact on the value of central-city residential property, and especially on black-owned property. Both ordinary least squares and two-stage least squares estimates indicate that the riots depressed the median value of black-owned property between 1960 and 1970, with little or no rebound in the 1970s. Analysis of household-level data suggests that the racial gap in the value of property widened in riot-afflicted cities during the 1970s.
N92|Race and Home Ownership: A Century-Long View|This paper uses census IPUMS data to analyze trends in racial differences in home ownership and housing values and to examine the connection between residential segregation and the housing status of blacks relative to whites. A widening in the ownership gap between 1940 and 1960 is explained largely by the increasing concentration of blacks in central city areas whereas a narrowing in the ownership gap between 1960 and 1980 is explained only by changes in the relative characteristics of the black and white populations. Residential segregation did not widen the racial gap in home ownership rates in 1940 or 1980, but did widen the gap in housing values after 1940.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
