N94|Análisis de la expansión urbana de Santa Cruz de Tenerife a través de sus liquidaciones de presupuestos de gastos (1959-1972)|La postración socioeconómica que había instaurado la autarquía tuvo matices propios en el caso de la economía insular al haberse cercenado el vínculo que había sido pieza clave en su trayectoria histórica, esto es, el libre acceso al mercado exterior. El Plan de Estabilización y Liberalización de 1959 supuso el comienzo de la alineación del país en el escenario internacional. El modo en que el municipio capitalino de Santa Cruz de Tenerife se benefició del nuevo marco derivó de la puesta en marcha del Plan Canarias, o la versión de los Planes de Desarrollo Económico y Social que se aplicó en Canarias, así como de la participación del municipio en los ingresos del Cabildo Insular mediante la denominada Carta Económica Municipal, que se tradujo en una fuente de financiación excepcional. Pero al resultar insuficientes dichas aportaciones se justificó el recurso al Banco de Crédito Local de España. Para contrastar esto, hemos utilizado los presupuestos de gastos liquidados del municipio, los presupuestos extraordinarios y los especiales de urbanismo. Los efectos de la estrategia inversora fueron significativos al instaurarse servicios asociados a la expansión y mejora del ámbito urbano-portuario, coincidiendo con la nueva inserción de la economía isleña en el mercado internacional.
N94|Stalin and the origins of mistrust|We show that current differences in trust levels within former Soviet Union countries can be traced back to the system of forced prison labor during Stalin's rule, which was marked by high incarceration rates, repression, and harsh punishments. We argue that those exposed to forced labor camps (gulags) became less trusting and transferred this social norm to their descendants. Combining contemporary individual-level survey data with historical information on the location of forced labor camps, we find that individuals who live near former gulags have low levels of social and institutional trust. Our results are robust to a battery of sensitivity checks, which suggests that the relationship we document is causal. We outline several causal mechanisms and test whether the social norm of mistrust near gulags developed because of political repression or due to fear that inmates bring criminality. As such, we provide novel evidence on the channels through which history matters for current socio-economic outcomes today.
N94|Debt and Taxes: The Sale-Rent Housing Price Ratio in Dublin since 1945|The recent Great Recession highlights the importance of housing to the broader economy, yet few reliable long-run series exist for sale and rental prices of housing. Using hedonic methods, frequency conversion techniques, and a detailed dataset of over one million sale and rental listings from newspapers and online, we construct new quarterly indices of sale and rental prices for Dublin, Ireland for the period starting in 1945 and an annual panel for six areas of the city over the same period. The series show four major market cycles, as well as three distinct phases for housing yield, with downward shifts in the early 1970s and again in the late 1990s. There is some evidence of rents converging across markets within the city but sale prices have diverged over the same period. An error-correction econometric analysis confirms the predictions of economic theory, that credit conditions in the credit market and user cost drive changes in the yield over time.
N94|Stalin and the Origins of Mistrust|We show that current differences in trust levels within former Soviet Union countries can be traced back to the system of forced prison labor during Stalin's rule, which was marked by high incarceration rates, repression, and harsh punishments. We argue that those exposed to forced labor camps (gulags) became less trusting and transferred this social norm to their descendants. Combining contemporary individual-level survey data with historical information on the location of forced labor camps, we find that individuals who live near former gulags have low levels of social and institutional trust. Our results are robust to a battery of sensitivity checks, which suggests that the relationship we document is causal. We outline several causal mechanisms and test whether the social norm of mistrust near gulags developed because of political repression or due to fear that inmates bring criminality. As such, we provide novel evidence on the channels through which history matters for current socio-economic outcomes today.
N94|Regional income inequality in France : what does history teach us?|This paper studies regional income inequality in France since mid-nineteenth century. Given the dominant role played by Île-de-France and the city of Paris, which inspired the publication of “Paris et le désert française” (Gravier, 1947) and a debate on regional development in the aftermath of World War II, France seems an ideal scenario to examine the dynamics of regional income. In doing so, we first document the existing evidence before and after the development of national accounting. Using different approaches, several studies have produced regional (département, NUTS3) Gross Domestic Product (GDP) estimates from 1840 to 1930. Thus, our first contribution is to present these findings, assess the appropriateness of each methodology, and address potential concerns. The comparison of existing estimates for 1861-1930 raises some doubts about the pattern of regional inequality followed since 1861 to 1911. Hence we present new estimates for 1860-1930 based in the Geary and Stark (2002) method. In short, our estimates sum up new evidence in favour of an incessant decline in regional inequality since mid 19th up to 1930 and turn down the hypothesis of a potential U-shaped pattern in France since mid 19th century to nowadays. Additionally, we found that the use of nominal relative wages could overestimate the level or regional income inequality.
N94|Historical Roots of Entrepreneurial Culture and Innovation Activity - An Analysis for German Regions|There is a research gap with respect to understanding the role of entrepreneurial culture and tradition for actual start-up behaviour. We combine historical self-employment data (entrepreneurial tradition) with a psychological measure for entrepreneurial attitudes (entrepreneurial culture). The results reveal a positive relationship between the historical level of self-employment in a region and the presence of people with an entrepreneurial personality structure today. Our measure for a regional culture of entrepreneurship is positively related not only to the level of new business formation but also the amount of innovation activity.
N94|"""We can't pay"": How Italy cancelled war debts after Lausanne"|The paper deals with Italian inter-war debts, against the background of the very contentious international issue of war reparations that many Allied nations wanted to link to war debt repayments. While the bulk of the literature looks at the Lausanne conference of 1932 as an act of forgiveness of war debts, we show that Italy, having first achieved an extremely large haircut by restructuring US and UK debts in 1925-26, defaulted after Lausanne. We also present a new times series on Italian foreign debt from 1925 to 1934, a series that is consistent with the unfolding of relevant historical events.
N94|On the Origin and Composition of the German East-West Population Gap|The East-West gap in the German population is believed to originate from migrants escaping the socialist regime in the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We use newly collected regional data and the combination of a regression discontinuity design in space with a difference-in-differences approach to document that the largest part of this gap is due to a massive internal migration wave 3 years prior to the establishment of the GDR. The timing and spatial pattern of this migration movement suggest that the dominant motive was escaping physical assault by the Soviet army and not avoiding the socialist regime. The skill composition of these migrants shows a strong positive selection. The gap in population has remained remarkably sharp in space and is growing.
N94|On the Origin of the German East-West Population Gap|The East-West gap in the German population is believed to originate from migrants escaping the socialist regime in the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We use newly collected regional data and the combination of a regression discontinuity design in space with a difference-in-differences approach to document that the largest part of this gap is due to a massive internal migration wave 3 years prior to the establishment of the GDR. The timing and spatial pattern of this migration movement suggest that the dominant motive was escaping physical assault by the Soviet army and not avoiding the socialist regime. The gap in population has remained remarkably sharp in space and is growing.
N94|Historical Roots of Entrepreneurial Culture and Innovation Activity?An Analysis for German Regions|There is a research gap with respect to understanding the role of entrepreneurial culture and tradition for actual start-up behaviour. We combine historical self-employment data (entrepreneurial tradition) with a psycho- logical measure for entrepreneurial attitudes (entrepreneurial culture). The results reveal a positive relationship between the historical level of self- employment in a region and the presence of people with an entrepreneurial personality structure today. Our measure for a regional culture of entrepreneurship is positively related not only to the level of new business formation but also the amount of innovation activity.
N94|"Representation of the people: Franchise extension and the ""Sinn Féin election"" in Ireland, 1918"|Electoral reforms in 1918 nearly tripled the number of people eligible to vote in Ireland. Following the reforms - the largest franchise extensions in UK history - the previously obscure Sinn Féin party secured 73 of Ireland's 105 seats, an outcome that presaged a guerrilla war and ultimately independence from the United Kingdom. This paper examines the relationship between the franchise extension and the election results. We find little evidence of a connection between the two. New female voters appear less likely to have supported Sinn Féin. New male voters were slightly more likely to vote for Sinn Féin, but the magnitude of this effect was small and statistically insignificant. In fact, non-voting appears particularly high for both groups of new voters. Our results suggest that the extension of the franchise cannot explain Sinn Féin's victory. We conclude their electoral success was more likely driven by a change of heart on behalf of the Irish electorate, rather than a change in its composition.
N94|"Representation Of The People: Franchise Extension And The ""Sinn Féin Election"" In Ireland, 1918"|Electoral reforms in 1918 nearly tripled the number of people eligible to vote in Ireland. Following the reforms - the largest franchise extensions in UK history – the previously obscure Sinn Féin party secured 73 of Ireland's 105 seats, an outcome that presaged a guerrilla war and ultimately independence from the United Kingdom. This paper examines the relationship between the franchise extension and the election results. We find little evidence of a connection between the two. New female voters appear less likely to have supported Sinn Féin. New male voters were slightly more likely to vote for Sinn Féin, but the magnitude of this effect was small and statistically insignificant. In fact, non-voting appears particularly high for both groups of new voters. Our results suggest that the extension of the franchise cannot explain Sinn Féin's victory. We conclude their electoral success was more likely driven by a change of heart on behalf of the Irish electorate, rather than a change in its composition.
N94|The Municipal Treasury of Santa Cruz de Tenerife (1936-1958)|The Canary Islands were not outside to the deep and prolonged crisis of autarchy, and the departure of thousands of islanders across the Atlantic was perhaps the most visible sign. To the difficult circumstances of the Civil War and Second World War, was added an autocratic policy that in the case of the island's economy had its own aspect, because it cut the link that had been essential piece in its historical becoming, its free access to the international market. In addition, the vulnerability of the islands to the outside pressure, its possible occupation by Allied forces and the demand of commodities (food, energy), determined that during much of the period the economy was ruled by the military authority, based in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, ancient capital in times of the single province (until 1927). This paper studies the treasury of this city with the purpose of pondering the meaning of this process
N94|Human Capital And Urban Growth In Italy, 1981–2001|Over the last decades of the XX century, human capital has emerged as a critical source of agglomeration economies fueling urban growth in advanced economies. Focusing on the Italian case, this paper assesses the contribution of human capital to urban growth, the latter gauged by employment growth between 1981 and 2001. A 10% higher share of college‐educated residents prompted a higher growth in employment in the 0.5–2.2% range. These results hold controlling for a wide set of urban characteristics and using an instrumental variable approach. By exploiting a spatial localization model, we disentangle the estimated effect into two components related to higher productivity and to higher life quality, respectively. We found that the former contributed to more than 60% of the effect at municipal level, and to over 90% at the wider local labor market level.
N94|The Shadow of Cities: Size, Location and the Spatial Distribution of Population in Spain|Using a large data set on the population of Spanish municipalities between 1877 and 2001, this paper analyses how their initial size and the presence of neighbouring urban locations influence subsequent population growth and how these links have evolved over time. Our results show that initial size is negatively related to population growth, except in the 1960s and 1970s when this relationship becomes positive. Likewise, the presence of neighbouring urban locations limited local population growth in the late 19th century, a negative effect that persisted, but at a diminishing rate, until the second half of the 20th century. The influence of nearby cities became increasingly positive from then onwards, and especially so during the 1970s.
N94|Dismantled once, diverged forever? A quasi-natural experiment of Red Army misdeeds in post-WWII Europe|I study the economic consequences of the Red Army’s misdeeds after WWII. I exploit differences in spatial economic activity across the arbitrarily drawn and only for 74 days lasting liberation demarcation line between the Red Army and the Western Allies in South Austria. Dismantling and pillaging, but also (sexual) crimes made regions liberated by the Red Army a less desirable place to live and to start economic activities compared to adjacent regions. Spatial regression discontinuity (RD) estimates show that the liberation causes a relative population decline by around 26 to 31 percent until the present day. Measures of labor productivity also lag behind in Red Army liberated regions. I explain persistence with the selective migration pattern across the demarcation line in the direct aftermath of WWII.
N94|The origins of economic growth and regional income inequality in South-West Europe 1870-1950|This study focuses on South-West Europe, an area comprising France, Italy, Spain and Portugal, to evaluate inequality in regional income between 1870 and 1950. To do this, information on a decadal basis on regional population and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for 171 regions (84 French départements, 22 Italian regioni, 18 Portuguese distritos and 49 Spanish provincias) has been collected. Regional inequalities increased between 1870 and 1910 but subsequently tended to flatten out through until 1950. In the first period, regional disparities increased mainly driven by a handful of French and Spanish regions in northern France, such as the Paris basin, Catalonia, the Basque-Country and northern Italy. In the second period, inequality flattened out, driven by the incorporation of new regions on the path of modern economic growth. The study also shows the evolution towards a bimodal, polarized pattern of regional income distribution in 1910-1950 with two convergence clubs. The richest regions were clustering in northern France, the Paris basin and the north of Italy. Meanwhile, most of southern Italy and the vast majority of the Spanish and Portuguese regions already occupied the bottom positions in the income distribution ranking. This point to the emergence of the core-periphery pattern that characterizes much of South-West Europe today.
N94|The Trade Effects of Border Controls: Evidence from the European Schengen Agreement|The Schengen Agreement is an important milestone in the European integration process. The purpose is to facilitate the flow of goods, services, and persons across intraâ€ European borders. How successful is it in achieving this goal? We apply an econometric gravity analysis to bilateral trade. Unlike earlier analysis, we acknowledge that Schengen treats different country pairs differently, depending on their relative geographical location. Moreover, we find it crucial to carefully control for other elements of European integration such as membership in the customs union, the single market or the currency union, and to factor in countries' trade with themselves. Schengen has boosted trade by about 2.81 per cent on average, on top of the EU's trade effects (equivalent to a drop in tariffs between 0.46 and 1.02 percentage points). Trade creation effects for services are stronger than for goods, but estimates feature larger parameter uncertainty. Peripheral countries benefit more than central ones. Other aspects of EU integration matter much more for trade than Schengen.
N94|Birth of a (very) large french region La Nouvelle-Aquitaine, one year later (January 2017)|The aim of this exercise is twofold: to give, without further ado, students and representatives of life in the regions some clues in order to understand the birth of nouvelle-Aquitaine; and to leave for future researchers in regional economies an account from one who has observed (and lived through) the establishment of territorial reform 2014-2016. To this end, the first section retraces how we have moved on from more than half a century of stable French regional authorities to a reduction, in less than one year, of their number from 22 to 13. The second section sets out an initial synthetic vision of Nouvelle-Aquitaine emphasising two distinct characteristics: its enormous size and the evident hierarchy of its towns and cities. The third section, written, as it were, on the spot and thus without, perhaps, the required detachment, concerns the analysis of the first year “of transition” and poses questions on the future of this territorial reform.
N94|Cities of Commerce: how can we test the hypothesis?|This paper discusses Gelderblom’s hypothesis that urban competition (including a large number of competing cities, footloose foreign traders and municipal autonomy) was central to the rise of inclusive trade institutions in Europe. The first part discusses the precise behaviour of traders, town authorities and sovereigns underlying Gelderblom’s explanatory framework. The second part presents some challenges to the generalisation of the book’s thesis to the history of Europe, including Italy and Britain. The last part advances a short econometric exercise to check this generalisation. Urban competition combined with starting institutional quality does not emerge as a positive factor for the growth of European cities in general: this is interpreted as a call for more research rather a decisive counter-argument. _________________________________ Cet article discute l’hypothèse de Gelerblom selon laquelle la compétition urbaine (incluant un grand nombre de villes concurrentes entre elles, des négociants se déplaçant facilement, et l’autonomie urbaine) a été centrale pour la généralisation d’institutions de commerce ouvertes à tous en Europe. La première partie examine le comportement précis des négociants, autorités municipales et souverains qui sont au coeur du schéma explicatif de Gelderblom. La deuxième partie présente quelques difficultés qui s’opposent à la généralisation de la thèse de l’ouvrage à l’ensemble de l’histoire européenne, notamment en Italie et en Grande-Bretagne. La dernière partie propose un petit exercice économétrique pour tester cette généralisation. La compétition urbaine combinée à des institutions de bonne qualité n’apparaît pas comme un facteur de croissance pour les villes urbaines dans leur ensemble : ce résultat est interprété plus comme un appel à plus de recherche qu’un contre-argument décisif.
N94|Inequalities and Segregation across the Long-Term Economic Cycle: An Analysis of South and North European Cities|The aim of this paper is to get new insight into the complex relationship between social inequalities and socioeconomic segregation by undertaking a comparative study North and South European cities. Our main finding shows that during the last global economic cycle from the 1980s through the 2000s, both levels of social inequalities and socio-economic segregation have grown. However, the effects of rising levels of inequality affect levels of segregation with a strong time lag. This reminds us that the effect of the most recent economic crisis will most likely be long-term, especially in the South of Europe.
N94|Financial Supervision in Hungary between the Two World Wars|This paper examines the practice of financial supervision in Hungary between the two World Wars, focusing on the period of the Great Depression and the supervisory practice that was employed prior to the crisis and that was transformed as a result. The author would like to establish how the role of the Pénzintézeti Központ as a supervisory body changed after its establishment on 1 June 1916, whether there were other institutions with functions related to the supervisory tasks, and which supervisory tools were used in Hungary during the Great Depression. The paper endeavours to present the contemporary economic conditions and the situation of the financial architecture primarily in line with contemporary thinking, on the basis of the relevant opinions of the experts from the given era.
N94|Russian Real Wages Before and After 1917: in Global Perspective|The paper measures real wages in St Petersburg, Moscow, and Kursk between 1853 and 1937 and compares them to real wages in Boston, Manchester, Bombay, and Cairo. Russian living standards grew little between 1853 and 1913 and were like Egypt and India. Wages in the UK and USA were 2.5 - 5 times greater. Real wages in Russia almost doubled between 1913 and 1928. When seen in a Russian perspective, this looks like a big advance; when seen internationally, it is much less so. Real wages dropped to their pre-War level between 1928 and 1937 during the industrialization drive.
N94|Agglomeration effects, institutions, and natural resources in the changing economic geography of Russia|The article presents the results of the study that assesses the place of Russia in the global financial market. The current ratings of the global competitiveness of national financial markets and financial centers are based on objective and subjective assessment of the competitive factors. Our approach is based on objective indicators, characterizing the results of the competition, including the proportion of countries in the global financial market, P/E, and others. The article presents the results of calculations of Russia’s place in the global financial market, based on which the conclusions about the causes of the loss of positions, weak links of the Russian financial market, competitors success factors are made.
N94|Russian Real Wages Before and After 1917: in Global Perspective|The paper measures real wages in St Petersburg, Moscow, and Kursk between 1853 and 1937 and compares them to real wages in Boston, Manchester, Bombay, and Cairo. Russian living standards grew little between 1853 and 1913 and were like Egypt and India. Wages in the UK and USA were 2.5 - 5 times greater. Real wages in Russia almost doubled between 1913 and 1928. When seen in a Russian perspective, this looks like a big advance; when seen internationally, it is much less so. Real wages dropped to their pre-War level between 1928 and 1937 during the industrialization drive.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|On green production taxes|Proposals are often made to tax goods which are environmentally damaging. Many such goods are consumed both directly by households and industry at large: for example, carbon-intensive fuel, waste water or congested road space. This paper adopts a tax-reform setting to evaluate such a policy. The welfare impact is shown to depend on an input-substitution effect and an output effect on final consumption, where the latter effect can be conveniently analysed via the standard concept of the marginal welfare cost of a commodity tax. Finally, it is shown that raising a production tax is welfare enhancing if the current tax is below marginal external cost and revenues are recycled via the commodity tax with the highest marginal welfare cost.
N94|L’Evoluzione Dei Tributi Locali In Italia Dall’Unificazione Al 1970: Politiche, Assetti Istituzionali E Gettito|Abstract. This paper looks at the role of tax decentralization in the Italian history of Public Finance from the beginning of the Italian Unification to the years before the set-up of Regional governments. The role of the benefit principles in the local tax assignments is discussed. The analysis also includes some updated data on local public expenditures and taxes from 1861 to 1970
N94|The Catalan economy: Crisis, recovery and policy challenges|Catalonia is one of the richest regions in Spain. Until the outbreak of the international financial and economic crisis in 2008, it enjoyed a phenomenal economic boom – which then turned into a very severe depression, from which the region began to exit only in 2014. Consolidating the recovery and making the economy more competitive and resilient, and less volatile, are some of the key challenges of economic policy in Catalonia. Also, to improve the region’s social cohesion, policymakers should make sure that economic prosperity is more widely shared, and transform it into an effective tool for social progress.
N94|La industria vinícola del jerez y la replantación del viñedo, 1894-1914: una aportación de historia empresarial|This article examines the relationship between viticulture and the sherry industry during the difficult times of the phylloxera plague and changes in international markets prior to 1914. Based on company documents, this study offers a new set of statistics on the main indicators of the sherry sector (vineyards, musts, wines, export prices, and the added value of the industrial phase). It demonstrates the high added value in sherry wine production and the dominance of export firms. Although the loss of vineyards caused an increase in the price of musts, high production costs and a decrease in sherry demand limited the size of new vineyards, thus limiting their extension. This favored replanting vineyards, but only winegrowers with sufficient financial resources were able to carry this out. Some winegrowers demanded a restrictive regional appellation, but the opposition of the export firms obstructed the establishment of a collective brand.
N94|The curious case of the coexistence of two “access-orders”: Explaining the Italian regional divide|This paper uses the conceptual categories of Open Access Order (OAO) and Limited Access Order (LAO) developed by North, Wallis and Weingast (2009) to explain the origins and persistence of Italian North- South economic divide since the country unification in 1861. We argue that, despite the existence of the same set of formal institutions, historically the North of the country progressively developed into an OAO, while in the South only an “horizontal” transition took place whereby it remained a LAO, with aristocratic privileges being substituted by rents allocated to lobbies and political clienteles. Using original data on crime and participation to elections and referendums, we show that this evolution was the result of the failure of the State, in the South, to acquire the monopoly over the legitimate use of violence and to operate as an efficient and credible coordination mechanism. With the support of data on education and female labour participation, we claim that this led to a much more unequal access to resources and opportunities, leading to a gap in income per capita which persisted over time and it is still visible today being unparalleled in the Western world.
N94|Die Genossenschaftliche Institutssicherung – ein notwendiges Instrument zur Stärkung des Kundenvertrauens und des Risikomanagements im dezentralen Bankenverbund|Cooperative Institutional Protection – a Necessary Instrument for Strengthening Customer Trust and Risk Management in Local Banking Groups: The protection scheme of the cooperative financial network goes back to the guarantee funds of the German ‹Volksbanken›, the world's oldest privately-financed protection system for banks. The core task of institutional protection is to protect the cooperative banks and hence the protection of the member's and customers' deposits, investments and savings. The local roots of the credit cooperatives rest in the 19th century. During the so-called formative phase, protection schemes were established for the newly-created cooperative lending networks of ‹Volksbanken› and rural cooperative banks, which have been a joint cooperative financial network since 1972. Since that time, the cooperative banks' combined protection scheme has developed into a unique protection system with complex tools for risk management.
N94|Umbrüche, Kontinuitäten und Strukturwandel am Finanzplatz Köln nach dem Zweiten Weltkrieg|No abstract is available for this item.
N94|Schiffsfinanzierung im Wandel: Finanzintermediäre und maritime Wirtschaft am Finanzplatz Hamburg|No abstract is available for this item.
N94|The cost of remoteness revisited|Redding and Sturm (2008) use the German division as a natural experiment to study the importance of market access for regional development. They show empirically that cities close to the East-West German border experienced a significant decline in population growth due to division. I argue that their results are driven by the internal migration of refugees in the 1950s rather than the loss of market access. In fact, the treatment effect estimated by Redding and Sturm (2008) disappears completely once the refugee share in 1950 and boundary changes of sample cities are taken into account.
N94|Regional inequality and convergence in southern Europe. Evidence from Height in Italiy and Spain, 1850-2000|This paper analyzes the growth of height and its regional variability in Spain and Italy, among the generational cohorts of 1850 and 1980. Using male height data drawn from the military enlistment records of the period between 1870 and 2000, this paper explores inequality and regional convergence in the two countries. This long period was characterised by economic growth and the expansion of human welfare. Regional inequality and convergence are analysed using sigma and beta convergence, a methodology based on panel data to obtain the speed of convergence. The results show that in 1850 in both countries the height measurements started at low levels, but the two countries recorded a significant increase in the average height over the long term, which became more intense in Italy as from the beginning of the twentieth century, and in Spain from 1950. Therefore, there was divergence in the first half of the century and strong convergence at the end of the century. The regional inequality was more significant in the Italian case. Processes of regional convergence can be observed in both countries during the second half of the twentieth century, but at the end of the period, inequality was lower in Spain than in Italy.
N94|Tale of two cities. A comparative study of relationship between education and economic prosperity|Over the last century, the social function and the role of the universities and other higher education institutions (HEI) changed significantly. What the contemporary students expect to gain due to their university education is neither enlightenment nor insight, but rather skills and practical knowledge needed to successfully find and retain a job. In turn, the modern HEI ceased to be the entities isolated from their surroundings but became the institutions intertwined into community life. Hence, our purpose is to redefine the role of the universities in their communities with the emphasis put on the relationship between the HEI and the communities’ economic performance. The general discussion on the transition in academy’s place in the society is presented in the first section of the article, whereas its second part provides an overview of the potential contributions to the reciprocal development made by the universities and communities. Against such a background two illustrative examples are analyzed, i.e. Lodz, Poland and Brownsville, Texas. Both the theoretical inquiries and these examples’ analysis confirm that the relationship between the development of the universities and economic performance is bi-directional: on the one hand, the investments in HEI trigger stimuli towards economic growth, and on the other, the economic prosperity of the city commonly results in invigorating the scientific research. The article concludes that despite the fact the interrelatedness between universities and local communities’ economic performance is too complex to be boiled down to any simple rule, the communities’ investments in HEI may sow seeds of future economic growth and provide a safety net protecting the economy in times of stagnations or slumps.
N94|Tracing the Evolution of Agglomeration Economies: Spain, 1860–1991|"""This article attempts to quantify how the effect of agglomeration economies on population growth has evolved over time. Using district population in Spain between 1860 and 1991, recorded approximately every decade, this article examines whether initial population affects subsequent population growth. Our results show that, while the relationship between these two variables hardly existed during the second half of the 19th century, this link increased significantly between 1910 and 1970, although this trend was abruptly interrupted by the Civil War and the autarkic period that followed. The intensity of this relationship debilitated in the 1970s, a process that continued during the 1980s as rural out-migration diminished and de-industrialisation hit traditional manufacturing sectors. Our findings also stress that agglomeration economies were stronger in medium-size districts, especially from 1960 onwards, thus suggesting that congestion costs began to mitigate the benefits arising from agglomeration economies in the largest locations.""<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
N94|Industry structure, entrepreneurship, and culture: An empirical analysis using historical coalfields|There is mounting evidence demonstrating that entrepreneurship is spatially clustered and that these spatial differences are quite persistent over long periods of time. However, especially the sources of that persistence are not yet well-understood, and it is largely unclear whether persistent differences in entrepreneurship are reflected in differences in entrepreneurship culture across space as it is often argued in the literature. We approach the cluster phenomenon by theorizing that a historically high regional presence of large-scale firms negatively affects entrepreneurship, due to low levels of human capital and entrepreneurial skills, fewer opportunities for entry and entrepreneurship inhibiting formal and informal institutions. These effects can become self-perpetuating over time, ultimately resulting in persistent low levels of entrepreneurship activity and entrepreneurship culture. Using data from Great Britain, we analyze this long-term imprinting effect by using the distance to coalfields as an exogenous instrument for the regional presence of large-scale industries. IV regressions show that British regions with high employment shares of large-scale industries in the 19th century, due to spatial proximity to coalfields, have lower entrepreneurship rates and weaker entrepreneurship culture today. We control for an array of competing hypotheses like agglomeration forces, the regional knowledge stock, climate, and soil quality. Our main results are robust with respect to inclusion of these control variables and various other modifications which demonstrates the credibility of our empirical identification strategy. A mediation analysis reveals that a substantial part of the impact of large-scale industries on entrepreneurship is through human capital.
N94|Historical shocks and persistence of economic activity: evidence from a unique natural experiment|This paper investigates the persistence of entrepreneurship in the region of Kaliningrad between 1925 and 2010. During this time period the area experienced a number of extremely disruptive shocks including; devastation caused by World War II, a nearly complete replacement of the native German population by Soviets, and 45 years under an anti-entrepreneurial socialist economic regime followed by a shock-type transition to a market economy. Nevertheless, we find a surprisingly high level of persistence of industry-specific self-employment rates in the districts of the Kaliningrad region. Our analysis suggests that persistence of entrepreneurship is higher in regions with a history of successful entrepreneurship. That is, in regions where a specific industry was particularly efficient and entrepreneurial activity was especially pronounced.
N94|The baraccati of Rome: internal migration, housing, and poverty in fascist Italy (1924-1933)|"Newly discovered archival material is used to document the standard of living of slum dwellers in fascist Rome. As part of the regime's effort to suppress growing shanty towns in the capital, the Governorate of Rome conducted a census in 1933, gathering information on the identity and living conditions of their inhabitants, the ""baraccati"". The paper analyzes the mostly migrant families of the shanty towns, identifying their social and demographic characteristics."
N94|The Long-lasting Shadow of the Allied Occupation of Austria on its Spatial Equilibrium|As a consequence of World War II, Austria was divided into four different occupation zones for 10 years. Before tight travel restrictions came into place, about 11 percent of the population residing in the Soviet zone moved across the demarcation line. We exploit this large internal migration shock to further our understanding of why economic activity is distributed unevenly across space. Our analysis shows that the distorted population distribution across locations has fully persisted until today (60 years after the demarcation line become obsolete). An analysis of more direct measures of economic activity shows an even higher concentration in the former non-Soviet zone. This gap in economic activity is growing over time, mainly due to commuting streams out of the former Soviet zone. This shows that a transitory shock is capable of shifting an economy to a new spatial equilibrium, which provides strong evidence for the importance of increasing returns to scale in explaining the spatial distribution of economic activity.
N94|Russian Imperial Space of Power in the First Post-Revolution Decade (1917 – Late 1920s)|This article explores how Bolshevik/Soviet authorities took on and adapted the Russian imperial topography of power i.e. the system of special structures that intended to convey state ideology (monuments to tsars and statesmen, emperors’ residences with their various ceremonial spaces, administrative buildings, and those museums which play a role in power representation). The research traces the changing attitudes to the Russian Empire’s space of power in 1917 – late 1920s that varied from destructing such spatial objects to adapting them to the objectives of propaganda. It argues that with the time being appropriation strategies (renaming, recoding, creating of revolutionary memorials etc.) appeared to have better prospects than straightforward disavowal or destruction. The imperial space of power provided some opportunities to propagate novel and/or universal connotations of power and gradually was found relevant for the needs of the Soviet regime
N94|Historical Shocks and Persistence of Economic Activity: Evidence from a Unique Natural Experiment|This paper investigates the persistence of entrepreneurship in the region of Kaliningrad between 1925 and 2010. During this time period the area experienced a number of extremely disruptive shocks including; devastation caused by World War II, a nearly complete replacement of the native German population by Soviets, and 45 years under an anti- entrepreneurial socialist economic regime followed by a shock-type transition to a market economy. Nevertheless, we find a surprisingly high level of persistence of industry-specific self-employment rates in the districts of the Kaliningrad region. Our analysis suggests that persistence of entrepreneurship is higher in regions with a history of successful entrepreneurship. That is, in regions where a specific industry was particularly efficient and entrepreneurial activity was especially pronounced.
N94|Blooming Landscapes in the West? - German reunification and the price of land|Abstract: German reunification was a positive market access shock for both East and West Ger- many. Regions that for 45 years had experienced a decline in population due to their loss in market access following the division of Germany after WWII were most strongly aected by this positive shock. We use an entirely new data set to analyse the eects of German reunication on the value of land in West Germany. We nd that regions in the immediate border area experienced a relative rise in land prices compared to regions outside a 100km radius from the border. At the same time we conrm the absence of a population eect (Redding and Sturm, 2008) even including rural boroughs. We nd that land values have adjusted more quickly than population and in some cases even overshot predicted long-run levels within the rst decade of reunication. We attribute this nding to the information and expectation component of land prices. Land values incorporate expectations about long- run equilibrium adjustments following reunication more swiftly, but rms and households are slower to react due to the costs of relocating. The results are consistent with empirical work on the positive eects of infrastructure projects on land values (Yiu and Wong, 2005; Lai et al., 2007; Duncan, 2011).
N94|The Long-lasting Shadow of the Allied Occupation of Austria on its Spatial Equilibrium|As a consequence of World War II, Austria was divided into four different occupation zones for 10 years. Before tight travel restrictions came into place, about 11 percent of the population residing in the Soviet zone moved across the demarcation line. We exploit this large internal migration shock to further our understanding of why economic activity is distributed unevenly across space. Our analysis shows that the distorted population distribution across locations has fully persisted until today (60 years after the demarcation line became obsolete). An analysis of more direct measures of economic activity shows an even higher concentration in the former non-Soviet zone. This gap in economic activity is growing over time, mainly due to commuting streams out of the former Soviet zone. This shows that a transitory shock is capable of shifting an economy to a new spatial equilibrium, which provides strong evidence for the importance of increasing returns to scale in explaining the spatial distribution of economic activity.
N94|The Greek Public Debt Problem|"The Greek economic crisis started as a public debt crisis five years ago. However, despite austerity and a bold ""haircut,"" public debt is now around 175 percent of Greek GDP. In this policy note, we argue that Greece's public debt is clearly unsustainable, and that a significant restructuring of this debt is needed in order for the Greek economy to start growing again. Insistence on maintaining the current policy stance is not justifiable on either pragmatic or moral grounds. The experience of Germany in the early postâ€“World War II period provides some useful insights for the way forward. In the aftermath of the war, there was a sweeping cancellation of the country's public and foreign debt, which was part of a wider plan for the economic and political reconstruction of Germany and Europe. Seven decades later, while a solution to the unsustainability of the Greek public debt is a necessary condition for resolving the Greek and European crisis, it is not, in itself, sufficient. As the postwar experience shows, a broader agenda that deals with both Greece's domestic economic malaise and the structural imbalances in the eurozone is also of vital importance."
N94|The Italian Post-World War II Experience in Human Relations and Corporate Welfare|"The relevance of interventions in welfare and social security systems in the twentieth century has become the subject of extensive historical research. In particular from a prevalent focus on State intervention to a more in-depth historiographic reconsideration of the work performed by private institutions, including an important role played by industry. The focus of this paper is precisely the Corporate Welfare in the context of action after IIWW, by addressing the transformation in practices in terms of welfare and social security for workers, the essence of which is capable of revealing the participatory and communal nature of companies. In specific, I concentrate my attention on the relevance of the Human Relations in Italy and their effects on the Corporate Welfare. The paper examines some cases of HR as OM, Pirelli, Falck and Unilever. Finally there is a specific attention on the job training of the ""leader"" and the ""social worker of the factory""."
N94|Soft budget constraints and regional industrial policy: reinterpreting the rise and fall of DeLorean|The rise and fall of DeLorean Motor Cars Limited has traditionally been interpreted as either the result either of John DeLorean’s psychological flaws or as confirming the supposed limitations of activist industrial policy. However when the episode is examined in greater historical detail, neither of these interpretations is compelling. The reinterpretation outlined here draws on institutional analysis as well as a range of archival sources, much of it previously unreleased. The inefficiencies within the original contractual agreement are highlighted. The lack of credibility associated with this agreement was in turn traceable to the institutional environment (with its associated risk–reward implications) under which industrial policy operated. This environment had a political element: it had been distorted by the Troubles and the resulting fears policymakers had of a cumulative causation relationship between violence and unemployment. Officials in Belfast, against Treasury opposition, advocated state-led entrepreneurship as a policy response.
N94|Економічна Думка Карла Коберського Та Її Вплив На Розвиток Фінансово-Економічної Та Кооперативної Освіти На Західноукраїнських Землях У Другій Половині Хіх – Початку Хх Сторіччя<BR>[Carl Koberskyi’s economic opinion and his influence on the development of finance-economics and co-operative education in western Ukraine in the second half of ХІХ – beginning of ХХ century]|У статті проаналізовано громадсько-просвітницьку діяльність теоретика, кооператора та економіста Карла Коберського та його вплив у розвиток фінансово-економічної та кооперативної освіти. Даний діяч посідає важливе місце у історії розвитку освіти та економіки, завдяки його завзятій громадській позиції та дослідженню історії ко-оперативного шкільництва. Дослідження діяльності Карла Коберського, як свідчить практика, описують здебільшого або з точки зору історії або з позиції педагогіки. Наша мета характеризувати діяльність вченого та його економічну думку з економічної сторони та її значення на фінансово-економічну та кооперативну освіту. Активна пропагандистська та організаційна діяльність К. Коберського вагомо вплинула на піднесення сільської культури, поширення кооперативного руху, торгівлю, банківську справу та розвиток підприємництва. Вагомий етап економічного та суспільного становлення Західної України відбувся після воєнних дій, коли з’явилася необхідність відновлення господарств та навчання фахових спеціалістів на селі. Інтелігенція краю прагнула залучити селянство до економічної самоорганізації. Педагоги того часу розглядали професійну освіту як чинник соціального розвитку та незалежності. В умовах жорстких заборон та утисків почало формуватися кооперативне шкільництво. Досить поширеними були різноманітні громадські організації, об’єднання та спілки, що сприяли формуванню національної свідомості населення. Подальшого поглибленого дослідження вимагає праця Карла Коберського та його місце у кооперативно-економічній сфері, яке дасть змогу вдосконалювати управління навчальними закладами та ефективно розвивати фінансово-економічну та кооперативну освіту. На сьогодні, коли має місце процес розвитку ринкових відносин, ідеї освітньо-економічної спадщини Карла Коберського набувають актуальності, бо вони можуть використовуватися з метою покращання напрямків економічної освіти та наукової і методичної роботи в установах економічного спрямування. Карл Коберський як відомий громадський діяч зміг багато досягти у фінансово-економічній сфері, зокрема шляхом написання статей про кооперацію та пропагування даних ідей на селі. The article analyses the public-elucidative activity of theorist, co-operator and economist Carl Koberskyi and his influence on the development of financial-economical and co-operative education. This figure occupies an important place in the history of education and economy, due to his zealous public position and research of history of co-operative schooling. As practice testifies, research of Carl Koberskyi’s activity is described mostly either from the point of view of history or pedagogic. Our aim is to characterize the activity of the scientist and his economic ideas from the point of view of economics and to define their value for finance-economics and co-operative education. Carl Koberskyi’s active propagandist and organizational activity influenced the development of rural culture, distribution of co-operative motion, trade, banking and development of enterprise greatly. Weighty stage of economic and public establishment of western Ukraine took place in the after-war time, when the necessity of proceeding in economies and studies of professional specialists appeared in rural districts. Intelligent workers of the region strived to involve the peasantry into economic self-organization. At that time teachers considered trade education as a factor of social development and independence. Co-operative schooling began to be formed in the conditions of hard prohibitions and oppressions. Various public organizations, associations and unions that assisted the formation of national consciousness of population were quite widespread.Carl Koberskyi’s labour activity and his place in the co-operatively-economic sphere require further deep research, which will enable to improve the management of educational establishments and to develop finance-economics and co-operative education more effectively. Today, in the time of market relations development, Carl Koberskyi’s ideas of educationally-economic inheritance acquire special actuality, as they can be used with the aim of improvement of economic education directions, scientific and methodical work in establishments, connected with the sphere of economics. Carl Koberskyi as a well-known public figure managed to achieve much in the finance-economics sphere, in particular by writing articles about co-operation and promoting these ideas in villages.
N94|State intervention and economic growth in Southern Italy: the rise and fall of the ‘Cassa per il Mezzogiorno’ (1950–1986)| In the second half of the twentieth century, the Italian government carried out a massive regional policy in southern Italy, through the State-owned agency ‘Cassa per il Mezzogiorno’ (1950–1986). The article reconstructs the activities of this agency, making use of its yearly reports and of national and local archives. The Cassa was effective in the first two decades, thanks to substantial technical autonomy and, in the 1960s, to a strong focus on industrial development; however, from the 1970s it progressively became an instrument of waste and misallocation. At the local level, we find significant differences between the southern regions, and correspondence between the quality of state intervention and the regional patterns of GDP and productivity.
N94|Trees And Semi-Lattices: Analysing Space Configuration Of Two Urban Systems In Lisbon Region|This study examines patterns of order and structure in street networks and its relationships with spatial life of two urban neighborhoods (housing estates). It explores the concepts of “tree” and “semi-lattice” as two different ways of looking and thinking about the structure of cities, each one generating a different form of life and community place (Alexander, 1965). The authors propose a configurational analysis of street networks of two urban plans designed according to different city ideologies and historical background. Based on space syntax methodology the street network was represented both as convex spaces and axial lines as nodes of a graph. The network was then analyzed in terms of the mathematical properties of the graph. The objective was to address a comparative study of structural properties of the urban street networks in order to speculate some implications on social life of each neighborhood. Syntactic measures have shown that conceptual designs have different spatial and social patterns both at global and local scales. It was corroborated that the difference between the characteristics of topological properties which reflects the mathematical principle of tree and semi-lattice is responsible for the different character of public life we found in each urban area.
N94|The Effect Of Cultural Factors On The European Integration|There are some keystones in the development of European integration that had certain characteristics and peculiarities reflected on the structure of Europe. All of the social, cultural, historical, economical and political factors can affect this process.The European Union has undergone the three basic integration types; economic, political and cultural integrations. Althougth political integration was important, the economic integration was the most significant integration type. In the long run, cultural integration continues to be a problem. Cultural integration can be seen as a sociological problem because of its advantages and disadvantages that affect the European integration.Most of the researchers and experts have focused on economic and political phases rather than cultural processes. In this study, an approach which centred on cultural integration towards European integration process will be examined. The effects of cultural factors will be analyzed within the framework of European integration and European identity.
N94|Introducing Railway Time in the Balkans: Economic eﬀects of railway construction in Southeast Europe and beyond since the early 19th century until present days|Abstract In this paper we analyse the economic eﬀects of railway infrastructure at the national level for European countries as well as at the local level for Southeast European cities based on a novel railway database capturing decades of the 19th century up to the early 21th century. A panel ﬁxed eﬀects regression analysis at the country level indicates a positive economic impact emanating from railway infrastructure, whereby the eﬀect appears to be even stronger for less developed Southeast European countries. In addition, a linear spatially augmented multilevel model at the city level sheds light on the positive eﬀects resulting from railway infrastructure on urban development. Its positive spillover eﬀects occur within countries as well as across borders.
N94|Las relaciones comerciales contemporáneas de Aragón con Cataluña: de la complementariedad al modelo intraindustrial|En este trabajo se muestran las estrechas relaciones comerciales que Aragón ha mantenido con Cataluña durante la contemporaneidad. La industrialización de Cataluña permitió una creciente complementariedad productiva y comercial con la economía agraria aragonesa. Durante la segunda mitad del siglo XX el avance de la industrialización en Aragón permitió diversificar su especialización productiva. En este contexto, Cataluña ha seguido siendo, con gran diferencia, el principal mercado exterior de Aragón. Desde finales de siglo Aragón ha pasado a ser el principal destino de las exportaciones catalanas, tras Francia, y también su principal proveedor regional. Su comercio muestra ya un claro perfil intraindustrial.
N94|The Persistency of Public Debt|This paper shows that geographic patterns in public debt can be highly persistent despite drastic external shocks. I compare pre-Nazi debt in 60 districts and 132 large cities of the German Reich with current local government debt. German local government debt completely defaulted after WWII. I find that 1932 and 2012 debt is highly correlated in cities which saw a re-installation of their pre-Nazi mayor by the Allies in 1945. Comparable cities without personnel continuity do not exhibit a robust correlation. Intertemporal personnel links thus constitute a main channel through which to explain long-term persistency in public finance.
N94|Migrating Extremists|We show that migrating extremists shape political landscapes toward their ideology in the long run. We exploit the unexpected division of the state of Upper Austria into a US and a Soviet occupation zone after WWII. Zoning prompts large-scale Nazi migration to US occupied regions. Regions that witnessed a Nazi influx exhibit significantly higher voting shares for the right-wing Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) throughout the entire post-WWII period, but not before WWII. We can exclude other channels that may have affected post-war elections, including differences in US and Soviet denazification and occupation policies, bomb attacks, Volksdeutsche refugees and suppression by other political parties. We show that extremism is transmitted through family ties and local party branches. We find that the surnames of FPÖ local election candidates in 2015 in the former US zone are more prevalent in 1942 phonebook data (Reichstelefonbuch) of the former Soviet zone compared to other parties.
N94|È la fine dell’Europa?|Il concetto di Europa è stato da sempre un concetto piuttosto evanescente. L’idea di Europa è, del resto, avvolta nel mito. Europa, figlia di Agenore re dei Fenici (gli attuali siriani), viene rapita sulla spiaggia da un toro bianco di grande bellezza e mitezza che la trasporta sino all’isola di Creta, dove assumendo le sembianze di Zeus, genera con lei tre figli, tra i quali Minosse. Fin qui il mito testimonia una visione armonica tra l’uomo, il divino e l’animale. Il rapimento è consensuale, non c’è violenza, anzi la donna abbraccia voluttuosamente il toro e l’attrazione è fatale. Ma come vedremo alla fine di questa mia analisi il mito ha delle conseguenze tutt’altro che pacifiche e che, per certi versi, possono spiegare alcune dinamiche attuali. Politici come Robert Schuman, Konrad Adenauer e Alcide De Gasperi nel secondo dopoguerra hanno peraltro cercato di alimentare un’altra leggenda, quella che fa risalire storicamente le origini dell’Europa alla nascita del Sacro Romano Impero. Dal loro punto di vista è comprensibile: Carlo Magno era il simbolo della cristianità e tutti e tre erano democristiani. Carlo Magno però nel IX secolo aveva in mente non l’Europa, bensì l’Impero Romano, come tra l’altro ha mostrato il grande storico francese, recentemente scomparso, Jacques Le Goff . Ma se è pur vero che le origini dell’Europa non sono da rintracciare nel Sacro Romano Impero non è affatto da escludere che essa sia destinata a fare la stessa fine dell’Impero Romano.
N94|Droga Litwy do strefy euro / The Lithuanian Way to European Monetary Union|The main purpose of this paper is to show the Lithuanian way to European Monetary Union in the period since the initiation of the economic transformation in that country in the early 1990s. At first, a brief analysis of the factors which impede and make the development of the Lithuanian economy more dynamic is made. Then the measures taken to overcome the crisis which badly affected the Lithuanian economy in 2009, and efforts to meet the convergence criteria of the Maastricht Treaty, are described. The final part of the study focuses on the technical aspects of the introduction of the euro and outlines the expected benefits for Lithuania related to the accession to the eurozone.
N94|Coping with regional inequality in Sweden: structural change, migrations, and policy, 1860–2000|" type=""main""> In many countries, regional income inequality has followed an inverted U-shaped curve, growing during industrialization and market integration and declining thereafter. By contrast, Sweden's regional inequality dropped from 1860 to 1980 and did not exhibit this U-shaped pattern. Accordingly, today's regional income inequality in Sweden is lower than in other European countries. We note that the prime mover behind the long-run reduction in regional income differentials was structural change, whereas neoclassical and technological forces played a relatively less important role. However, this process of regional income convergence can be divided into three major periods. During the first period (1860–1940), the unrestricted action of market forces, particularly the expansion of markets and high rates of internal and international migration, led to the compression of regional income differentials. During the next period (1940–80), regional convergence was even more intense. In this period, institutional arrangements favoured the reduction of productivity differentials across industries and successive governments aided the reallocation of the workforce from declining to thriving regions and economic sectors. During the last period (1980–2000), when regional incomes diverged, internal migration and structural change slowed. Furthermore, the development of knowledge-intensive service industries favoured economic growth in the main metropolitan areas."
N94|Economy Of Sibiu County. Resources For A Future Development|Economically, the County of Sibiu has been characterized, especially after 2007, by an accelerated speed of development, the recorded increase pushing our County among the most dynamic economies at regional and national level as well. The present paper aims at analyzing the specificity of the economic development of Sibiu County, namely to identify the resources of the obtained economic progress. The purpose of this study also consists in identifying new opportunities for the local economy, outlining new sources of development that are more important as competition, both at regional and national level, is tighter and tighter.
N94|Voting Behavior and Public Employment in Nazi Germany|This paper analyses whether the German National Socialists used economic policies to reward their voters after their rise to power in 1933. Using data on public employment in the armed forces, public administrations and related professions from the German occupational censuses in 1925, 1933 and 1939 and addressing the potential endogeneity of the National Socialist vote share in 1933 by way of an instrumental variables strategy based on a similar party in Imperial Germany 1912, I find that cities with higher National Socialist vote shares experienced a relative increase in public employment: for every additional percentage point in the vote share, the number of public employment jobs increased by around 3.5 percent. When measured relative to the total population, a one standard-deviation increase in the 1933 vote share led to an increase in the share of public employment of a quarter of a standard deviation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Media, Markets and Institutional Change: Evidence from the Protestant Reformation|This research studies the role of competition in the diffusion of radical ideas and institutional change during the Protestant Reformation. We construct a new measure of religious content in the media using data on all known books and pamphlets printed in German-speaking Europe 1454-1600. We find that Protestant content was produced in greater quantity in local media markets with more competing firms when Martin Luther circulated his initial arguments for reform in 1517. We find that competition mattered differentially more for the diffusion of Protestant ideas and for institutional change where city governments had the least legal autonomy from feudal lords. We document the relationship between competition and diffusion directly and using the deaths of printers to isolate plausibly exogenous variation in competition. We show that cities where initial competition was greater, and which were more exposed to Protestant ideas, were more likely to adopt the legal institutions of the Reformation.
N94|Cooperation, defection and resistance in Nazi Germany|This article uses the court records of a sample of individuals, aged between 15 and 62, tried for high treason in Nazi Germany to analyze a rare, real-world prisoner's-dilemma-like scenario that resisters faced once taken into custody: keep quiet and protect their collaborators or turn informant in the hope of obtaining leniency? We find that, although self-interest and defection to the authorities was the norm for most, significant rates of cooperation remained. We also find evidence that the size of the stake, age, education, beliefs, affiliations, and sense of community could play roles in facilitating cooperative behavior.
N94|Neighbour regions as the source of new industries|The development of new industries demands access to local capabilities. Little attention has yet been paid to the role of spillovers from neighbor regions for industrial diversification, nor has the role of network linkages between neighbor regions been investigated. As the spread of capabilities has a strong geographical bias, we expect regions to develop new industries in which their neighbor regions are specialized. To test this hypothesis, we analyze the development of new industries in US states during the period 2000-2012. We show that an US state has a higher probability of developing a comparative advantage in a new industry if a neighbor state is specialized in that industry. We also show that neighbor US states have more similar export structures. This export similarity seems to be explained by higher social connectivity between neighbor states, as embodied in their bilateral migration patterns.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Media, markets and institutional change: evidence fromthe Protestant Reformation|This research studies the role of competition in the diffusion of radical ideas and institutional change during the Protestant Reformation. We construct a new measure of religious content in the media using data on all known books and pamphlets printed in German-speaking Europe 1454-1600. We find that Protestant content was produced in greater quantity in local media markets with more competing firms when Martin Luther circulated his initial arguments for reform in 1517. We find that competition mattered differentially more for the diffusion of Protestant ideas and for institutional change where city governments had the least legal autonomy from feudal lords. We document the relationship between competition and diffusion directly and using the deaths of printers to isolate plausibly exogenous variation in competition. We show that cities where initial competition was greater, and which were more exposed to Protestant ideas, were more likely to adopt the legal institutions of the Reformation.
N94|Has Austerity Worked in Spain?|This paper examines Spain’s recent economic history, both before and after its recession, with a focus on employment, contributions to GDP growth, and the current account balance. The paper notes that Spain has pursued a set of economic policies since 2011 based on internal currency devaluation, labor market reform, fiscal consolidation, and structural and deregulatory reforms aimed at boosting growth through increased efficiency. It concludes that the economic recovery that began in the second half of 2013 is not the result of austerity policies, and is unlikely to rescue Spain from mass unemployment in the foreseeable future.
N94|La stima e l’interpretazione dei divari regionali nel lungo periodo: i risultati principali e alcune tracce di ricerca|Il saggio analizza i principali risultati nella ricostruzione del pil delle regioni italiane e da conto dell’interpretazione sull’andamento dei divari che ne risulta. Le piu aggiornate stime del pil regionale, per intervalli decennali dal 1871 al 1951, ai confini storici e attuali, vengono presentate e discusse: queste consentono di testare modelli di convergenza condizionale, con dati sezionali, che indicano la presenza di effetti fissi negativi sulla crescita delle regioni meridionali. Piu che a fattori geografici o di mercato, gli effetti fissi sembrano riconducibili a una difformita nelle condizioni sociali e istituzionali. In futuro la realizzazione di stime storiche del pil provinciale, per l’eta liberale e fra le due guerre, potra consentire di verificare in maniera piu approfondita, ed eventualmente di perfezionare, il modello interpretativo proposto.
N94|Stime dell’occupazione manifatturiera a livello regionale in Italia (1911-1991): una nota|Questa nota si pone l’obiettivo di offrire nuove informazioni sulla dinamica regionale dell’occupazione manifatturiera in Italia nel periodo compreso tra il 1911 e il 1991. Nello specifico nel lavoro vengono presentate stime relative al numero di addetti per 15 settori manifatturieri, 18 regioni, in un intervallo di tempo compreso tra il 1911 ed il 1991. Il lavoro che utilizza informazioni tratte dai censimenti industriali, si basa su una precedente pubblicazione (Cainelli e Stampini, 2002) nella quale venivano esaminati in dettaglio i principali problemi metodologici che un’analisi di questo tipo pone. Nel complesso, si ritiene queste ‘nuove’ informazioni possano consentire di meglio approfondire alcuni dei temi legati alla crescita e alla dinamica strutturale di lungo periodo delle regioni italiane.
N94|Einaudi e l’ambiente socio-economico di Napoli|The paper considers Einaudi’s interest in the socio-economic problems and culture of Naples
N94|Participative political institutions and city development 800-1800|This study investigates the effect of participative political institutions (PPIs) that emerged in many central European cities from the late 13th century. The empirical analysis of the paper is based on newly compiled long-run data for the existence of different types of PPIs in 104 cities in the Holy Roman Empire. The effect of both an overall index of participativeness of political institutions as well as of the individual PPIs is tested empirically. When pooled over all periods and observations, there seems to be a significant positive overall effect of PPIs in the German-speaking area but not in the Low Countries. The study founds considerable spatial and temporal heterogeneity in the effect of PPIs. Furthermore, the effect of different types of PPIs differs substantially and in general seems to be short-lived. That is, the results show that the positive initial effect of some PPIs declined the longer they existed and over time.
N94|The Gothenburg Population Panel 1915-1943: GOPP Version 6.0|This paper presents the Gothenburg Population Panel (GOPP), a random sample of individuals who were living in Gothenburg at some point in time during the period 1915-1943. The individuals in the GOPP were searched for every fourth year in the registers of local tax authorities. The hit rate was high; 95 percent of the individuals and 87 percent of the possible observations in the initial master sample were found. The database contains 12,500 observations of 3,767 unique individuals 16 years old or more, who are broadly representative of Gothenburg’s adult population in the period of investigation. The sample is augmented with spouses and information on children (birth year and incomes). The paper documents how the database was constructed, describes its historical context, compares it with official statistics, presents some basic sample characteristics and discusses the issue of panel attrition.
N94|Pushed into Unemployment, Pulled into Retirement: Facing Old Age in Gothenburg, 1923-1943|Along with rapid growth and improved standards of living, the first decades of the twentieth century saw the introduction of new technology and new ways to organize production. There are contrasting views on what impact these developments, often summarized as the Second Industrial Revolution, had on the situation of old men in the labour market. Some contemporary observers and modern-day historians have described how old men were crowded out of the labour force and pushed into an ‘industrial scrap heap’. Other researchers have maintained a more optimistic view on the opportunities of old men and argued that labour force withdrawal often was made possible by rising real earnings and savings. Since most of the research in the field has been based on cross-sectional data, the debate has relied on anecdotes, indirect evidence and assumptions.This paper uses data from a longitudinal panel of men living in the city of Gothenburg during the period 1923-1943. In contrast to most previous studies, this one takes up actual transitions into retirement and how such transitions were associated with access to resources. The main result is that a lack of resources was associated with a higher risk of retirement. This association appears even clearer when the sample is restricted to workingclass men and to the latter half of the period of investigation, when unemployment was lower and pension benefits higher. Thus, it would appear that transitions into retirement were most frequent when push and pull mechanisms were combined.
N94|Speculative bubbles in the Stockholm housing market 1875-1935?|The main purpose of this paper has been to establish whether housing and rent prices share a common trend in the long run. And thus, to determine whether there were speculative bubbles in the Stockholm housing market during the period 1875-1930. This period offered an excellent opportunity for such an investigation due to limited regulation in the housing market. Finally, a newly generated data on Stockholm housing prices from 1875 and data on Stockholm rent prices have given us rare insight into the Stockholm housing market. After applying the statistical procedure of testing for cointegration, we have concluded that Stockholm housing and rent prices share a common trend, i.e. that they return to a long run equilibrium after experiencing an exogenous shock. More specifically, the results indicate a 22% movement back towards equilibrium following a shock to the model, one period later, i.e. one year later. Therefore, we conclude that during the period 1875-1930 there was no indication of a speculative bubble in the Stockholm housing market.
N94|Socio-Economic Segregation in European Capital Cities: Increasing Separation between Poor and Rich|Socio-economic inequality is on the rise in major European cities as are the worries about that, since this development is seen as threatening social cohesion and stability. Surprisingly, relatively little is known about the spatial dimensions of rising socioeconomic inequality. This paper builds on a study of socio-economic segregation in twelve European cities: Amsterdam, Athens, Budapest, London, Madrid, Oslo, Prague, Riga, Stockholm, Tallinn, Vienna, and Vilnius. Data are used from national censuses and registers for the years 2001 and 2011. The main conclusion is that socio-economic segregation in Europe has grown. This paper develops a rigorous multi-factor approach to understand segregation and links it to four underlying universal, partially overlapping, structural factors: social inequalities, globalization and economic restructuring, welfare regimes, and housing systems. The paper provides an in-depth discussion of these factors to come to a better understanding of the differences between the hypothesized and actual segregation levels measured. It is suggested that introducing time-lags between structural factors and segregation outcomes improve the theoretical model.
N94|Building an Industrial Society: Welfare Capitalism in the “City of Factories”. Sesto San Giovanni, Italy|The article retraces the steps which marked the transformation of Sesto San Giovanni from a small agricultural centre in the vicinity of a great city such as Milan, to becoming one of the principal centres of Italian industry. Two preliminary questions, of notable importance, have been dealt with the definition of company town, as so considered by the most authorative historiography. Following that there is a brief résumé of the diffusion of the company towns in Italy. The two premises serve to better comprehend the case of Sesto San Giovanni. Its uniqueness lies, however, in being the outcome of action by a plurality of businesses which contributed to building the ‘factory city’. From 1905, their choice of setting up their plants caused a sudden increase in the population, which was followed by an equally sharp increase in the demand for lodgings and social infrastructures. In the face of this necessity, the employers were forced to invest in building, at first with the intention of rapidly housing the workers and, then to proceed with a more rational planning of specific villages for the workforce. In the decades between the Wars, Sesto San Giovanni was provided with a wide range of services in the fields of health care, schooling and even leisure. These policies permitted the creation of solid, close-knit company communities, founded on the intense participation of the workforce in the functioning of the production activity. The social network, however, held together principally on the basis of the recognition of mutual obligations and responsibilities, rather than one mere subordination to a paternalistic domination.
N94|Il divario Nord-Sud in Italia (1861-2011): lo stato dell'arte<BR>[Italy’s North-South divide (1861-2011): the state of the art]|Abstract (English) In recent years there have been major advances in our historical knowledge of regional disparities in Italy; as a consequence, the debate on the causes of the North-South divide (and thus, ultimately, on strategies and possibilities to overcome it) has also revived. By mainly drawing on my latest book on this subject [Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro, 2013], this paper presents the state of the art of the history of Italy’s North-South divide, since Unification until our days. The first section provides an updated discussion of regional differences − in income but also in social indicators − at the time of the country’s Unification (1861). In the second section, the evolution of regional GDPs from the late XIX century until our days is briefly reviewed, through the main phases of Italian political and economic history. The third part provides a critical discussion, with some reference to the international literature, on the various hypotheses put forward to explain the persistent North-South divide. My main argument is summed up in the conclusions: there was a socio-institutional divide between the North and the South of the peninsula, that pre-exists Unification, in some respects grows stronger with it and is never bridged throughout the history of post-unification Italy. Admittedly, some socio-institutional convergence took place in the last decades, but this went in a direction opposite to the desirable one − that is, the North and Italy as a whole have begun to look similar to the South, rather than viceversa. Abstract (italiano) Negli ultimi anni sono stati fatti importanti progressi nella nostra conoscenza sull’evoluzione dei divari regionali in Italia; ultimamente si è anche riaperto il dibattito sulle cause del divario Nord-Sud (e quindi, in prospettiva, sulle strategie e le possibilità per superarlo). A partire dall’analisi più distesa condotta in Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro [Felice 2013], questo intervento prova a fare il punto sullo stato dell’arte. La prima parte è dedicata alla discussione delle differenze regionali − nel reddito ma anche negli indicatori sociali − intorno all’Unità. Nella seconda, verrà illustrato brevemente l’andamento dei divari di reddito dall’Unità sino ai nostri giorni, lungo le principali fasi della storia unitaria. La terza parte offre una discussione critica, con qualche riferimento alla letteratura internazionale, sulle spiegazioni ipotizzate circa il persistente divario Nord-Sud che non ritengo essere adeguate per il caso italiano. Nelle conclusioni si riassume invece brevemente la tesi sostenuta in Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro: ovvero l’esistenza di un divario di tipo socio-istituzionale fra il Nord e il Sud della penisola, che preesiste all’Unificazione, si rafforza con essa e non viene mai superato nel corso della nostra storia − se non forse negli ultimi anni, ma in una direzione contraria a quella auspicabile, con il Nord che rischia di assomigliare sempre più al Mezzogiorno.
N94|Historical Aspects, Traditions and Statistical Gaps. The German Economy versus the Romanian Economy|This paper reveals some historical aspects and some common traditions of German and Romanian economies, justifying some of the trends of contemporary decades underlying the statistical gap. The specific method used in this article is a statistical confrontation based on historical variables and statistical data, graphs emphasizing the abnormalities in evolution, etc. After a brief introduction, inside the major part of the structure of this paper some selected economic and social evolutions are presented together for both German and Romanian economies, somehow becoming the limits of the European Union construction. Few general gaps of the two economic marginal models as performance and cohesion are detailed during the historical and statistical investigation and the conclusions anticipates some expectations in the medium term dynamics of these economies. At the same time the article discusses Berlin’s position within EU and argues that Germany remains a selective continental hegemon, bent on securing national primacy and profit more than generating win-win solutions for its neighbours.
N94|All access: a micro-level case study on the secondary center of Berlin (1871–1936)|In an empirical analysis, I show that in the case of Berlin, Germany (1871–1936), the emergence of the second CBD during the first half of the past century was largely driven by market access generated by rail-based public transport. By applying a multistep measure of accessibility, it can be shown that while the city brought-up several economic centers simultaneously, the area around the Kurfürstendamm revealed a strong initial advantage leading to a rapid clustering of economic activity that consisted even decades after this advantage had vanished (hysteresis effect). Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
N94|The Long-Term Patterns of Regional Income Inequality in Spain, 1860-2000| Martínez-Galarraga J., Rosés J. R. and Tirado D. A. The long-term patterns of regional income inequality in Spain, 1860-2000, Regional Studies . Building on a new estimation of regional gross domestic product (GDP) from 1860 to 2000, this paper evaluates the long-run evolution of regional income inequality in Spain. It is found that sustained economic growth and the progressive integration of national markets have been accompanied by an inverted 'U'-shaped evolution of regional income inequality. Regional inequality in income per worker rose during the second half of the nineteenth century, peaked in the year 1900 and decreased over the following ninety years. Since 1990, together with the exhaustion of the convergence in regional productive structures, Spain's membership in the European Union generated a new upsurge of differences in labour productivity across the country that could be the basis for a new phase of regional income divergence.
N94|Participative Political Institutions and City Development 800Ð1800|This study investigates the effect of participative political institutions (PPIs) that emerged in many central European cities from the late 13th century. The empirical analysis of the paper is based on newly compiled long-run data for the existence of different types of PPIs in 104 cities in the Holy Roman Empire. The effect of both an overall index of participativeness of political institutions as well as of the individual PPIs is tested empirically. When pooled over all periods and observations, there seems to be a significant positive overall effect of PPIs in the German-speaking area but not in the Low Countries. The study founds considerable spatial and temporal heterogeneity in the effect of PPIs. Furthermore, the effect of different types of PPIs differs substantially and in general seems to be short-lived. That is, the results show that the positive initial effect of some PPIs declined the longer they existed and over time.
N94|The Biological Standard of Living in Zurich during WWI|The paper analyzes the class specific biological standard of living in the city of Zurich during World War I. We find an increase of aver- age human stature for lower class conscripts born during this period, while the average height of conscripts from the upper and middle class stagnated or even decreased, despite the lack of change in the income differential. A potential explanation of this phenomenon could be the changes in access to food and consumption habits, affecting terminal height via changes in milk consumption.
N94|Empresariado, Iglesia y ahorro popular: las cajas de ahorro y Montes de Piedad de Castilla y León, 1841-2013|This paper makes an effort to analyze the evolution of the Castilla Leon savings banks from their founding up to the 2008 crisis. It is an attempt to precisely identify the historical causes that led these institutions to a situation of complete insolvency. The text argues that their submission to public authorities, who forced their profits to be used to meet the social investment needs of the State itself, excessive exposure to the real estate business and the war waged from 1990 onwards to capture deposits, all led these institutions to bankruptcy. Furthermore, the article shows the very different conception these entities had in the eyes of the Church and civil society, an aspect neglected in the Economic History of Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: N23. N24. N94. N95
N94|Highway to Hitler|"Can infrastructure investment win ""hearts and minds""? We analyze a famous case in the early stages of dictatorship - the building of the motorway network in Nazi Germany. The Autobahn was one of the most important projects of the Hitler government. It was intended to reduce unemployment, and was widely used for propaganda purposes. We examine its role in increasing support for the NS regime by analyzing new data on motorway construction and the 1934 plebiscite, which gave Hitler great powers as head of state. Our results suggest that road building was highly effective, reducing opposition to the nascent Nazi regime."
N94|Housing affordability during the urban transition in Spain|During the decades previous to the Civil War, Spain experienced a rapid process of urbanization, which was accompanied by the demographic transition and sizeable rural-urban migrations. This article investigates how urban housing markets reacted to these far-reaching changes that increased demand for dwellings. To this end, we employ a new hedonic index of real housing prices and construct a crossregional panel dataset of rents and housing price fundamentals. This new evidence indicates that rents were not a significant financial burden on low-income families and, hence, housing was affordable for working classes. Also, we show that families’ access to new homes was facilitated by a sizable growth of housing supply. Substantial investments in urban infrastructure and the institutional framework enabled the construction of new homes at affordable prices. Our results suggest that housing problems were not pervasive during the urban transition as the literature often seems to claim.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Cities of Commerce: How can we test the hypothesis?|This paper discusses Gelderblom's hypothesis that urban competition (including a large number of competing cities, footloose foreign traders and municipal autonomy) was central to the rise of inclusive trade institutions in Europe. The first part discusses the precise behaviour of traders, town authorities and sovereigns underlying Gelderblom's explanatory framework. The second part presents some challenges to the generalisation of the book's thesis to the history of Europe, including Italy and Britain. The last part advances a short econometric exercise to check this generalisation. Urban competition combined with starting institutional quality does not emerge as a positive factor for the growth of European cities in general: this is interpreted as a call for more research rather a decisive counter-argument.
N94|Similar Challenges - Different Responses: Housing Policy in Germany and Russia between the Two World Wars|The World War I played a key role in shaping modern housing policy. While in the pre-War time virtually no housing policy existed, the beginning of hostilities led to an almost immediate and comprehensive state intervention in the housing market, particularly among those engaged in the war. Despite initially similar conditions and challenges induced by the war, housing policy was carried out in different countries differently. This is particularly true for Germany and Russia. Even though both went through similar processes during the inter-war era, the different objective functions pursued by their political regimes shaped their housing policies in completely different manners. This paper compares the housing policies in Germany and Russia, identifying the similarities and differences.
N94|The role of migration in regional wage convergence: Evidence from Sweden 1860–1940|Sweden experienced a decline in inter-county real wage differentials for agricultural workers between 1860 and 1940, historical evidence of early labor market integration well before widespread unionization in agriculture occurred. By means of dynamic panel data analysis, this paper examines whether internal and external migrations caused real wage beta convergence across Swedish counties. To account for statistical problems such as endogeneity of migration, time-invariant county characteristics and autocorrelation in the regression model, we adjust our estimates using fixed effects, instrumental variables and GMM. The preferred model shows that both internal and external migrations contributed to wage convergence before the First World War and internal migration mainly during the interwar years. The agglomeration effects of urbanization were not sufficiently pervasive to offset the labor supply effects of internal and external migrations.
N94|Housing and the cost of living in early modern Toledo|Data on housing costs and rental markets for the early modern period are notoriously scarce. Using a new database of rent paid on 183 properties belonging to the Cathedral Chapter of Toledo between 1489 and 1600, we reconstruct housing costs for various social groups and trace the effect of exogenous shocks on the rental market using hedonic techniques. We document a well-functioning market that responded swiftly and predictably to exogenous shocks. We then explore the impact of adding rent to early modern price indices and estimates of living standards. Price indices show a moderate effect. The addition of rent reduces the gap between Toledo and two northern European locations by up to 9.5%.
N94|The emergence of new technology-based sectors in European regions: A proximity-based analysis of nanotechnology|This paper analyzes the emergence of new technology-based sectors at the regional level focusing on nanotechnology, an infant technology whose evolution can be traced on the basis of patent application filings. We employ a methodological framework based on the ‘product-space’ approach, to investigate whether the development of new technologies is linked to the structure of the existing local knowledge base. We conduct a 15 EU country analysis at NUTS 2 level using patent data for 1986–2006. The results of the descriptive and econometric analysis support the idea that history matters in the spatial development of a sector, and that the technological competences accumulated at the local level are likely to shape the future patterns of technological diversification.
N94|Business Fluctuations in Imperial Austria's Regions, 1867-1913: New Evidence|"This paper presents annual estimates of total and per-capita GDP at 1910 prices for the regions of Imperial Austria from the origin of the Dual Monarchy (1867) to the eve of WWI (1913). The time paths of regional GDP are estimated from the yield of the tax on the transfer of real and financial property which is itself very highly correlated with the Schulze (2007) estimates of regional GDP for census years (1870, 1880, 1890, 1900, and 1910). The relative continuity or discontinuity of per-capita GDP growth partitions Austria's regions into two groups. Clear evidence of discontinuity (a ""take-off"") is present in Carniola, Carinthia, Salzburg, Styria, Littoral, Tyrol, and to some extent Moravia. In Lower and Upper Austria, Bohemia, Silesia, Galicia, Bukovina, and Dalmatia there is instead no evidence of structural break in their growth rates. Significant drops in the level of per-capita GDP do occur (as in Lower Austria and Bohemia after the 1873 financial crash) but have moderate effects on the growth of subsequent years. Regional (per-capita) inequality is also evaluated using standard measures. The coefficient of variation and Theil index follow a U-shaped curve: after a decline lasted about 15 years they both rise and point to, from ca. 1885, growing divergence."
N94|Origins of Political Change Ñ The Case of Late Medieval Guild Revolts|This study investigates the origins of the guild revolts in late medieval central Europe. At first, using newly compiled city level data, their temporal evolution and spatial distribution is discussed. Afterwards, the paper provides a historical discussion and empirical analysis of their origins. The results show that pre-existing city-level political institutions and location in a large territorial state were important for the emergence of late medieval guild revolts. Furthermore, the agricultural productivity of the region around a city matters in a negative way confirming the role of the late medieval agricultural crisis in the outbreak of the revolts. Other important factors are a cityÕs urban environment and market potential, its degree of autonomy and its commercial, industrial as well as political importance. This suggests that economic change can trigger political changes. I also found evidence for the existence of spatial spillovers from the developments in neighboring cities implying that rational strategic considerations played a role in the spread of the revolts.
N94|Finland’s regional GDPs 1880-2010: estimates, sources and interpretations|This paper provides the first consistent long-run estimates of Finnish regional GDPs, from 1880 to 2010. Estimates are provided for 12 historical counties as well as for the 5 current-border NUTS 2-regions. The main results from the analyses of the long-run evolution of regional GDPs are the following. Firstly, it is clear that Finland’s geographical position, in the intersection between Eastern and Western Europe, has led to a history of balancing between the two powers. A long-run economic decline of the historically important regions of the west is documented. Simultaneously access to Russian markets advanced the East, but trade was subject to several large shocks, notably with the Finnish independence of 1917 and the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Over the long run, the paper finds that the southern part of the country has been the winner in the Finnish regional growth league. Secondly, the paper analyses regional inequality and finds that Finland’s counties and regions were relatively unequal in European comparison during early industrialization. Rapid convergence in GDP per capita only took place after the Second World War, but was interrupted by the 1980s and replaced by a new tendency for divergence.
N94|Diversifying External Linkages: The Exercise of Irish Economic Sovereignty in Long-Term Perspective|Political independence is usually associated with an attempt to reduce economic dependency on the dominant or former colonial power. For most of the early period since Irish independence the attempt to reduce exposure to the UK was implemented through tariff protection and restrictions on foreign ownership, though Ireland and the UK maintained (and continue to maintain) a common travel area agreement. Inward orientation eventually ran out of steam, culminating in sustained emigration and deep recession in the 1950s. The genesis in the mid-1950s of Ireland's low corporation tax regime facilitated later trade liberalisation and diversified the economy away from the UK. Full convergence on UK and broader Western European living standards was eventually achieved in the 1990s. From 1979 the UK would diverge from most of the rest of Western Europe on exchange-rate policy and Ireland was forced to choose between irreconcilable options. The resulting difficulties can be ascribed to design flaws in the European monetary project and Ireland's failure to recognise the constraints that the new regime imposed.
N94|Economic Implications Of Churches In The Development Of Human Settlemets. Study Case: Iasi City|It is not wrong said that monasteries and churches were one of the elements that led to the development of human settlements in Iasi, especially the city of Iasi. Most churches/monasteries from the feudal period, received from princes / noblemen vast areas of land in order to develop economically, so buildings can survive in time, but also the administrators. Gradually, this lands got to be populated by those who worked and eventually they built houses to live closer to the land they worked on. Subsequently, these small settlements led to the formation of rural settlements and with time they gained an urban character. Today, we have reached the stage where these religious buildings have grown importance in the development of tourism, attracting tourists from around the country and abroad.
N94|A Dissection of Trading Capital: Cultural persistence of trade in the aftermath of the fall of the Iron Curtain|We show that the countries of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy trade significantly more with one another in the aftermath of the collapse of the Iron Curtain than predicted by a standard gravity model. This trade surplus declines linearly and monotonically over time. We argue that these findings suggest that decaying cultural forces explain a significant part of trading capital. We document the rate of decay of these cultural forces.
N94|Why Did the South Fall Behind? The Italian Mezzogiorno between History and Pamphlets|"The recent work by E. Felice, ""Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro"", Bologna, Il Mulino, 2013, is rather a pamphlet than a book of economic history. In the present article, we discuss both the statistical series of regional GDP from 1871 until 2001 worked out by Felice (section 1), and the interpretation of the North-South disparity in the long term (section 2). In section 3 we contrast our approach to the Italian regional disparities with that by Felice. While, according to Felice, the Italian North-South divide depends on social and institutional factors, and, in particular, on the mistakes of the Southern ruling class in the past, in our view it is the consequence of the interplay of economic factors during the Italian industrialisation starting at the end of the Nineteenth century."
N94|A Dissection of Trading Capital: Cultural persistence of trade in the aftermath of the fall of the Iron Curtain|We show that the countries of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy trade significantly more with one another in the aftermath of the collapse of the Iron Curtain than predicted by a standard gravity model. This trade surplus declines linearly and monotonically over time. We argue that these findings suggest that decaying cultural forces explain a significant part of trading capital. We document the rate of decay of these cultural forces.
N94|Elite Influence? Religion, Economics, and the Rise of the Nazis|Adolf Hitler's seizure of power was one of the most consequential events of the twentieth century. Yet, our understanding of which factors fueled the astonishing rise of the Nazis remains highly incomplete. This paper shows that religion played an important role in the Nazi party's electoral success---dwarfing all available socio-economic variables. To obtain the first causal estimates we exploit plausibly exogenous variation in the geographic distribution of Catholics and Protestants due to a peace treaty in the sixteenth century. Even after allowing for sizeable violations of the exclusion restriction, the evidence indicates that Catholics were significantly less likely to vote for the Nazi Party than Protestants. Consistent with the historical record, our results are most naturally rationalized by a model in which the Catholic Church leaned on believers to vote for the democratic Zentrum Party, whereas the Protestant Church remained politically neutral.
N94|Dynamics of Overlapping Clusters: Industrial and Institutional Revolution in the Industrial District of Aachen, 1800‐1860|The economic transition characterizing the process of European industrialization in the 19th century was concentrated on regions rather than on states. In the first half of the 19th century, the region of Aachen (in the west of Prussia) pioneered on the territory of the German states and developed to a powerful industrial district. The implementation and diffusion of the factory system and the economic impact of adapted and new institutions make the core of this paper. Reciprocal interconnections between firms of different clusters shaped the region and created economic dynamics. Investments transgressed the boundaries of single industries and new industries emerged. One important feature of the regional production system was cross-sectional knowledge transfer; a second was institutions supportive to this process.
N94|Региональная Проблема Социалистической Югославии В 1945–1991 Гг<BR>[Regional Problem in Socialist Yugoslavia 1945‒1991]|В статье рассматриваются региональные и межнациональные проблемы в социалистической Югославии в период 1945–1991 гг. После Второй мировой войны Югославия возобновилась, однако, учитывая предшествующий опыт, не в виде унитарного, централистски организованного государства, а как Федерация шести республик (к тому же с двумя автономными краями в одной из них). Несмотря на то что в развитии нового государства региональные цели и региональная политика стояли на первом месте, в своей основе они рассматривались как межнациональная проблема, мало отличавшаяся от аналогичной проблемы в первой Югославии. Этому способствовали и статус республик (и автономных краев) как макрорегионов, и редуцирование региональной политики на присовокупление и распределение так называемых дополнительных средств для развития неразвитых регионов. Когда в середине 1960-х гг. просторно координированная система регионального развития сменилась на просторно некоординированную, региональные проблемы усилились, а страна в целом, как и все её части, потерпела большие ущербы. Именно региональная, т. е. межнациональная, проблема стала одной из самых острых, в немалой степени способствуя развалу страны. The paper considers regional and ethnic problems in socialist Yugoslavia during the period 1945‒1991. After the World War II Yugoslavia was renewed, but according to previous experience not as an unitary, centrally organized state, but as the federal state of six republics (with two autonomous provinces in one of them). In the development of the new state regional goals and regional policy were constantly one of the most important purposes, but they were considered as the inter-national problem, so they were little different from these problems in the first Yugoslavia. To them contributed also the status of republics (and autonomous provinces) as macro-regions and reductions of the regional policy to the collection and distribution of the additional assets for the development of the underdeveloped. In mid 1960’s, when the spatial coordinate system of regional development was replaced with the spatial non-coordinate system, regional problems multiplied, and the country and its parts suffered losses. It was the regional, i.e. ethnic problem the one that got overly serious and lead to the destruction of the country.
N94|Развитие Региональной Проблемы В Югославии В 1918–1941 Гг.: Централизм, Федерализм И Межнациональные Проблемы<BR>[Development of the Regional Problem in Yugoslavia (1918–1941): Centralism, Federalism and Ethnic Problems]|English Abstract. The paper examines the origins and the process of growing of the regional problem in Yugoslavia in the period between the World Wars (1918–1941) in the context of discussions about the form of the statehood. Russian Abstract. В статье рассматривается генезис и процесс нарастания региональной проблемы в Югославии, в период между мировыми войнами в 1918–1941 гг. в контексте дискуссии о форме государственного устройства.
N94|Special Economic Zones - 20 years later|In this paper we undertake an ex-post evaluation of whether the special economic zones (SEZs) introduced in Poland in 994 have been successful in meeting regional development objectives. We evaluate the policy on as many of its objectives as possible: employment creation, business creation (which includes attracting foreign direct investment), income or wage effects, and environmental sustainability. We use different panel data methods to investigate this question at the powiat (nuts4 or something similar to a commune) and gmina (nuts5 or something similar to a village) levels in Poland during the 995-20 period. It is also possible to include numerous controls to reduce the problem of the omitted variables bias such as education level, dependency rates, state ownership, general subsidies and whether the area is urban or rural. Our results indicate that SEZs in Poland have been successful in a number of their objectives such as private business creation. The positive effect of the policy however mainly comes through foreign direct investment (FDI), whereas the effects on e.g. investment and employment are small or insignificant. In other areas, such as securing higher income levels and locking firms into the sustainability agenda through the adoption of green technologies and reduced air pollution, we find only a small positively moderating effect of the policy on what are traditionally economically disadvantaged areas in Poland that used to be dependent on the socialist production model. Hence, despite high levels of FDI, the zones policy has not managed to overcome the legacy of backwardness or lagging regions. The main policy implication of the paper is that SEZs may be successful in stimulating activity in the short run but the policy must be seen as one of necessary temporality and can therefore not stand alone. Before launching SEZs, policymakers must have plans in place for follow up measures to ensure the longer term competitiveness and sustainability implications of such an initiative. There is a need to understand the connection between the specific incentive schemes used (in this particular case tax incentives were used) and the kinds of firms and activities they attract, including the behavioral models that those incentives promote.
N94|Demand-driven innovation policies in the EU|The objective of the PICK-ME (Policy Incentives for Creation of Knowledge – Methods and Evidence) research project is to provide theoretical and empirical perspectives on innovation which give a greater role to the demand-side aspect of innovation. The main question is how can policy make enterprises more willing to innovate? This task is fulfilled by identifying what we consider the central or most salient aspect of a demand-side innovation-driven economy, which is the small and entrepreneurial yet fast growing and innovative firm. We use the term ?Gazelle? to signify this type of firm throughout the paper. The main concern of policy-makers should therefore be how to support Gazelle type of firms through various policies. The effectiveness of different policy instruments are considered. For example, venture capitalism is in the paper identified as an important modern institution that renders exactly the type of coordination necessary to bring about an innovation system more orientated towards the demand side. This is because experienced entrepreneurs with superior skills in terms of judging the marketability of new innovations step in as financiers. Other factor market bottlenecks on the skills side must be targeted through education policies that fosters centers of excellence. R&D incentives are also considered as a separate instrument but more a question for future research since there is no evidence available on R&D incentives as a Gazelle type of policy. Spatial policies to foster more innovation have been popular in the past. But we conclude that whereas the literature often finds that new knowledge is developed in communities of physically proximate firms, there is no overshadowing evidence showing that spatial policies in particular had any impact on generating more of the Gazelle type of firms.
N94|Gypsies as Victims of Crimes of Crime|Many groups such as Jews, Gypsies, Slavs or the homosexuals were labelled as ?undesirables? during the Nazi era. Jews Especially were presented as the enemy of the Aryan ?master race? according to the Nazi ideology. Even though gypsies continue to face public prejudices and discrimination today, this study will be focused on the situation and the rights of Gypsies before and after the World War II. Gypsies had full and equal rights of citizenship under the Weimar Constitution, but they were still subject to some discriminational laws. When Hitler took power in 1933, anti-Gypsy laws remained in effect. In 1939, 30.000-35.000 people known as ?Gypsies? were living in Germany and Austria. In Europe, the situation of Gypsies differed from country to country, depending on local circumstances. For example, in German-occupied Europe, Gypsies were killed, or deported to camps in Germany or eastern Europe. In Croatia, Serbia, Romania and also Hungary, thousands of Gypsies were killed during the 1940s. According to the United Nations Genocide Convention, ?Genocide is a coordinated plan to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group by killing, causing serious bodily or mental harm, inflicting conditions designed to bring about its destruction, preventing births within the group, or removing children from the group.? Many genocides have occurred throughout history, but the word Genocide began to be used from the 1940s. ?Genocide? became a part of international law, with the 1948 United Nations Convention on Genocide.This study will try to examine the Gypsies, especially the Roma (Porajmos), as victims of genocide, how they were treated during the World War II and were their rights were before and after the Nazi?s these are main questions that will be answered.
N94|Promised Lands :inner colonisation in 20th century Mediterranean history: Scientific report|The report summarizes the agenda, scientific contents, results, contribution to the future direction of the field, and outcomes of the Exploratory research workshop held in Rome and Sabaudia (Italy) on Octobre 7-10th 2013.Le rapport synthétise le déroulement, les contenus scientifiques, les résultats, les contributions aux directiosn futures dans le champ, et les résultats du séminaire de recherche exploratoire tenu à Rome et Sabaudia (Italie) les 7-10 Octobre 2013.
N94|Monoculture and polyculture in former industrial regions The case of South Wales and the Silesian Voivodeship|The aim of the article is to compare the economic situation of two former industrial regions – South Wales and the Silesian voivodeship – from the point of view of the type of the economic culture. The cost-effectiveness of their narrow economic specialization is losing raison d’eˆtre today. This is not only a consequence of globalization, but also of economic crises enforcing a flexible adaptation of the regional markets to the requirements of the modern world. Generally, polycultural regions deal with the negative effects of economic difficulties better than monocultural ones. The authors have distinguished 5 indicators to assess how polycultural both regions are.
N94|Highway To Hitler|Can infrastructure investment win “hearts and minds”? We analyze a famous case in the early stages of dictatorship – the building of the motorway network in Nazi Germany. The Autobahn was one of the most important projects of the Hitler government. It was intended to reduce unemployment, and was widely used for propaganda purposes. We examine its role in increasing support for the NS regime by analyzing new data on motorway construction and the 1934 plebiscite, which gave Hitler great powers as head of state. Our results suggest that road building was highly effective, reducing opposition to the nascent Nazi regime.
N94|Trade policy and wage gradients: evidence from a protectionist turn|In the spirit of Hanson (Econ J 107:113–133, 1997), we analyse, first, the existence of a relationship between the wage level and the market potential of Spanish regions; second, we explore the relative importance of domestic and foreign markets in this relationship; and finally, we examine the existence of a regional nominal wage gradient in Spain during the interwar period (1914–1930) centred on the main industrial cluster, Barcelona, and its transformation following the increase in protectionism in the Spanish economy as well as in the international economy. As suggested by NEG literature, our results support the hypothesis of a relationship between wages and regional market access and show the change in the regional wage structure following the gradual closing of the Spanish economy and of Spain’s trade partners, as a result of the increasing importance of the domestic market. We find evidence of the existence of a regional wage gradient centred on Barcelona which weakened during these years. Therefore, in Spain, during the interwar period, protectionist policies appear to have favoured the loss of centrality of a border region (Barcelona) and the relative rise of other locations.
N94|El impacto a largo plazo de la política industrial del desarrollismo español|This paper assesses the mid-to-long-term impact of regional development policies during Franco's dictatorship, particularly the growth poles between 1964 to 1975. Criticized by economists, most of the arguments against relied on a short-term perspective, when the first oil crisis hit the Spanish economy. We first examine the Spanish experience set against the background of Western European dynamics; we then summarize the nature and main consequences of the industrial policies and their regional impact; and finally, we evaluate the effect of growth poles on the industrial growth of those provinces where this instrument of economic policy was applied. KEY Classification-JEL: E65, N14, N94, O25
N94|La decadencia de la industria textil en Castilla y León y el espejismo de la autarquía franquista (1898-1952)|El trabajo tiene por objeto analizar el proceso de desindustrialización del sector textil castellano-leonés en la primera mitad del siglo XX . El estudio se centra en los cambios realizados en el sector con el fin de adaptarse a las condiciones del mercado en las diferentes situaciones coyunturales del período. Se realiza un recorrido temporal en dos etapas: el primer tercio del siglo XX y desde la Guerra Civil hasta la liberalización del sector textil en 1952 y sus inmediatas consecuencias. La principal conclusión es que a pesar de los cambios en la localización del sector dentro de la región, en el tipo de fibras y tejidos a elaborar, y en la organización empresarial, así como, de las ventajas políticas generadas tras la Guerra Civil, el sector textil en Castilla y León no consiguió transformar ni modernizar su estructura industrial lo suficiente para acceder al mercado en condiciones competitivas. KEY Classification-JEL: L67. N64. N94
N94|The Emergence of New Industries at the Regional Level in S pain: A Proximity Approach Based on Product Relatedness| How do regions diversify over time? Inspired by recent studies, we argue that regions diversify into industries that make use of capabilities in which regions are specialized. Since the spread of capabilities occurs through mechanisms that have a strong regional bias, we expect that capabilities that are available at the regional level play a larger role than do capabilities that are available at the country level for the development of new industries. To test this hypothesis, we analyze the emergence of new industries in 50 S panish regions at the NUTS 3 level in the period 1988–2008. We calculate the capability-distance between new export products and existing export products in S panish regions and provide econometric evidence that regions tend to diversify into new industries that use similar capabilities as existing industries in these regions. We show that proximity to the regional industrial structure plays a much larger role in the emergence of new industries in regions than does proximity to the national industrial structure. This finding suggests that capabilities at the regional level enable the development of new industries.
N94|The Emergence of New Industries at the Regional Level in S pain: A Proximity Approach Based on Product Relatedness| How do regions diversify over time? Inspired by recent studies, we argue that regions diversify into industries that make use of capabilities in which regions are specialized. Since the spread of capabilities occurs through mechanisms that have a strong regional bias, we expect that capabilities that are available at the regional level play a larger role than do capabilities that are available at the country level for the development of new industries. To test this hypothesis, we analyze the emergence of new industries in 50 S panish regions at the NUTS 3 level in the period 1988–2008. We calculate the capability-distance between new export products and existing export products in S panish regions and provide econometric evidence that regions tend to diversify into new industries that use similar capabilities as existing industries in these regions. We show that proximity to the regional industrial structure plays a much larger role in the emergence of new industries in regions than does proximity to the national industrial structure. This finding suggests that capabilities at the regional level enable the development of new industries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Die Entwicklung des Lebensstandards im Dritten Reich – Eine glücksökonomische Perspektive|The aim of this paper is to provide an explanation for the remarkable difference in the contemporary Germans’ positive self-assessment of their living conditions and the development of the most important economic welfare indicators (like GDP or consumption per capita) during the Third Reich. To explain this discrepancy, findings from the new research field of happiness economics are applied to the peacetime Third Reich to analyze the development of the standard of living in this period. To start with, the development of the most important economic determinants of happiness during the 1930s is examined, based on current life satisfaction studies. In the second step, the theory of adaption and aspiration is used to explain the growing satisfaction of the Germans after the Great Depression.
N94|Zur Entwicklung der Preisniveaus in Ost- und Westdeutschland: zugleich eine Dokumentation verschiedener Preisniveau-Zeitreihen für das geteilte und für das vereinigte Deutschland|"The economic literature to date is underestimating the importance of regional price level differences. Only in the form of ""rent indices"" are these differences considered in relation to overall quality of life. As experimental estimates by the Federal Institute for Research on Building, Urban Affairs, and Spatial Development (BBSR) show, current price levels in Germany differ substantially both between counties and between eastern and western Germany. And these East-West differences have existed since before German reunification. The present article provides the first consistent documentation of East-West price levels since 1950. The East/West German purchasing power parities last calculated by DIW Berlin (in 1991) prove surprisingly consistent with the corresponding later estimates by the Federal Institute for Research on Building, Urban Affairs, and Spatial Development (BBSR). The two methods lead to very similar results, and both sets of results deviate substantially from the Federal Statistical Office's assumption of identical price levels in East and West Germany after reunification. The article proposes a method to calculate consistent time series for East and West German price levels and purchasing power indices for the years 1950 to 2009. Die Bedeutung regionaler Unterschiede des Preisniveaus wird in den Wirtschaftswissenschaften unterschätzt. Lediglich in Form von ""Mietspiegeln"" werden regionale Preisniveauunterschiede lebensweltlich berücksichtigt. Wie experimentelle Berechnungen des Bundesinstituts für Bau-, Stadt- und Raumforschung (BBSR) zeigen, gibt es in Deutschland gegenwärtig nennenswerte Preisniveauunterschiede auf der Ebene von Landkreisen. Dadurch ergibt sich auch ein Preisniveauunterschied zwischen Ost- und Westdeutschland. Dieser Ost-West-Unterschied bestanden auch zu Zeiten der deutschen Teilung. Im vorliegenden Aufsatz werden die Ost-West-Preisniveaus seit dem Jahr 1950 erstmals in konsistenter Art und Weise dokumentiert. Die vom DIW Berlin zuletzt (1991) ermittelten Kaufkraftparitäten für Ost und Westdeutschland erweisen sich überraschend kompatibel mit den entsprechenden späteren Berechnungen des Bundesinstituts für Bau-, Stadt- und Raumforschung (BBSR). Die Ergebnisse beider Methoden sind sehr ähnlich und weichen zugleich deutlich von der Annahme des Statistischen Bundesamtes eines nach der Vereinigung einheitlichen Preisniveaus in Ost- und Westdeutschland ab. Es wird eine Vorschlag für die Berechnung von konsistenten Zeitreihen für die Preisniveaus in Ost- und Westdeutschland für die Jahre 1950 bis 2009 gemacht."
N94|The evolution and sustainability of seasonal migration from Poland to Germany: From the dusk of the 19th century to the dawn of the 21st century|We document and suggest a rationale for the durability of seasonal migration from Poland to Germany, a phenomenon persisting for more than a century. We refer to the role of the tradition of engaging in seasonal migration as a force that helped invigorate the process and contribute to its sustainability even when, to different degrees and at different times, the process was interrupted by a shifting political, regulatory, and legal environment. Evidence in support of the role of tradition is provided, among other things, by the continuation of the seasonal flow of migrants from once border regions - which became internal regions following WWII - despite the fact that since the redrawing of the German-Polish border, proximity is no longer a factor encouraging repeated, short-term seasonal moves.
N94|Il mezzogiorno come palla al piede|The review-article examines the contents of a book on old and recent prejudices against the South of Italy. The author comments upon the text and mentions other views of the problem. Keywords: pregiudizi e Mezzogiorno JEL Classification: N93, N94
N94|"Reviewed development policies in the South of Italy: history of enterprises and regional accounts related to the ""Cassa per il Mezzogiorno"" interventions"|"Recent studies suggest that the only convergence of Southern Italy towards the Italian and European average, from 1951 to 1973, was due to the massive regional policy pursued through the State-owned agency ""Cassa per il Mezzogiorno"" (1950-1984). From the oil shocks onwards, however, public intervention in Southern Italy deteriorated and was no longer effective in promoting convergence. In spite of the obvious importance of these issues, at the present stage of research they are only hypotheses. In order to test their validity, this paper analyses the balance sheets of the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, never studied before: through them, we reconstruct for the first time the activities of the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno in favour of the economic development of Southern Italy at the regional level. After re-assessing the role of the Cassa in light of the recent advancements in economic and business history, with the help of a detailed quantitative picture and some qualitative elements, we analyse the specific contribution of the Cassa to the convergence of Southern Italy."
N94|The post crisis Transition: Towards new investment circuits ?|The recent Global financial crisis has marked an unprecedented separation between finance and real economy. This paper deals with the question of today’s transition within finance geography. It focuses on the transition process of the Swiss financial system after 2008 from institutional and territorial perspective. More specifically, this study investigates new investment circuits in Switzerland and attempts to understand to which extent they are connected to entrepreneurial activities at local and regional levels. Our main findings highlight that the Swiss case shows two opposite movements: “from the top”, i.e. Swiss pension fund sector and “from below”, i.e. regional private entrepreneurial investors. We will finally demonstrate that, because of the specific institutional framework, the current transition process in Switzerland is more likely to be driven by small regional actors, rather than by large institutional investors.
N94|Convention touristiQue alpine et mises en scène des héritages alpins Dynamiques socio-économiques territoriales dans l’histoire de la station de MontreuX|Cet article propose une approche originale dans la compréhension des trajectoires socio-économiques de stations touristiques. Elle s’appuie sur la synthèse d’une étude de cas détaillée, celui de la station de Montreux, en Suisse, de 1850 à aujourd’hui. Deux types de phénomènes dynamiques sont présentés sous forme de concepts complémentaires. D’une part, le concept de « mise en scène » est mobilisé pour rendre compte des interactions entre les acteurs impliqués dans la valorisation de la station. D’autre part, le concept de « convention touristique alpine » est introduit pour comprendre le contexte dans lequel prennent localement place ces interactions. Il en ressort que la valeur des biens et services touristiques produits dans un territoire dépend d’authenticité et de modernité, des constantes conventionnelles appréciées sous différents angles aux différentes époques par les différents acteurs. La trajectoire de la station résulte ainsi des équilibres scéniques perpétuellement (ré-) établis par les acteurs, dynamique au cœur de laquelle la notion d’héritage joue un rôle central.
N94|Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro? Il Mezzogiorno fra storia e pubblicistica<BR>[Why Did the South Fall Behind? The Italian Mezzogiorno between History and Pamphlets]|The recent work by E. Felice, Perché il Sud è rimasto indietro, il Mulino, Bologna, 2013, is rather a pamphlet than a book of economic history. In the present article, we discuss both the statistical series of regional GDP from 1871 until 2001 worked out by Felice (section 1), and the in-terpretation of the North-South disparity in the long term (section 2). In section 3 we contrast our approach to the Italian regional disparities with that by Felice. While, according to Felice, the Italian North-South divide depends on social and institutional factors, and, in particular, on the mistakes of the Southern ruling class in the past, in our view it is the consequence of the interplay of economic factors during the Italian industrialisation starting at the end of the Nineteenth cen-tury
N94|Air, Money and Space: How Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Transformed the Region|This paper explores and analyses the change in collective arrangements, such as the changing organizational structure and form of the airport, and its effects and consequences on the spatial and economic development of the airport itself and its surrounding areas at the metropolitan level. We use Schiphol airport as case study, and focus our analysis on three main analytical levels: air (development in the aviation sector), money (economic performance), and space (airport spatial expansion and urban planning). The paper show that new collective arrangements may lead to a radical shift in the position and the power of local actors and hence on the decision making concerning the spatial and economic development of localities (in this case the Schiphol and Schiphol region) and the metropolitan regions.
N94|De ruimtelijke metamorfose van Schiphol: van polderdorp naar nevelstad<BR>[Spatial metamorphosis of Schiphol Airport: from polder village to a nebula city]|De geschiedschrijving van vliegvelden en hun metamorfose in metropolitaanse gebieden is onlosmakelijk verbonden met processen van verstedelijking, decentralisatie, economische groei en de ruimtelijke aanwas van steden, buitenwijken en regio’s. Die processen worden niet door enig ontwerp gestuurd, maar door veranderingen in grond-en gebouwengebruik en bewegingen van mensen, goederen, kapitaal, diensten, informatie en de infrastructurele netwerken die de wonende en werkende mens in beweging brengen. Het gaat daarbij om functionele patronen in de bewegingen en transacties die op hun beurt weer invloed hebben op de ruimtelijke structuren, dat wil zeggen de fysieke verschijningsvorm die dergelijke activiteiten ter plekke produceren. In dit (hoofd)stuk willen we inzichtelijk maken hoe de groeistuipen van Schiphol eraan hebben bijgedragen dat het noordwestelijke deel van de Randstad is uitgegroeid tot een bijzonder metropolitaans gebied met een eigen stedelijke structuur en cultuur. Dat verschijnsel hebben we nevelstad genoemd. Hier analyseren we vooral de groeiprocessen zoals die hebben plaatsgevonden in de regio rond Schiphol: in Amsterdam en de Haarlemmermeer. Hier ontstond een verneveling die zich vanaf de jaren zestig over het westen van Nederland snel heeft uitgebreid, tot aan de Brabantse stedenrij toe.
N94|Il turismo automobilistico in Italia nel periodo fra le due guerre mondiali<BR>[Automobile tourism in Italy during the interwar period]|This paper outlines the evolution of automobile tourism in Italy in the 1920s and 1930s, that is, before the so-called mass tourism. The small number of vehicles per inhabitant seems to indicate that this phenomenon had limited importance; however, the situation changes relevantly when considering international tourist flows. During this period, in fact, the number of foreigners travelling to Italy by car grew progressively, leading to an improvement of roads and facilities for motor tourists. Furthermore, to sustain this trend, during the 1930s the government adopted new measures to encourage foreigners to visit Italy by car, also seeking to raise the country’s competitiveness in the international tourist market.
N94|Accounting theory and praxis teaching at the University of Economics Prague 1953-2013|Accounting as a branch of economic science and research is not in the center of attention of economists, whether they are focused macroeconomic or Business Administration (microeconomic). Whoever, it is necessary to underline the crucial importance of accounting for the formation of a number of findings from the field of business management, e. g. cost, efficiency and economy of production. Accounting is a branch of science developed in the world and around us in the last hundred and fifty years and represents today an accepted part of the microeconomic oriented research and the formation of some theoretical conclusions. Department of Accounting, University of Economics in Prague since the inception of the school - it is from then until now, part of it - fully engaged in growing doctrinal discipline while trying to provide students currently focused specialized teaching in accounting for the needs of their practice. Accounting system in the Czech Republic and the Slovakia in the last sixty years have passed so varied developments that maybe their mapping represents a contribution to the formation of the theory of functions of account and accounting systems, designed as a system focused on the needs of the state of the economy or the needs of the healthy development of a profitable company as elements of this economy.
N94|Účetnictví a jeho místo ve vědě a výuce na Vysoké škole ekonomické v Praze<BR>[Accounting and Its Place in Science and Teaching in the University of Economics, Prague]|Accounting as a branch of economic science and research is not in the center of attention of economists, whether they are focused macroeconomic or Business Administration (microeconomic). Whoever, it is necessary to underline the crucial importance of accounting for the formation of a number of findings from the field of business management, e. g. cost, efficiency and economy of production. Accounting is a branch of science developed in the world and around us in the last hundred and fifty years and represents today an accepted part of the microeconomic oriented research and the formation of some theoretical conclusions. Department of Accounting, University of Economics, Prague since the inception of the school - it is from then until now, part of it - fully engaged in growing doctrinal discipline while trying to provide students currently focused specialized teaching in accounting for the needs of their practice. Accounting system in the Czech Republic and the Slovakia in the last sixty years have passed so varied developments that maybe their mapping represents a contribution to the formation of the theory of functions of account and accounting systems, designed as a system focused on the needs of the state of the economy or the needs of the healthy development of a profi table company as elements of this economy.
N94|The Great North Sea Flood of 1953, The Deltaworks and the spatial distribution of people|Large shocks, such as natural disasters, are often found to have little or no effect on the equilibrium distribution of economic activity across space. Two apparently competing theoretical explanations for this phenomenon are the increasing returns theory and the locational fundamentals theory. This study investigates the population dynamics resulting from the flood that hit the Netherlands in 1953 and from the mitigation measures that followed it.A dynamic difference-in-differences analysis reveals that the flood had an immediate negative impact on population growth, but limited long term effects. The mitigation efforts, gathered under the Deltaworks Programme, are on the other hand found to have had positive effects that are persisting through time. Our results are consistent with both the theory of increasing returns and that of locational fundamentals. The results also suggest that the combined long term effect of the flood in 1953 and the mitigation measures that followed was an increased concentration of population in vulnerable areas.
N94|Regional convergence in Italy, 1891–2001: testing human and social capital|The article aims to present and discuss estimates of levels of human and social capital in Italy’s regions over the long term, i.e., roughly from the second half of the nineteenth century up to the present day. The results are linked to newly available evidence for regional value added in order to begin to form an explanatory hypothesis of long-term regional inequality in Italy: convergence in value added per capita is tested in light of the neoclassical exogenous growth approach, which incorporates human capital and social capital as conditioning variables into a long-term production function. In contrast with conventional wisdom (e.g. Putnam 1993), we find that social capital was not a significant predictor of economic growth in post-Unification Italy: It grew in importance only in the last decades. Conversely, human capital was more important in the first half of the twentieth century. Results suggest that there was not one single conditioning variable over the long run, thus supporting the view that, in different periods, conditioning variables can be determined by technological regimes.
N94|The Impact of EU Membership on the Economic Governance of Spain|Spain was not admitted to the then European Economic Community during the Francos regime for political reasons. Joining the EU on January 1986 was the last and final step forward towards the definitive consolidation of democracy in Spain and the consolidation of the opening of the Spanish Economy. The results over the first twenty five years of membership have translated into an unprecedented boost of modernization and progress. Spain adopted the Acquis Communautaire and received considerable benefits from EU membership, eliminating barriers, following the common policies , re ceiving European funds and adopting the European common currency . From an index of 60 per cent of the European income average in 1986, todays income even after the crisis that started in 2008- is in the range of 105 per cent. The last three years have been different and difficult due to the severe economic and financial crisis. In this context, this paper analyses how the successive Spanish governments organized the economic governance to adapt to the quantitative and qualitative changes registered in the European Integration.
N94|Reconstruction of the Regional GDP of Portugal, 1890 1980|This methodological study provides estimates of Portuguese regional GDP per capita between 1890 and 1980. These estimates were obtained either by following the Geary and Stark (2002) method for industry or directly from regional production data or proxies thereof where available.
N94|Related variety and regional growth in Spain|This paper investigates whether related variety, among other types of spatial externalities, affected regional growth in Spain at the NUTS 3 level during the period 1995-2007. We found evidence that related variety matters for growth across regions, especially when measured with the assistance of the Porter's cluster classification and the proximity index proposed by Hidalgo et al.. That is, Spanish provinces with a range of industries that are technologically related tend to show higher economic growth rates, controlling for the usual suspects. We did not find, however, any evidence of regional growth effects that come from technologically related sectors imports.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Central banks under German rule during World War II: The case of Norway|Until the German invasion of Norway 9 April 1940 the Norwegian central bank had been one of the most independent in Western Europe. This article investigates the agency of the Norwegian central bank during the German occupation and compares it with central banks in other German occupied countries. The Norwegian central bank seems to have been more accommodating to German wishes and demands than the central banks in other German occupied countries in Western Europe.
N94|Economic integration and regional inequality in Iberia (1900-2000) : a geographical approach|This paper studies the evolution of regional inequality in Iberia from 1900 to 2000 from a geographical perspective. For doing that the text presents a new dataset of historical regional GDPs for Spanish NUTS III and Portuguese Historical Districts (HD), synthetic indices of regional inequality and different measures of spatial correlation across regional pc GDPs. The results show that Portuguese and Spanish national economic integration processes initially favored the economic specialization across Iberian regions fostering the divergence in terms of their regional pc GDPs. Notwithstanding, ulterior advances in the integration of national markets and the subsequent first stages in the process of adhesion of these two national economies into the UE coexisted with a progressive reduction in Iberian regional inequality. So, Iberian regional inequality depicts a long term U-shaped evolution. Nevertheless, at the same time, Iberian regional inequality evolution followed a significant geographical pattern. The poorest regions cluster in inland territories of the south and west, with regions belonging to this cluster sited on the two sides of the political border. On the contrary, richest regions cluster along the coasts, especially in the north-east corner of the Iberian Peninsula. Besides, the data show that this pattern was well established in the middle of the XX century, before the reciprocal openness of national markets in the 1980s. In this respect, the adhesion of both economies to the UE in 1986 seems to have just caused an ulterior deepening in this historical pattern
N94|Housing Markets during the Rural-Urban Transition: Evidence from early 20th Century Spain|This paper discusses how Spain’s urban housing markets reacted to the far-reaching changes that affected the demand for dwellings during the first phase of the ruralurban transition process. To this end, we construct a new hedonic index of real housing prices and assemble a cross-regional panel dataset of price fundamentals. The results of our econometric analysis suggest that urban housing markets did not face supply constraints and responded swiftly to the growing demand for accommodation. In light of this new evidence, we conclude that housing markets were not a burden for Spanish economic development and that Spain’s urban infrastructure and institutional framework and were suitable for the housing needs at the time.
N94|Restoring Stability to Europe|The eurozone is in political and economic crisis. This is due to the inadequate design of the institutional structure of the eurozone and to the current poor implementation of macroeconomic policy. In designing the eurozone, well established principles of economics were ignored and major decisions were based primarily upon political considerations. Thus it was only a matter of time before these defects would become apparent. In addressing the current crisis that has developed policy makers have misdiagnosed the causes of the crisis and implemented solutions that are largely counterproductive to solving it. This paper describes the underlying factors that led to the inadequate design and improper macroeconomic response and explains what will be necessary in order to create an institutional structure and macroeconomic policy framework that can restore economic stability and growth to the region.
N94|Theoretical advancement in economic geography by engaged pluralism|Economic geographers have recently been confronted with attempts to constitute a new paradigm of evolutionary economic geography. The paper aims at advancing theoretical economic geography by reviewing its core critique and proposed solutions, particularly that of integrating the perspective of a geographical political economy. Although we sympathize with the identified shortcomings of an evolutionary economic geography we criticise the alternative approach for being too narrow and reductionist. In contrast, a relational economic perspective is argued to theorize the core weaknesses of EEG, namely power, social agency and particularly the interrelatedness of influences on different scales, more comprehensively. By combining evolutionary and relational approaches in certain respects we, furthermore, plead for an advancement of theoretical economic geography by engaged pluralism.
N94|The emergence of new technology-based sectors at the regional level: a proximity-based analysis of nanotechnology|This paper analyzes the emergence of new technology-based sectors at the regional level. We focus on the specific case of nanotechnology as representative of an industry based on a technology still in infancy whose evolution can be reliably traced on the basis of filed patent submissions. We implement a methodological framework based on the „product-space? approach, which allows us to investigate whether the development of new technologies is linked to the structure of the existing local knowledge base. We use patent data over the period 1986-2006 to carry out the analysis at the NUTS 2 level over the EU 15 countries. The results of the descriptive and econometric analysis supports the idea that history matters in the spatial development of a sector, and that the technological competences accumulated at the local level are likely to shape the future patterns of technological diversification.
N94|What price a roof? Housing and the cost of living in 16th-century Toledo|Data on housing costs and rental markets for the early modern period are notoriously scarce. We build a database of rent paid on 183 properties belonging to the Cathedral Chapter of Toledo between 1489 and 1600. Using detailed information on location, physical characteristics of the property, and the identity of the renter, we reconstruct housing costs for various social groups and trace the effect of exogenous shocks on the rental market. We then use our data to explore the impact of adding rent to early modern price indices and estimates of living standards. Price indices show a moderate effect. When comparing the living standards of Toledo to two northern European locations, the addition of rent reduces the gap between them by up to 9.5%.
N94|Housing markets during the rural-urban transition : evidence from early 20th century Spain|This paper discusses how Spain’s urban housing markets reacted to the farreaching changes that affected the demand for dwellings during the first phase of the rural-urban transition process. To this end, we construct a new hedonic index of real housing prices and assemble a cross-regional panel dataset of price fundamentals. The results of our econometric analysis suggest that urban housing markets did not face supply constraints and responded swiftly to the growing demand for accommodation. In light of this new evidence, we conclude that housing markets were not a burden for Spanish economic development and that Spain’s urban infrastructure and institutional framework and were suitable for the housing needs at the time
N94|The Dynamics and Evolution of Local Industries – The case of Linköping|This paper aims to analyse how innovative, individual activities influence the evolution of local industries according to three stages. When discussing the evolution of industries or economies, the concept of path dependency is often a central element. Its vague nature makes it however difficult to be used as an interpretative lens when studying the evolution of local industries. In order to limit the broad concept, several aspects have been identified for discussion; all are explicitly linked to path dependency in economic geography literature and all are acknowledged to be of significance for stimulating the evolution of local industries. Based on the review of the evolutionary economic theory literature, the following three stages have been identified: first, the entering of new knowledge which may, or may not, be the starting point for a new local industry; second, the formation of the new local industry; third, the anchoring process of the new local industry. All three stages are intertwined and include the question how the new emerging industry and the existing local structures relate to each other. The three stages will be illustrated through the discussion of the evolution of the IT industry in Linköping, Sweden.
N94|The financing history of urban water infrastructure in Paris (1807-1925): lessons from the past to enlighten present and future challenges?|Sustainable financing is a major challenge for the water sector both in many developing countries where water and sanitation services are still in the expansion phase and in Europe where the water industry is faced to major investments needs too. To give more depth to the present policy debate a historical perspective on water services financing is needed. This paper is focused on the financing history of the Paris water infrastructure brought to completion in the 1807-1925 time frame (Ourcq canal, water supply network and sewers, long distance aqueducts, water treatment plants, waste water treatment units). A variety of financing schemes and institutional solutions (municipal budget - fiscal resources, concession, municipal bond and land added value capture schemes) are identified and described. A deeper analysis is made on the financial flows of Paris’ water, sanitation and canals service over the 1893-1930 time frame. A discussion on the institutional choices and on the long run cost allocation of the chosen financing schemes is made. It appears that long term debt, inflation and land added value capture mechanisms played key roles in absorbing part of the investments’ costs.
N94|The Role Of Creative Industries In Raising Urban Competitiveness. Unesco Network Of Creative Cities-Successful Models For Romania|"In recent years, the urban management practice has shown that the concept of ""creative industry"" has started to be extensively applied, being favoured by the good results of the socio-economic development of urban areas. Creative industries aim cultural products that enter the economic circuit, produce value, generate public revenues through fees and taxes, create jobs and income and help the regional and national development. In this context, UNESCO has created the ""Creative Cities Network"" which aims at facilitating the emergence of cultural groups through the exchange of know-how, experience and best practices as a means of promoting the development of local economy and social development through creative industries. This paper synthesizes the most relevant conceptual approaches in this area, presents a series of successful experiences in urban development taking as a model the UNESCO Creative Cities (Berlin, Glasgow, Lyon), creates a ranking of Romanian cities using the creative industries index and analyses how these cities could find new sources of growth of urban competitiveness."
N94|What price a roof? Housing and the cost of living in 16th-century Toledo|"""Data on housing costs and rental markets for the early modern period are notoriously scarce. We build a database of rent paid on 183 properties belonging to the Cathedral Chapter of Toledo between 1489 and 1600. Using detailed information on location, physical characteristics of the property, and the identity of the renter, we reconstruct housing costs for various social groups and trace the effect of exogenous shocks on the rental market. We then use our data to explore the impact of adding rent to early modern price indices and estimates of living standards. Price indices show a moderate effect. When comparing the living standards of Toledo to two northern European locations, the addition of rent reduces the gap between them by up to 18%."""
N94|Port gateways in globalisation: The case of Antwerp|This paper analyses the globalization trends affecting Antwerp as a port city. Mainly, we analyse the public policies implemented at different levels of governance in the new context of globalization (from EU to local level). However, in contrast to other authors, we argue that globalization is both shaped by political decisions and in return imposes new constraints to public policies, notably at the local level. Using the Antwerp case, we show first how EU and regional policies have supported globalization trends by favouring liberalization policies in port matters or by reinforcing local autonomies in urban matters. Second, we show in return how local authorities with growing competences have, in a more competitive and global context, been constrained to answer to this new environment by shifting toward entrepreneurial policies. By reshaping their image or opening the port to investors, the attraction of new investors has been a major objective of urban or port policies in the city of Antwerp.
N94|Regional value added in Italy over the long run (1891-2001): linking indirect estimates with official figures, and implications|This paper presents value added estimates for the Italian regions, in benchmark years from 1891 until 1951, which are linked to those from official figures available from 1971 in order to offer a long-term picture. Sources and methodology are documented and discussed, whilst regional activity rates and productivity are also presented and compared. Thus some questions are briefly reconsidered: the origins and extent of the north-south divide, the role of migration and regional policy in shaping the pattern of regional inequality, the importance of social capital, and the positioning of Italy in the international debate on regional convergence, where it stands out for the long run persistence of its disparities.
N94|Internal Geography and External Trade: regional disparities in Italy, 1861-2011|This paper explores the interactions between external trade and regional disparities in the Italian economy since unification. It argues that the advantage of the North was initially based on natural advantage (in particular the endowment of water, intensive in silk production). From 1880 onwards the share of exports in GDP stagnated and then declined; domestic market access therefore became a key determinant of industrial location, inducing fast growing new sectors (especially engineering) to locate in regions with a large domestic market, i.e. in the North. From 1945 onwards trade growth and European integration meant that foreign market access was the decisive factor; the North had the advantage of proximity to these markets.
N94|How Do Regions Diversify over Time? Industry Relatedness and the Development of New Growth Paths in Regions| The question of how new regional growth paths emerge has been raised by many leading economic geographers. From an evolutionary perspective, there are strong reasons to believe that regions are most likely to branch into industries that are technologically related to the preexisting industries in the regions. Using a new indicator of technological relatedness between manufacturing industries, we analyzed the economic evolution of 70 Swedish regions from 1969 to 2002 with detailed plant-level data. Our analyses show that the long-term evolution of the economic landscape in Sweden is subject to strong path dependencies. Industries that were technologically related to the preexisting industries in a region had a higher probability of entering that region than did industries that were technologically unrelated to the region’s preexisting industries. These industries had a higher probability of exiting that region. Moreover, the industrial profiles of Swedish regions showed a high degree of technological cohesion. Despite substantial structural change, this cohesion was persistent over time. Our methodology also proved useful when we focused on the economic evolution of one particular region. Our analysis indicates that the Linköping region increased its industrial cohesion over 30 years because of the entry of industries that were closely related to its regional portfolio and the exit of industries that were technologically peripheral. In summary, we found systematic evidence that the rise and fall of industries is strongly conditioned by industrial relatedness at the regional level.
N94|How Do Regions Diversify over Time? Industry Relatedness and the Development of New Growth Paths in Regions| The question of how new regional growth paths emerge has been raised by many leading economic geographers. From an evolutionary perspective, there are strong reasons to believe that regions are most likely to branch into industries that are technologically related to the preexisting industries in the regions. Using a new indicator of technological relatedness between manufacturing industries, we analyzed the economic evolution of 70 Swedish regions from 1969 to 2002 with detailed plant-level data. Our analyses show that the long-term evolution of the economic landscape in Sweden is subject to strong path dependencies. Industries that were technologically related to the preexisting industries in a region had a higher probability of entering that region than did industries that were technologically unrelated to the region’s preexisting industries. These industries had a higher probability of exiting that region. Moreover, the industrial profiles of Swedish regions showed a high degree of technological cohesion. Despite substantial structural change, this cohesion was persistent over time. Our methodology also proved useful when we focused on the economic evolution of one particular region. Our analysis indicates that the Linköping region increased its industrial cohesion over 30 years because of the entry of industries that were closely related to its regional portfolio and the exit of industries that were technologically peripheral. In summary, we found systematic evidence that the rise and fall of industries is strongly conditioned by industrial relatedness at the regional level.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Agglomeration in the periphery|i. This discussion paper is a completely revised version of SERCDP0047, published April 2010. This paper argues that agglomeration externalities are important even in the rural periphery. The analysis focuses on the forced relocation of more than a tenth of the Finnish population after World War II. Using the details of the resettlement policy to construct instrumental variables for wartime population growth rate, I find that an exogenous increase in municipality's population had a positive effect on later population growth, industrialization and real wages. These findings are consistent with the presence of agglomeration externalities and inconsistent with other popular explanations for the spatial distribution of economic activity.
N94|Internal Geography and External Trade: regional disparities in Italy, 1861-2011|This paper explores the interactions between external trade and regional disparities in the Italian economy since unification. It argues that the advantage of the North was initially based on natural advantage (in particular the endowment of water, intensive in silk production). From 1880 onwards the share of exports in GDP stagnated and then declined; domestic market access therefore became a key determinant of industrial location, inducing fast growing new sectors (especially engineering) to locate in regions with a large domestic market, i.e. in the North. From 1945 onwards trade growth and European integration meant that foreign market access was the decisive factor; the North had the advantage of proximity to these markets.
N94|Spanish housing markets during the first phase of the rural-urban transition process|This paper discusses how Spain’s housing markets reacted to the far-reaching changes that affected the demand for dwellings during the first phase of the rural-urban transition process. To this end, we construct a new hedonic index of real housing prices and assemble a cross-regional panel dataset of price fundamentals. The results of our econometric analysis suggest that housing markets did not face supply constraints, responded swiftly to the growing demand for accommodation and were efficient. In light of this new evidence, we conclude that housing markets were not a burden for Spanish economic development and that Spain’s institutional and regulatory frameworks were suitable for the housing needs at the time.
N94|The rise and fall of spatial inequalities in France: A long-run perspective|"This paper studies the evolution and determinants of spatial inequalities in France. To this end, we use a unique database providing data on value-added, employment, and population over the entire set of French ""Départements"" in 1860, 1896, 1930, 1982, and 2000. These data cover three sectors: Agriculture, Manufacturing, and Services. Firstly, we confirm the existence of a bell-shaped process of spatial concentration in Manufacturing and Services over time. In contrast, labor productivity has been converging across departments. Secondly, we find considerable agglomeration economies over the whole period. The spatial distribution of these gains is determined mainly by market potential in the first sub-period, 1860-1930, and higher education in the second, 1930-2000."
N94|Agglomeration in the Periphery|i. This discussion paper is a completely revised version of SERCDP0047, published April 2010. This paper argues that agglomeration externalities are important even in the rural periphery. The analysis focuses on the forced relocation of more than a tenth of the Finnish population after World War II. Using the details of the resettlement policy to construct instrumental variables for wartime population growth rate, I find that an exogenous increase in municipality's population had a positive effect on later population growth, industrialization and real wages. These findings are consistent with the presence of agglomeration externalities and inconsistent with other popular explanations for the spatial distribution of economic activity.
N94|“Maliye”ye Alternatif Bir Yaklaşım Olarak Mali Sosyoloji: Öncüler|Maliye’ye eleştirel bir yaklaşım olan mali sosyolojiyi üzerine olan bu çalışma, bir disiplin olarak maliyenin ortaya çıkışındaki Kıt’a Avrupa’sı ve Anglo­ Sakson gelenekler arasındaki farklılığı temel hareket noktası olarak ele alır. Ortaya çıkış sürecindeki bu farklılığın, günümüz maliye disiplini açısından belirleyici olduğunu ileri sürer. Çalışmada, Anglo-Sakson geleneğin bir devamı olarak, mali sorunu teknik bir düzeye indirgeyip toplumsal ve tarihsel bağlarından kopuk bir şekilde ele alan hâkim neo-klasik maliye yaklaşımı karşısında; Kıt’a Avrupa’sı geleneğinden beslenen mali sosyolojinin alternatif olma özelliği, ilk öncüler olarak ele alabileceğimiz Goldscheid, Schumpeter ve O’Connor’ın görüşleri çerçevesinde ele alınmıştır.
N94|Redes empresariales e integración económica regional en perspectiva histórica: el caso de Andalucía|Trade flows, mobility of productive factors, development of the transport system and a common export base have been the criteria used when analyzing the processes of economic organization of the territory from a historical perspective. The purpose of this paper is to add a new explanatory variable, based on business relationships. To this end, social network tools have been applied to the promotors of corporations that were domiciled in Andalusia (a region in the south of Spain) between 1886 and 1959. The indicators obtained show that the Andalusian entrepreneurial space had advanced to regional economic integration
N94|The Expansion of Silk Textile Export in Northern Italy, 1919-1929|The purpose of this article is to examine the expansion and the aspect of silk textile export in Northern Italy, especially in Como district, during the period of 1919-1929, when the Italian silk textile industry gained an international competitive advantage. The author would like to propound some views to which little attention has been given. Generally speaking, the modernization of management organization in the early 1920 fs accelerated the development of silk textile industry. Firstly, the textile machine industry concurrently came to grow, which made it possible to improve the quality of textiles and helped for the silk industry to acquire the new markets for its goods. Secondly, the increasing use of artificial silk from the early 1920 fs drastically changed the situation around silk textile. Thirdly, the silk textiles with the new additional raw material came to be woven under the mass production system. Fourthly, the silk textile industry tried to improve the design of silk textiles for couture, and succeeded in reaching the forefront of Italian fashion, cooperated with the government. All of the above-mentioned facts did start when the British government imposed tariff barriers on the silk textile. At that time, Italy had no choice but to develop overseas market. In the second half of the 1920s, capturing the new markets of Asia, Africa and South America, the export of silk textiles including artificial silk as new mass products remarkably increased.
N94|The determinants of Italy's regional imbalances over the long run: exploring the contributions of human and social capital|The article aims to present and discuss estimates of levels of human and social capital in Italy's regions over the long term, i.e. roughly from the second half of the nineteenth century up to the present day. The results are linked to newly available evidence for regional value added in order to begin to form an explanatory hypothesis of long-term regional inequality in Italy. More particularly, convergence in value added per capita across Italy's regions is tested (through both cross-section and dynamic panel regressions) in light of the neoclassical exogenous growth approach, which incorporates human capital and social capital as conditioning variables into a long-term production function. On the whole, the results confirm the importance of conditioning variables, i.e. of regional diffrences in human capital and social capital, but also suggest that their impact significantly changed over the twentieth century, thus supporting the view that, in different periods, conditioning variables are determined by technological regimes.
N94|Les industries animales dans l'ouest de la France : les territoires industrielles de Chateau-Renault et Surgères<BR>[Animal industries in western France : the industrials territories of Chateau-Renault and Surgères]|The author of this paper intends to compare two industrial territories from western France: Chateau-Renault and Surgères. Chateau-Renault is a tanning center, and the city of Surgères houses a vast dairy. The industries of both areas deal with products of animal origins deriving from agriculture. They could be named “animal industries”. Besides, both areas are located in the west of France, where industrialization lagged behind the rest of the country. The author will study the mechanism at work behind the development of those industries in a region with very little industry overall. The relationship between local resources, notably agriculture, and the development of a specific form of industrialization are central to the emergence of those animal industries.
N94|Lizbon Antlaşması Sonrası Avrupa Birliği'nin Yeni Kurumsal Yapısı<BR>[The New Institutional Structure of EU after the Lisbon Treaty]|The Lisbon Treaty entered into force on December 1, 2009, marking a new level of EU’s initiatives on institutional change and policy reforms in 2000’s. The purpose of this study is to provide an outline of the changes in the institutional structure of EU with the Lisbon Treaty, considering the targets of reform initiatives started in the late 1990’s. The study argues that although the Treaty ensures new institutional innovations and designs, the question of whether those reforms would be sufficient to overcome the current challenges that EU faces and to fully reach the goals of 2000’s reform process, is still prevalent.
N94|From Airfield to Airport: An Institutionalist-Historical Approach to the Early Development of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, 1916-1940|In this article, the development of Dutch airports during the antebellum period from military airfields to mixed-airfields and finally to a municipal airports is examined from an institutionalist-historical approach. Specific attention is given to the evolution of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol within a regional socioeconomic context and within a national context of local competition, particularly between the big cities in Randstad Holland. This article argues that the rise and development of Schiphol and its impact on the surrounding urban area (city and the region) can be characterized as a coevolutionary process involving different actors within various domains— economic, political, and institutional—and at different spatial levels. Airport development, therefore, has to be conceived as the result of a collective arrangement that has determined the spatial and economic development of the airport itself and the surrounding area.
N94|The Rule and the Exception: Italy’s Regional Imbalances (1891-2001) through a Shift-Share Analysis|The article analyses the new estimates of regional value added in Italy, in benchmark years from 1891 to 2001, by decomposing them into activity rates and per worker productivity, in agriculture, industry, and services. The impact of activity rates and per worker productivity on the pattern of regional inequality are assessed and, through shift-share analysis, the «share change», «mix change», and «shift change» components of growth are measured, in four different periods: the liberal age (1891-1911), the interwar years (1911-1951), the economic miracle (1951-1971), and the post-Fordist years (1971-2001). The results help highlight the peculiarity of the Italian long-run pattern of regional imbalances, i.e. the exceptionality of southern Italy, whose convergence during the economic miracle came to a halt in the 1970s.
N94|Labour productivity in Spain: 1977-2002| This study examines the evolution of labour productivity across Spanish regions during the period from 1977 to 2002. Applying the kernel technique, we estimate the effects of the transition process on labour productivity and its main sources. We find that Spanish regions experienced a major convergence process in labour productivity mostly driven by human capital in the 1977-1993 period. Conversely, the dynamics of investment in physical capital appear to be neutral with respect to the transition dynamics of labour productivity. Finally, from 1995 to 2002, no dynamic processes seemed to have taken place. Spanish regions exhibit a persistent relative position with established convergence clubs: the human capital effect is less important and the investment in physical capital seems not to have a triggering effect on labour productivity growth.
N94|Usury, Calvinism, and Credit in Protestant England: from the Sixteenth Century to the Industrial Revolution|This study analyses the impact of Protestantism on interest rates in England from the 16th century to the Industrial Revolution. One of many myths about the usury doctrine - the prohibition against demanding anything above the principal in a loan (mutuum) - is that it ceased to be observed in Reformation Europe. As several authors have demonstrated, however, early Protestant Reformers, beginning with Luther, had essentially endorsed the long established Scholastic usury doctrines. The one major exception was Jean Calvin. Though retaining a strong hostility against usury, he permitted interest on commercial loans, while forbidding usury on charitable loans to the needy. That view may have been partly responsible for a crucially important breach in civil support of the usury doctrine. The first, in 1540, was an imperial ordinance for the Habsburg Netherlands permitting interest payments up to 12%, but only for commercial loans. In England, Henry VIII's Parliament of 1545 enacted a statute permitting interest payments up to 10% (on all loans); any higher rates constituted usury. But, in 1552, a hostile Parliament, with radical Protestants, revoked that statute, and revived it only under Elizabeth, in 1571. Since the maximum rate was also taken to be the minimum, subsequent Parliaments, seeking to foster trade, reduced that rate: to 8% in 1624, to 6% in 1651 (ratified 1660-61), and to 5% in 1713: a rate maintained until the abolition of the usury laws in 1854. The consequences of legalizing interest payments, but with ever lower maximum rates, had a far-reaching impact on the English economy, from the 16th century to the Industrial Revolution. The first lay in finally permitting the discounting of commercial bills. Even if medieval bills of exchange had permitted merchants to disguise interest payments in exchange rates, the usury doctrine nevertheless required that they be non-negotiable, held until maturity, since discounting would have revealed the implicit interest. Evidence for the Low Countries and England demonstrates that discounting, with legal transfers either by bearer bills or by endorsement, with full negotiability, began and became widespread only after the legalization of interest payments in both countries. The importance for Great Britain can be seen in the primary role of its banks during the Industrial Revolution: in discounting commercial bills, foreign and domestic, in order to finance most of the working capital needs for both industry and commerce. The second is known as the Financial Revolution; and its late introduction into England, from 1693, was in part due to the limits imposed on interest rates. In its final form (1757), it meant the establishment of permanent, funded, national debt based not on the sale of interest-bearing bonds but on perpetual annuities or rentes. The origins can be found in 13th-century northern France and the Low Countries in reaction to the vigorous intensification of the anti-usury campaign by the new mendicant orders, the Franciscans and Dominicans. Fearing for their mortal souls, many merchants refused to make loans and chose to finance town governments instead by purchasing municipal rentes (annuities). In 1250, Pope Innocent IV ruled that no usury was involved, because those buying rentes could never demand redemptions. Instead, they were licitly purchasing future streams of income. Continuing debates were not finally resolved until the issue of three 15th-century papal bulls (supporting Innocent IV). By the 16th century, the finances of most western Europe states had become largely dependent on selling both life and perpetual annuities. England was thus a late-comer, in importing this system of public finance. Fully immune to the usury laws, this Financial Revolution permitted the English/British governments to reduce borrowing costs from 14% in 1693 to just 3% in 1757, so that the British economy could finance both 'guns and butter', without crowding out private investments. Furthermore, since these annuities (Consols) were traded internationally on both the London and Amsterdam stock exchanges, they were a popular form of secure investments, which became, with land, the most widely-used collateral in borrowing for the fixed capital needs of the Industrial Revolution.
N94|Instability, economic stagnation and the role of islam in the North Caucasus|Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, the North Caucasus is known as a politically unstable region and as a melting pot for terrorism and all kinds of criminal activity, reaching from drugtrafficking and illegal arms trade to hijacking and extortion. Furthermore, the North Caucasus is one of Russia's poorest and least developed regions. Although the role of Islam as a destabilizing factor should not be overestimated, it is a determining characteristic regarding the region's past and current development. The paper considers specific influencing factors like the North Caucasus' geographical location, foreign influence, its Soviet past, its history of Islamization, its societal structure, its ethnic heterogeneity and the prevalent Russian institutional vacuum with a focus on Islam and its local characteristics. Then it is questioned whether sustainable socio-economic development is possible within the prevalent institutional environment and whether Islam plays a decisive role or not. It is discovered, that weak governance on the central and regional levels and the inability to implement and enforce the rule of law are responsible for the region's socio-economic situation. The form of societal organization plays a role, too. These factors, however, are historically determined and will therefore persist, in part even in the long run.
N94|La economía de Valladolid, 1830-2000. Una perspectiva histórica|This paper offers an overview of the modern Economic History of an interior Spanish province (Valladolid). It investigates the reasons of the economic retardation of this central region in contrast with the periphery of the country. It also presents the unknown attempts of the local business class to exploit large industrial conglomerates. The evidence shows that the region did not lack of entrepreneurial spirit. Actually, in spite the adverse agricultural conditions, the Government protection, the little modernisation of its capital market and its large risk aversion, Valladolid became the main industrial district of the region thanks to its specialization in food production and metallurgy
N94|Self-reinforcing shocks: evidence from a resettlement policy|We examine the long-term effects of resettling 11 percent of the Finnish population from areas ceded to the Soviet Union during World War II. Our empirical strategy exploits features of the resettlement policy as a source of plausibly exogenous variation in population growth. The results suggest that a 10 percent increase in the population of a rural location during the war caused an additional 15 percent growth during the next five decades. The growth was driven by migration and led to the expansion of the non-primary sector. The effect is larger for locations connected to the railway network.
N94|Swedish regional GDP 1855–2000: Estimations and general trends in the Swedish regional system|Abstract This paper uses a method devised by Geary and Stark to estimate regional GDPs for 24 Swedish provinces 1855–2000. In empirical tests, we find that the Swedish estimations yield results of good precision, comparable to those reported in the international literature. From the literature, we generate six expectations concerning the development of regional GDPs in Sweden. Using the GDP estimations, we test these expectations empirically. We find that the historical regional GDPs show a high correlation over time, but that the early industrialization process coevolved with a dramatic redistribution of productive capacity. We show that the regional inequalities in GDP per capita were at their lowest point in modern history in the early 1980s. However, while efficiency in the regional system has never been as equal, absolute regional differences in scale of production has increased dramatically over our investigated period. This process has especially benefited the metropolitan provinces. We present detailed sources of our estimations and also sketch a research agenda from our results.
N94|Eine exemplarische Anwendung der regionalisierten Preisniveau-Daten des BBSR auf die Einkommensverteilung für die Jahre 2005 bis 2008|Die 1990 eingeführte Wirtschafts- und Währungsunion der BRD mit der DDR und schließlich die deutsche Wiedervereinigung war und ist für jede Statistik, die versucht die Lebensverhältnisse in Ost und West zu vergleichen, eine große Herausforderung. In seinem einleitenden Teil dokumentiert dieser Aufsatz die unmittelbar nach der Wiedervereinigung und in den 90er Jahren vom DIW Berlin vorgenommenen Kaufkraftparitäten-Berechnungen für Ost- und Westdeutschland. Sie erweisen sich weitgehend kompatibel mit den entsprechenden späteren Berechnungen des Bundesinstituts für Bau-, Stadt- und Raumforschung (BBSR). Die Ergebnisse beider Methoden weichen deutlich von der Annahme des Statistischen Bundesamtes eines einheitlichen Preisniveaus in Ost- und Westdeutschland ab. Anschließend werden die von der BBSR angegebenen regionalen Preisunterschiede in die Analyse der Einkommensverteilung in Deutschland einbezogen. Im Ergebnis führt dies bei den verfügbaren Haushaltseinkommen zu einer Annäherung des relativ ärmeren Ostens an den relativ reicheren Westen. Es kommt zwar weder zu einer Veränderung des grundsätzlichen Trends der letzten Jahre, noch zu einem vollständigen Ausgleich der bestehenden Unterschiede, trotzdem scheint auch für künftige Analysen der personellen Einkommensverteilung eine systematische Berechnung und Einbeziehung der regionalen Preisniveaus lohnend zu sein.
N94|The upswing of regional income inequality in Spain (1860-1930)|This paper studies the evolution of Spanish regional inequality from 1860 to 1930. The results point to the coexistence of two basic forces behind changes in regional economic inequality: industrial specialization and labor productivity differentials. The initial expansion of industrialization, in a context of growing economic integration of regions, promoted the spatial concentration of manufacturing in certain regions, which also benefited from the greatest advances in terms of labor productivity. Since 1900, the diffusion of manufacturing production to a greater number of locations has generated the emulation of production structures and a process of catching-up in labor productivity and wages.
N94|Guerras Olvidadas: Chechenia|Russia decided to invade Chechnya at the end of 1991 and provoked an appalling situation in the Caucasian region. This article deals with the history of those two Russian invasions of Chechnya --from their origin until the current situation-- through the Russian film industry of this conflict. Moreover, this article focuses on different discourses of the film representation of the Chechen conflict. While ''Prisoner of the Mountains (1996)'', directed by Sergei Budrov, is a sensitive and respectful film in which there is a favourable discourse of defence of human rights, ''12 (2008)'', directed by Nikita Mikhalkov, presents a Russian nationalist discourse, whose influence on Russian society portrays the change of attitude towards the conflict and its justification. Hence both films are crucial in order to understand the elaborate discourses about present conflicts and prove the close link between politics and film representations.
N94|If Seebohm Rowntree Had Studied Sweden: How Poverty Changed in the City of Göteborg from 1925 to 2003|This paper investigates the development of poverty in Sweden using micro data derived from tax files for the city of Göteborg for the years 1925, 1936, 1947, 1958 as well as more recent (1983, 1994 and 2003) information. We define poverty as living in a household with a disposable income lower than a poverty line that represents a constant purchasing power all years, as well as poverty lines defined as 60 percent of contemporary median income. Clear reductions of poverty from 1925 to 1947 as well as from 1958 to 1983 are found. We argue that an important poverty reducing mechanism during both periods was narrowing earnings disparities. Further we claim that the poverty reduction from the end of the 1950s to the first half of the 1980s was the outcome of improved transfer systems as well as the establishment of pronounced characteristics of present-day Sweden: the dual earner system.
N94|Raportul Stat-Biserica in perioada guvernarii Petru Groza (1945-1947). Biserica Greco-Catolica din Romania si atitudinea Vaticanului - The relationship between State and Church during the Petru Groza government ( 1945-1947). The Greek-Catholic Church of Romania and Vatican’s attitude|The paper above presents, in a concrete way, the general report between the communism in the period when Petru Groza governed (1945-1947) and the Greek Catholic Church, in Romania, with the more or less involvement of the Holy See or of the Russian Orthodox Church. It is also made an evidence of the antagonistic perceptions of the communism and of the Catholicism as well, from the ideological point of view, regarding the position of obedience or insubordination in the difficult relationships between State and Church. As a primary aspect, the study is concentrated on depicting the principles that guided the communists in order to develop a contradictory attitude towards the Church, to highlight the essential features of the religious politics and of the communist regimes based on the local specificities and on the description of the mechanisms and of the guileful strategies through which the Romanian communists, taking advantage of the international context, with ability and agility, succeeded in winning the people’s trust, consolidating their legitimacy and, eventually, in obeying the Greek Catholic Church to their desiderates. As a final reference, our interest is concerned on an analysis of the motivations that the Petru Groza government had in pleading for putting the accent on the historical evolution of the conflict between the Orthodox adepts and the Catholics, but we have also observed the concrete measures adopted by the Romanian communist regimes towards the Greek Catholic Church and the manner in which the representatives of the nunciature from Bucharest (Andrea Cassulo and his successor Gerald Patrick O’Hara) reacted to the rough actions of the communist government.
N94|Innovation, networks of competences and communication. Elda Cecchele, Roberta di Camerino and the Veneto countryside artisans|"This article deals with the role played by the ""Laboratorio tessile Cecchele"" in the production of textiles and accessories in the 50s and 60s for important Italian fashion creators, in particular for Salvatore Ferragamo, Giuliana Camerino and Franca Polacco. The ""Laboratorio"" was located in the Veneto countryside and produced high quality textiles. Through the active role performed by Mrs. Elda Cecchele, that operated side by side with important Italian fashion designers, the ""Laboratorio"" acted as an agent that linked some local artisans and the fashion network at the international level, mainly through the intermediation of the fashion house Roberta di Camerino. In such a context the ""Laboratorio"" acted, in some occasions, as an innovator, a transmittor of knowledge and interpretation, and as a channel of financial flows. In several occasions Mrs. Cecchele redeveloped for Roberta di Camerino some bags of daily use in the Veneto countryside, that became high fashion goods, appreciated in the international fashion market. This article discusses the working of the network linking the ""Laboratorio Cecchele"", the fashion house Roberta di Camerino and the local artisans. It explains the beginning of the enterprise, its main points of originality and strength, and the reasons for the end of it in the early 70s."
N94|Il costo della vita al Nord e al Sud d’Italia, dal dopoguerra a oggi. Stime di prima generazione|Despite the fact that in 2011 Italy will celebrate the 150th anniversary of its political unification, geographical disparities stand out as a prominent characteristic of the country. The paper estimates the trend of the cost-of-living differentials across regions in the half-century after the Second World War. We find that the Noth-South gap has steadily increased, from 10 percent in 1951 to almost 20 percent in recent years. The divergence in prices highlights the delay, possibly the failure, of Italy’s economic integration. Its cost, in terms of both foregone economic growth and distributive equity, is borne by the entire Italian society.
N94|The End of the European Welfare States? Migration, Ethnic Diversity and Public Goods|Over the last several decades global migration ows have increased rapidly, resulting in corresponding increases in the number and sizes of ethnic minorities in many places - Western Europe in particular. Given the existing theory and evidence of a negative relationship between ethnic diversity and public goods, a simple extrapolation thus suggests that the large public sectors in Western Europe will shrink. However, stark differences in the histories of ethnic confl ict, quality of institutions and timing between the European case and the settings studied in the existing literature raises concerns that such an extrapolation might be misguided. Using data on municipal elections and budgetary outcomes in Danish municipalities 1981-2001 this paper attempts to address these concerns. Employing a rich set of controls and an IV strategy based on historical housing data, the main results of the paper show that ethnic diversity has impacted outcomes of municipal elections in a way consistent with lower public good demand. Using a simple theoretical model to disentangle ethnic diversity effects from other budgetary effects, the paper further shows that the same holds true for budgetary outcomes, although an untestable but plausible auxiliary assumption is required on the budgetary process. The findings have important implications for immigration and refugee policy both in Europe and more broadly.
N94|Regional inequalities in Italy in the long run (1891-2001): the pattern and some ideas to explain it|The article in the first instance aims to present the pattern of regional inequality in Italy over the long run, through benchmark years, for what regards per capita value added, but also human capital (education) and social capital. Secondly, the Italian case is discussed in view of the neoclassical approach, which incorporates human and social capital as conditioning variables in a long term production function, through both cross-section and dynamic panel regressions. The results are compared with those from descriptive statistics, concluding that the neoclassical modelling can hardly add something more to a mere correlation evidence. As a consequence, this paper explores the viability of alternative approaches, which should properly consider historical changes in technology, in institutions and in the production function, and briefly reviews the research to come in order to implement a dynamic model
N94|Estimating regional GDP in Italy (1871-2001): sources, methodology and results|This paper presents new estimates of Italian regional GDP for the years 1871, 1881 1891, 1901, 1911, 1938 and 1951. This allows us to draw a long term picture of regional development of the country, from the years following national unification to the advent of Euro in 2001.
N94|Regional value added in Italy (1891-2001) : estimates, elaborations|The aim of this paper is to present and discuss the pattern of regional inequality in Italy, from the end of the nineteenth century until our days. Value added estimates for the Italian regions, in benchmark years from 1891 until 1951, are linked to those from official figures available from 1971, in order to offer a long-term picture. It is worth anticipating that 1891-1951 estimates are not entirely satisfactory yet (sources and methodologies used for 1891-1951 estimates are explained in some detail in the final appendix). However, at the present stage of research they are comparable to those available for other countries; further refinements can hardly be produced in the short run, while it seems reasonable to think that they would not change significantly the overall pattern. In short, present estimates allow us to set the Italian case within the international context and to draw the basic lines of a long-term picture.
N94|Economía de la Educación: la financiación de la enseñanza universitaria en España|This research deals with universities in Spain in the last decades of the twentieth century, after which there was a democratization of access to these studies and an increase in female enrollment. Obviously, there was a link between the university and the family income of students, although it was producing a reduction of socio-economic differences of students from the eighties, due to the price subsidy of enrollment. The study takes into account the decentralization process of the Spanish universities, centers of diversification and the increasing expectations placed upon universities. So, funding for college and job placement of its graduates are the key factors.
N94|Innovazione, reti di comunicazione e di competenze. Elda Cecchele, Roberta di Camerino e gli artigiani della campagna veneta<BR>[Innovation, knowledge and competence networks. Elda Cecchele, Roberta di Camerino and the Veneto artisans]|This paper deals with the role played by the Laboratorio Tessile of Elda Cecchele in the production of fabric for fashion clothing and accessories in the 50s and 60s. The Laboratorio supplied many important Italian stylists, in particular Giuliana Camerino and Franca Polacco in Venice. The Laboratorio produced excellent fabrics and had an important role in interpretation and knowledge transmission. It worked as a network connecting local artisans that worked at home, with the international fashion demand from the very well known firm Roberta di Camerino. In this network the Laboratorio was a knowledge transimitter, a positive interpreter of the fashion demand and an active finance intermediator. In some occasions Elda Cecchele proposed to Mrs. Giuliana Camerino the interpretation of some objects of common usage in the Veneto countryside that, with fashionable variations, became stylish products and were sold in the international market. The article discusses the network formation between the Laboratorio, Roberta di Camerino and the local artisans, its peculiarities, the reasons that explain its surge and development and its end towards the end of the 60s.
N94|Between History And Town-Planning: Danitis, Maccabees, Sadducees, Medicis, Suricis, Christians And Marranos In Terra Di Lavoro In The Middle Ages|The coexistence of different peoples and civilization in ‘Terra di Lavoro’ Caserta - Italy during the Middle Ages urged the Author to ask himself what role everyone of them played there. In particular from the analysis the reader can learn about the minority Hebraic ethnic groups of Danitis, Maccabees, Medicis, Sadducees, Suricis and of others, whose traces had been lost since the destruction of the second Temple in 70 A .D. These peoples were certainly Christianity brokers in the huge area which was the target of the historical research.
N94|The Costs of Remoteness: Evidence from German Division and Reunification|This paper exploits the division of Germany after the Second World War and the reunification of East and West Germany in 1990 as a natural experiment to provide evidence for the importance of market access for economic development. In line with a standard new economic geography model, we find that, following division, cities in West Germany close to the East-West German border experienced a substantial decline in population growth relative to other West German cities. We show that the model can account for the quantitative magnitude of our findings and provide additional evidence against alternative possible explanations. (JEL F15, N94, R12, R23)
N94|Una nova estimacio retrospectiva del VAB regional industrial. Espanya (1860-1930)|This article offers a new historical dataset of industrial GVA for Spanish provinces (NUTSIII) and autonomous regions (NUTS II). For doing that, a new methodology is proposed in order to estimate historical figures of regional GVA. Traditional estimates of regional industrial output in Spain have usually been based on fiscal sources. These data allowed the estimation of regional industrial capital stocks that were used as a proxy of industrial regional production. Opposite to this, in this article we offer an estimation based on regional industrial factor incomes. In order to carry out the estimation, we have followed the proposals by Geary and Stark (2002) and Crafts (2005). The new estimation offers data of Spanish regional industrial GVA for different years along the period 1860-1930.
N94|Economic distress and discourse : the rise of a corporatist rhetoric in Northern Spain after World War I|The paper explores the relationship between language and economy, between text and context, through a case study: the Basque region in northern Spain during World War I and the immediate postwar years. Using some tools of quantitative and qualitative analysis, I try to dissect the process of production and interpretation of the corporatist discourse, and then relate it to the evolution of the economy and the interests of the local economic elites. Contrary to the widespread Foucaldian theory, which focuses on the intrinsic structure of discourse, the results suggest that more attention should be paid to the context in explaining the process of discourse production.
N94|Bask Bolgesi: Etnik Milliyetciligin Tarihsel Gelisimi ve Ispanya’daki Devlet Politikalarinin Etkisi|17.yuzyilda devlet olusturma adina yapilan merkezilestirme cabalari, ozellikle yuzyillar boyunca belli oranda ozerk olan -Bask Ulkesi ve Katalonya gibi- “tarihi”bolgelerin merkeze karsi tepkilerine neden olmustur. Basklarin irkci yaklasimi da Bask milliyetciliginin motorunu olusturur. Ozellikle Franko doneminde agir bir baski rejimi uygulanan Bask ulkesinin, baslangicta tarihi ve kulturel haklarini savunan ETA, daha sonra radikal akimlarin etkisiyle, anayasa geregince zaten Bask halkina saglanan tum demokratik haklari dikkate almaksizin, ayrilikci bir anlayisa yonelmis ve bu amacina ulasmak icin teror uygulamistir. Bugun, Bask halkinin buyuk bir cogunlugu, Ispanya ulusal hukumetini desteklemekte ve kendi ozerklik kanunlari olan Guernica ile olusturulan statukodan memnundurlar.
N94|Time-Varying Agglomeration Externalities in UK Counties between 1841 and 1971|Using dynamic panel data methods on UK counties (1841-1971), we investigate long-term employment dynamics in seven distinct local industries. We study how industries benefit from specialised environments (MAR), diverse local economies (Jacobs’) and large local markets (urbanization), and, in contrast to most other authors, test if the strength of MAR, Jacobs’ and urbanization externalities changes over time. We find declining MAR and rising Jacobs’ externalities since the mid-nineteenth century, questioning the adequacy of a static framework when studying agglomeration externalities
N94|Religion, longevity, and cooperation: The case of the craft guild|When the mortality rate is high, repeated interaction alone may not sustain cooperation, and religion may play an important role in shaping economic institutions. This insight explains why during the fourteenth century, when plagues decimated populations and the church promoted the doctrine of purgatory, guilds that bundled together religious and occupational activities dominated manufacturing and commerce. During the sixteenth century, the disease environment eased, and the Reformation dispelled the doctrine of purgatory, necessitating the development of new methods of organizing industry. The logic underlying this conclusion has implications for the study of institutions, economics, and religion throughout history and in the developing world today.
N94|Spatial Determinants of CBD Emergence: A Micro-level Case Study on Berlin∗|Over the recent decades, scholars and planning practitioners have developed strategies for directed urban decentralization, which aim at the optimization of urban commuting patterns by allowing households to locate closer to job opportunities. However, given ongoing changes in the socioeconomic framework, households are becoming less likely to choose their residences with respect to location of the workplace. In order to optimize trip patterns with respect to public transport and to simultaneously promote sustainable urban growth, we therefore suggest a strategy of Directed Urban Concentration, which purports the generation of very strong (employment) sub-centers, if not multiple central business districts (CBDs), as a complementary strategy to established approaches of mixed and multifunctional land use. In an empirical analysis we show that in the case of Berlin, Germany, the emergence of the second CBD during the first half of the past century was largely driven by market access generated by rail-based public transport. Our results suggest that city planners could successfully promote the emergence of new urban economic cores with focal transport nodes that are equivalently well-connected to their hinterlands as well as to the existing CBD.
N94|El Irati, Compañía General de Maderas, Fuerzas Hidráulicas y Tranvía Eléctrico de Navarra: una empresa autoproductora comercial de electricidad, 1904-1961<BR>[The Irati, Company of Woods, Water Power and Electric Tramway of Navarre: the electricity business, 1904-1961]|The study of the Irati hydroelectric company aims to show some of the business strategies behind the first stages of the development of electricity in Spain and, in turn, pose new questions regarding the factors and conditioning elements of the country’s regional industrialization processes. In fact, this firm represents one of the many possibilities electricity brought to non-industrialized Spanish regions at the start of the 20th century. The electricity generated by its falls explains the creation of Spain’s largest integrated industrial complex built up around the initial processing of timber (saw-mills and chemical distilling) and its commercialization (railways), along with the sale of its energy surpluses on the most important market in the region of Navarre. Furthermore, the analysis of this latter activity allows us to offer an explanatory model that is both an alternative and a complement to the classical model —that provided by the largest firms— concerning the progressive incorporation of the traditional electrical markets into the integrated markets of the major Spanish companies.
N94|Servicio público de aguas y servicio privado de producción y distribución de electricidad en Pamplona, 1893-1961<BR>[Public utility of water and private service of production and distribution of electricity in Pamplona, 1893-1961]|This paper’s objective is to take a more in-depth look at, and encourage debate on, the mechanism that were in force in the birth, growth and crisis of traditional electrical systems. The merit of Arteta, as with other SMEs in the electrical sector, resided in its ability to provide, almost from the outset (1896), the benefits of hydroelectricity. This supply was aimed at towns that and been ignored by the larger Spanish providers due to their not being sufficiently industrialized or urbanized (as was the case of Pamplona). When these firms agreed to integrate the peripheral electrical systems in the mid-20th century, they inherited a series of consumer markets which, though mature, were poorly attended to in terms of the quantity and quality of the service provided. In this sense, the history of Arteta shows the many production drawbacks this type of electrical company had to face in order to satisfy a growing demand. Something that was particularly true when, in a scenario of competitive or cartelized markets, they adopted merely defensive strategies to avoid being ousted from the market.
N94|New Estimates of Regional GDP in Spain, 1860-1930|This paper presents a new regional database on GDP in Spain for the years 1860, 1900, 1914 and 1930. Following Geary and Stark (2002), country level GDP estimates are allocated across Spanish provinces. The results are then compared with previous estimates. Further, this new evidence is used to analyze the evolution of regional inequality and convergence in the long run. According to the distribution dynamics approach suggested by Quah (1993, 1996) persistence appears as a main feature in the regional distribution of output. Therefore, in the long run no evidence of regional convergence in the Spanish economy is found.
N94|Le determinanti dei flussi migratori nelle province italiane: 1991-2001|La nostra ipotesi è che, in seguito alla riduzione dei trasferimenti pubblici al Sud d’Italia registrata durante la prima parte degli anni novanta, le famiglie meridionali abbiano percepito una contrazione del loro reddito permanente. In seguito alla svalutazione della lira nel 1992 i territori con più forte base industriale del Centro-Nord, e in particolare del Nord-Est e del Centro, hanno trainato la ripresa economica della seconda metà del decennio. Ciò ha contribuito a determinare nella seconda metà del decennio una ripresa dei flussi migratori interni. Alla luce dei cambiamenti occorsi durante gli anni novanta, in questo lavoro si studia l’effetto delle determinanti tradizionali dei tassi migratori netti nelle province italiane - definiti come differenze tra flussi in entrata e flussi in uscita da una provincia, rapportate alla popolazione residente - nel quinquennio 1991-1995 (quando i flussi migratori seguivano ancora una fase discendente) ed in quello 1996-2000 (caratterizzato da una ripresa dei movimenti migratori interni). I risultati dell’analisi econometrica suggeriscono che nel primo periodo i tassi migratori netti sono stati debolmente o non significativamente influenzati dalle variabili economiche classiche come il tasso di disoccupazione, il livello di reddito disponibile e la base industriale della provincia (definita come il peso dell’industria sull’intera economia). Nel periodo 1996-2000 il comportamento dei flussi migratori sembra, invece, rispondere più fedelmente agli schemi tradizionali. Per il secondo periodo si stimano, infatti, coefficienti più elevati e statisticamente significativi delle variabili economiche. In entrambi i periodi sembra aver svolto un ruolo determinante la struttura per età della popolazione.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N94|Experiência espanhola de planejamento regional|This paper analyses the Spanish experience on regional planning during the XXth century. It starts with a brief exposition about the Spanish regional imbalances and its institutional framework. After this the paper presents historically the Spanish experience on regional policy and planning, since the period of Franco Government until the entrance on European Union. It concludes speculating about the effects of European Cohesion Policy and Europe-21 in Spanish territory.
N94|"Regional and National Industrial Policies in Italy, 1950s-1993. Where Did the Subsidies Flow?"""|This paper compares the magnitude and distribution of regional subsidies to Southern industry to those of subsidies available in the country as a whole through the national industrial policy. The comparison highlights the fact that from the second half of the 1970s, industry located in the most prosperous region of Italy, the North-West, was the main beneficiary of subsidised credit. These findings refine our understanding of the regional policy for Southern Italy and the reasons for its limited achievements. Moreover, the redirection of subsidies away from the South cast doubts on the extent of the Italian government's commitment to its programme of regional development.
N94|Il prodotto delle regioni e il divario Nord-Sud in Italia (1861-2004)|The article presents the yearly series of Italian regional per capita product in the period 1891-2004. An estimate is also provided of the product in the North and South from 1861 until today. The following periods are singled out in the series of product: 1861-1913: formation of regional disparities with the start of modern growth; 1920-39: deepening of disparities among regions and especially between North and South; 1951-73: decline in disparities; 1974-2004: new deepening of North-South disparities, with some decline in the last years. The role of labour productivity and employment in the unequal growth of North and South is discussed in the end.
N94|I due fallimenti della storia economica: il periodo post-unitario|“Economic history” is at once the events of the past, and their subsequent reconstruction. Italy’s “traditional” North-South gap developed after Unification, as the South failed to match the industrial progress of the North; that regional failure seems tied to a broader, national development failure. In the half-century after the Second World War, massive policy interventions in favor of the Mezzogiorno failed to close the North-South gap; that failure seems tied to the economic historians’ failure to understand the forces that had constrained Italy’s economic growth in the halfcentury to the First World War.
N94|I divari regionali in Italia sulla base degli indicatori sociali (1871-2001)|This work presents and discusses some of the most important social indicators (height, education, life expectancy and human development index), referring to the Italian regions for the period spanning from 1871 to 2001. According to the data, there was a catching-up process of Southern Italy toward the Centre North, which started by the end of the XIXth century and came to a halt only in the last decades of the XXth century. In order to explain this trend, it is argued that the most backward regions have “passively” benefited from the improvements in social fields, such as nutrition, education and longevity, which spread through almost the whole world during this period.
