N95|Industrial clusters in the long run: evidence from Million-Rouble plants in China|This paper exploits a short-lived cooperation program between the U.S.S.R. and China, which led to the construction of 156 “Million-Rouble plants” in the 1950s. We isolate exogenous variation in location decisions due to the relative position of allied and enemy airbases and study the long-run impact of these factories on local economic activity. While the “156” program accelerated industrialization in treated counties until the end of the command-economy era, this significant productivity advantage fully eroded in the subsequent period. We explore the nature of local spillovers responsible for this pattern, and provide evidence that treated counties are overspecialized and far less innovative. There is a large concentration of establishments along the production chain of the Million-Rouble plants, which limits technological spillovers across industries.
N95|The Economics of Missionary Expansion: Evidence from Africa and Implications for Development|How did Christianity expand in sub-Saharan Africa to become the continent's dominant religion? Using annual panel data on all Christian missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana, as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we shed light on the spatial dynamics and determinants of this religious diffusion process. Missions expanded into healthier, safer, more accessible, and more developed areas, privileging these locations first. Results are confirmed for selected factors using various identification strategies. This pattern has implications for extensive literature using missions established during colonial times as a source of variation to study the long-term economic effects of religion, human capital and culture. Our results provide a less favorable account of the impact of Christian missions on modern African economic development. We also highlight the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification.
N95|The Economics of Missionary Expansion: Evidence from Africa and Implications for Development|How did Christianity expand in sub-Saharan Africa to become the continent’s dominant religion? Using annual panel data on all Christian missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana, as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we shed light on the spatial dynamics and determinants of this religious diffusion process. Missions expanded into healthier, safer, more accessible, and more developed areas, privileging these locations first. Results are confirmed for selected factors using various identification strategies. This pattern has implications for extensive literature using missions established during colonial times as a source of variation to study the long-term economic effects of religion, human capital and culture. Our results provide a less favorable account of the impact of Christian missions on modern African economic development. We also highlight the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification.
N95|Japan and the Asian Divergence: Market Integration, Climate Anomalies and Famines during the 18th and 19th Centuries|This paper asks whether better integration of rice markets in Japan during the 19th and 20th centuries compared to China and India explains the ‘Little Divergence’ in Asia and Japan’s role in the ‘Great Divergence’. It analyses rice prices for 13 markets across Japan during 1720-1857 and finds that Japan had relatively well-integrated rice markets, particularly western Japan. In eastern Japan market integration was partially impeded by distance to Osaka, which was the core market, and the greater ecological vulnerability of rice in northeast Japan to lower temperatures during the ‘little ice age’ that lasted until the mid-19th century. Relatively well-integrated markets did not prevent major famines during 1732-1733, 1783-1786, and 1833-1838, because stocks and supplies were insufficient to withstand the consequences of sequences of crop failures. Better integration of rice markets is indicative of higher allocative efficiency of markets in Japan which is a likely reason that ‘shrinking’ episodes caused fewer setbacks in long-term economic growth compared to in China and India.
N95|How did Christianity expand in sub-Saharan Africa to become the continent’s dominant religion? Using annual panel data on all Christian missions from 1751 to 1932 in Ghana, as well as cross-sectional data on missions for 43 sub-Saharan African countries in 1900 and 1924, we shed light on the spatial dynamics and determinants of this religious diffusion process. Missions expanded into healthier, safer, more accessible, and more developed areas, privileging these locations first. Results are confirmed for selected factors using various identification strategies. This pattern has implications for extensive literature using missions established during colonial times as a source of variation to study the longterm economic effects of religion, human capital and culture. Our results provide a less favourable account of the impact of Christian missions on modern African economic development. We also highlight the risks of omission and endogenous measurement error biases when using historical data and events for identification|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|The Kuznets Curve on Income Distribution Does Not Hold in China: A Critical Assessment|"We find robust evidence that within each consecutive dynasty of ancient China, inequality demonstrates a ""U"" shape (or rather a ""spoon"" shape, to be more precise). As inequality hit an upper limit, war occurred, leading to a new dynasty replacing the old one. The cycle would then repeat itself. A simple explanation for this has been offered, and policy implications have also been presented."
N95|Biological well-being in late nineteenth-century Philippines|Abstract This paper investigates the biological standard of living in the Philippines toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the US military between 1901 and 1913. We estimate average heights and use province-level information for investigating the determinants of biological well-being. We find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living observed in late nineteenth-century Philippines was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since greater heights were recorded for the same period in other parts of Asia with a similar climate. The results also indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. This decline occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s.
N95|Biological well-being in late nineteenth-century Philippines|This paper investigates the biological standard of living in the Philippines toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the US military between 1901 and 1913. We estimate average heights and use province-level information for investigating the determinants of biological well-being. We find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living observed in late nineteenth-century Philippines was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since greater heights were recorded for the same period in other parts of Asia with a similar climate. The results also indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. This decline occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s.
N95|Walled cities and urban density in China|We analyse a sample of nearly 300 prefectural‐level cities in China, among which about half historically had city walls. We document that cities that had walls in late imperial China have higher population and employment density today, despite that their walls have long gone. Using data from various sources, we test whether a historically walled city's higher density can be explained by a historical urban core, a different industry composition, a different local geography, a compact urban shape, or more valuable rural land in surrounding areas. We find that historically walled cities still have higher density after taking into account all of these factors, which we interpret as evidence of economic persistence. Se analiza una muestra de casi 300 ciudades chinas a nivel de prefectura, de las cuales cerca de la mitad estuvieron amuralladas en el pasado. Se documenta que las ciudades que tenían murallas en la China imperial tardía tienen hoy en día una mayor densidad de población y empleo, a pesar de que sus murallas han desaparecido hace mucho tiempo. El estudio usa datos de varias fuentes para probar si la mayor densidad de una ciudad históricamente amurallada se puede explicar por un núcleo urbano histórico, una composición industrial diferente, una geografía local diferente, una forma urbana compacta o un mayor valor del área rural circundante. Se encontró que las ciudades históricamente amuralladas siguen teniendo mayor densidad después de tener en cuenta todos estos factores, lo cual se interpreta como evidencia de una persistencia económica. 本稿では、中国におけるおよそ300の県レベルの都市のサンプルを分析する。これらの都市のおよそ半数は、かつての城郭都市である。中国王朝末期に城壁があった都市では、その城壁が撤去されてから長い期間を経ているにもかかわらず、今日でも人口が多く雇用密度が高いことが認められる。様々な情報源からのデータを用いて、かつて城郭都市であった都市の高密度が、その都市のかつての中心部、異なる産業構成、異なる地理、コンパクトな都市形状、または周辺地域におけるより価値の高い農村地によって説明できるかどうかを試みる。かつて城郭都市であった都市は、これらすべての要因を考慮しても、依然として密度が高いと考えられ、我々はそれを経済の持続性のエビデンスと解釈する。
N95|Displacement in Bengal, revisited|Bengal was divided twice in the 20th century. At the first occasion, both sides were still within British India. Then, on the second occasion, Bengal split the two into different countries, India and Pakistan. We examine the displacements in Bengal after the partition in 1947 with the finest geographical level at thana. The results show that there were significantly negative impacts on population growth on the region which changed their side from East in 1905 to West in 1947. They also experienced an increase in the share of literate population, suggesting the impact of population exchange in different levels of literacy.
N95|Economic development in post-war Thailand|This paper discusses five aspects of Thailand’s economic performance since World War II: the changing rate of growth and its composition; the sources of that growth; the causes and consequences of the Asian Financial Crisis (AFC) of 1997-99, including the reason it originated in Thailand; the distribution among the Thai population of the fruits of long-term growth; and whether Thailand is caught in a middle-income trap. The evidence from Thailand demolishes the notion that economic growth fails to benefit the poor – provided ‘benefit’ is understood in absolute and not relative terms. It is argued that Thailand is now caught in a ‘middle-income trap’ caused by a backward and under-resourced educational system. Exit is possible, but requires a public commitment to overcoming the under-supply of human capital that a market-based economic system inherently produces and to raising the public revenue needed to finance higher levels of educational investment.
N95|Tjong Yong Hian And the Development of The City of Medan, The Existence of Chinese The Economy Field in Indonesia|The domination of economy and trading by a Chinese group in Indonesia could not be separated from the ”open door policy” since colonial age. Politically, Chinese had been granted special privilege through vreemde oosterlingen system, which was the separation of foreign eastern people and native inhabitants. Besides the officer system, residential system, construction of the social order were the construction of power hegemony in order to achieve development objectives. Tjong Yong Hian was one of the prominent businessman in a colonial age that arose from the production of that colonial policy system. Position and status that were given to Tjong Yong Hian, as well as political policy that were given by the government to the Chines,e enabled Tjong Yong Hian to strengthen his existence in the economy field. His success in developing his business empire had given contribution in the development of the City of Medan since the beginning of the 20th century.
N95|Aux prémices des humanités numériques? La première analyse automatisée d'un réseau économique ancien (Gardin Garelli, 1961). Réalisation, conceptualisation, réception<BR>[A Precursor of Digital Humanities ? The First Automated Analysis of an Ancient Economic Network (Gardin & Garelli, 1961). Implementation, Theorization, Reception]|From as early as the 1950s, J.C. Gardin's work spanned both archaeology and the emerging automation of numerical computation and documentation. In 1961, with P. Garelli, he published the first automated application of graph theory to historical materials, working from Assyrian cuneiform tablets documenting economic relations. This work was then widely ignored both in archeology and network analysis. However, in the past twenty years, socio-epistemic claims related to the growth of the Internet and computing (digital humanities, computational archaeology, etc.) have brought a surge of interest in Gardin's work, which is now regarded as pioneering. Working from archive materials and publications, this paper shows how a historical sociology of scientific writings can be relevant to the history of automation in historical sciences. The paper examines Gardin's recognition as an influential forerunner of computational archeology, showing that : 1) although Gardin had access to resources (financial, instrumental, etc.) that were rare at the time, and could have provided material for the foundation of a school or a specialty, he did not however pursue this ambition; 2) the demonstrative purposes pursued by Gardin with his study of 1961 economic networks varied between the 1960s (demonstrating the relevance of non-numerical computation) and the 1980s (legitimizing simulation in the social sciences), but were never concerned with network analysis as such.
N95|The Past and the Future of Employee Voice: Shenzhen's High Technology Industry|Can a nation's technology future be linked to its past? This article discusses employee voice, as defined in terms of discretionary and constructive behaviour that challenge the status quo, within the innovative, fast growing high technology industry in China. It provides insight into factors shaping employee voice in this under-researched knowledge-intensive sector of China that has emerged rapidly since the economic reform. It suggests the notion of employee voice among the highly skilled knowledge workforce can only be understood in terms of technological convergence and cultural divergence.
N95|From Prevention to Seizing Power: The Thai Martial Law and the Making of Special Authority by the Constitution in Thailand|Thailand has seen 13 coup d'états since the 1932 revolution that established democracy in the country. This number marks Thailand as one of the countries experiencing most frequent coup d?états. Therefore, the coup d?état and the democracy in Thailand is one of the much-studied topics by many scholars. Some famous pieces of work include Thailand: The Politics of Despotic Paternalism by Thak Chaleumtiarana and The Plan to snatch the Nation: About the Stage and against Stage in the second term of Field Marshal P. Phibunsongkram (1948 - 1957) by Suthachai Yimprasert. Most of these researches focus on the political circumstance and the factors that supported the occurrence of the coup d'état. These studies identify many factors that contributed to the success of the armed forces in overthrowing governments. However, the martial law, one of the important factors, has been always overlooked. Generally, the purpose of martial law imposition is to maintain peace in the society during wartime or in periods of civil unrest or chaos. The particular feature of martial law allows military armies to impose the law without government approvals. Once declared, it gives the ultimate power to the commander-in-chief of the army who becomes the person that everyone in the country must obey. This law preludes the way for the commander-in-chief to seize power from the civil government. Hence, it is unsurprising that the armed forces always declare martial law before it overthrows the government. Martial law has probably, in a way, become military's preparation for coup launching. This research will focus on how the armed forces use martial law to support their coup and how martial law becomes one of the most important military?s tools for launching a coup.
N95|Friends from afar: The Taiping Rebellion, cultural proximity and primary schooling in the Lower Yangzi, 1850–1949|This paper tests the hypothesis that the cultural distance between migrants and natives impedes the provision of public goods. The Taiping Rebellion was a shock that caused groups without a history of shared governance to be relocated to the same region. We use a unique historical dataset of surnames in the Lower Yangzi of China to construct a measure of the cultural distance between migrants and natives (MNCD). We find that a one-standard-deviation increase in the MNCD is associated with a decrease of over 0.19 public primary schools per 10,000 persons in the early twentieth century. The results survive various robustness checks and an instrumental variable analysis that exploits the pre-existing cultural distances between the native and the nearby population. Evidence from the timing of when the MNCD takes effect suggests that the primary mechanism runs from migrant-native cultural distance through quality of collective decision-making to modern primary education.
N95|Revenue Nodes in South India and Central Java|Studies of relations binding ruled and ruler over the form and content of revenue assessment during the colonial era are not lacking. Rather, the intellectual challenge lies in ascertaining the degree to which the relevant economic institutions of the subjected regions in southern Asia constituted continuity of tradition, modifications thereof, or completely alien constructs. Meeting that challenge is hindered by inequality of information revealing ‘before’ and ‘after’ conditions; an embarrassment of riches in information on the latter contrasts to poverty of the former. The present paper aims at least partially filling that gap by ascertaining in comparative perspective the basis of the revenue assessment systems prevailing in South India (Karnataka) and Central Java (Yogyakarta) during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. What makes such an undertaking not only desirable from a scholarly point of view but also possible in practice is the near unique finds of virtually untapped original source materials deriving from the respective institutions’ function.
N95|The presidents of the Bank of Taiwan and their times : background, management and business development : 1899-1925|This paper is the brief history of the Bank of Taiwan (BOT, 台湾銀行) from 1899 to 1925, especially focusing on the first to the fourth presidents who represent the era of the rise and fall of the BOT. The BOT was established by the Japanese government in 1899 as colonial development bank in Taiwan, however they changed the business model to that of an international bank covering mainland China and Southeast Asia in 1910s. This rapid expansionism failed in the early 1920s and the BOT temporarily closed its doors in 1927. The question is how and when these problems occurred and spread in the organization as a result of mismanagement. Through the analysis of their achievements and personal background along with corporate performance and macro history, we are better able to understand the rise and fall of the BOT.
N95|Creative Destruction of Industries: Yokohama City in the Great Kanto Earthquake, 1923| The purpose of this paper is to explore to what extent spillovers from Asian financial market shocks have risen during the past two decades. In the first part, we examine spillover effects in stock markets. Estimating the GVAR (Global Vector Autoregressive) model, we find that spillover effects from emerging Asia became large in the post GFC (Global Financial Crisis) period. However, we also find that most of the spillover effects were from shocks in manufacturing sector rather than from those in financial sector. This implies that the spillover effects increased in the post GFC period because of increased manufacturing sector's shocks in emerging Asia. In the second part, we examine spillover effects across different foreign exchange rates. As in the stock markets, spillover effects from emerging Asia became large in the foreign exchange markets in the post GFC period. In particular, our high frequency data analysis suggests that an exchange rate policy change by the PBC (the People's Bank of China) had positive spillover effects on the most of the advanced currencies in the post GFC period. The empirical results imply that the impact of Chinese shocks has been rising in the global financial markets.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N95|Exploring the Influence of Colonial Railways on Java's Economic Geography|This study explores the impact on Java’s economic geography of railways built by the Dutch colonial government. Pre-1940 Dutch railway construction affords an historical experiment on the spatial distribution of economic activities across urban Java both before and after 1940. Using city data for over 100 years, the study finds that the railways had a short-term impact on the distribution of population, but that in the long run colonial railway investment lost its advantages. Until 1930, the railways substituted for the Great Mail Road. Between 1930 and 2010, however, the Great Mail Road regained an earlier importance in shaping urban Javanese patterns. The study also draws important lessons for recent Indonesian infrastructure development in Indonesia, notably in regard to the railway system itself.
N95|Impact of natural disasters on industrial agglomeration: The case of the Great Kantō Earthquake in 1923|The Great Kantō Earthquake in 1923 did enormous damage to industries in Tokyo Prefecture. Around 40% of the buildings in Tokyo Prefecture were completely burnt or destroyed. In this paper, we investigate whether this temporary shock had a persistent impact on the spatial distribution of industries in Tokyo, using ward- and county-level panel data for industrial workers. It was found that while the earthquake caused mean shifts in the shares and numbers of workers, these mean shifts disappeared by the early 1930s. On the other hand, the earthquake caused shifts in the trends in the share and number of workers. The combined effects of these mean shifts and trend shifts were persistent for both the shares and the numbers of workers. The earthquake caused especially serious damage to the old industrial clusters in the southeast of Tokyo, and provided an opportunity for newly developing industrial clusters in non-damaged areas to take over the market. Further, the people and the local governments in non-damaged areas made an effort to take advantage of this opportunity to attract factories. Arguably, these forces made the impact of the earthquake on the spatial distribution of industry persistent.
N95|Price shocks in disaster: the Great Kantō Earthquake in Japan,1923|This paper tests the operation of markets in the wake of a sudden exogenous shock in prewar Japan, the Great Kantō Earthquake of 1923. Using a unique monthly wholesale price dataset of provincial cities, we found that the earthquake had a positive impact on the price of rice and timber in the sample cities. Our results also indicate that the wholesale price of rice in cities in the northeast of Japan, which were more closely integrated with the affected region, experienced more significant price rises than those in western Japan. Nevertheless, although further research using retail as opposed to wholesale prices of goods is needed, these preliminary findings suggest that the diffusion of price instability outwards from the affected region was on a lesser scale than might have been expected.
N95|‘The people next door’: housing and neighbourhood in eighteenth-century Ottoman Edirne|"""In this paper we compile a new dataset of c.1200 house sale contracts from one of the major cities of the Ottoman Empire (Edirne) covering the period from 1734 to 1814. We address the question of determinants of house prices by relying on modern econometric techniques, and estimate a hedonic price index. We also empirically test for the existence of income and religious segregation and price discrimination in the housing market. We show that the demand for houses was mainly driven by their proximity to the commercial centre and their size. Moreover, the housing market was subject to religious segmentation, and the cost of switching micro- neighbourhoods across religious groups was considerably high. Our hedonic price index suggests that house prices significantly increased in nominal terms during this period; however, this increase did not closely follow the loss of value of the Ottoman currency."""
N95|Housing the Rangoon poor : Indians, Burmese, and town planning in colonial Burma|In Rangoon/Yangon, the ex-capital city of Burma/Myanmar, there still remain many old buildings today. Those buildings were constructed in the British colonial period, especially from the 1900s to the 1930s, and formed Rangoon's built environment as something modern. In focusing on the period before and after the inauguration of the Rangoon Development Trust in 1921, this paper describes how the colonial administrative authorities perceived urban problems and how their policy and practice affected urban society. It also suggests the possibility that competition for habitation among the lower strata of Rangoon society was a cause of the serious urban riot in 1930.
N95|Partition, independence, and population geography in Bengal|This study quantitatively explores the changing population geography in Bengal, with a particular focus on Partition in India in 1947 and Independence of Bangladesh in 1971. Based on decadal census data from 1901 to 2001 at the district level, this paper explores how trends in regional population growth evolved with such historical events. Following Redding and Sturm (2008), Differences-in-Differences estimation is also employed. Estimation results show that there were different shocks on both sides and from both events. In West Bengal, the change in the regional population trends occurred in 1947 and remained similar thereafter. On the other hand, in East Bengal, the population growth became statistically significant after 1971. Further robustness checks show that the impacts were not uniform with respect to the distance from the border. Overall analyses show that the emergence of the international border in Bengal had asymmetric impacts on both sides.
N95|Inefficiency and Self-Determination: Simulation-based Evidence from Meiji Japan| We consider a model in which the arrangement of political boundaries involves a tradeoff between efficiencies of scale and geographic heterogeneity. If jurisdiction formation is decentralized, the model corresponds to a fractional hedonic game. We show how mixed integer programming can be used to calculate core partitions for fractional hedonic games via a sequence of myopic deviations. Using historical data from Japan regarding a set of centralized boundary changes, we estimate parameters using moment inequalities and find that core partitions always exist. In a counterfactual world in which there are no between-village income differences, these core partitions are extremely close to the partition that would be chosen by a utilitarian central planner. When actual cross-village income differences are used, however, sorting on income results in mergers that are both smaller and geographically bizarre.
N95|"Competitive Exhibitions and the Branding of Regional Agricultural Products : the Case of ""Aomori"" and ""Tsugaru"" Apples in Modern Japan"|The Japanese government, after making inspection tours of western countries, designed policies for industrial promotion. One of them was staging nationwide competitive exhibitions, and this project started in 1877. The purpose of this study is to clarify how these exhibitions became a springboard for the branding of regional agricultural products, especially apples, during the 1870s to the 1900s. We obtained the following results. Naikoku-kangyo-hakurankai, the largest national exhibition and a model for other exhibitions in modern Japan, served as a contested arena, not only for individual exhibitors, but also for group exhibitors representing a prefecture. Therefore, if one group representing a prefecture was recognized as the leading and trustworthy grower of an agricultural product in the exhibition, that prefecture fs sales of the product were superior to those of other prefectures in the market. This could lead to a situation wherein all farmers engaged in the cultivation of the agricultural product in the prefecture gain economic benefits. Therefore, in some prefectures, both public and private sectors worked together to organize a delegation under the leadership of local magnates, aiming to win many awards in the exhibition. The case of Aomori prefecture, especially which of Tsugaru area, is a representative one. In the 1870s, when the government started to organize exhibitions, many new varieties of fruit, including over a hundred kinds of apples, were introduced from western countries under the government fs initiative. Among these, the Japanese of the time preferred the sweet, red, and shiny ones. In fact, such consumer tastes were reflected as the criteria for grading apples in exhibitions. In response to this trend, the leading growers of apples in Aomori prefecture promptly undertook of the investigation not only of a cultivation method reflecting consumer tastes and the evaluation criterion, but also of an effective and extensive distribution system for their apples. They shared their knowledge with other farmers in the same region. In addition, they organized their own local exhibitions as a practice run for Naikoku-kangyo-hakurankai. These proactive steps evolved into the formation of a system that enabled apple farmers in the Aomori prefecture to increase the quality of their apples supportively and competitively. Through this process, they surpassed the leading producers at the time, such as Hokkaido and Iwate, grew into major production area of apples, and succeeded in the branding of gAomori h and gTsugaru h apples. This could not have been achieved without the existence of competitive exhibitions.
N95|Cirebon as the Silk Road: A New Approach of Heritage Tourisme and Creative Economy|The tourism industry and creative economy in Cirebon can not be separated from the historical aspect of the city's growth and development as silk lines in the spread of Islam, trade, and acculturation is very smooth so that the ethnic diversification becomes a major part in tourist activities. With a qualitative approach that emphasizes the phenomenon of ethnic Cirebon with tourist objects that vary in every corner of this city, then this paper confirms that Cirebon is a tourist destination that is unique in terms of religion, culture, history, to the creative economy, especially religious tourism that will create this city as a friendly city for tourists.
N95|Superstitions Regarding Animals: mutation and reincarnation in a Thai context|This paper deals with the semiotic meanings of animals which are implemented in terms of social communication, traditional &cultural aspects, literature and psychology & emotional effect. Data was collected from July to December 2015 by using documentary analysis and Google Alerts with the key words ? animal mutation and reincarnation?, interviews with two villagers. (female, age 62 from Nonthaburi and male, age 72 from Nakhon Sri Thammarat). Data were analyzed with a content analysis which involves considering all available information on the subject matter. The superstition concerning animal mutation and incarnation plays an important role in Thai society for two reasons, namely it fulfills the social and psychological needs . It appears that superstition offers semiotic support for believers. The main analysis focuses on Hofstede? s principle of the avoidance of uncertainty and Buddhism which shed light to numerous kinds of superstition in a Thai context. It is hoped that the data now available will be incorporated into a curriculum by those researchers interested in textual, social, culture studies and religions as well.
N95|Islamic conscious capitalism: a ‘Third Way’ in light of classical scripture|"The economic paradigm and framework advocated for in Islam is one that entails a unique combination of various socio–economic philosophies. This article advances the notion that Islam promotes a capitalistic economic model wrapped in its own garment of understanding—fashioned with threads of equity and stitched in patterns of benevolence and justice. This article examines the Islamic theological framework relating to the profit incentive and its spiritually–conscious methodology of capital procurement. The Qur’an contains around 370 references in regard to commerce, from which much of Islamic law relating to lending, banking and trading originates (Heck in Muhammad and the Arab roots of capitalism (Studien zur Geschichte und Kultur des Islamichen Orients)—Band 18. Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, p 5, 85, 2006 ). This article intends to explore the potential that these teachings have for an Islamic ‘Third Way’ (i.e. an Islamic contribution to economic philosophy and discourse that is in-between of, or an alternative to, both the purely individualistic primary concerns on prices, profits, and private property inherent in ""pure"" capitalism, and the purely communal command economics of communism, which often negates or discourages the promotion of self-interests). Part I of this paper intends to introduce the reader to the various sources of Islamic ‘law’ and its scope. In doing so, the philosophical nature and objectives of the Shariah will become evident, through the exploration of specific theological economic teachings. Part II intends to study Islam’s theological attitude toward entrepreneurship and the profit incentive, as well as the concept of the potential for salvation through ethical profits. Part III explores, in light of classical Islamic scripture, the various prohibitions within the Islamic concept of the economy. In doing so, the paper shall explore how values and theories found in classical Islamic scripture have found contemporary application within the growing modern Islamic finance industry, for example, through Shariah ‘screens’ applied on market indicies, such as the Dow Jones Islamic Market Index. Part III shall also explore Islamic edicts with regards to business practices, as well as environmental ethics. In doing so, Part IV concludes that there can indeed be such an Islamic ‘Third Way’, drawn along similar shared values found amongst other world religions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2016"
N95|Biological Well-Being in Late 19th Century Philippines|This paper investigates the biological standard of living toward the end of Spanish rule. We investigate levels, trends, and determinants of physical stature from the birth cohorts of the 1860s to the 1890s using data on 23,000 Filipino soldiers enlisted by the U.S. military between 1901 and 1913. We use truncated regression technique for estimating average height and use province level information for investigating the determinants of biological wellbeing. The results indicate a decline of more than 1.5 cm cm (0.6 inches) in the height of soldiers born between the early 1870s and the late 1880s. The decline in heights at the end of the 19th century occurred at a time when there was an expansion of commercial activity in cash crop production for export. Heights did not regain the level of the 1870s until the late 1930s and early 1940s. We also find that at 159.3 cm (62.7 inches), the average height of soldiers born in the mid-1870s was very short even for the time. The low biological standard of living in late 19th century was not due to the tropical disease environment alone since taller men were found in the same period in other parts of Asia.
N95|Provincial Clustering in the Southern of Thailand : Concept and Empirical|This paper presents the geographical cluster as provincial clustering in 14 provinces in the Southern part of Thailand. We formulate 24 indicators as variable base on three major concepts of cluster, which are Spatial, Functional and Micro-foundation concepts. Factor analysis show that these indicators can determine provincial clustering. Cluster analysis describes provincial clustering (group) trend from 2 groups up to 13 groups and can be categories into 5 cases from 3 to 7 groups. In each case, we can determine forms of group using the proximity criteria. Discrimination analysis help classified the most appropriate form in each case. Under the indicators of three concepts of cluster, 3 and 4 groups are appropriate form and indicate that provinces within group are closely located, making the provincial linkages and consistent with the definition and goal of the provincial clustering.
N95|Provincial Clustering In The South Of Thailand: Conceptual And Empirical|This paper aims to determine the cluster of 14 provinces in the Southern part of Thailand. We formulated 24 indicators for provincial clustering based on three major concepts: spatial, functional, and micro-foundational. Factor analysis shows that 10 of these indicators significantly determine provincial clustering. Cluster analysis obviously categorises 14 provinces into five cases of three to seven provincial clusters. In each case, the formation of groups is determined using the proximity criteria. Discrimination analysis helps to classify the most appropriate form, and in each case shows that suggested clusters three and four are appropriate for provincial clustering.
N95|Egyptian and Syrian commodity markets after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire: a Bayesian structural VECM analysis|The disruption of the Ottoman Empire caused dramatic changes to the economic and political structure of the Middle East. The newly established nations, incorporated into British and French formal and informal empires, actively implemented a range of protectionist policies, thus disrupting the regions traditional trade flows and patterns. This paper investigates the impact of this new economic setting on commodity market integration in Syria and Egypt, using Bayesian inference. After testing for co-integration through the calculation of Bayes factors and computing impulse response functions, our results point to the absence of cross border market integration.
N95|Indonesia Still Want To Vote|Indonesia is a country that puts the elections as fundamental to reflect the country's democracy. This is shown by the regulation of elections in the state constitution (UUD 1945) which is the basic law of the state. In Suharto's authoritarian regime (called New Order), Indonesia also held regular elections. The existence of regular elections is used as a tool in countries such as Indonesia to show the world that the democratic system has existed in this country. Procedurally democratic elections marked by still survive up until the time of the current reform. But if we want to see democracy substantially, then there needs to be more in-depth research about itIn 2004, Indonesia recorded an achievement in terms of democratization. In that time, Indonesia for the first time can select the president and vice president directly. This achievement was followed by doing direct local elections. Quite revolutionary change occurs only six years since the reform carried out Suharto's authoritarian regime.At the end of 2014 there were intense debates in Indonesia about local elections. Indonesia is a country that is very much holding elections because people have to choose from the level of the central government, provincial, city and county up. During this time to select the area of the district and provincial level conducted through direct elections. This began in 2004 with the issuance of Law (UU) No. 32 of 2004 which regulates the election of Regional Head directly. In 2014, the problem arises because the House intends to revise that law. This is done by issuing a bill on local elections that convert directly to indirectly elections again. Local elections at the provincial level are returned to the mechanism covered by parliament while the district level fixed by direct electionOutside of the debate about the interests of the relevant political actors with the election system, there are other important things that need to be answered in this problem. When we look to other democratic countries in the world, actually local elections do not have to be directly. The United States is an example where the local elections conducted indirectly. The main question of our paper is how importance a direct local elections with the quality of democracy in a country such as Indonesia. Whether significant or does not.
N95|Inefficiency and Self-Determination: Simulation-based Evidence from Meiji Japan|Does the exercise of the right of self-determination lead to inefficiency? This paper considers a set of centrally planned municipal mergers during the Meiji period, with data from Gifu prefecture. The observed merger pattern can be explained as a social optimum based on a very simple individual utility function. If individual villages had been allowed to choose their merger partners, counterfactual simulations show that the core is always non-empty, but core partitions contain about 80% more (postmerger) municipalities than the social optimum. Simulations are possible because core partitions can be calculated using repeated application of a mixed integer program.
N95|Spatial Dynamics and the Persistence of Inequality in Siam during 1782-1855 (in Thai)|This paper analyzes the problem of spatial inequality which covered farmers living in and outside the upper Chao Phraya basin during 1782-1855. The study period was before the signing of Bowring Treaty when Siam was transitionally trapped between subsistence and market economies. The study examines the impacts of critical social and economic settings on regional productivity differentiation in Siam. These settings included the rental scheme for state land, the state monopoly power over major foreign trades, risk diversification in transition economy, and the interaction between patron and peasant under the feudal system. The study gives a rough estimate of income gap among farmers living in and outside the upper Chao Phraya basin. Average income of farmers living in the upper Chao Phraya basin was in the range from 1.46 to 2 times higher than the average income of farmers living outside the upper Chao Phraya basin during that period.
N95|Empresariado, Iglesia y ahorro popular: las cajas de ahorro y Montes de Piedad de Castilla y León, 1841-2013|This paper makes an effort to analyze the evolution of the Castilla Leon savings banks from their founding up to the 2008 crisis. It is an attempt to precisely identify the historical causes that led these institutions to a situation of complete insolvency. The text argues that their submission to public authorities, who forced their profits to be used to meet the social investment needs of the State itself, excessive exposure to the real estate business and the war waged from 1990 onwards to capture deposits, all led these institutions to bankruptcy. Furthermore, the article shows the very different conception these entities had in the eyes of the Church and civil society, an aspect neglected in the Economic History of Spain. KEY Classification-JEL: N23. N24. N94. N95
N95|The Financial Power of the Powerless: Socio-Economic Status and Interest Rates under Partial Rule of Law|In advanced economies interest rates generally vary inversely with the borrower’s socio-economic status, because status tends to depend inversely on default risk. Both of these relationships depend critically on the impartiality of the law. Specifically, they require a lender to be able to sue a recalcitrant borrower in a sufficiently impartial court. Where the law is markedly biased in favor of elites, privileged socio-economic classes will pay a premium for capital. This is because they pose a greater risk to lenders who have limited means of punishing them. Developing the underlying theory, this paper also tests it through a data set consisting of judicial records from Ottoman Istanbul, 1602-1799. Pre-modern Istanbul offers an ideal testing ground, because rule of law existed but was highly partial. Court data show that titled elites, men, and Muslims all paid higher interest rates conditional on various loan characteristics. A general implication is that elites have much to gain from instituting impartially enforced rules in financial markets even as they strive to maintain privileges in other domains. It is no coincidence that in the Ottoman Empire the beginnings of legal modernization included the establishment of relatively impartial commercial courts.
N95|[The Economic Roots of Political Underdevelopment in the Middle East: A Historical Perspective] Ortadoðu’daki Politik Az Geliþmiþliðin Ekonomik Kökenleri: Tarihsel Bir Bakýþ Açýsý|Çaðdaþ dönem öncesi Ortadoðu ekonomisinin Ýslam hukukuna dayanan kilit kurumlarý, demokratik kurumlarýn geliþimini engelledi. Bu konuþma, kritik rol oynayan üç mekanizmayý tanýmlamaktadýr. Kur’an’da belirtilen vergi sistemi yönetim üzerinde kalýcý ve güvenilir kýsýtlamalar geliþtirmeyi baþaramadý. Çeþitli kesimlere sosyal hizmetler saðlamak için kurulan Ýslami vakýflarýn politik gücü yoktu. Kâr getiren özel iþletmeler küçük ölçekli ve kýsa ömürlüydüler; bu özellikler devletle pazarlýk edebilecek istikrarlý koalisyonlar kurmalarýný önledi. Son iki mekanizma, demokratik yönetim için gerekli olan güçler ayrýlýðýný saðlayacak sivil toplumun geliþimini geciktirdi.
N95|China integrates Asia with the world: an empirical study|Purpose - – The aim of this paper was to focus on China’s economic integration with Asia region and the world. It also attempts to find the long-run relation with short-run dynamics of China’s trade in Asia and the world. Design/methodology/approach - – The augmented Dickey–Fuller and Phillips–Perron methods are applied to test the time-series properties of the variables. Co-integration technique is used to detect the economic integration of China’s export to the USA and its import from Asian nations using monthly aggregate data from December 2005 to July 2010. Findings - – This study observed that empirically China’s export to the USA depends on exchange rate and China’s import from Asia depends on China’s export to the USA. China has double role in international trade – China acts as an attractor of all inputs from Asia, and China exports the final products in international market. This study also reveals that the speed of China’s import from Asia is faster than that of China’s export to the USA. Research limitations/implications - – This study has some limitation in terms of data availability, and choice of methodology like the Gravity model Practical implications - – The results imply that China’s trade should be treated as an engine of growth in the Asian developing countries and the trade promotion policies should be encouraged. The emerging China will create other opportunities through trade integration with Asia and the world. Social implications - – These empirical findings will help policy-makers formulate their policy and design the mechanism for application as per their targets. Originality/value - – China is economically integrated with the region and the world. The paper contributes to measure the speed of China’s export and import in short run within Asia and the world. These empirical findings will help policy-makers to formulate their policy and design the mechanism for application as per their targets.
N95|Was the wage burden too heavy? Profitability and wage shares of settler agriculture in colonial Malawi, c 1900-1960|The historical role of European farming in southern and central Africa is a delicate matter that has received a great deal of attention among scholars over the years. Going through this vast literature a striking consensus emerges: success or failure of European farming in southern Africa was to a large extent depending on their access and control over labour. These propositions have so far never been systematically and empirically tested. This paper is an attempt to do that by analyzing the ‘wage-burden’ European settler farmers faced. The wage-burden is identified by measuring wage shares (total amount paid in the form of wages as a share of total profits) on European farms in colonial Africa. Based on archival documents we construct time-series for value of output, transportation costs, investments and wage shares for European tobacco and tea farms in colonial Malawi. Our estimates show that the wage burden decreased significantly after 1930s, i.e. the European farmers were able to capture a larger part of the rent over time. We argue that the developments cannot be explained by domestic colonial policies, but changes in regional migration patterns, which had a significant impact on the supply of farm labour.
N95|[The Economic Roots of Political Underdevelopment in the Middle East: A Historical Perspective] Ortadoðu’daki Politik Az Geliþmiþliðin Ekonomik Kökenleri: Tarihsel Bir Bakýþ Açýsý|Çaðdaþ dönem öncesi Ortadoðu ekonomisinin Ýslam hukukuna dayanan kilit kurumlarý, demokratik kurumlarýn geliþimini engelledi. Bu konuþma, kritik rol oynayan üç mekanizmayý tanýmlamaktadýr. Kur’an’da belirtilen vergi sistemi yönetim üzerinde kalýcý ve güvenilir kýsýtlamalar geliþtirmeyi baþaramadý. Çeþitli kesimlere sosyal hizmetler saðlamak için kurulan Ýslami vakýflarýn politik gücü yoktu. Kâr getiren özel iþletmeler küçük ölçekli ve kýsa ömürlüydüler; bu özellikler devletle pazarlýk edebilecek istikrarlý koalisyonlar kurmalarýný önledi. Son iki mekanizma, demokratik yönetim için gerekli olan güçler ayrýlýðýný saðlayacak sivil toplumun geliþimini geciktirdi.
N95|Urbanization in Southeast Asia during the World War II Japanese Occupation and Its Aftermath|This working paper analyzes demographic change in Southeast Asia's main cities during and soon after the World War II Japanese occupation. We argue that two main patterns of population movements are evident. In food-deficient areas, a search for food security typically led to large net inflows to main urban centres. By contrast, an urban exodus dominated in food surplus regions because the chief risk was to personal safety, especially from Japanese and Allied bombing. Black markets were ubiquitous, and essential to sustaining livelihoods in cities with food-deficit hinterlands. In Rangoon and Manila, wartime population fluctuations were enormous. Famines in Java and northern Indochina severely impacted Jakarta and Hanoi through inflows of people from rural areas. In most countries, the war's aftermath of refugees, revolution and political disruption generated major rural-urban population relocations. Turmoil in the 1940s had the permanent consequences of augmenting the primacy of Southeast Asia's main cities and promoting squatter settlement.
N95|A sustainable architecture approach to the economic and social aspects of the bazaar of Tabriz|Sustainable architecture aims to design buildings and infra-structures, such as squares and bazaars, adapted to the social, economic, cultural and environmental contexts of certain place. The practice of sustainable architecture contributes to sustainable development, therefore for the development of future generations. The concept must integrate not only bioclimatic strategies, but also economic, social and cultural facets. Sustainable architecture research is either carried while the designing process takes place (the present) but is also focused on the built environment through the historical time of a place (the past). The aim of this article is to bring to the academic discussion new perspectives on sustainable architecture and debate the relationship between the architectural elements and the social and cultural aspects by taking the Tabriz Historic Bazaar Complex as case study. Infra-structures like Bazaars are geographically placed all over the world, from Turkey to Egypt, from Tajikistan to Iran. In Iranian cities, the bazaar keeps playing an important role as economic and social engine. Thus, research the main elements that keep the Bazaar of Tabriz so actively dynamic in the present will be discussed.
N95|What Did Hold Back the Middle East? The Thesis of The Long Divergence Revisited|The present paper contends the thesis presented by Timur Kuran in his work The Long Divergence: How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East which asserts that since certain provisions of the Islamic Law, though egalitarian in nature, caused fragmentation of assets, they were responsible for the fall of the Middle East because they did not allow corporations, banks, and big trading companies to emerge, supposedly behind the rise of the West. It argues that the real factors that caused the rise of the West were different. In the Middle East adverse political, intellectual and economic factors, such as state’s apathy, irrelevant education and unscientific atmosphere, declining agriculture, trade and industry, were responsible for its fall behind the West. There was no question of Islamic law preventing them or causing their annihilation. This is clear from the development of the region during its early history as well as from its recent history.
N95|Journey of Hajj Pilgrims from Patani and Its Social-economic and Intellectual Impact on the Patani Malay Society (1800-1960s)|Islam had formally accepted by the Patani people in the mid 15th century while the tenets of Islam were not fully practiced at the early time. In the early period, it has no clear evidence to indicate that there were pilgrims from Patani to reach Mecca for Hajj. However, the names of religious Patani scholars were mentioned about their connection with Mecca in some Malay classical books both directly and indirectly in 16th and 17th century. Journey of Hajj from Patani and had more recorded in the later century after being better transportation especially when the Suez canal in Egypt was opened in 1869 and operating of steamships which carried Malay pilgrims from the Malay Archipelago mainly through Penang and Singapore port. Barriers and various challenges faced by pilgrims throughout on board ship and life in Mecca and its environs gave much impact, especially in terms of social-economy and intellectual structure. Collective memory, spiritual and empirical experience gave a lot of individual impact and made Hajj pilgrims changes their way of life after they returning homeland. For those for stay a period of time for educational purpose after the Hajj season, this also gave profound impact to the Patani Malay society through intellectual pilgrims particularly the nineteenth and the first half of the twentieth century. Methods, texts, learning and teaching styles, had been transformed into the society especially the Madrasah system which directly copied from the madrasahs in Mecca. The Hajj journey was also one way to link the Malay region with the Muslim world, and consolidated its contact with the Haramayn in particular.
N95|Trends in the regional allocation of public investment in the post-bubble Japanese economy|With reference to the assumptions presented by Yamano and Ohkawara (J Reg Sci 40:205–229, 2000 ) on the specification of a production function with region-specific individual effects on public capital, this paper introduces a new benchmark index in order to analyze the Japanese government’s investment allocation policy across subnational regions, with an emphasis on efficiency, equity, and/or redistribution under trade-off restrictions. This index, termed the equity–growth allocation share of public investment herein, is derived from a conventional Solow growth accounting approach. Specifically, it is defined as a region’s share of the periodic change in the nation’s public capital, where its growth contribution with its interregional spillover effects to overall output growth is the same across subnational regions. We apply this index to the post-bubble Japanese economy, which was beset by efficiency–equity trade-offs between Tokyo’s unipolar development and balanced growth given a prolonged recession. We find a shift from a pro-efficiency to a non-pro-efficiency allocation policy in the mid-1990s. This finding therefore rules out the inference that the government chose an inverse policy direction thereafter and instead implies that it rather attempted to balance efficiency and redistribution. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
N95|Promised Lands :inner colonisation in 20th century Mediterranean history: Scientific report|The report summarizes the agenda, scientific contents, results, contribution to the future direction of the field, and outcomes of the Exploratory research workshop held in Rome and Sabaudia (Italy) on Octobre 7-10th 2013.Le rapport synthétise le déroulement, les contenus scientifiques, les résultats, les contributions aux directiosn futures dans le champ, et les résultats du séminaire de recherche exploratoire tenu à Rome et Sabaudia (Italie) les 7-10 Octobre 2013.
N95|Decentralization and Spatial Allocation Policy of Public Investment in Indonesia and Japan|Public investment is a fundamental response of government to the existing imbalances between subnational regions. Especially, the question concerning the allocation policy of public investment more receives a great deal of public attentions along with the decentralization process, because economic growth is inevitably uneven in its subnational impacts and decentralization has effects on the change in the allocations across the subnational governments and regions. This study explores the public investment allocation policy that either emphasizes efficiency, equity, or redistribution or strives to strike a balance between these three policy directions under the trade-off restrictions. We employ a new benchmark index, “equity–growth allocation share,” defining regional public investment allocation, given equal public capital growth across regions. We apply this method to Indonesia’s and Japan’s pre- and post-decentralization eras, beset by efficiency–equity trade-offs between uneven regional development and balanced growth policy. We found two major observations that contrast between two countries. First, as excessive economic activity regions in two countries, the capital region in Japan mostly shows the highest returns on public capital where the Java-Bali region does not. Second, Indonesia shows a structural change investment concentration in the Java-Bali region before and after decartelization regime while the Japan’s government pursues the pro-efficiency allocation policy under the decentralization process.
N95|Superpower, China?:Historicizing Beijing's New Narratives of Leadership and East Asia's Response Thereto|This book sets out to answer how China's rise can best be understood from both East Asian and Western perspectives. It also assesses the prospect of realignment away from the US hegemony in East Asia in light of persistent regional rivalries. Throughout the book, the authors show that for China's neighbours, as well as for its own intellectuals, historicizing the country's rise provides one way of understanding its current ascendant trajectory, on the one hand, and acute social problems, on the other.To which historical precedent should one turn? Did Japanese Prime Minister Abe Shinzo get it right when he recently likened the contemporary Sino-Japanese relationship to that of Germany and Britain on the eve of World War I? Is Harvard Law School's Noah Feldman correct in his assertion that China and the United States are on the verge not of a Cold War but of a ¡°Cool War,¡± in which a ¡°classic struggle for power is unfolding at the same time as economic cooperation is becoming deeper? The authors examine these questions and also focus on other observations that becloud China's rise.
N95|Firm Growth in Conflict Countries: Some Evidence from South Asia|This paper provides robust evidence on feedback effects of violent conflicts on firm growth. It uses South Asian firm level data that contain rare employment information on countries that experience severe conflicts. We show that firm growth exists in conflict areas. Yet, there are fewer expanding firms. They tend to grow slower than firms in other countries in the region, and firms that shed staff decline faster. Particularly firms in urban conflict areas were performing less dynamically. The results point at severe investment climate issues in conflict countries, which imply a lower degree of industrial and productivity dynamics in afflicted regions.
N95|Vznik Zajordánska Ako Vedľajší Produkt Britskej Politiky Na Blízkom Východe Po Prvej Svetovej Vojne|Arabské kráľovstvo v Sýrii počas svojej krátkej existencie nominálne spravovalo aj územie za riekou Jordán. Po rozhodnutiach urobených v Paríži a v San Reme sa stalo súčasťou palestínskeho mandátu a tvorilo pozemné spojenie medzi Britmi ovládanou Palestínou a Irakom. Začiatkom roku 1921 sa v Londýne rozhodli, že zväčša púštne územie na východ od rieky Jordán bude – ako gesto plnenia vojnových sľubov Arabom – vyňaté z oblasti židovského osídľovania a že emir cAbdallāh, syn kráľa Husajna z al-Hidžāzu, bude postavený na čelo Britmi ovládanej zajordánskej správy. Koncom marca 1921 Winston Churchill, nedávno vymenovaný minister pre kolónie, odcestoval do Jeruzalema, kde uzavrel dohodu s cAbdallāhom a ťahom pera vytvoril Zajordánsko.
N95|Why Doesn't the Kuznets Curve on Income Distribution Hold in Ancient China?|"We find robust evidence that in ancient China that consists of many consecutive dynasties, within each dynasty, the inequality demonstrates a ""U"" shape (or a ""spoon"" shape to be more precise). Therefore, as inequality hits an upper bound, war happens and a new dynasty replaces the old one. The cycle repeats itself. A simple explanation has been offered. Policy implications have also been presented."
N95|Accounting and Fiscality in the Ottoman Empire|The Ottoman Empire was an imperial superpower that manifested its domination in the Mediterranean zone between 1299 and 1922. At the moment of their maximum glory, the ottomans ruled over three continents, meaning 19,9 millions km2. The tax system applied during 600 years, but also the accounting methods used, prove a remarkable administrative and fiscal organization in the Empire. There were taxes based on the Islamic law, but also taxes established by the sultan concerning the salaries of employees and the military campaigns. The necessity of a correct evidence of tax collecting and distribution required keeping registers “in stairs”, according to an accounting method overtook from the Arabs, named the “Merdiban Method”. The method was based on principles available until nowadays. It was applied until the end of XIXth century, when it was replaced with the method based on double-entry recording, overtook from the west.
N95|Real estate prices in Beijing, 1644 to 1840|This paper provides the first estimates of housing price movements for Beijing in late pre-modern China. We hand-collect from archival sources transaction prices and other house attribute information from the 498 surviving house sale contracts for Beijing during the first two centuries of the Qing Dynasty (1644–1840), a long period without major wars, political turmoil, or significant institutional change in the Chinese capital. We use hedonic methods to construct a real estate price index for Beijing for the period. The regression analysis explains a major proportion of the variance of housing prices. We find that house prices grew steadily for the first half-century of the Qing Dynasty and declined afterwards in both nominal and real terms through the late eighteenth century. Nominal prices grew starting in the late eighteenth century and declined from the early nineteenth century through 1840. But these price changes occurred with contemporaneous price changes in basic measures of the cost of living: there was little change in real terms to the end of our period.
N95|Atomic bombs and the long-run effect on trust: Experiences in Hiroshima and Nagasaki|Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan are the only cities in the world that have experienced an atomic bomb attack. This paper explores how this devastating experience affected victims’ tendency to trust others. Individual-level data were used to examine the long-term influence of experiencing an atomic bomb on individuals’ trust. After controlling for individual characteristics, I obtained the following key findings. Individuals who experienced the attack were more likely to trust others. Furthermore, estimation based on a subsample revealed that victims of the Hiroshima nuclear bomb were more likely to trust others than those born in other areas of Japan before World War II. This implies that experiencing an historically traumatic event in 1945 strongly influenced individuals’ trust in others even at the beginning of the 21st century. It follows from this that the effect of this devastating experience was enduring and had a long-term influence on individuals’ values.
N95|Pandemic H1N1 in Canada and the use of evidence in developing public health policies – A policy analysis|When responding to a novel infectious disease outbreak, policies are set under time constraints and uncertainty which can limit the ability to control the outbreak and result in unintended consequences including lack of public confidence. The H1N1 pandemic highlighted challenges in public health decision-making during a public health emergency. Understanding this process to identify barriers and modifiable influences is important to improve the response to future emergencies. The purpose of this study is to examine the H1N1 pandemic decision-making process in Canada with an emphasis on the use of evidence for public health decisions. Using semi-structured key informant interviews conducted after the pandemic (July–November 2010) and a document analysis, we examined four highly debated pandemic policies: use of adjuvanted vaccine by pregnant women, vaccine priority groups and sequencing, school closures and personal protective equipment. Data were analysed for thematic content guided by Lomas' policy decision-making framework as well as indicative coding using iterative methods. We interviewed 40 public health officials and scientific advisors across Canada and reviewed 76 pandemic policy documents. Our analysis revealed that pandemic pre-planning resulted in strong beliefs, which defined the decision-making process. Existing ideological perspectives of evidence strongly influenced how information was used such that the same evidentiary sources were interpreted differently according to the ideological perspective. Participants recognized that current models for public health decision-making failed to make explicit the roles of scientific evidence in relation to contextual factors. Conflict avoidance theory explained policy decisions that went against the prevailing evidence. Clarification of roles and responsibilities within the public health system would reduce duplication and maintain credibility. A more transparent and iterative approach to incorporating evidence into public health decision-making that reflects the realities of the external pressures present during a public health emergency is needed.
N95|The Informal Economy in Monsoon Asia and Melanesia: West New Guinea and the Malay World|his is the third in a series of papers concerned with the intellectual history of the 'informal economy' and its relevance to current concerns in Papua New Guinea (PNG; the eastern half of the island of New Guinea). Proceeding from the observation that monetized informal economic activity in PNG has been of relatively limited importance, the paper seeks explanations by comparing two stylized constructs, Monsoon Asia (where the informal economy is dynamic) and Melanesia (where it is limited in scope and contribution to livelihoods). Papua (occupying the western half of the island of New Guinea) is seen as a meeting point, or zone of transition, between Monsoon Asia and Melanesia. A long history of 'trading and raiding' on this frontier marked the encounter between ceremonial exchange, as practiced by Melanesians, and the system of tribute imposed on Papuans by Moluccan sultanates. Limited economic specialization and exchange in Melanesia contrasted with the Asian household economy, enmeshed in complex social hierarchies and systems of occupational differentiation. Historically, the Malay Archipelago engaged in a world trading system, into which it drew west New Guinea/Papua over millennia. Travelling peddlers played a key role in the archipelagic trade system, demonstrating the antiquity of the informal economy tradition in the cultures of Monsoon Asia. The paper seeks explanations for the comparative absence of that tradition in Melanesia. Finally, it examines the recent and rapid emergence of an informal economy in Papua, dominated by non-Melanesian immigrants, in the wake of the incorporation of (Dutch) west New Guinea into the Republic of Indonesia in 1963.
N95|Regional inequality and migration in prewar Japan, 1890-1940|"""We analyze the changing patterns of regional inequality during the initial phase of Japanese industrialization on the basis of new estimates of industry-level Japanese GDP constructed for the benchmark years 1890, 1909, 1925, 1935, and 1940 for each of the 47 prefectures. No “Kuznets” inverted U-curve is observed during the period 1890-1940 in terms of the coefficient of variation of prefecture-level per capita GDP, but rather a slow decline, reflecting a contraction in within-industry productivity across prefectures. We also estimate in- and out-migration by prefecture and find that sizable population flows took place from the poorest rural areas to the industrializing urban areas. We estimate the contribution of changes in productivity, industrial structure, and population to the observed convergence and find that internal migration played an important role, as it did during the two decades of high-speed economic growth in the 1950s and 1960s."""
N95|Oren Yiftachel’in Etnokrasi Modeli Üzerine|Çalışmada, Oren Yiftachel’in etnokrasi modeli incelenmektedir. Modelin varsayımları ele alınmakta, modelin apartheid rejimi ve iç sömürgecilik ile ilişkisi irdelenmekte ve modelin varsayımlarının politisit koşulları yaratıp yaratmadığı tespit edilmektedir. Çalışmanın önemi, Türkiye’deki siyaset bilimi literatüründe etnokrasi modeli üzerine yapılan ilk akademik araştırma olmasıdır. Çalışmada belge tarama ve içerik çözümleme yöntemleri kullanılmaktadır. Etnokrasinin apartheid rejimi ve iç sömürgecilik ile benzerlik ve farklılıkları ortaya konulmak suretiyle, etnokrasinin politisite davetiye çıkaran bir model olup olmadığının yorumlandığı çalışmada; etnokratik bir rejimde, birey-yurttaş-devlet ilişkilerinin seyri irdelenmektedir. Her ne kadar Yiftachel, modelin tipik örneğinin İsrail Devleti olduğunu öne sürmekteyse de, çalışmada, Yiftachel’in iddiasının lehinde ve aleyhinde bir tartışma yürütülmekte ve bu sayede etnokrasi ile demokrasi arasındaki farka dikkat çekilmektedir. Etnik milliyetçiliğe dair yeni tartışmalar açmaya aday olan bu çalışmanın, sıfatlı demokrasiler tartışmasına katkı sunacağı düşünülmektedir.
N95|Which Type of Urbanization Better Matches China¡¯s Factor Endowment: A Comparison of Population-Intensive Old Puxi and Land-Capital-Intensive New Pudong|Based on a comparative study of New-Pudong (East Shanghai) and Old-Puxi (West Shanghai) in their respective ability to absorb rural migrants, the very essence of urbanization, this paper finds that, constrained by the current hukou (household registration) system and land tenure system, although New-Pudong has emerged as one of the most modernized urban areas in the world, it did so under an urbanization model that is government-dominant and characterized by high land-intensity and capital-intensity. This model represents a serious mismatch in terms of China¡¯s factor endowment that is characterized with a large but relatively poor rural population. In sharp contrast, guided by the market mechanism under private land ownership and free migration, Old-Puxi emerged as an urbanization model that was very adaptable to China¡¯s factor endowment and stage of development. Therefore, as a model of endogenous urbanization, Old-Puxi is more efficient and inclusive, at the same time more sustainable economically and environmentally, and for this reason more applicable to China at a time when China needs to urbanize most of its rural population urgently to avoid the further worsening of the rural/urban divide and income disparity.
N95|Contained Crisis and Socialized Risk: Unconventional Monetary Policy by the Bank of Japan in the 1890s|In the 1880s, Japan experienced its first stock investment boom, which was highly leveraged by the banking sector. In 1890, its first financial crisis occurred and triggered a de-leveraging process. With a high lower bound of conventional interest rate intervention under the fixed exchange rate regime, the Bank of Japan decided to implement a massive securities purchases first time among major industrial economies and continued this unconventional policy until the early 1900s. We examine how the unconventional intervention for a decade affected the stock prices and trade volumes, and show that the upward distortion in market pricing was considerable and that the equity-risk premium accordingly dropped, which meant socialization of the risk associated with industrial investment.
N95|Honesty, Diligence and Skill: Risk Sharing and Specialization in the Kiryu Silk Weaving Cluster, Japan|Many economies have seen growth in industrial clusters during their industrialization, and the relational contracts between manufacturers and subcontractors are often the organizational basis of clusters. We predict that, if manufacturers form relational contracts with subcontractors and if manufacturers closely collude when trading with subcontractors, then premium subcontractors suffer more from market volatility than ordinary subcontractors and hence it is optimal for manufacturers to shield premium subcontractors against the risk. We then study Kiryu, a kimono weaving cluster that expanded from the late nineteenth century with the development of new synthetic dyeing techniques. We show that premium subcontracting weavers were allowed long-term relational contracts and specialization, which shielded already honest weavers against market volatility and induced them to be diligent and to acquire skills.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N95|Cost and Benefit of Globalization:Lesson Learned from Indonesian History|This paper is aimed at investigating the impact of globalization in Indonesia from long term recorded history. The methodology in this paper is focused on the literature survey with the qualitative analysis. The result shows that the presence of globalization in Indonesia tends to put the relationship between Indonesia (Nusantara or Netherland Indies) and the great power/globalizer as the Periphery-Centre (Core) relationship. It is shown that the globalizer influences Indonesia and not the other way around. The positive effect on Indonesia is globalization could increase peopleâ€™s wealth and enrich Indonesiaâ€™s civilization without losing the real Indonesian culture. However, the presence of negative effect, could be very devastating, such as war and internal conflicts, in the time of clash among great powers/globalizers or in the time of changing time of influence from old great power to the new one.
N95|Lee Kuan Yew: The Grand Master's Insights on China, the United States, and the World|When Lee Kuan Yew speaks, presidents, prime ministers, diplomats, and CEOs listen. Lee, the founding father of modern Singapore and its prime minister from 1959 to 1990, has honed his wisdom during more than fifty years on the world stage. Almost single-handedly responsible for transforming Singapore into a Western-style economic success, he offers a unique perspective on the geopolitics of East and West. American presidents from Richard Nixon to Barack Obama have welcomed him to the White House; British prime ministers from Margaret Thatcher to Tony Blair have recognized his wisdom; and business leaders from Rupert Murdoch to Rex Tillerson, CEO of Exxon Mobil, have praised his accomplishments. This book gathers key insights from interviews, speeches, and Lee’s voluminous published writings and presents them in an engaging question and answer format. Lee offers his assessment of China’s future, asserting, among other things, that “China will want to share this century as co-equals with the U.S.” He affirms the United States’ position as the world’s sole superpower but expresses dismay at the vagaries of its political system. He offers strategic advice for dealing with China and goes on to discuss India’s future, Islamic terrorism, economic growth, geopolitics and globalization, and democracy. Lee does not pull his punches, offering his unvarnished opinions on multiculturalism, the welfare state, education, and the free market. This little book belongs on the reading list of every world leader—including the one who takes the oath of office on January 20, 2013.
N95|"""Unfinished Business"": Ethnic Complementarities and the Political Contagion of Peace and Conflict in Gujarat"|I examine how the historical legacies of inter-ethnic complementarity and competition influence contemporary electoral competition and its effects on patterns of ethnic violence. Using local comparisons within Gujarat, a single Indian state known for its non-violent local traditions yet also for widespread ethnic pogroms in 2002, I provide evidence that while towns with close votes in the preceding state elections do predict an increased incidence of ethnic riots, these effects are diminished in medieval port towns that historically enjoyed exogenous inter-ethnic complementarities. Furthermore, unlike other towns where pre-riot electoral competitiveness coincided with historic inter-ethnic competition and where the ruling party reaped well-targeted electoral dividends from the riots, medieval port constituencies exhibited a relative vote swing of more than seven percentage points against that party. These rendered medieval port constituencies marginal constituencies in future elections, which also saw less ethnic violence. I interpret these results as consistent with the existence of a fundamentally conditional, yet magnifying interaction between electoral competition and local institutions in generating incentives for ethnic violence. Where marginal electoral constituencies coincide with or reflect pre-existing inter-ethnic economic competition, politicians have both enhanced local and state-wide incentives to foster ethnic mobilization and violence. On the other hand, when the focus of electoral competition shifts to constituencies enjoying complementary norms and organizations supporting local inter-ethnic tolerance, this can reduce state-wide incentives for ethnic violence.
N95|Shanghai's Trade, China's Growth: Continuity, Recovery, and Change since the Opium Wars|This paper provides an analysis of China's trade performance from the 1840s to the present. Its focus is on Shanghai, the world's largest port, which began direct trade relations with Western nations starting in 1843. The paper finds that Shanghai had, and continues to have, an important role in China's trade structure. Applying the well-known gravity equation of trade for Shanghai's treaty port period, the paper shows that this relationship fits today's actual trade quite well when projected into the modern period. Second, the foreign presence, as measured by foreign direct investment (FDI), in Shanghai is shown to be related not only to trade in the past, but also to trade today, which suggests that FDI is one of the sources of persistence in foreign trade.
N95|Perception Analysis Of Attitude Towards Residential Relocation In Delhi Ncr(Region) With Reference To Metro Connectivity, Infrastructural Availability|Growing urban agglomeration in almost all the metropolitan cities of the world has been a cause of many socio-economic and developmental problems surfacing in the respective metropolitan cities. Some of these problems have been in the nature of countryside-metropolitan labor migration, traffic congestion, tremendous pressure on resources leading to rapid price rise in essential services (water, domestic gas, electricity and transport), realty sector and other commodities, accentuating divide between the haves and have-nots, imbalanced regional growth and the like. This paper aims to study how effective planning of a transportation infrastructure can create favorable situation to solve all the above problems. The scenario was observed to be similar in different parts of the globe whether it was New York City, USA ; Taiwan, Hong Kong, China; Manchester, UK; New Delhi, India; Tokyo, Japan. In many of these metropolitan cities, the development of an efficient Mass Rapid Transport System (MRTS) has been one of the ways by which the municipal corporation or the city’s governing body has tried to address the problems mentioned above and has been successful to quite an extent. This paper concludes that if in Phase I and II expansion of Delhi Metro Rail network from NCT to NCR region would have been taken then significant reduction in congestion, growing prices, urban agglomeration would have taken place and the development of region peripheral to the NCT would also be possible
N95|Socioeconomic Progress across the Major Indian states: Converging or Diverging|The purpose of this paper is to examine the progress in socioeconomic conditions across the major states of India by using convergence hypothesis. Earlier studies that examined regional disparities of development used per capita State Net Domestic Product (SNDP) as an important proxy for assessing human well-being. This study attempts a more comprehensive assessment of socioeconomic convergence in terms of critical indicators of economic inequality, poverty ratios, literacy rate and Human Development Index (HDI) along with per capita SNDP. The results reveal that in the period between 1981 and 2011, statistically significant absolute and conditional Beta (β)-convergence in literacy rates and HDI have been observed but only conditional β-convergence has been evident in case of per capita SNDP and poverty ratios. β-convergence estimates for the recent period (post-2001) show, a divergence in per capita SNDP and poverty ratios but convergence in literacy rates and HDI. Kernel density plots for socioeconomic indicators show the existence of convergence clubs but not absolute convergence among all the major states. Thus, this study suggests that use of the non-parametric convergence measures is crucial to gain more clear insights on socioeconomic progress and to identify the short-term divergent paths.
N95|Transportation Infrastructure and Economic Growth in a Dissolving Country: (Ir)relevance of Railroads in the Ottoman Empire|In the literature, there are few studies on the impacts of the railroad construction in the Middle Eastern countries as well mixed findings. Using the data on the population of judicial districts in the Ottoman Empire between 1893 and 1914, we examine the relationship between railroad access and economic growth in local economies. Our empirical results show the size expansion in the affected areas of railroad access. This suggests the presence of positive impact of railroads on economic growth through increasing employment opportunities and fertility rates. To deal with endogeneity problems, we use instrumental variable (IV) strategy. Our 2SLS results also indicate that the causality runs from access to railroads to population growth. The paper contributes to the previous empirical literature by providing evidence for an agricultural society with limited factor mobility due to the lack of transportation infrastructure.
N95|Consumption Of Cotton Cloth In India, 1795–1940|Using data on the production and usage of cotton, the paper develops estimates for the production and consumption of cotton cloth in India during 1795-1940, and based on these numbers, revisits three issues central to interpretations of economic change in colonial India. These are: (a) trends in levels of living, (b) the correlation between production of textiles and consumption of textiles, and (c) consumption of clothing in India in relation to the rest of the world.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
N95|Stunting and selection effects of famine: A case study of the Great Chinese Famine|Many developing countries experience famine. If survival is related to height, the increasingly common practice of using height as a measure of well-being may be misleading. We devise a novel method for disentangling the stunting from the selection effects of famine. Using data from the 1959–1961 Great Chinese Famine, we find that taller children were more likely to survive the famine. Controlling for selection, we estimate that children under the age of five who survived the famine grew up to be 1 to 2cm shorter. Our results suggest that if a country experiences a shock such as famine, average height is potentially a biased measure of economic conditions during childhood.
N95|Contesting the indigenous development of “Chinese double-entry bookkeeping” and its significance in China’s economic institutions and business organization before c.1850|The recent rapid growth of China’s economy has reopened historical debate about the extent to which it prospered during the Míng and Qīng dynasties (1368-1911) through developing a significant market orientation on the base of its underlying agricultural bureaucratic feudalism. As a contribution to this debate, we question here the extent to which there is justification for claims concerning the development of a concomitant and indigenous Chinese form of double-entry bookkeeping (CDEB)—seen as having developed among bankers, merchants and proto-industrialists—and for its significance within such a market economy. Given that discussion on post-medieval European accounting history indicates that there is not necessarily a direct and positive connection between the development of Italian double-entry bookkeeping (DEB) and associated practices of entity accounting, and the development from the sixteenth century of Western capitalism, we argue that caution should be exercised in drawing any analogous connection in the Chinese context. But equally we wish to raise a more foundational issue concerning the similarities and differences between the knowledge worlds within which DEB and CDEB emerged, as a means to better reading the specific historical practices and discourses of each. We therefore review the invention and dissemination of western DEB as a technology emerging within a textually and semiotically changing knowledge world in the Latin West from the twelfth century AD, and consider how the evidence for the development and use of CDEB may then be reviewed in the context of the Chinese knowledge world. As part of such a reading, we focus on tracing possible intercultural linkages between the Western and Chinese developments across the fifteenth to nineteenth centuries. In this way we seek to problematise conventional formulations of the respective significance of both DEB and CDEB, while acknowledging that, at the current moment of such transcultural historical study, the mechanisms of translation and diffusion of practices and discourses generally remain obscure and inconclusive until the era of the transformation of China’s modern economy in recent decades. There remains a clear need for further research utilising primary archival sources to test the arguments developed in the existing research literatures, and here.
N95|Hand looms, power looms, and changing production organizations: the case of the Kiryu weaving district in the early 20th century Japan|This study finds that the development process of the Kiryu silk weaving district in Japan from 1895 to 1930 can be divided at least into the two phases, i.e., Smithian growth based on the inter-firm division of labor using hand looms and Schumpeterian development based on factory system using power looms. Weaving manufacturers-cum-contractors led Smithian growth by organizing sub-contracts with out-weavers in rural villages and grew faster than factory production systems. Newly emerged joint stock firms played a role of genuine entrepreneurs by realizing significant scale economies. During this new phase, weaving manufacturers-cum-contractors survived and also introduced new production system.
N95|Money and monetary system in China in the 19th-20th century: an overview|This article provides an historical overview on the development of Chinese money and monetary regimes between about 1800 and 1950. It develops a simple conceptual framework based on the relative costs of assessing the inherent value of the currencies of different denomination. Based on this framework, I develop a historical narrative that ties important political and institutional changes with the evolving structural changes in the Chinese monetary regime marked by the vicissitudes in the use of copper, silver currencies and paper money in both the private and public financial sectors from the Opium War in mid-19th century to the end of the Civil War in the 1950s.
N95|Hitit Kanunlarında Hayvanlarla İlgili Maddeler Üzerine Bir Değerlendirme|Boğazköy arşivinde bulunan Hitit Kanun metinleri, Hitit toplumsal, siyasi ve iktisadi yapısını anlamamızda önemli bilgiler vermektedir. Hitit Devlet ekonomisinin temel dayanaklarından biri olan hayvancılık, kanunlarda çeşitli hayvanların yaralanması, damgalarının silinerek hayvanların alıkonması, başka sürülere karışan küçükbaş ve büyük baş hayvanların sahiplerine geri verilmesi, düşük yapılması, kiralanması, hayvanların başka bir arazide ölümü gibi ilginç maddelerle karşımıza çıkmaktadır. Çalışmamızda hayvanlarla ilgili maddeleri gözden geçirip, hangi hayvanların ne şekilde kanun maddelerinde yer aldığını sınıflandırmaya çalışacağız. Ayrıca Hitit yasalarında özellikle önem taşıyan evcil hayvanların mülkiyeti ve bu konudaki cezai yaptırımlar hakkında da bir değerlendirmede bulunacağız.
N95|Rural Household Income in China: Spatial-Temporal Disparity and Its Interpretation|This paper investigates the spatial-temporal disparity evident in rural household incomes at the provincial level in China in the period 1978-2007. The research is introduced through a framework comprising the transitional processes of decentralization, marketization, urbanization, and globalization. The research uses Moran’s I index and the spatial regression model. Research results show a clear spatial-temporal disparity in rural household incomes in China in the post-reform era, whereby the eastern provinces possess higher rural household incomes in comparison to the lower rural household incomes of the inland provinces. This disparity is attributed to the joint influence of processes of marketization, urbanization, and globalization upon household incomes derived from the non-agricultural industries. Decentralization proves to be non-significant in explaining the disparity in rural household incomes across China, as a result of the agricultural income generated from the limited household land allocated to each rural household.
N95|Repelling states: Evidence from upland Southeast Asia|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|The rationality of taking to the hills|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|Gateway Cities and Urbanisation in Southeast Asia Before World War II|Between the 1870s and World War II, falls in world shipping costs and Western industrialisation gave rise to export-led Southeast Asian growth and specialization in a narrow range of primary commodity exports. A linked development was the emergence of a few dominant Southeast Asian urban centres, typically primate and always ports. Drawing on historical census data, this paper uses rank-size distributions and transition matrices to investigate the influence of commodity specialisation and exports on urban systems development in the region. It is argued that different commodities produced different spread effects, resulting in variation in degrees of urban concentration in the region. However, geography, path dependence and infrastructrue also shaped urban systems development. The main cities that emerged during this period became the 'gateways' that connected frontier Southeast Asia to the Global economy.
N95|The long diverfence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
N95|India’s urban environment: air and water pollution and pollution abatement|This paper focuses on air and water pollution in India’s cities, provides empirical evidence to demonstrate the seriousness of the challenges, discusses the relevant policies of national and local government that are used to address the challenges, discusses relevant political economy issues related to introducing pollution taxes or other policies which are aimed at “green” cities.
N95|The Economic Development of China|Prior to the early part of the 19th century, China’s economy had long been superior to that of the West’s. The Chinese’s ability to utilize science and technology had been instrumental in leading their enormous population to economic prosperity and for a while, superiority. During the 18th century European science and technology surpassed that of the Chinese. It is my contention that a variety of Chinese contributions expedited Europe’s prolific economic development and aided in its expansion. Perhaps with the assistance of innovations derived from China, the European economy was able to forge ahead of China’s economy. In addition to the Europeans developments there were several other contributing factors that led to the fall of the Chinese economy. Using historical background the latter part of this paper aim’s to explain the rapid growth that has recently occurred in China. In spite of substantial adversity, China has re-emerged as one of the most dominant economic forces in the world. To begin I will use historical background in an attempt to explain what China was able to contribute, both directly as well as indirectly to the development of Europe. It is also my objective to explain that a distinct correlation exists between Europe’s rapid economic growth and the fall of China during the 18th century.
N95|Association Lecture—The Economic Roots of Political Underdevelopment in the Middle East: A Historical Perspective|Key institutions of the pre-modern Middle Eastern economy, all grounded in Islamic law, blocked the development of democratic institutions. This talk identifies three mechanisms that played critical roles. Islam's original tax system failed to produce lasting and credible constraints on governance. The waqfs (Islamic trusts) founded to provide social services to designated constituencies were politically powerless. Profit-making private enterprises remained small and ephemeral, hindering the formation of stable coalitions capable of bargaining with the state. The last two mechanisms jointly delayed the rise of a civil society able to provide the checks and balances essential to democratic rule.
N95|India and an Indian village: 50 years of economic development in Palanpur|This work is based on a programme of work in Palanpur from 1974, based primarily at the LSE, and uses two previous studies from the Agricultural Economics Research Centre of the University in Delhi from 1957/8 and 1962/3. There are now six surveys of the village, one for every decade since Independence. The most recent covers 2008/9 and 2009/10 and is the most detailed and comprehensive: its collection was led by Himanshu of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). The analysis of the new data is under way and will be carried out largely in Delhi and the LSE. We are very grateful to Jean Drèze, Ruth Kattumuri, Peter Lanjouw, and Naresh Sharma and all the Delhi team for guidance, advice and support. This paper is based in part on a “Distinguished Lecture” by Nicholas Stern at the University of Hyderabad on 25 October 2010. The work is supported by a grant from DFID to whom we are very grateful.
N95|Non-farm diversification and rural poverty decline: a perspective from Indian sample survey and village study data|This paper studies the evolution of the rural non-farm sector in India and its contribution to the decline of poverty. It scrutinizes evidence from a series of nationally representative sample surveys and confronts findings from these sources against the experience of poverty decline in a western Uttar Pradesh village, Palanpur, which has been the subject of close study over a period of six decades. Sample survey data indicate that the non-farm sector in rural India has grown steadily during the past 30 years, with some acceleration during the late 1990s to the mid-2000s followed by a leveling off after 2004-05. The suggestion is of a process that has contributed modestly to declining rural poverty both directly, through employment generation, and indirectly through an impact on agricultural wages. The paper illustrates that in Palanpur, it is only relatively recently that rural poverty decline has become strongly linked to diversification of the village economy. There is little evidence that, prior to the 1990s, the poor in the village were able to participate actively in this process of intersectoral transfer out of agriculture. Data collected in 2008/9 indicate that continued expansion of the non-farm sector has now started to engage the poor directly and in a very significant manner. As the non-farm sector has expanded, the previously disadvantaged and most vulnerable segments of village society have gained access to non-farm employment opportunities and have recorded significant upward mobility. The paper goes on to highlight the close association between urban poverty reduction and rural non-farm growth (and accompanying rural poverty reduction). In particular the paper singles out small towns in India as both particularly closely linked to rural non-farm development and recording particularly high rates of urban poverty. It is suggested that galvanizing small towns may thus serve both urban and rural poverty reduction objectives.
N95|Poverty, inequality and mobility in Palanpur: observations from Palanpur|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|Stepping out of Palanpur: employment outside Palanpur|As India integrates into the global economy, its villages are integrating into a rapidly growing urban economy. One of the links through which this is happening is labour markets, where demand for labour to undertake non-farm jobs has been growing. This has led to a rise in the share of non-farm incomes in total income. These jobs often take people out of the village to engage in labour markets in nearby urban/semi-urban centres. The village of Palanpur is an illustration of a similar trend and we delve deeper into understanding what has led to the rise of non-farm incomes for the last 25 years. An important first step in this endeavour is to understand how villagers allocate time among different job activities and how non-farm activities takes them out of the village. In this paper, we take this first step by examining trends in employment outside the village of Palanpur over the period 1983-2008. We classify activities as primary and subsidiary on the basis of the amount of time spent doing them. We find that, compared to 1993 and 1983, a higher proportion of the adult male labour force works outside the village in 2008. The key driver of outside work is subsidiary jobs that last for short periods of time. Somewhat surprisingly we find that the share of people who work outside the village as a primary occupation has not risen since 1983. This can be understood, however, as part of a process of selective migration. We find evidence, for example, that people who held regular jobs outside the village in 1983, have migrated out in disproportionate numbers. Further scrutiny reveals that there has been a rise in self-employment and non-farm casual labour; activities that take villagers outside Palanpur on a short-term, often daily, basis. We also find that land ownership is an important determinant of working outside the village and that the structural link between land and employment has not changed over time.
N95|Tenancy in Palanpur|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|Change and continuity: agriculture in Palanpur|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|Rock, scissors, paper: the problem of incentives and information in traditional Chinese state and the origin of Great Divergence|This article posits that the political institution of imperial China – its unitary and centralized ruling structure – is an essential determinant to China‘s long-run economic trajectory and its early modern divergence from Western Europe. Drawing on institutional economics, I demonstrate that monopoly rule, a long time-horizon and the large size of the empire could give rise to a path of low-taxation and dynastic stability in imperial China. But fundamental incentive misalignment and information asymmetry problems within its centralized and hierarchical political structure also constrained the development the fiscal and financial capacity of the Chinese state. Based on a reconstruction of two millennia records of incidences of warfare, this paper develops a narrative to show that the establishment and consolidation towards a single unitary monopoly of political power was an endogenous historical process. Using data series on warfare and government revenue for 17-19th century, I illustrate the Qing imperial rule as an epitome of the traditional Chinese political economy.
N95|19. Yüzyıl'da Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nda Süngercilik Ve İzmir Limanı'ndan Sünger İhracatı (1850-1900)|Çalışmada 19. yüzyılda bir “zoophyte” olarak tasnifi yapılmiş deniz canlısı süngerin denizaltından çıkartılmasına dayalı süngercilik bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak Osmanlı İmparatorluğu sınırları dahilinde ele alınmaktadır. Burada sunulan bilgiler, bu konuda yapılmış sayılı çalışmanın yanısıra ulaşılan tarihi veri kaynaklarından edinilmiş verilere dayanmaktadır. Bu veriler dahilinde, bir iktisadi faaliyet olarak tanımlanması yanısıra, süngerciliği etkileyen gelişmeler de açıklanmaya çalışılmıştır. Ayrıca süngerin 19. yüzyılda İzmir'den gerçekleştirilen toplam ihracat içerisinde azımsanmayacak paya sahip bir ihraç ürünü olarak, uluslararası piyasalarda rekabet gücünü de belirleyen kendisine has özelliklerine de değinilmektedir. Dahası, 19. yüzyılın ikinci yarısında, bu ekonomik faaliyet üzerinde önemli etkileri ortaya çıkan belli teknik gelişmeler de sözkonusudur. Süngercilik tekniklerindeki bu gelişmelerden de bahsedilmekte ve etkileri açıklanmaya çalışılmaktadır. Nihai olarak, Osmanlı İmparatorluğu'nun en önemli ihraç limanlarından birisi olan İzmir’den gerçekleştirilen sünger ihracatının, 19. yüzyıl ikinci yarısı boyunca gösterdiği gelişmelerin belirleyenleri de tanımlanmaya çalışılmıştır.
N95|Common tongue: The impact of language on economic performance|This paper investigates the impact of language on economic performance. I use the 1956 reorganization of Indian states on linguistic lines as a natural experiment to estimate the impact of speaking the majority language on educational and occupational outcomes. I find that districts that spoke the majority language of the state during colonial times enjoy persistent economic benefits, as evidenced by higher educational achievement and employment in communication intensive sectors. After reorganization, historically minority language districts experience greater growth in educational achievement, indicating that reassignment could reverse the impact of history.
N95|BEIJING RECORD:A Physical and Political History of Planning Modern Beijing|Beijing Record, the result of ten years of research on the urban transformation of Beijing in the last fifty years, brings to an extended Western audience the inside story on the key decisions that led to Beijing's present urban fragmentation and its loss of memory and history in the form of bulldozing its architectural heritage. Wang's publication presents a survey of the main developments and government-level (both central and municipal) decisions, devoting a lot of attention to the 1950s and 1960s, when Beijing experienced a critical wave of transformative events.Shortly after its original Chinese bestseller edition was published by SDX joint Publishing Company House in October 2003, it ignited a firestorm of debate and discussion in a country where public interaction over such a sensitive subject rarely surfaces. The Chinese edition is in its 11th print run and was translated into Japanese in 2008. This newly-translated English version has the latest update on the author's findings in the area. As the only edition printed in full color with nearly 300 illustrations, the English version powerfully showcases the stunning architecture, culture, and history of China's Dynamic Capital, Beijing.Home to more than 15 million people, this ancient capital city â€” not surprisingly â€” has a controversial, complicated history of planning and politics, development and demolition. The publication raises a number of unsettling questions: Why have a valuable historical architectural heritage such as city ramparts, gateways, old temples, memorial archways and the urban fabric of hutongs (traditional alleyways) and siheyuan (courtyard houses) been visibly disappearing for decades? Why are so many houses being demolished at a time of economic growth? Is no one prepared to stand up for the preservation of the city?For his research, Wang went through innumerable archives, read diaries and collected an unprecedented quantity of data, accessing firsthand materials and unearthing photographs that clearly document the city's relentless, unprecedented physical makeover. In addition, he conducted more than 50 in-person interviews with officials, planners, scholars and other experts. Many illustrations are published here for the first time, compiled in the 1990s when archival public access was reformulated.
N95|Prominent Buildings In Formation Of Eskisehir Modern City Center In 1945-1960 Period|Modernism that occurred with the results of Industrial Revolution and Enlightenment caused new formations and changes especially in cities. The new city centres which developed around the traditional city centres caused the cities gain their modern character with the buildings which had new functions and architectural approaches. The period called â€œPopulist Modernityâ€ between the years of 1945 and 1960 is a period important with its political, economic and socio-cultural developments for Turkey. Reflections of these developments on formation of modern city centre and architectural case in Eskisehir has been examined through the examples selected. The buildings selected has been analysed in context of their architectural characteristics and approaches, relations with the city with their characteristics differ from the others.
N95|Ortadoğu’nun ve İslam’ın geri kalmışlığının nedenleri üzerine|Söyleşi Genel Yayın Yönetmenimiz Ali Bilge tarafından Açık Radyo’nun Açık Gazete programı için yapılmıştır. 29-30 Haziran 2010 tarihlerinde yayınlanan söyleşi metni daha sonra Timur Kuran tarafından gözden geçirilmiş ve İktisat İşletme ve Finans Dergisinde yayınlanmaya hazır hale getirilmiştir. Duke Üniversitesi öğretim üyesi Prof. Dr. Timur Kuran’la yapılan söyleşide, İslam dünyasında ve Ortadoğu’da geri kalmışlığın nedenleri üzerine konuşulmuş, miras hukuku, vakıf müessesesi, sanayi devrimi, dinsel tutuculuk gibi kavramlara açıklık getirilmek suretiyle geri kalmışlığın nedenleri sorgulanmıştır. Prof. Kuran’ın Türkiye’de yayınlanan Yalanla Yaşamak ve İslam’ın Ekonomik Yüzleri adlı iki kitabı bulunuyor.
N95|The Influence of Sino-Culture on the Meanings of University Diplomas in Taiwan:The Cultural Gap between the West and Taiwan|The global economic system significantly benefits western advanced countries, granting them the status of hegemony that allows them to export their thoughts and values to other countries. Therefore, western theories are generally viewed as unproblematic in educational research. However, it is almost impossible for this approach to obtain complete and solid findings due to its neglect of the cultural gap. Individual countries tend to develop their own cultures with unique characteristics and meanings that are able to shape people’s minds and behaviours. Sino-culture, for example, has different characteristics from western culture. Agriculture, which was the main industry in ancient China, required organized manpower, so it gradually brewed big-scale families that functioned as a vital core of life by providing shelter and adequate food. When people needed to be reliant upon family, family-oriented culture gradually developed and eventually become part of Sino-culture. In such a context, people were concerned with sustaining and enhancing their own family status and reputation rather than their own individual concerns. This collective approach substantially constrained the scope of individual ideas. It also further created a special form of culture – face-oriented culture.
N95|The Archipelagic Paradox Islands, Cities and the Modern State, 1808-2008|Indonesia has embraced the concept of an archipelagic state along with the implications for foreign policy. Yet, in the realm of domestic policy, there is still little substance. Transport and communications are fundamental to national integration yet suffer from a massive backlog of investment and chaotic regulation. This paper seeks to explain the lack of archipelagic thinking by combining historical and comparative perspectives. The main argument is that for two centuries state policy has sought not so much to integrate as to standardise the archipelago within a system of territorial administration that over-rode natural economic regions. This grand scheme has so far had only partial success but in the midst of this vast national construction site there has emerged one exemplary centre, the mega-city of Jakarta. Urbanisation has fundamentally altered Indonesia’s economic and political geography and there is much to be learned from European experience.
N95|Sub-Regional Economic Cooperation In Southeast Asia : ITRO’s Effect to Rubber’s FDI Inflows & Indonesia’s Rubber Economic Multipliers|One of the valuable lesson learnt that region like ASEAN could learn from the experience of the most successful economic regional integration process (the European Union) is her forerunner sub-regional cooperation named the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) from 1952-1957. This organization called sub-regional because she was established by founding members of EU, a limited number of the EU’s members. It managed particular primary commodities from production to trade sides. Its cooperation was considered as an important factor on why EU could have closed economic relations. In Southeast Asian, ASEAN has similar organization. It was a subregional type because it had been established by limited founding members of ASEAN: Indonesia, Malaysia & Thailand. It also manages particular primary products, a natural rubber, from both sides: production & trade. Its name is ITRO (International Tripartite Rubber Organization).The most different factor between ITRO & ECSC is the establishment period on its regional organization’s establishment. ECSC was a forerunner for the EU since it was established before the EU while ITRO was established after the establishment of ASEAN. This article assumes that ITRO still has an effect on the trade and investment relations for its members which were similar to the ECSC. Strong trade & investment relations will give significant effect for enhancing economic cooperation among the members. This article attempts to prove the effect of ITRO establishment to the trade and investment relations among its members (Indonesia, Malaysia & Thailand). It tries to see how ITRO which represented by dummy of establishment’s time affect Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows of natural rubber in Indonesia, Malaysia & Thailand. Dummy of time is time of the launch of the International Tripartite Rubber Organization (ITRO). It was in 2001. ITRO controls around 68% of world rubber production and 60% of world rubber exports. This article uses two approaches: macro & micro tools. For macro approach this article applies econometric model with panel data approach to estimate the effect of ITRO to FDI inflows on rubber together with other independent macroeconomic variables: real GDP, real exchange rate, degree of openness and production of rubber as an approach to natural rubber production. For micro approach this article applies input & output (I-O) analysis of the impact of rubber product to Indonesia’s economy comparing I-O year 2000 and I-O year 2005.
N95|The Role of Sumatra in the Integration of the Indonesian Economy into the World Economy from Two Waves of Globalization|This study is aimed at investigating the role of the Sumatran economy in integrating the Indonesian economy with the rest of the world, both from a historical perspective and from the current policies that are shaping the future of Sumatra, including the current condition of the business environment in Indonesia and Sumatra. Literature review and a simple descriptive statistics are employed to give a better understanding of the past and current conditions. Some interesting findings include: first, from the two waves of globalization (1830-1914 and 1945-now), the Indonesian economy has been integrated and enjoyed gains by increasing its income through international linkages with the world economy while the de-globalization period during 1914-1945 was the time when Indonesia got pains from the international linkages. From an Indonesia regional perspective, Sumatra has advantages to be explored by Indonesia to integrate the Indonesian economy with the world market. This potential was recognized by the Dutch during its second wave of regional development in Dutch Colony (Indonesia) by developing the Sumatran economy after focusing in developing Java Island as the center of Dutch Colony in its first wave of development in Indonesia. In addition, the Indonesian government has also paid attention to the development of Sumatra through Development of Batam Island, IMS-GT (Indonesia Malaysia Growth Triangle) and IMT-GT (Indonesia Malaysia Thailand Growth Triangle). However, the current business environment in Indonesia and Sumatra for the time being is still facing some challenges to acquire the potentials
N95|First borrowing period at Ottoman Empire (1854-1876): Budget policies and consequences|The financial troubles of Ottoman Empire which started in 16th century reached its ultimate point in 19th century. The Ottoman Empire searching to get rid of these troubles directed towards making some reform activities during the Tanzimat Era. Some of the money needed for these reform activities was met via the external borrowings which the Ottoman Empire had applied reluctantly and then could not preclude. During the period of 1854-1876 which was included in the Tanzimat Era and called as the first borrowing period, the Ottoman Empire signed 15 external borrowing agreements totally. However, the loans received as a result of these agreements were not used properly and then the budget deficit could not be settled. At the end of these developments, a financial bankruptcy was experienced in the Ottoman Empire in 1876.
N95|When Do Autocracies Start to Liberalize Foreign Trade? Evidence from Four Cases in the Arab World|This paper argues that trade and capital account reforms within autocracies underlie the primacy of foreign currency procurement. A longitudinal comparison of four countries (Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt and Jordan) in the Middle East and North Africa region shows a historical sequencing of reforms. In the 1960s and 1970s, the foreign exchange scarcity was managed primarily by rising restrictions, accumulation of debt and a number of unilateral country-specific strategies, including broader economic openings (infitah) and isolated capital account liberalizations. However, IMF-friendly reforms (orthodox trade liberalization) only became a political option in the context of the extreme fiscal scarcity of the 1980s and 1990s, after the failure of these earlier policies and the drying up of alternative unconditional finance. Additionally, the time differences regarding when orthodox reforms are implemented within autocracies mainly relate to global and regional cycles of different external windfall gains. These findings complement recent debates about the rush to free trade in at least two regards. First, they point to distinct causal mechanisms depending on the type of political regime (for example, autocracy versus democracy), explaining the beginning of trade and capital account liberalizations among developing countries. Second, they reveal the conditional historical influence of neoliberal ideas among structurally similar autocracies.
N95|Urbanisation and Migration: An Analysis of Trend, Pattern and Policies in Asia|The present paper overviews urbanisation and migration process in Asian countries at macro level since 1950s, including the projections made till 2030. It questions the thesis of southward movement of urbanisation and that of urban explosion in Asia. Increased unaffordability of urban space and basic amenities, negative policy perspective towards migration and various rural development pogrammes designed to discourage migration are responsible for this exclusionary urban growth and a distinct decline in urban rural growth differential, with the major exception of China. The changing structure of urban population across different size categories reveals a shift of growth dynamics from large to second order cities and stagnation of small towns. The pace of urbanization has been modest to high in select countries in Asia, not because of their level of economic growth but its composition and labour intensity of rapidly growing informal sectors. Several countries have launched programmes for improving governance and infrastructural facilities in a few large cities, attracting private investors from within as well as outside the country. These have pushed out squatter settlements, informal sector businesses along with a large number of pollutant industries to a few pockets and peripheries of the cities. The income level and quality of basic amenities in these cities, as a result, have gone up but that has been associated with increased intra-city disparity and creation of degenerated periphery. Nonetheless, there is no strong evidence that urbanization is associated with destabilization of agrarian economy, poverty and immiserisation, despite the measures of globalization resulting in regional imbalances. The overview of the trend and pattern suggests that the pace of urbanization would be reasonably high but much below the level projected by UNPD in the coming decades.
N95|Bayesian estimation of spatial externalities using regional production function: the case of China and Japan|This paper used regional panel data for Chinese provinces from 1979 to 2003, and for Japanese prefectures from 1955 to 1998, to estimate the spatial externalities (or spatial multiplier effects) using a production function and Bayesian methodology, and to investigate the long-run behavior of the spatial externalities of each country. According to the estimation results, China's spatial externalities increased its domestic production significantly after 1994, which tended to increase until 2003. Before 1993, however, its spatial externalities were not significant. Japan's spatial externalities showed fluctuating values throughout the sample period. Furthermore, the movement of the spatial externalities was correlated with Japan's business conditions: the externalities showed a high value in the economic boom, and a low value in the economic depression. This could mean that spatial externalities correlate mainly with business conditions.
N95|Urbanisation and Migration: An Analysis of Trends, Patterns and Policies in Asia|The present paper overviews urbanisation and migration process in Asian countries at macro level since 1950s, including the projections made till 2030. It questions the thesis of southward movement of urbanisation and that of urban explosion in Asia. Increased unaffordability of urban space and basic amenities, negative policy perspective towards migration and various rural development pogrammes designed to discourage migration are responsible for this exclusionary urban growth and a distinct decline in urban rural growth differential, with the major exception of China. The changing structure of urban population across different size categories reveals a shift of growth dynamics from large to second order cities and stagnation of small towns. The pace of urbanization has been modest to high in select countries in Asia, not because of their level of economic growth but its composition and labour intensity of rapidly growing informal sectors. Several countries have launched programmes for improving governance and infrastructural facilities in a few large cities, attracting private investors from within as well as outside the country. These have pushed out squatter settlements, informal sector businesses along with a large number of pollutant industries to a few pockets and peripheries of the cities. The income level and quality of basic amenities in these cities, as a result, have gone up but that has been associated with increased intra-city disparity and creation of degenerated periphery. Nonetheless, there is no strong evidence that urbanization is associated with destabilization of agrarian economy, poverty and immiserisation, despite the measures of globalization resulting in regional imbalances. The overview of the trend and pattern suggests that the pace of urbanization would be reasonably high but much below the level projected by UNPD in the coming decades.
N95|Business Competitiveness in Bahrain: A Synopsis|Unbridled freedom to private business sector is a harbinger of business collapse and eventually the economic landscapes of nations. We have had ample examples very recently. Hence, suitable rules and regulations are essential in conditioning favourable business environment. The ease of doing business can be understood by the availability of a cross section of factors such as clarity of property rights, low cost of resolving disputes, predictability of economic policies and situation, protection to investments, impartial redressal mechanism, the freedom and low cost retrenchment policy and exit, ease of resource mobilisation etc. This report reviews two annual reports on Doing Business pertaining to Kingdom of Bahrain vis-a-vis major counterparts in the Middle East and other noted economies.
N95|Muslim Economic Thinking and Institutions in the 10th AH/ 16th CE Century|The state of Muslim economic thinking in the tenth century Hijrah corresponding to sixteenth century CE has been an un-researched subject. There are many lessons to be learnt from the economic ideas of the great lights of the period. The present study underscores the thesis that mercantilism was a reaction against Muslim powers and investigates the factors that promoted mercantilism in the Christian West and the reasons why it did not find favor in the Muslim East. It presents many interesting examples of financial innovations adopted in this period in order to protect awqaf properties. It also tells us how those innovations were misused and corrective legal measures were imposed and bypassed subsequently. It deals with the legal issues in contracts and their settlements that arose due to unstable currency values and monetary mismanagement. It highlights issues with respect to kharaji lands and looks at land prices in the perspective of the purposes of land sale. This gives us insight into the level of understanding about price formation based on expectations. It also underlines new thinking on preserving the incentives and maintenance of awqaf by resorting to financial innovation of ‘ijaratayn’ (combination of long- and short-term leases) and ‘istibdal’ (asset swap) as well as institutional innovation of cash waqf that provided flexibility and efficiency in its maintenance. It calls attention to fresh thinking on reclassification of sources of state revenues and adding left-over property as an explicit funding source for bayt al-mal as it had assumed significant proportions. In addition, the book provides detailed information about works on public finance, Shar`iyah governance and market supervision that have been depositary of economic ideas of Muslim scholars.
N95|A study of Muslim economic thinking in the 11th A.H. / 17th C.E. century|There are numerous works on the history of Islamic economic thought. But almost all researches come to an end in 9th AH/15th CE century. We hardly find a reference to the economic ideas of Muslim scholars who lived in the 16th or 17th century, in works dealing with the history of Islamic economic thought. The period after the 9th/15th century remained largely unexplored. The present study undertakes an investigation into the state of Muslim economic thinking in the eleventh century hijrah, corresponding to the seventeenth century CE. The period of study covered in this project is one of the most neglected parts of Muslim intellectual history. To set a proper perspective and to provide background knowledge of the situation in Muslim countries, at the outset the author has presented an overview of the history of Muslim governments at that time, their economic condition and intellectual and literary situation. Due to certain limitations, the main focus of the research has been works available in the Arabic language with a few exceptions, and economic institutions that existed in the Ottoman Empire that controlled the heartland of Islam. It also takes the note of some Western economic institutions and ideas in the seventeenth century for comparison purposes.
N95|La Croissance Urbaine Chinoise Reconsidérée|Over the last decade, many researchers have focused on the study of different urban hierarchies and their evolution over time. These studies may or may not confirm Zipf’s law and emphasize the characteristics of urban growth. The question is then whether urban growth depends upon city-size or not, which is a main issue in modern regional economics. Using data on Chinese cities for the period 1960-2000, this paper aims to provide some answers to this question which has led to a recent passionate debate between the random growth theories and the endogenous growth theories.
N95|Venturing Beyond the Marathon: The Entrepreneurship of Ultrarunning and the IAU World Cup in Korea|This article describes the entrepreneurial development and professionalism of ultradistance running (ultrarunning) in South Korea, culminating with the hosting of the IAU World Cup 100K in 2006. This case study-based research provides evidence of various macro-environmental and individual drivers of a grassroots entrepreneurial process, contextualised in Korea's sporting culture. Macro-environmental factors include the economic crisis and Korean cultural values of comradery, emotional expressiveness and entrepreneurial spirit. At the individual level, self-leadership, focus, persistence, team dynamics and access to resources explain the growth of ultrarunning and the commitment to hosting the IAU World Cup. Implications for sports entrepreneurship and grassroots-initiated mega-sporting events in Asia are discussed.
N95|Financial Independence of Local Productivity Centers (in Japanese)|After the Second World War, the productivity movement was spread out in Western European countries and in Japan. After that, the productivity movement was developed also in developing countries, e.g. India, and in some developed countries such as Germany and Italy until today. Japan Productivity Center (JPC) was established in 1955 and after that its local organizations were founded. So that JPC and its local organizations could have continued to exist for half a century, it is necessary for them to continually contribute to society. Its proof lies in the fact that the local organizations could be operated independently with smaller amount of financial support from JPC. I studied the current status of income and expenditure of Kansai Productivity Center (KPC), one of the local productivity centers of JPC. The result of my study clearly shows that KPC has been run with smaller amount of financial support from JPC.
N95|Traditional financing and distant trades during modernization process of financial industry: a case of Yamaguchi prefecture in the 1870s|"This paper examines the efficiency of the Dojima Rice Market established in 1730 in Osaka, and closed in 1869 due to the collapse of Tokugawa Shogunate. It had already been shown that there existed the price mechanism in Dojima. However, the most significant question: Whether the world first commodity futures market was efficient or not, remains to be unanswered. Before applying the empirical analyses, this paper first introduces the daily price index constructed from the original historical document, ""Yorozu Souba Nikki (Daily memorandum of commodity price indices),"" written by the contemporary rice merchant who dealt in the rice. From this memorandum, we can construct the daily price index both in the futures and the spot market during the period from 1798 to 1856. Based on this price index, the test of unbiasedness hypothesis and the classic measure of market efficiency; ""weak-form efficiency"" were applied to Dojima Rice Market, and it is shown that there existed these types of efficiency."
N95|Colonialism, globalization and the economy of South-East India, c.1700-1900|No abstract is available for this item.
N95|Educational Disparity in East and West Pakistan, 1947-71: Was East Pakistan Discriminated Against?|This paper documents the regional divide in educational facilities between East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) and West Pakistan between 1947 and 1971. During this period, the total number of primary schools in Ea st Pakistan declined, leading to overcrowding of existing schools and classrooms. On the other hand, despite being endowed with fewer schools, W est Pakistan surpassed East Pakistan in the total number of primary schools, and in teacher-student ratios. This evident educational disparity, we argue, cannot be attributed to regional differences in school age population, school types, the quality and unit cost of schooling. Rather, this problem is examined in terms of the hypothesis of “discrimination” as an alternate explanation.
N95|Flexibility and diversity: the putting-out system in the silk fablic industry of Kiryu, Japan|We have seen many cases where the factory system emerges and realizes higher productivity in the process of industrialization. However, also seen in history is that other types of production organization have kept expanding and have reached at some high performance. For instance, the putting-out system rather than the factory system has sometimes been chosen in the fabric industry, where the flexibility of production and the variety of products are especially important to respond to the fashion. This type of production organization has prospered even during the industrialization since the 19th century, supported by the development of some modern technologies such as synthetic dyes. This study inquires a case of the silk fabric industry in Kiryu, Gunma Prefecture, Japan. In Kiryu, the traditional silk textile industry developed in the Tokugawa era, and the industry even grew more under the putting-out system during the industrialization in Japan since the late 19th century, because the putting-out system with synthetic dying was the optimal combination to realize the variety of products required in the mass consumption in the industrial society.
N95|The optimal selling strategy of a local merchant: the trades of cotton textiles with privileged guilds and unprivileged groups in the Tokugawa era (in Japanese)|Through the Tokugawa era, the productivity in the agriculture steadily increased in the Kinai region, neighboring area of Osaka. However, according to the literature in the 1950s, the development of cottage industry in the region came to be stagnated in the late of Tokugawa era, because the merchant guilds in Osaka privileged by the Tokugawa Shogunate exercised the great bargaining power in trades with local merchants, exploited all the surplus from the trades so that local merchants and craftsmen/women were not allowed to hold surplus. Based on Marxian economics, many economic historians interested in the industrialization worked on the research related to this issue, and reached at the result stated above. Since the 1980s, deviated from Marxian views, fewer economic historians have worked on the development of cottage industry in the late Tokugawa era, and the trades between the privileged guilds and local merchants has been almost neglected as a research issue. However, still important points are how the surplus from trades were shared, which part took the lager portion, and how the local merchants responded to the actions of the city merchants, especially to understand the proto-industrialization, and industrialization. Thus this study is back to the topic discussed in the 1950s. This paper studies the cotton textile trades in the Kinai region. The case this paper inquires is trades between a local merchant in the State of Kawachi, and both of privileged guilds and unprivileged groups of large merchants in Osaka. the commercial center. The point was that the player who took higher risk generally took larger share of surplus. From the study on this case, local merchants seemed to make a kind of portfolio of trades: the ghigh risk and high return h trades with unprivileged groups of city merchants, and the glow risk and low return h trades with privileged guilds. Their businesses were balanced between the risk and the returns.
N95|The Flying Geese Paradigm: A Critical Study Of Its Application To East Asian Regional Development|It is often claimed that what is popularly known as the “flying geese paradigm” of dynamic comparative advantage has accurately depicted the East Asian catching-up process. This paper presents a critical study of the paradigm, as well as its application to the current situation in East Asian economic hierarchy. The paper first presents the various versions of the paradigm, and discusses similarities and differences among them. It then evaluates the application of the paradigm to the East Asian regional development context by identifying major theoretical, conceptual and empirical problems that come with it. It is the author’s hope that the arguments presented in this paper will contribute to the further enrichment of future discussions on the East Asian development experience.
N95|Dynamics of Chinese Comparative Advantage|We analyze the dynamics of Chinese comparative advantage as measured by export shares and the Balassa index using 3-digit and 4-digit sectors for the period 1970 – 1997. We use novel tools to identify periods of rapid structural change and the persistence of comparative advantage, such as Galtonian regressions, probability-probability (p-p) plots, and the Harmonic Mass index, to supplement the usual descriptive statistical methods and mobility indicators associated with Markov transition matrices.
N95|Bread and Empire: The Workings of Grain Provisioning in Istanbul During the Eighteenth Century|"Provisioning of the Imperial capital Istanbul had been one of the major concerns of the Ottoman rulers from the classical age to the dawn of the modern era. Grain occupied a particularly important place in the provisioning policies of the Ottoman state due to the fact that the Ottoman sultans considered the steady supply of ""people's bread"" in the capital city as one of the ways to promote and reproduce their image of sovereignty in the general public opinion. This consideration remained unchanged throughout the eighteenth century during which time the Ottoman economy faltered vis-à-vis the European centered world-economy and the Ottoman polity began to gradually withdraw from the economic realm. In the face of mounting fiscal burdens, the Ottoman state limited its provisioning policies to the raw materials needed by the military industries and to the basic foods consumed by the populace. In this context, the traditional protectionist attitude of the state towards the craft guilds of the imperial capital was abandoned, leaving these organizations at the mercy of circumstances not to say the market principle. The only institutions that were insulated from the changing policy of the state were the grain-related crafts, i.e. bakers' guild. This paper argues with reference to a series of published documents that the Ottoman state continued, if not hardened, its provisioning policies of grain to the imperial capital during the eighteenth century and thereafter."
N95|Labor Policy and Labor Research Since the 1960s: Two Ships Sailing in Orthogonal Directions?|This paper summarizes trends in labor market policy since the 1960s, trends in research in labor economics since the 1960s, and the intersection between the two. Labor policy has moved strongly in the direction of regulating many more aspects of the labor market since the 1960s. Legislation that expanded the scale and scope of labor market regulation includes the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Coal Mine Safety and Health Act, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, and the Family and Medical Leave Act. The number of Department of Labor (DOL) employees in regulatory agencies increased by almost 300 percent between 1969 and 1979. The number of employees involved in regulation decreased since 1979, despite continued expansion of labor market regulations, raising questions about the extent of enforcement of many labor standards. Another policy shift is that the job training budget has declined considerably since the late 1970s. To gauge trends in labor economics research, the number of articles published on various topics is presented. Results of a survey of labor economists' views about several key parameters are also analyzed. Although widespread disagreement exists, the median labor economist expects fairly modest labor supply elasticities, and fairly modest effects of job training on participants' earnings. Labor-related social experiments are becoming more prevalent in part because of DOL's support, and labor economists report that they put much stock in such experiments. A case study suggests that research in labor economics has contributed to some of the recent changes in the allocation of the federal job training budget. Finally, hypotheses for the shifts in labor policy since the 1960s are offered.
N95|Strategic Pragmatism: The Culture of Singapore's Economics Development Board|"Per capita income in Singapore has gone from $500 to more than $20,000 in a little over twenty-five years. Edgar Schein, a social psychologist with a long and celebrated research interest in organizational studies, examines the cultural history of the key intstitution that spawned this economic miracle. Through interviews and full access to Singapore's Economic Development Board (EDB), Schein shows how economic development was successfully promoted. He delves into the individual relationships and the overall structure that contributed to the EDB's effectiveness in propelling Singapore, one of Asia's ""little dragons"" into the modern era. In his foreword, Lester Thurrow locates Schein's organizational and case-specific account within a larger economic and comparative framework. Over a period of two years, Schein studied how the EDB was created, the kind of leadership it provided, the management structure it used, the human resource policies it pursued, and how it influenced other organizations within the Singapore government. Schein sat in on EDB meetings and extensively interviewed current and former members of the board, Singapore's leaders who created the board, and businesspeople who have dealt with the board. His book intertwines the perspective of the board's members and its investor clients in an analysis that uses both organization and cross-cultural theory. Although there are currently studies of comparable Japanese and Korean organizations, this is the first detailed analysis of the internal structure and functioning of the economic development body of Singapore, a key player in the Asian and world markets."
N95|A Comparative Study on Landownership between China and England|By comparing the development of landownership in China and England, this paper explores what were behind their different trajectories. In particular, I examined the delineation of property rights, alienation of land, rent and tax, inheritance and accumulation of land. Feudal England was a combination of the Roman system and Anglo-Saxon tradition. From that very strict hierarchical structure England has experienced an evolution toward free land market. In contrast, since very early China has established a unique economic system that allowed free alienation of land, but it has been trying to check the development of land market and private property rights by various means, the most important of which is the strengthening and expanding of patriarchal clan system. The different development paths of China and England show the different responses of two different cultures, which are oriented toward family and individual, respectively, to the same problems related to landownership.
N95|Technological Slips between the Cup and the Lip: Unlearnt Lessons from Inter-War Colonial Madras|The establishment of the Government Industrial Institute in Madras in 1919 coincided with the development of chemical engineering as a distinct discipline at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It would thus be unhistorical to expect that ready made chemical engineering expertise would have been available to the Industrial Institute. However, other problems at diverse levels, raised by the history of the Institute remain unresolved to this day: the provision of venture capital, infant technology protection, and plain incomprehension of the issues involved. The case of the Industrial Institute clearly forms the prehistory of more recent lunges at self reliance.
N95|The management of Pakistan's economy 1947-82|National economic management is a new but growing science. The developing world's experience of the recent decades underlines the fact that economic and social progress is an induced process. Governments are not only called upon to initiate the development process but are also rc:quired to influence its composition, pace, tone, and direction through an appropriate policy-mix. A consistent framework encompassing various policies within the bounds of an overall national strategy needs to be worked out by the national policy-makers. But experience has also clearly sbown that the formulation of economic policies and, even more important, the actual implementation of these policies is a formidable task. Policy formulation skills are scarce in the developing world. This book is a .modest attempt to look critically at the management of Pakistan's economy during the period 1947-82. While it has been written primarily for under-graduate and post-graduate students in economics, we feel that it should prove useful and interesting for policy-makers as well as for readers desirous of information and interested in an analysis of Pakistan's economic performance and development record since 1947. A deliberate attempt has been made, especially in the earlier chapters, to explain as simply as possible the features of Pakistan's economy, its historical development, and the process and evolution of economic decision-making. These are developed in more analytical detail in subsequent chapters especially those dealing with the major sectors.
N95|Japan's Technological Challenge to the West, 1950-1974: Motivation and Accomplishment|Japan's economy has enjoyed unprecedented technological growth in the decades since World War II. At first stereotyped as an exporter of shoddy good, Japan now enjoys a worldwide reputation as an efficient manufacturer of high-quality products. This book focuses on the unique experience of Japan's postwar industrialization. Although the literature of economics has frequently pointed out in passing that foreign technologies have been crucial to the formation of Japan's industries, until now there has been no detailed analysis to support this assertion. The book first describes the postwar technological environment in and outside of Japan. It identifies the Schumpeterian characteristics of economic development and the particular set of relationships that Japan had with the United States and with developing nations in Asia that provided it with the incentive and the necessary mechanisms to advance technologically. The book then examines the Japanese government's selective policy of importing technology for the development of key industries, government controls on imports and on foreign industrial ownership, the efforts of individual Japanese firms to choose, adapt, and perfect imported technologies, and the development of indigenous technologies and their export to the rest of the world. Two final chapters probe the social and psychological causes of Japan's century-old desire to catch up with and surpass the West in industrialization. They discuss the impact of recent changes in the international and domestic economic situation on both the traditional values of the Japanese and the direction of Japan's technological future, and take up some of the implications for the United States policy on technology and trade of Japan's rising competitiveness in the world market.
