O18|Do enterprise zones promote local business development? Evidence from Vietnam|We examined the effects of Vietnamese enterprise zones on local businesses based on different patterns of place-based policies as well as the ownership structure of the zone infrastructure developers (ZIDs). We constructed a panel of communes during 2000-2007 using a census survey of firms having more than nine employees and a census of zones and zone-based firms. We found that place-based policies led to growth in the number of jobs and firms in the communes where enterprise zones were located, even after excluding zone-based firms. Our findings also suggest that privately owned ZIDs worked best under corporate-tax incentives, while zones with a designated central government agency as the ZID had adverse spillover effects on business development in neighboring communes of the same district.
O18|Anything new in town? The local effects of Urban Regeneration Policies in Italy|The paper estimates the local effects of urban regeneration policies by using evidence from interventions that took place in small and medium-sized cities in the Centre and North of Italy over the period 2008-12. By using an Oaxaca-Blinder reweighting estimator, we find little support for the idea that urban regeneration projects could stimulate local economic growth in the short to medium term. Only the largest scale interventions that focused on improving the public realm seem to have led to an increase in house prices, but they have had no impact on other economic outcomes.
O18|Digital vulnerability and performance of firms in developing countries|This paper provides evidence of large positive effects of Internet use on local firm performance, using a sample of some 30,000 firms from 38 developing and transition countries. We adopt an IV approach emphasizing firm’s digital vulnerability to seismic shocks upon the telecommunications submarine cable network, and find that a 10% increase in Internet incidence raises by 36% their total annual sales, by 26% sales per worker, by 12% the number of permanent workers. Contrary to other studies on the effect of ICT adoption on trade, we do not find significant evidence on firms’ exports. A greater use of Internet by manufactures is also found to increase their number of production (unskilled) workers in a larger extent than non-production workers, which nuances recent evidence on a skilled-biased digital revolution. The concern for omitted variable bias, reverse causality or measurement error is lowered by proceeding to a wide range of restrictions upon the sample composition and the instrument set calibration, and by controlling for location, sector, year, country-by-year fixed effects.
O18|Firms and Farms: The Local Effects of Farm Income on Firms’ Demand|How do changes in agricultural productivity affect firms? Using the predictions of a simple multi-sector general equilibrium model of the local economy and exploiting weather-induced agricultural volatility across India, I estimate the response of manufacturing firms to changes in agricultural productivity. I show that negative agricultural productivity shocks lower the cost of labor but that this does not cause firms to hire more. Firms’ production and employment in fact decrease because the shocks also reduce local income and hence the demand that firms face. My estimates provide evidence for a significant local demand effect. I then use my framework to show that this has key policy implications. I examine the introduction of a rural workfare program and assess how it affects firms. I show that the program attenuates the impact of negative agricultural shocks on firms because of its counter-cyclical effects on local wage and demand for manufacturing goods. The results highlight how policies that target households and increase their income can affect local market size and therefore the industrial sector through their general equilibrium effects.
O18|Estimating Lifetimes and Stock Turnover Dynamics of Urban Residential Buildings in China|Building lifetime and stock turnover are both key determinants in modelling building energy and carbon. However in China, aside from anecdotal claims that urban residential buildings are generally short-lived, there are no recent official statistics, and empirical data are extremely limited. We present a system dynamics model where survival analysis is used to characterise the dynamic interplay between new construction, aging, and demolition of residential buildings in urban China. The uncertainties associated with building lifetime were represented using a Weibull distribution, whose shape and scale parameters were calibrated based on official statistics on floor area up to 2006. The calibrated Weibull lifetime distribution allowed us to estimate the dynamic stock turnover of Chinese urban residential buildings for 2007 to 2017. We find that the average lifetime of urban residential buildings was around 34 years, and the overall residential stock size reached 23.7 billion m 2 in 2017. The resultant age-specific sub-stocks provide a baseline for the overall stock, which—along with the calibrated Weibull lifetime distribution—can be used in further modelling and for analysis of policies to reduce the whole-life embodied and operational energy and CO 2 emissions in Chinese residential buildings.
O18|Applying Bayesian Model Averaging to Characterise Urban Residential Stock Turnover Dynamics|Building stock is a key determinant in building energy and China is the largest producer of CO2 emissions and the largest consumer of energy and building energy, so any effective energy and climate policy will need to address this key driver of energy use. However, official statistics on total floor area of urban residential stock in China only exist up to 2006. Previous studies estimating Chinese urban residential stock size and energy use made various questionable methodological assumptions and only produced deterministic results. We present a Bayesian approach to characterise the stock turnover dynamics and estimate stock size uncertainties. Firstly, a probabilistic dynamic building stock turnover model is developed to describe the building aging and demolition process governed by a hazard function specified by a parametric survival model. Secondly, using five candidate parametric survival models, the building stock turnover model is simulated through Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) to obtain posterior distributions of model-specific parameters, estimate marginal likelihood, and make predictions on stock size. Finally, Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) is applied to create a model ensemble that combines the model-specific posterior predictive distributions of the stock evolution pathway in proportion to posterior model probabilities. This Bayesian modelling framework and its results in the form of probability distributions of annual total stock and age-specific substocks, can provide a solid basis for further modelling and analysis of policy trade-offs across embodied-versus-operational energy consumption and carbon emissions of buildings in the context of sector-wide transitions aimed at decarbonising buildings.
O18|The making of the modern metropolis: evidence from London|Modern metropolitan areas involve large concentrations of economic activity and the transport of millions of people each day between their residence and workplace. We use the revolution in transport technology from the invention of steam railways, newly-constructed spatially-disaggregated data for London from 1801-1921, and a quantitative urban model to provide evidence on the role of these commuting flows in supporting such concentrations of economic activity. Steam railways dramatically reduced travel times and permitted the first large scale separation of workplace and residence. We show that our model is able to account for the observed changes in the organization of economic activity, both qualitatively and quantitatively. In counterfactuals, we find that removing the entire railway network reduces the population and the value of land and buildings in Greater London by 20 percent or more, and brings down commuting into the City of London from more than 370,000 to less than 60,000 workers.
O18|Priority roads: The political economy of Africa's interior-to-coast roads|Africa's interior-to-coast roads are well suited to export natural resources, but not to support regional trade. Are they the optimal resourse to geography and comparative advantage, or the result of suboptimal political distortions? We investigate the political determinants of road paving in West Africa across the 1965-2012 period. Controlling for geography and the endogeneity of democratization, we show that autocracies tend to connect natural resource deposits to ports, while the networks expanded in a less interior-to-coast way in periods of democracy. This result suggests that Africa's interior-to-coast roads are at least in part the result of suboptimal political distortions.
O18|Urbanization, productivity differences and spatial frictions|We study decentralized and optimal urbanization in a simple multi-sector model of a rural-urban economy focusing on productivity differences and internal trade frictions. We show that even in the absence of the typical externalities studied in the literature, such as agglomeration, congestion or public goods, the decentralized city size can be either too large or too small relative to that chosen by a planner. In particular, optimal urbanization exceeds decentralized levels when productivity differences in location specific non-traded goods is small, a case typically arising in developed economies. In contrast, developing countries are likely to display overurbanization. A numerical exercise calibrated to Brazilian data suggests that the wedges can be quantitatively important. Urban biased policies - placing a higher weight on the welfare of city dwellers - are closer to optimal policies than decentralized allocations whenever productivity differences in non-traded sectors are either very small or very large. For intermediate productivity differences, the urban bias leads to larger cities even relative to decentralized policies.
O18|A happy way to grow old? Grandparent caregiving, quality of life and life satisfaction|Utilizing the 2015 wave of the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS) that covers 7045 households, we study the effect of grandparents looking after grandchildren on quality of life and life satisfaction of grandparents. We find evidence of important favorable effects of grandparents caregiving: when grandparents look after their grandchildren, they are 2.9% less likely to report symptoms of depression, the amount of support that they receive from their children approximately doubles, and are 2.7% (1.1%) more likely to report being very satisfied (completely satisfied). These favorable effects are proportionate to the amount of time spend caring for grandchildren and increase with the number of grandchildren looked after. The favorable effects on mental health seem limited to grandparents living in rural areas and apply especially to grandfathers. The favorable effect on life satisfaction is primarily directly attributable to caring for grandchildren rather than being incurred indirectly due to better health or financial situation of grandparents.
O18|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
O18|Diversificación productiva y especializaciones sectoriales en Chile|El trabajo busca explorar las condiciones de diversificación o concentración productiva de las regiones en Chile, identificando sus especializaciones sectoriales relativas. Para lo anterior, para cada región se calculan indicadores de diversificación/concentración productiva -Índice de Herfindahl (IH)- e indicadores de especialización sectorial -Coeficiente de Especialización (CE)- utilizando fuentes de información secundaria. Los resultados indican que, en general, las regiones de Chile se muestran como territorios diversificados. En efecto, algunas regiones se especializan en actividades económicas para las cuales disfrutan de ventajas comparativas, como es el caso de las regiones mineras del norte, mientras que otras se benefician de la diversificación de su base productiva, como ocurre en la Región Metropolitana. No obstante, en algunas regiones, y a nivel nacional, existe una excesiva dependencia de los recursos naturales, lo cual puede comprometer el potencial de desarrollo de las regiones, y del país en su conjunto.
O18|Determinantes de la productividad agrícola|Uno de los grandes desafíos que enfrenta el país es disminuir la desproporción en el desarrollo social y económico de las zonas urbanas y rurales. Para entender los retos detrás de este desafío es necesario tener una mirada comprensiva de las diferencias en las condiciones urbanas y rurales, tanto en términos de inclusión social, como productiva. En términos sociales los datos parecen mostrar la existencia de un círculo perverso que limita la acumulación de educación en las zonas rurales que, junto con unas bajas opciones de inserción productiva, conduce a un mercado de trabajo con unas condiciones precarias de empleabilidad, que se ve reflejado en bajos ingresos y pobreza. En cuanto al sector productivo, se observa que el acervo de condiciones naturales del país se encuentra en un nivel bajo de utilización, al mismo tiempo aquellos recursos que se utilizan no responden a su verdadera vocación productiva. En esa vía, se indago por los niveles de productividad agrícola y sus determinantes para varios cultivos (agroindustriales, frutales y cereales), teniendo en cuenta los diferentes niveles de la actividad agrícola: las características propias de los productores y de sus unidades productivas; de los aspectos institucionales con los que se cuenta (acceso a crédito, instrumentos de fomento, etc.), así como los aspectos las características geográficas (distancia a los centros principales de acopio, facilidad de acceso a los mercado, etc.).
O18|Unequal Migration and Urbanisation Gains in China|We assess the role of internal migration and urbanisation in China on the nominal earnings of three groups of workers (rural migrants, low-skilled natives, and high-skilled natives). We estimate the impact of many city and city-industry characteristics that shape agglomeration economies, as well as migrant and human capital externalities and substitution effects. We also account for spatial sorting and reverse causality. Location matters for individual earnings, but urban gains are unequally distributed. High-skilled natives enjoy large gains from agglomeration and migrants at the city level. Both conclusions also hold, to a lesser extent, for low-skilled natives, who are only marginally negatively affected by migrants within their industry. By contrast, rural migrants slightly lose from migrants within their industry while otherwise gaining from migration and agglomeration, although less than natives. The different returns from migration and urbanisation are responsible for a large share of wage disparities in China.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O18|Building consensus: Shifting strategies in the territorial targeting of Turkey's public transport investment|A growing amount of research explores how the allocation of regional development monies follows electoral reasons. Yet, the existing literature on distributive politics provides different and contrasting expectations on which geographical areas will be targeted. We focus on proportional representation (PR) systems. While in such settings governments have incentives to target core districts and punish foes', we suggest that when incumbents attempt to build a state-party image they may broaden the territorial allocation of benefits and even target opposition out-groups. We exploit data on Turkey's public transport investment for the period 2003-2014 and in-depth interviews to provide results in support of our hypothesis.
O18|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: The limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|A growing amount of research explores how the allocation of regional development monies follows electoral reasons. Yet, the existing literature on distributive politics provides different and contrasting expectations on which geographical areas will be targeted. We focus on proportional representation (PR) systems. While in such settings governments have incentives to target core districts and punish foes', we suggest that when incumbents attempt to build a state-party image they may broaden the territorial allocation of benefits and even target opposition out-groups. We exploit data on Turkey's public transport investment for the period 2003-2014 and in-depth interviews to provide results in support of our hypothesis.
O18|Roman Transport Network Connectivity and Economic Integration|We show that the creation of the first integrated pan-European transport network during Roman times influences economic integration over two millennia. Drawing on spatially highly disaggregated data on excavated Roman ceramics, we document that interregional trade was strongly influenced by connectivity within the network. Today, these connectivity differentials continue to influence cross-regional firm investment behaviour. Continuity is largely explained by selective infrastructure routing and cultural integration due to bilateral convergence in preferences and values. Both plausibly arise from network-induced history of repeated socio-economic interaction. We show that our results are Roman-connectivity specific and do not reflect pre-existing patterns of exchange.
O18|Optimal Transport Networks in Spatial Equilibrium|We study optimal transport networks in spatial equilibrium. We develop a framework consisting of a neoclassical trade model with labor mobility in which locations are arranged on a graph. Goods must be shipped through linked locations, and transport costs depend on congestion and on the infrastructure in each link, giving rise to an optimal transport problem in general equilibrium. The optimal transport network is the solution to a social planner’s problem of building infrastructure in each link. We provide conditions such that this problem is globally convex, guaranteeing its numerical tractability. We also study cases with increasing returns to transport technologies in which global convexity fails. We apply the framework to assess optimal investments and inefficiencies in observed road networks in European countries.
O18|Social policy or crowding-out? Tenant protection in comparative long-run perspective|In the shadow of homeownership and public housing, social policy through the regulation of private rental markets is a neglected and underestimated eld of social policy. This paper, therefore, presents unique new data on the development of private tenancy legislation through the binary coding of rent control, the protection of tenants from eviction, and rental housing rationing laws across more than 25 countries and 100 years. This long-run perspective reveals the dynamic eects of rent control on the rise of homeownership as the dominant tenure during the 20th century. We nd that both rent regulation and rationing legislation eectively increased homeownership, but only up to a certain threshold. We suggest that the short-term lure of an inexpensive social policy for tenants has led to the long-term marginalization of rental markets in many countries
O18|Housing Rent Dynamics and Rent Regulation in St. Petersburg (1880-1917)| This article studies the evolution of housing rents in St. Petersburg between 1880 and 1917 covering an eventful period of Russian and world history. We collect and digitize over 5,000 rental advertisements from historic newspapers, which we use together with geo-coded addresses and detailed structural characteristics to construct a quality-adjusted rent price index in continuous time. We provide the first pre-war and pre-Soviet index based on market data for any Russian housing market. In 1915, one of the world’s earliest rent control and tenant protection policies was introduced as a response to soaring prices following the outbreak of World War I. We analyze the impact of this policy: while before the regulation rents were increasing at a similar rapid pace as other consumer prices, the policy reversed this trend. We find evidence for official compliance with the policy, document a rise in tenure duration and strongly increased rent affordability among workers after the introduction of the policy. We conclude that the immediate prelude to the October Revolution was indeed characterized by economic turmoil, but rent affordability and rising rents were no longer the prevailing problems.
O18|How Should We Measure City Size? Theory and Evidence Within and Across Rich and Poor Countries|It is obvious that holding city population constant, differences in cities across the world are enormous. Urban giants in poor countries are not large using measures such as land area, interior space or value of output. These differences are easily reconciled mathematically as population is the product of land area, structure space per unit land (i.e., heights), and population per unit interior space (i.e., crowding). The first two are far larger in the cities of developed countries while the latter is larger for the cities of developing countries. In order to study sources of diversity among cities with similar population, we construct a version of the standard urban model (SUM) that yields the prediction that the elasticity of city size with respect to income could be similar within both developing countries and developed countries. However, differences in income and urban technology can explain the physical differences between the cities of developed countries and developing countries. Second, using a variety of newly merged data sets, the predictions of the SUM for similarities and differences of cities in developed and developing countries are tested. The findings suggest that population is a sufficient statistic to characterize city differences among cities within the same country, not across countries.
O18|The Average and Heterogeneous Effects of Transportation Investments: Evidence from sub-Saharan Africa 1960-2010|Previous work on transportation investments has focused on average impacts in high- and middle-income countries. We estimate average and heterogeneous effects in a poor continent, Africa, using roads and cities data spanning 50 years in 39 countries. Using changes in market access due to distant road construction as a source of exogenous variation, we estimate an 30-year elasticity of city population with respect to market access of 0.06--0.18. Our results suggest that this elasticity is stronger for small and remote cities, and weaker in politically favored and agriculturally suitable areas. Access to foreign cities matters little.
O18|Economic and Political Factors in Infrastructure Investment: Evidence from Railroads and Roads in Africa 1960--2015|Transport investment has played an important role in the economic development of many countries. Starting from a low base, African countries have recently initiated several massive transportation infrastructure projects. However, surprisingly little is known about the current levels, past evolution, and correlates of transportation infrastructure in Africa. In this paper, we introduce a new data set on the evolution of the stocks of railroads (1862-2015) and multiple types of roads (1960-2015) for 43 sub-Saharan African countries. First, we compare our estimates with those from other available data sets, such as the World Development Indicators of the World Bank. Second, we document the aggregate evolution of transportation investments over the past century in Africa. We confirm that railroads were a ``colonial'' transportation technology, whereas paved roads were a ``post-colonial'' technology. We also highlight how investment patterns have followed economic patterns. Third, we report conditional correlations between 5-year infrastructure growth and several geographic, economic and political factors during the period 1960-2015. We find strong correlations between transportation investments and economic development as well as more political factors including pre-colonial centralization, ethnic fractionalization, European settlement, natural resource dependence, and democracy.
O18|Is there an Economic Case for the Olympic Games?|The Olympic Games are a major undertaking that promise both large costs and potentially large benefits to host cities. This paper lays out the potential economic benefits of hosting the Olympics and details how, in the vast majority of cases, these gains are unlikely to cover the costs of hosting the event. The ideas are then applied to the experience of Boston in its ultimately unsuccessful bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics.
O18|Why bother about region-specific growth patterns and how to identify them?|Understanding the causes of regional growth has been of key concern for policy makers and scholars in economic geography and regional science. Regional growth models estimate the effect of various regional factors on the growth of an average region. However, these models leave a large share of regional growth unexplained. This is to be expected, as the embeddedness of regions at various spatial scales from the local to the global invariably leads to growth that is highly region-specific. However, existing quantitative approaches to regional growth are not able to cope with this, treating outliers in growth models as stochastic noise rather than as cases of empirical interest. The paper proposes a method to carve out the region-specific growth component in regional growth models and illustrates this empirically using data for Sweden from 1990-2016. We find robust patterns of periodic region-specific growth outweighing the effect of generic structural factors. This has important implications for how we should think about and empirically address regional growth.
O18|How does subway and ground transit proximity affect rental prices?|This study focuses on the ground transportation system and its impact on the rents in 30 of Russia’s largest cities. It also compares the effect with subway transit networks. The data set includes rent information from an all-Russia online advertisement website Avito and various measures of proximity to the public transit network stops (including subways for cities with them). The analysis is conducted using linear hedonic models. The results show that the ground transportation proximity is important for housing rent formation in both cities with and without subways, although the effect for subway stations is greater in comparison. Nevertheless, the benefits of a denser ground transportation system are high and stable, whereas the distance to the closest bus stop and the number within the walking distance are important solely for cities with a subway system and without it, respectively.
O18|Getting a Lift: The Impact of Aerial Cable Cars in La Paz Bolivia|This paper studies the effects of areal cable cars on mode of transport, time use and employment in the metropolitan area of La Paz, Bolivia. Using an instrumental variables approach, we estimate local average treatment effects of cable car use for residents who use the system due to proximity to a cable car station. Results suggest that cable-car users substitute private transport in favor of public transit and experience large savings in commute time, which is reallocated toward educational and recreational activities. Users also increase self-employment activities, potentially reflecting improved access to local labor markets. The positive effects of the cable-car are driven by residents of the city of El Alto, a city with high concentration of poor and indigenous households on the high plateau bordering La Paz. The economic benefits of the cable car outweigh costs by a ratio of 1.05 to 2.16.
O18|A CLEWS Nexus Modeling Approach to Assess Water Security Trajectories and Infrastructure Needs in Latin America and the Caribbean|This working paper presents an up-to-date and prospective assessment of water security throughout the LAC region with a focus on infrastructure needs, to aid in strategic thinking towards planning and management in key water-using sectors such as agriculture, energy and water supply. This assessment is grounded on a physically-based analysis of water supply and demand, highlights the climate-land-energy-water-socioeconomics (CLEWS) nexus contributions to water security in the region, and addresses uncertainty in projections and their implications through a variety of potential future scenarios of climate change and socioeconomic development in the region.
O18|What Drives Risk Perception? A Global Survey withFinancial Professionals and Lay People|Risk is an integral part of many economic decisions, and is vitally important in finance. Despite extensive research on decision-making under risk, little is known about how risks are actually perceived by financial professionals, the key players in global financial markets. In a large-scale survey experiment with 2,213 finance professionals and 4,559 lay people in nine countries representing ~50% of the world's population and more than 60% of the world's gross domestic product, we expose participants to return distributions with equal expected return and we systematically vary the distributions' next three higher moments. Of these, skewness is the only moment that systematically affects financial professionals'€™ perception of financial risk. Strikingly, variance does not influence risk perception, even though return volatility is the most common risk measure in finance in both academia and the industry. When testing other, compound risk measures, the probability to experience losses is the strongest predictor of what is perceived as being risky. Analyzing professionals' propensity to invest, skewness and loss probability have strong predictive power too. However, volatility and kurtosis also have some additional effect on participants' willingness to invest. Our results are very similar for lay people, and they are robust across and within countries with different cultural backgrounds as well as for different job fields of professionals.
O18|Population, light, and the size distribution of cities|We provide new insights on the city size distribution of countries around the world. Using geo-spatial data and a globally consistent city identification scheme, our data set contains 13,844 cities in 194 countries. City size is measured both in terms of population and night time lights proxying for local economic activity. We find that Zipf's law holds for many, but not all, countries in terms of population, while city size in terms of light is distributed more unequally. These deviations from Zipf's law are to a large extent driven by an undue concentration in the largest cities. They benefit from agglomeration effects which seem to work through scale rather than through density. Examining the cross-country heterogeneity in the city size distribution, our model selection approach suggests that historical factors play an important role, in line with the time of development hypothesis.
O18|Cross-border transport infrastructure in the EU|The report provides a set of indicators and tools that allow policy makers to measure accessibility and connectivity of border regions in Europe at both national and international levels. The methodology can be used to identify areas where transport infrastructure may be lacking and prioritize potential investments based on specific policy relevant criteria. The approach uses very detailed spatially disaggregate data covering EU28 plus Norway and Switzerland at grid level (1km by 1km), as well as the complete road network. This level of resolution allows many of the specificities of the areas covered to be taken into account.
O18|The future of road transport|"A perfect storm of new technologies and new business models is transforming not only our vehicles, but everything about how we get around, and how we live our lives. The JRC report ""The future of road transport - Implications of automated, connected, low-carbon and shared mobility"" looks at some main enablers of the transformation of road transport, such as data governance, infrastructures, communication technologies and cybersecurity, and legislation. It discusses the potential impacts on the economy, employment and skills, energy use and emissions, the sustainability of raw materials, democracy, privacy and social fairness, as well as on the urban context. It shows how the massive changes on the horizon represent an opportunity to move towards a transport system that is more efficient, safer, less polluting and more accessible to larger parts of society than the current one centred on car ownership. However, new transport technologies, on their own, won't spontaneously make our lives better without upgrading our transport systems and policies to the 21st century. The improvement of governance and the development of innovative mobility solutions will be crucial to ensure that the future of transport is cleaner and more equitable than its car-centred present."
O18|A trade hierarchy of cities based on transport cost thresholds|Empirical evidence is lagging behind in explaining trade agglomerations in short distances. Departing from a novel micro-database on road freight shipments within Spain for the period 2003-2007, we decompose cities (municipal) trade flows into the extensive and intensive margins to assess trade frictions and trade concentration by way of a unique generalized transport cost measure and three internal borders, NUTS-5 (municipal), NUTS-3 (provincial) and NUTS-2 (regional). We discover a stark accumulation of trade flows up to a transport cost value of â‚¬189 (170km approx.) and conclude that this high density is not explained by the existence of administrative borders effects but to significant changes in the trade-to-transport costs relationship. To support this hypothesis, we propose and adopt an endogenous Chow test to identify significant thresholds at which trade flows change structurally with distance. These breakpoints allow us to split the sample when controlling for internal borders, and define trade market areas corresponding to specific transport costs values that consistently portrait an urban hierarchical system of cities, thereby providing clear evidence of the predictions made by the central place theory.
O18|Desarrollo económico regional, especializaciones productivas y cooperación empresarial. Un estudio comparado de Chile, El Salvador, Paraguay y Uruguay|This research has two aims. First, it characterizes regional development in the four selected countries. Second, it analyzes cooperation networks between firms and organizations, in 24 clusters in different regions of the four countries. Regarding the first aim, the work analyzes in each region the generation of wealth, the development of small business sector and socioeconomic conditions of the environment, complemented by the identification of the productive specializations in each region. Results show that economic development is not evenly distributed in the territory. Certain sub-national patterns in terms of economic development were found. In addition, there is a strong concentration of economic activity in the regions where the national capitals are located (except for the regions rich in mining or energy resources). The analysis of local business development and the socioeconomic environment shows that, in addition to external factors, a region must develop its own local capacities to take advantage of these external impulses and transform them into local development. Regarding the second objective, the study of 24 cooperation networks in clusters proves that organizations are the key actors to keep the networks connected. On the other hand, the level of cooperation among firms is, on average, low. In this sense, the countries under study do not present, in general, regions with high levels of local business capacity that can be the main support of cooperation networks. Therefore, organizations play an intermediary role between firms and provide access to external sources of innovation that can be disseminated through the network. Finally, the combination of social network analysis with econometric regression techniques revealed a positive relationship between the cooperation in networks and the economic performance of firms.
O18|Migration and Urbanisation in Post-Apartheid South Africa|Under apartheid, black South Africans were severely restricted in their choice of location and many were forced to live in homelands. Following the abolition of apartheid they were free to migrate. Given gravity, a town nearer to the homelands can be expected to receive a larger inflow of people than a more distant town following the removal of mobility restrictions. Exploting this exogenous variation, we study the effect of migration on urbanisation and the distribution of population. In particular, we test if migration inflows led to displacement, path dependence, or agglomeration in destination areas. We find evidence for path dependence in the aggregate, but substantial heterogeneity across town densities. An exogenous population shock leads to an increase of the urban relative to the rural population, which suggests that exogenous migration shocks can foster urbanisation in the medium run.
O18|Housing Rent Dynamics and Rent Regulation in St. Petersburg (1880-1917)|This article studies the evolution of housing rents in St. Petersburg between 1880 and 1917, covering an eventful period of Russian and world history. We collect and digitize over 5,000 rental advertisements from a local newspaper, which we use together with geo-coded addresses and detailed structural characteristics to construct a quality-adjusted rent price index in continuous time. We provide the first pre-war and pre-Soviet index based on market data for any Russian housing market. In 1915, one of the world's earliest rent control and tenant protection policies was introduced in response to soaring prices following the outbreak of World War I. We analyze the impact of this policy: while before the regulation rents were increasing at a similar rapid pace as other consumer prices, the policy reversed this trend. We find evidence for official compliance with the policy, document a rise in tenure duration and strongly increased rent affordability among workers after the introduction of the policy. We conclude that the immediate prelude to the October Revolution was indeed characterized by economic turmoil, but rent affordability and rising rents were no longer the dominating problems.
O18|Government Policy and Land Price Dynamics: A Quantitative Assessment of China's Factor Market|This paper examines the role played by government policy regarding factors of pro- duction in shaping the dynamics of a growing economy. Using land as an example of an important productive factor, we develop a quantitative model with endogenous land price policy regimes to rationalize the following three economic reforms in China: introduction of non-SOEs (state-owned enterprises); reform of SOEs characterized by their retreat from the competitive manufacturing sector and the establishment of state monopolies in factor markets around 2000; and a regime switch from dual-track land pricing to land price discrimination by use. We calibrate our model to key economic indicators for China and quantify the e ects of these reforms. Our calibrated mo- del can match several stylized facts for China after 2000 such as widening disparity in land prices by use, rapid growth in housing price, land revenue, and government expenditures on public goods, and the steep decline in labor share for income.
O18|Anatomy of regional price differentials: Evidence from micro price data|Over the last three decades the supply of economic statistics has vastly improved. Unfortunately, statistics on regional price levels (sub-national purchasing power parities) have been exempt from this positive trend, even though they are indispensable for meaningful spatial comparisons of regional output, income, wages, productivity, standards of living, and poverty. To improve the situation, our paper demonstrates that a highly disaggregated and reliable regional price index can be compiled from data that already exist. We use the micro price data that have been collected for Germany's Consumer Price Index in May 2016. For the computation we introduce a multi-stage version of the Country-Product-Dummy method. The unique quality of our price data set allows us to depart from previous spatial price comparisons and to compare only exactly identical products. We find that the price levels of the 402 counties and cities of Germany are largely driven by the cost of housing and to a much lesser degree by the prices of goods and services. The overall price level in the most expensive region, Munich, is about 27 percent higher than in the cheapest region. Our results also reveal strong spatial autocorrelation.
O18|Winning a district election in a clientelistic society: Evidence from decentralized Indonesia|Lower-level officials often engage in clientelistic relations with the upper-level government. The nature of these relations might be determined by institutional factors such as how the lower-level officials come into their position. This paper specifically highlights the different political incentives that elected versus appointed lower-level officials have for becoming political intermediaries for the upper-level government, and it investigates empirically how these differing incentives bring electoral consequences. Upon exploiting a natural experiment in Indonesia, the study found that the elected village headmen have stronger incentives to support the incumbent mayor than the appointed village headmen do. The results suggest that while civil service reforms might weaken the bureaucratic clientelism, the pre-existing patronclient relations that are deeply embedded in the society are immersed in local political competitions; thus, this practice challenges political consolidation in the young democracy.
O18|Go east: On the impact of the Transiberian Railway on economic development in Eastern Russia|This paper addresses the question whether or not large-scale infrastructure investments have a causal effect of local economic development. By using a novel instrumental variable approach based on historical trade and travel routes across the Russian East, I am able to identify a causal and negative effect of remoteness to the Transsiberian Railway on local economic activity as measured by nocturnal lights emission.
O18|Decomposing a decomposition: Within-country differences and the role of structural change in productivity growth|In this article, we investigate the relevance of structural change in country-wide productivity growth considering within-country differences. For this purpose, we propose a two-step decomposition approach that accounts for differences among subnational units. To highlight the relevance of our procedure compared to the prevalent approach in the existing development literature (which usually neglects subnational differences), we show an application with data for the Mexican economy. Specifically, we contrast findings obtained from country-sector data on the one hand with those obtained from (more disaggregated) state-sector data on the other hand. One main insight is that the qualitative and quantitative results differ substantially between the two approaches. Our procedure reveals that structural change appeared to be growth-reducing during the period from 2005 to 2016. We show that this negative effect is driven mainly by the reallocation of (low-skilled) labor within subnational units.
O18|Trends der Nahversorgung in ländlichen Räumen|Seit Jahrzehnten ist der Lebensmitteleinzelhandel von einem Strukturwandel hin zu weniger und größeren Geschäften gekennzeichnet. Gerade in kleineren Orten ländlicher Räume bestehen daher Probleme, die Versorgung mit Gütern des täglichen Bedarfs in fußläufiger Entfernung, das heißt die Nahversorgung, sicherzustellen. Um die bestehenden Herausforderungen hinreichend zu analysieren und Lösungen zu entwickeln, müssen die aktuellen Trends der Nahversorgung untersucht und mit Blick auf ihre potentiellen Wirkungen auf ländliche Räume eingeschätzt werden. Vor diesem Hintergrund wertet das vorliegende Working Paper aktuelle Studien und die wissenschaftliche Literatur mit besonderem Fokus auf den Lebensmitteleinzelhandel und den Onlinehandel aus. Im Ergebnis zeigt sich die Verfestigung seit langem anhaltender Trends sowie das Aufkeimen neuer Trends, deren Beständigkeit noch abzuwarten ist. Anhaltende Trends sind der sich intensivierende Wettbewerbsdruck, der in den letzten Jahren weniger über den Preis als über Auswahl und Qualität ausgeübt wird, die Marktkonzentration weniger großer Ketten im Lebensmitteleinzelhandel sowie der Ersatz kleinerer Märkte durch größere, um eine hinreichende Auswahl für die sich ausdifferenzierende Nachfrage bereitstellen zu können. Zudem wird das Einkaufen angesichts zunehmender Zeitknappheit eher als Last empfunden, was zu seltenerem Einkauf, mehr Kopplung von Einkäufen und Wegen sowie Rückgängen beim Marktanteil sehr großflächiger und daher unübersichtlicher Formate führt. Damit ist nach wie vor die Konzentration auf das Auto als Verkehrsmittel zumindest in ländlichen Räumen verbunden. Dabei steigt die Automobilität gerade auch bei den Senioren an und die Notwendigkeit einer fußläufigen Erreichbarkeit von Angeboten verringert sich dadurch. Eine neuere Entwicklung ist demgegenüber, dass die Zahl der Lebensmittelgeschäfte zwar noch schrumpft, dass dieser Rückgang aber im Vergleich zur zweiten Hälfte der 2000er Jahre deutlich an Intensität verloren hat. Des Weiteren weisen Verbraucherbefragungen darauf hin, dass sich die für Deutschland typische hohe Preissensibilität etwas reduziert hat und sich die Verbraucher zunehmend an der Warenqualität orientieren. In der Folge gleichen sich Supermärkte und Discounter hinsichtlich Warenangebot und Ladengestaltung zunehmend an, wodurch Potentiale für neue Formate, wie Online-Handel, mobile Versorger und Kleinflächenkonzepte, entstehen könnten. In Bezug auf den Online-Handel mit Lebensmitteln zeigt sich jedoch, dass die Lieferkosten gerade in ländlichen Räumen hoch, aber die Zahlungsbereitschaft der Verbraucher gering ist, sodass sich das starke Wachstum bisher auf die Verdichtungsräume konzentriert und das Potential des Online-Handels beschränkt sein dürfte. Auch neuere Modelle, in denen Bürger die Versorgung auf der letzten Meile im Zuge der sogenannten Mitmachlogistik übernehmen, dürfte vermutlich für bestimmte urbane Milieus interessant sein, insgesamt aber wie zumindest momentan der Online-Handel eher auf eine Nische im Lebensmitteleinzelhandel beschränkt bleiben, sodass keine schnelle Lösung von Nahversorgungsprobleme in ländlichen Räumen absehbar ist.
O18|Fördermöglichkeiten zur Sicherung der Nahversorgung in ländlichen Räumen|"Der vorliegende Bericht ist im Rahmen des Projektes ""Dynamik der Nahversorgung in ländlichen Räumen"" entstanden. Berichtsgegenstand ist die Förderung durch die öffentliche Hand im Bereich der Nahversorgung, die auf ganz unterschiedliche Weise unterstützt wird. Der Schwerpunkt liegt auf der Förderung im Rahmen des Europäischen Landwirtschaftsfonds für die Entwicklung des ländlichen Raums (ELER) mit den aktuell geltenden Richtlinien des Bundes und der Länder in der laufenden Förderperiode 2014 bis 2020. Daneben werden Landesinitiativen zur Verbesserung der Nahversorgung, weitere Förderinstrumente auf regionaler Ebene und aus Österreich vorgestellt, um bestehende Steuerungs- und Förderansätze zu identifizieren. Methodische Grundlagen für den Bericht sind Datenbank- und Literaturrecherchen sowie Dokumentenanalysen. Hinzu kommen Teilnahmen an Tagungen zur Nahversorgung und Rückfragen bei Akteuren, die sich mit Förderung beschäftigen. Im Vergleich zur vorhergehenden Förderperiode 2007 bis 2013 sind Beratung im Vorfeld, Situationsanalysen an geplanten Standorten (lokaler Bedarf), Nachweise zur Wirtschaftlichkeit und Einbindung der Bewohner bei der Konzeptentwicklung vermehrt zu Fördervoraussetzungen geworden. Außerdem werden Unterstützungsmöglichkeiten für mobile Angebote häufiger explizit als möglicher Fördergegenstand benannt. Fördergegenstand sind zumeist Investitionen in neue Gebäude und Sachwerte, aber auch Beratungs- bzw. Ingenieurleistungen, die mit der Vorhabenumsetzung verbunden sind (Förderschwerpunkt Grundversorgung). In manchen Ländern werden zudem Grundstückserwerb sowie Kauf, Einrichtung und Umbau von Gebäuden oder die Umnutzung von Gebäuden bezuschusst. In einigen Ländern existieren Beratungsangebote zur Unterstützung bestehender oder geplanter Nahversorgungseinrichtungen. Bei Finanzierungsengpässen können ggf. Angebote von Landesbanken und Bürgschaftsbanken in Anspruch genommen werden. Fördervarianten, die in der Form in Deutschland bisher nicht existieren, zeigen die Beispiele aus Österreich. Hier sind z. B. auch jährliche Betriebskostenschüsse für kleine Lebensmittelnahversorger (bis maximal 400 m2 Verkaufsfläche), Zuschüsse für Zustelldienste oder auch digitale Kommunikationsmaßnahmen zum Ausbau des Kundenkreises förderfähig."
O18|Search frictions, housing prices and growth|Rising house prices have a positive impact on real GDP through the consumption effect and the construction of new houses (housing investment). Basically, the strength of this positive effect relies on a large share of homeowners (especially regarding the consumption effect). At the same time, however, a greater share of homeowners could encourage unemployment (the so-called “Oswald hypothesis”), thus damaging economic growth. This theoretical paper includes the link between housing tenure and job-search intensity in the relation between housing prices and growth. The main finding of this work is that homeownership may either reinforce or resize the effect of housing prices on economic growth.
O18|How Do Parents Respond to Regulation of Sugary Drinks in Child Care? Evidence from California|To reduce sugar intake in children, California regulates the provision of sugar-sweetened beverages and juice by child care facilities. The regulation may reduce children's consumption of sugary beverages in the short run and weaken their preferences for sugary drinks in the long run. Whether these objectives are achieved depends on how parents respond to the regulation by providing sugary drinks at home. Using detailed scanner data of grocery purchases, we find that affected California households increased their juice purchases right after the regulation became effective. However, this increase disappears after one year. Moreover, we find no increase in the purchases of sugary substitutes. Our findings suggest that parents provide more juice for their children after child cares limit their juice provision, but such offsetting behavior disappears after one year. Regulating the consumption of sugary drinks in child cares may be an effective policy to lower children's preferences for sugary drinks.
O18|Working from Home and Commuting: Heterogeneity over Time, Space, and Occupations|Teleworking may increase the willingness to accept a longer commute. This paper presents new evidence of the effect of teleworking on the length of commutes. We use novel panel data from the Netherlands, for the years 2008-2018, and find stronger effects compared to studies that use older data. Between 2008 and 2018 however, the effect was remarkably stable: workers that started teleworking increased their commutes by 12 percent on average. We analyse heterogeneity in the effect of teleworking on commuting across different levels of urbanization and across occupations. This study stresses the effects of teleworking on the geographical scale of labour markets, and provides important inputs for policymakers that aim to promote teleworking.
O18|Persistence of entrepreneurship in different historical contexts|Persistence of entrepreneurship over longer periods of time could indicate a culture of entrepreneurship among the local population that may be an important factor for regional development, but does persistence of economic activity require cultural transmission? We exploit the diverse historical developments in the territory that is Poland today to analyze the level and the sources of persistence from the 1920s until today. Persistence is mainly found in those regions that were part of Germany before World War II. This persistence is noticeable despite the exchange of most of the pre- war population, ruling out that persistence is driven by transmission of culture. In most regions that were already part of Poland before World War II, the relationship between historical and current levels of entrepreneurship is not significant. Persistence of entrepreneurship is related to the historical success of regions, which we capture by the pre-war level of and self- employment in manufacturing industries, particularly in those that can be regarded as knowledge intensive. Our main conclusion is that persistence of entrepreneurship requires a certain level of successful economic development that we capture by the degree of industrialization in the early 20th century, but it does not necessarily require persistence of the local population.
O18|Roles of Agricultural Transformation in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals on Poverty, Hunger, Productivity, and Inequality|This paper examines the role of the transformation of the rural agricultural sector in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1, 2 and 10 drawing upon the cross-country panel data over the past four decades for 105 developing countries. We define agricultural transformation by three different indices, namely, (i) the agricultural openness index – the share of agricultural export in agricultural value added of the country, (ii) the commercialization index - the share of processed agricultural products, fruits, green vegetables, and meats in all primary and processed agricultural products, and (iii) the product diversification index to capture the extent to which the country diversify the agricultural production. Drawing upon the dynamic panel model, we have found that transformation of the agricultural sector in terms of agricultural openness has dynamically increased the overall agricultural productivity and its growth and has consequently reduced national, rural and urban poverty significantly. We have also found that agricultural openness tends to significantly alleviate child malnutrition, namely underweight and stunting, and improve food security in terms of energy supply adequacy, protein supply, lack of food deficit and reduction of the prevalence of anaemia among pregnant women. The agricultural openness is found to be negatively associated with the Gini coefficient at both national and subnational levels (for both rural and urban areas). Except for Latin America, product diversification reduces agricultural productivity, implying the efficiency gains from economies of scale of fewer crops. On the other hand, we argue that the commercialisation does not generally increase the agricultural productivity and this may be related to a positive effect of the higher share of cereal production on productivity observed in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America. It has been suggested that policies improving the efficiency of agricultural production, for example through better rural infrastructure, or promoting agricultural exports, through regional economic integrations or reducing transaction costs such as tariff and non-tariff barriers, would help to achieve SDGs 1, 2 and 10 indirectly through the productivity improvement. However, a separate policy to support the poorest below the US$1.90 a day poverty line is also necessary for achieving SDG 1.
O18|Social Policy in Mexico and Argentina|This paper is a comparison between two programs implemented to combat poverty in Latin America: Prospera (Prosper) in Mexico and AsignaciÃ³n Universal por Hijo (Universal Assignment for Child) in Argentina. The first section offers a review of the emergence of the welfare state, examining economic and urban development in both countries and the underlying trends of social policy instruments. The analysis is based on the political nature of social problems and the actions undertaken to confront them. The paper offers a theoretical perspective, often questioning the very foundation of the social policy that serves as the main framework for the social programs, in order to present the policies' scope, successes, and disadvantages with reference to social equity and the well-being of their participants.
O18|Overview on rural poverty in developed countries|Despite the long tradition of intervention, rural poverty is still an important issue to face in the economic and social growth of developed countries. Often hidden for many reason recalled in the paper, rural poverty is transmitted by the cumulative negative effects of vicious circle of labour market, demography, education and remoteness. Agricultural and rural policy with social policy has reached important result for reducing rural poverty in developed countries, especially promoting diversification of rural area and sustainability approach to the production. The paper underlines the role of coordination between top-down and place-based policies, as well as the indicators for adapting policies and having successful intervention, shortly discussing some examples of good practices
O18|Poverty and Social Exclusion in the European Union: SouthEastern Territorial Patterns|Despite the ambitious goals of promoting inclusive growth in the Europe 2020 strategy, the number of people at risk of poverty in European Union is still growing. The paper moves from the hypothesis that poverty may show distinctive social patterns, which couple with a given spatial dimension and therefore can be defined as a spatially heterogeneous phenomenon at both national and sub-national level. Using the available data from Eurostat on income and living conditions (EUSILC) at NUTS2 level, the paper highlights the different territorial patterns in shaping the risk of exclusion across the EU regions. Focusing on the regions of the Southern and Eastern peripheral EU Member States (MSs), the paper outlines the differences emerging from the results achieved by the EU MSs in applying the Europe 2020 Strategy. Moreover, it deepens the analysis of the poverty drivers at the regional level. The paper shows that the peripheral countries of EU are more vulnerable to poverty but different patterns emerge when comparing Mediterranean and Eastern countries, especially with regard to the material deprivation and the drivers influencing poverty and risk of exclusion.
O18|Evaluating the transport-mode-specific trade effects of different transport infrastructure types|Both qualitative and quantitative improvements for five different transport infrastructure types are evaluated with respect to their transport-mode-specific trade effects. Strong trade increases are found for survey-based quality indicators of airport and railroad infrastructure. For road trade, the road density is more important than the quality of road infrastructure. Additionally, the infrastructure quality of transit countries is an important trade flow driver of the land transport modes road and railroad. For the analysis of these effects, I use a gravity equation model with European trade flows that are disaggregated over five different transport modes. In combination with the quality and quantity indicators for each corresponding type of transport infrastructure, it is possible to directly estimate the unique trade effects for each infrastructure type. Moreover, a novel cross-mode analysis is conducted to estimate interdependencies and cross-effects that exist between different transport infrastructure types and different transport modes.
O18|Generational Trends in Vehicle Ownership and Use: Are Millennials Any Different?|Anecdotes that Millennials fundamentally differ from prior generations are numerous in the popular press. One claim is that Millennials, happy to rely on public transit or ride-hailing, are less likely to own vehicles and travel less in personal vehicles than previous generations. However, in this discussion it is unclear whether these perceived differences are driven by changes in preferences or the impact of forces beyond the control of Millennials, such as the Great Recession. We empirically test whether Millennials' vehicle ownership and use preferences differ from those of previous generations using data from the US National Household Travel Survey, Census, and American Community Survey. We estimate both regression and nearest-neighbor matching models to control for the confounding effect of demographic and macroeconomic variables. We find little difference in preferences for vehicle ownership between Millennials and prior generations once we control for confounding variables. In contrast to the anecdotes, we find higher usage in terms of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) compared to Baby Boomers. Next we test whether Millennials are altering endogenous life choices that may, themselves, affect vehicles ownership and use. We find that Millennials are more likely to live in urban settings and less likely to marry by age 35, but tend to have larger families, controlling for age. On net, these other choices have a small effect on vehicle ownership, reducing the number of vehicles per household by less than one percent.
O18|Cities, Lights, and Skills in Developing Economies|In developed economies, agglomeration is skill-biased: larger cities are skill-abundant and exhibit higher skilled wage premia. This paper characterizes the spatial distributions of skills in Brazil, China, and India. To facilitate comparisons with developed-economy findings, we construct metropolitan areas for each of these economies by aggregating finer geographic units on the basis of contiguous areas of light in nighttime satellite images. Our results validate this procedure. These lights-based metropolitan areas mirror commuting-based definitions in the United States and Brazil. In China and India, which lack commuting-based definitions, lights-based metropolitan populations follow a power law, while administrative units do not. Examining variation in relative quantities and prices of skill across these metropolitan areas, we conclude that agglomeration is also skill-biased in Brazil, China, and India.
O18|Spatial Inefficiencies in Africa's Trade Network|I assess the efficiency of transport networks for every country in Africa. Using rich spatial data, I simulate trade flows over more than 70,000 links covering the entire continent. I maximise over the space of networks and find the optimal road system for every African state. My simulations predict that Africa would gain 1.1% of total welfare from better organising its national road systems. I then construct a novel dataset of local network inefficiency and I find that colonial infrastructure projects significantly skew trade networks towards a sub-optimal equilibrium. I also find evidence for regional favouritism and inefficient aid provision.
O18|The Efficient Deployment of Police Resources: Theory and New Evidence from a Randomized Drunk Driving Crackdown in India|Should police activity be narrowly focused and high force, or widely-dispersed but of moderate intensity? Critics of intense “hot spot” policing argue it primarily displaces, not reduces, crime. But if learning about enforcement takes time, the police may take advantage of this period to intervene intensively in the most productive location. We propose a multi-armed bandit model of criminal learning and structurally estimate its parameters using data from a randomized controlled experiment on an anti-drunken driving campaign in Rajasthan, India. In each police station, sobriety checkpoints were either rotated among 3 locations or fixed in the best location, and the intensity of the crackdown was cross-randomized. Rotating checkpoints reduced night accidents by 17%, and night deaths by 25%, while fixed checkpoints had no significant effects. In structural estimation, we show clear evidence of driver learning and strategic responses. We use these parameters to simulate environment-specific optimal enforcement policies.
O18|Housing cooperatives are a growing presence in Australiaâ€™s housing system, providing a diversity of housing forms to a variety of household types across the income spectrum, typically serving low- and moderate-income households. International evidence shows that housing cooperatives can provide a range of housing from very low price points through to market rate in both non-urban and urban contexts. The research presented in this report reviewed a selection of international cooperative housing sectors in addition to the Australian context, with the aims of compiling current evidence for the social and financial benefits of housing cooperatives, to develop a framework to assess this in Australia; and to identify preliminary issues regarding the growth and diversification of housing cooperatives in Australia. Australian and international evidence for the benefits of housing cooperatives focuses on seven primary areas; greater levels of social capital, greater housing security and quality, health and wellbeing, skills acquisition, reduced costs, broader economic and development outcomes. Based on the international review, five factors can be seen to help the growth of cooperative housing in addition to supportive policy and/or public funding. Core amongst these are a stable asset base if the State itself is not the developer, access to appropriate finance, and familiarity and acceptance in the market. The growth and diversification of Australiaâ€™s cooperative housing sector requires assessment of its legislative and funding environment. Factors for consideration are: 1. Individual project viability; 2. Access to property title; 3. Appropriate development finance and resident mortgage mechanisms; 4. Policy support; 5. Appropriate regulation|No abstract is available for this item.
O18|Priority Roads: The Political Economy of Africa's Interior-to-Coast Roads|Africa’s interior-to-coast roads are well suited to export natural resources, but not to support regional trade. Are they the optimal response to geography and comparative advantage, or the result of suboptimal political distortions? We investigate the political determinants of road paving in West Africa across the 1965-2012 period. Controlling for geography and the endogeneity of democratization, we show that autocracies tend to connect natural resource deposits to ports, while the networks expanded in a less interior-to-coast way in periods of democracy. This result suggests that Africa’s interior-to-coast roads are at least in part the result of suboptimal political distortions.
O18|Measuring women’s economic empowerment: Time use data and gender inequality|Empowerment, co-ordinated jointly by the OECD Development Co-operation Directorate, the Development Centre and Statistics Directorate. The initiative aims to identify policy and programme solutions to promote women’s economic empowerment by recognising, reducing and redistributing women’s unpaid care work. This paper presents new analysis of time use data and unpaid care work from Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Peru and South Africa as well as comparisons with OECD countries. It provides recommendations for policy makers, donors and development practitioners to support the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, drawing on learning from the Social Institutions and Gender Index and in-country research by the OECD Policy Dialogue on Women’s Economic Empowerment. Specifically, the recommendations focus on how to recognise unpaid care work by measuring and valuing it, reduce time spent on drudgery by the provision of quality infrastructure and redistribute unpaid care tasks more equally between men and women by transforming gender stereotypes.
O18|Benefitting from globalisation and technological change in Australia|Australia has seen large rises in living standards over the last decades across the whole of the income distribution. Technological change and international trade have contributed to this success, but have also brought structural change. Some industries have declined, while others flourished. Furthermore, new technologies and structural change create new skills and new tasks, boosting demand for some jobs, while making others disappear.Although technology and globalisation have not decreased overall employment, certain people, groups, and communities have undergone disruptive change and experienced falling living standards. Some groups face a higher risk of poverty and laid-off workers can have difficulty finding a new job. Well-informed and well-targeted policy is therefore needed to ensure that the benefits of technology and globalisation are widely shared.This paper focuses on policies to ensure that everyone in Australia has the opportunity to benefit from technological change and globalisation. The paper assesses policies relating to three issues: i) labour markets and active labour market policies; ii) education and skills; to ensure adequate skills for accessing good quality jobs; and iii) urban environments, ensuring that Australia's highly urbanised population can adapt to change.
O18|Improving well-being through better housing policy in New Zealand|New Zealand’s housing supply has not kept pace with rising demand, including from net immigration. Affordability has worsened, particularly for low-income renters. Government action is underway to allow new housing through initiatives such as the Urban Growth Agenda, KiwiBuild and the Housing and Urban Development Authority, but further steps are needed to improve well-being. Clear overarching principles for sustainable urban development and rationalisation of strict regulatory containment policies would allow the planning system to better respond to demand for land. Incentives for local governments to accommodate growth could be increased by giving them access to additional revenue linked to local development. More user charging and targeted rates would also help to fund infrastructure required to service new housing. Government delivery of affordable housing through KiwiBuild should be re-focused towards enabling the supply of land to developers, supporting development of affordable rental housing and further expanding social housing in areas facing shortages.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of New Zealand (http://www.oecd.org/economy/new-zealand-economic-snapshot/).
O18|Rural study of Korea|This paper examines the role of rural regions in the economic transformation of Korea. The analysis at regional level reveals that, while having experiencing continued urbanisation and rapid demographic shift of aging and depopulation, the Korean rural areas performs well in terms of productivity growth thanks to the relatively higher share of tradable sectors in rural economies. It also provides the overview of how the rural policy in Korea, which has evolved in response to the socio-economic changes and growing well-being concerns. With the balanced national development at the centre of the national agenda for decades, regional policy approaches have diversified from state-led large projects to flexible policy packages and functional approaches to enhance rural economies and well-being. Finally, the paper presents a number of international policy approaches that can be useful for Korea, including the case of France, Italy and Sweden.
O18|Regional Integration in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, highlights the contribution of border towns to the process of regional integration in West Africa. For 18 countries, six indicators are used to identify the specificities of border towns at the local, national and international levels: demography, urban morphology, formal enterprises, health infrastructure, road accessibility, border control posts. These indicators are analysed from the perspective of three geographical scales of regional integration (density, distance and division). The report details the economic and institutional obstacles facing border towns. It concludes with place-based political options to facilitate the economic and political development of West African border towns.Also in this Collection:“Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
O18|Population and Morphology of Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, provides an analysis of the demographic and morphological changes in West African border cities since the mid-20th century. Using the Africapolis harmonised database makes it possible to show that since 1950 border cities have experienced higher rates of growth than other cities in the region. While the average size of cities increases with distance from a border, the opposite is true for urban density; it decreases as distance from a border increases. This suggests that border cities form urban centres that differ from other such centres due to the fact that they specialise in the commercial activities that stimulate growth and foster higher densities. The report identifies the 27 main cross-border agglomerations in the region and discusses their specificcharacteristics.Also in this Collection:“Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
O18|Businesses and Health in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses the spatial distribution of formal enter¬prises and health infrastructure in West Africa. The analysis shows that sectors crucial for regional integration are concentrated in economic capitals rather than in border areas. These results illustrate the difficulty that many West African countries have in distributing the potential for economic development throughout the country. The mapping of health infrastructure shows that border towns have a surplus of medical centres and a deficit of hospitals and maternity wards relative to their urban populations. The report identifies several regions in which closer co-operation could favour the establishment of cross-border health facilities.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
O18|Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses road accessibility, transport corridors and checkpoints set up in border towns in West Africa. An innovative model shows that the population base of border towns could be 14% greater if there were no delays at border crossings. The existence of roadside checks decreases the size of this population base from 12 to 50%. A study of 59 jointly planned or operated border posts in sub-Saharan Africa shows that trade facilitation runs up against the special interests of public servants and private-sector actors making a living from regional integration frictions.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22
O18|Intégration régionale des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », souligne la contribution des villes frontalières au processus d’intégration régionale en Afrique de l’Ouest. Six indicateurs permettent d’appréhender les dynamiques locales développées en milieu urbain, les effets de la distance sur la cohésion nationale, et l’impact des divisions territoriales au plan international dans 18 pays. Cette analyse met en évidence les obstacles qui limitent le potentiel d’intégration des villes frontalières du point de vue des échanges socio-économiques et des institutions. La Note conclut par une synthèse des politiques territorialisées pouvant être mises en place dans la région pour faciliter le développement économique et politique des villes frontalières ouest-africaines.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
O18|Population et morphologies des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’évolution démographique et morphologique des villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest depuis le milieu du XXe siècle. L’utilisation d’une base de données harmonisée – ce qu’offre Africapolis – permet de montrer que les villes frontalières ont connu une croissance plus importante que les autres villes de la région depuis 1950. Alors que la taille moyenne des villes augmente avec la distance aux frontières, la densité urbaine diminue à mesure qu’on s’en éloigne. Ces résultats suggèrent que les villes frontalières forment des ensembles urbains différents des autres, notamment du fait de leur spécialisation dans les activités commerciales, qui stimulent la croissance et encourage les fortes densités. Le document identifie enfin 27 agglomérations transfrontalières principales dans la région et discute leurs particularités.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
O18|Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse la répartition spatiale des entreprises formelles et des infrastructures de santé en Afrique de l’Ouest. L’analyse montre que les secteurs cruciaux pour l’intégration régionale sont concentrés dans les capitales économiques plutôt que dans les espaces frontaliers. Ces résultats illustrent la difficulté qu’ont de nombreux pays ouest-africains à distribuer le potentiel de développement économique sur l’ensemble du territoire national. La cartographie des infrastructures de santé montre que les villes frontalières présentent un excédent de centres médicaux et un déficit d’hôpitaux et de maternités relativement à leur population urbaine. La Note identifie plusieurs régions dans lesquelles une coopération plus étroite pourrait favoriser la mise en place d’établissements de santé transfrontaliers.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
O18|Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’accessibilité routière, les corridors de transport et les postes de contrôle uniques mis en place dans les villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest. Un modèle inédit montre que le bassin de population des villes frontalières pourrait être 14 % plus important sans attente aux frontières. L’existence de contrôles routiers diminue de 12 à 50 % ce bassin de population. Une étude des 59 postes de contrôle d’Afrique subsaharienne montre ensuite que la facilitation du commerce se heurte aux intérêts des fonctionnaires et des acteurs privés vivant des frictions de l’intégration régionale.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22
O18|The relationship of policy induced R&D networks and inter-regional knowledge diffusion|Knowledge diffusion is argued to be strongly influenced by knowledge networks and spatial structures. However, empirical studies primarily apply an indirect approach of measuring their impact. Moreover, little is known about how policy can influence the spatial diffusion of knowledge. This paper seeks to fill this gap by empirically testing the effects of policy induced knowledge networks on the propensity of inter-regional patent citations. We use patent citation data for 141 labor market regions in Germany between 2000 to 2009, which is merged with information on subsidized joint R&D projects. Based on the latter, we construct a network of subsidized R&D collaboration. Its impact on inter-regional patent citations is evaluated with binomial and negative binomial regression models. Our findings do not indicate that inter- regional network links created by public R&D subsidies facilitate patent citations and hence, inter-regional knowledge diffusion.
O18|Building consensus: Shifting strategies in the territorial targeting of Turkey's public transport investment|A growing amount of research explores how the allocation of regional development monies follows electoral reasons. Yet, the existing literature on distributive politics provides different and contrasting expectations on which geographical areas will be targeted. We focus on proportional representation (PR) systems. While in such settings governments have incentives to target core districts and punish foes', we suggest that when incumbents attempt to build a state-party image they may broaden the territorial allocation of benefits and even target opposition out-groups. We exploit data on Turkey's public transport investment for the period 2003-2014 and in-depth interviews to provide results in support of our hypothesis.
O18|Housing, urban growth and inequalities: the limits to deregulation and upzoning in reducing economic and spatial inequality|Urban economics and branches of mainstream economics – what we call the “housing as opportunity” school of thought – have been arguing that shortages of affordable housing in dense agglomerations represent a fundamental barrier for economic development. Housing shortages are considered to limit migration into thriving cities, curtailing their expansion potential, generating rising social and spatial inequalities, and inhibiting national growth. According to this dominant view within economics, relaxing zoning and other planning regulations in the most prosperous cities is crucial to unleash the economic potential of cities and nations and to facilitate within-country migration. In this article, we contend that the bulk of the claims of the housing as opportunity approach are fundamentally flawed and lead to simplistic and misguided policy recommendations. We posit that there is no clear and uncontroversial evidence that housing regulation is a principal source of differences in home availability or prices across cities. Blanket changes in zoning are unlikely to increase domestic migration or to increase affordability for lower-income households in prosperous regions. They would, however, increase gentrification within prosperous regions and would not appreciably decrease income inequality. In contrast to the housing models, we argue the basic motors of all these features of the economy are the current geography of employment, wages and skills.
O18|Persistence of Entrepreneurship in Different Historical Contexts|Persistence of entrepreneurship over longer periods of time could indicate a culture of entrepreneurship among the local population that may be an important factor for regional development, but does persistence of economic activity require cultural transmission? We exploit the diverse historical developments in the territory that is Poland today to analyze the level and the sources of persistence from the 1920s until today. Persistence is mainly found in those regions that were part of Germany before World War II. This persistence is noticeable despite the exchange of most of the pre-war population, ruling out that persistence is driven by transmission of culture. In most regions that were already part of Poland before World War II, the relationship between historical and current levels of entrepreneurship is not significant. Persistence of entrepreneurship is related to the historical success of regions, which we capture by the pre-war level of and self-employment in manufacturing industries, particularly in those that can be regarded as knowledge intensive. Our main conclusion is that persistence of entrepreneurship requires a certain level of successful economic development that we capture by the degree of industrialization in the early 20th century, but it does not necessarily require persistence of the local population.
O18|Diversifying in green technologies in European regions: does political support matter?|Regional diversification is a process characterized by past and place dependence: new activities tend to emerge and develop in a region in technological or industrial fields closely related to existing local activities. Recently, the relatedness concept has also been applied successfully to studies on green diversification of regions, providing new insights to the transition literature that is primarily focused on disruptive change. What has received little attention is a systematic approach that assesses the role of political support for the ability of regions to diversify into new green activities. This paper makes a first attempt to test the impact of regional capabilities and political support for environmental policy at the national and regional scale on the ability of 95 regions in 7 European countries to diversify into new green technologies during the period 2000-2012. We find evidence that related capabilities rather than political support in a region is associated with green diversification of regions in Europe. However, political support tends to moderate the role of regional capabilities.
O18|Do low-skilled workers gain from high-tech employment growth? High-technology multipliers, employment and wages in Britain|Do low-skilled workers benefit from the growth of high-technology industries in their local economy? Policymakers invest considerable resources in attracting and developing innovative, high-tech industries, but there is relatively little evidence on the distribution of the benefits. This paper investigates the labour market impact of high-tech growth on low and mid-skilled workers, using data on UK local labour markets from 2009-2015. It shows that high-tech industries – either STEM-intensive ‘high-tech’ or digital economy – have a positive jobs multiplier, with each 10 new high-tech jobs creating around 7 local non-tradeable service jobs, around 6 of which go to low-skilled workers. Employment rates for mid-skilled workers do not increase, but they benefit from higher wages. Yet while low-skilled workers gain from higher employment rates, the jobs are often poorly paid service work, so average wages fall, particularly when increased housing costs are considered.
O18|Freeway Revolts!|Freeway revolts were widespread protests across the U.S. following early urban Interstate construction in the mid-1950s. We present theory and evidence from panel data on neighborhoods and travel behavior to show that diminished quality of life from freeway disamenities inspired the revolts, aﬀected the allocation of freeways within cities, and changed city structure. First, actual freeway construction diverged from initial plans in the wake of the growing freeway revolts and subsequent policy responses, especially in central neighborhoods. Second, freeways caused slower growth in population, income, and land values in central areas, but faster growth in outlying areas. These patterns suggest that in central areas, freeway disamenity eﬀects exceeded small access beneﬁts. Third, in a quantitative general equilibrium spatial model, the aggregate beneﬁts from burying or capping freeways are large and concentrated downtown. This result suggests that targeted mitigation policies could improve welfare and helps explain why opposition to freeways is often observed in central neighborhoods. Disamenities from freeways, versus their commuting beneﬁts, likely played a signiﬁcant role in the decentralization of U.S. cities.
O18|Explorative Analyse der Preise von Einfamilienhäusern und Eigentumswohnungen in Deutschland|Untersucht werden die von BulwienGesa erhobenen und aufbereiteten jahresdurchschnittlichen Wiederverkaufspreise von Eigentumswohnungen und Einfamilienhäusern in 401 kreisfreien Städten und Landkreisen für die Jahre 2004–2017. Dabei zeigt sich eine Zunahme der regionalen Streuung im Zeitverlauf vor allem in der auf die Finanzkrise 2007–2009 folgenden Zeit. Im Durchschnitt der Regionen (Landkreise und kreisfreie Städte) steigen die Preise; sie entwickeln sich aber regional stark unterschiedlich (in manchen Regionen stagnieren sie oder sind gefallen). Dies führt auch zur Zunahme der Variationskoeffizienten, also der relativen Streuung der regionalen Preise. Dies deutet auf eine Zunahme der regionalen Disparitäten in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Besondere Divergenzen zeigen sich zwischen den alten und den neuen Bundesländern, wie auch zwischen prosperierenden kreisfreien Städten und deren Umland und ökonomisch schwächeren Städten und Landkreisen.
O18|Internal migration and inclusive development: Insights from the field|Migration is a universal phenomenon. From time immemorial women and men have travelled in search of better living. There are two separate streams of migration. The first one is at the upper end of human capital hierarchy, to fill in existing surplus demand in the labour market of destination regions. Consequently, this process is highly selective in nature – in terms of skill & training, age, and gender. The second stream emerges due to ‘Push factors’ or distress conditions in the source regions (relative to the destination) – economic hardships in the form of low wages, high unemployment, heavy population pressure, etc. in the native places, and the lure of better earning opportunities in the economically vibrant destination region. This process is a coping mechanism of poor families and helps them come out of poverty. Thus migration can be both discriminatory and egalitarian. Another issue is the emerging pattern of identity and conflict between natives and migrants in several parts of the country. Social inclusion of migrants is sometimes at jeopardy and goes against the ethos and economics of one nation-one labour market principle. This issue needs to be examined also. Using field data, this paper seeks to understand the following issues:(a) Who migrates – what are the social, economic and institutional factors that determine migration decisions? (b) Are there any disparities between migrants/natives and various socio-religious groups regarding – Educational Attainment, Availability of employment, Nature of employment (casual/regular), Occupational distribution, and Earnings?; (c) What are the migration patterns of lagging socio-religious groups? Whether migration does form a route out of poverty for them, and whether specific policies for these groups exist or should be recommended; (d) Understand whether the process of migration is leading to better human capital standards for the subsequent generation or stifling it; and, (e) Examine the perception of natives in receiving regions about migrant workers and how migrants assimilate. The paper uses primary data from 3 districts of Bengal to explore the issues highlighted. It would also explore the impact on the migrants, the receiving regions and the sending regions through case studies to help us in understanding the issue of social inclusion of migrants. Several processes/local systems of migration have also been examined to highlight the vulnerability of the migrants. Inferences from the paper would help in devising a broadbased and inclusive migration policy.
O18|Economic Misery, Urbanization and Life Expectancy in MENA Nations: An Empirical Analysis|This paper has examined the effect of urbanization and economic misery on average life expectancy in selected MENA nations from 2001 to 2016. The selected MENA nations are: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Islamic Rep., Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen Rep. PP-Fisher Chi-square, Levin, Lin & Chu t*, Im, Pesaran and Shin W-stat and ADF-Fisher Chi-square unit root tests have been used for examining unit root issue in the data. Panel ARDL has been used for reviewing the co-integration among the selected indicators. The causality of the variables has been analyzed by impulse response function and variance decomposition. The outcomes reveal that food availability has significant and positive relation with an average life expectancy. The outcomes show that environmental standards put significant and positive impact on average life expectancy. The outcomes reveal that economic misery has a significant and negative influence on average life expectancy in MENA nations. The findings reveal that urbanization puts significant and positive influence on average life expectancy. So, for improving the average life expectancy in MENA nations availability of food, household final consumption and the level of urbanization must be enhanced. Whereas at the time economic misery will be reduced.
O18|The Magnification of a Lagging Region's Initial Economic Disadvantages on the Balanced Growth Path|We analyze aspects of long run economic growth in stylized lagging and leading regions. Both regions use physical capital, research and development (R&D), and knowledgeable workers to produce a final consumption good. The lagging region faces two key economic disadvantages. Specifically, the constant fractions of the output of the final consumption good that are saved to enhance the stocks of physical capital and R&D are assumed to be twice as large in the leading region as they are in the lagging region. In this scenario, we perform three tasks. First, we determine the ratio of the balanced growth path (BGP) value of output per knowledgeable worker in the leading region to its value in the lagging region. Second, we ascertain the ratio of the BGP value of R&D per knowledgeable worker in the leading region to its value in the lagging region. Finally, we show the extent to which the lagging region’s initial economic disadvantages are magnified on the BGP and then discuss some policy implications.
O18|Addressing urban sprawl from the complexity sciences|Urban sprawl is nowadays a pervasive topic that is subject of a contentious debate among planners and researchers, who still fail to reach consensual solutions. This paper reviews controversies of the sprawl debate and argues that they owe to a failure of the employed methods to appraise its complexity, especially the notion that urban form emerges from multiple overlapping interactions between households, firms and governmental bodies. To address such issues, this review focuses on recent approaches to study urban spatial dynamics. Firstly, spatial metrics from landscape ecology provide means of quantifying urban sprawl in terms of increasing fragmentation and diversity of land use patches. Secondly, cellular automata and agent-based models suggest that the prevalence of urban sprawl and fragmentation at the urban fringe emerge from negative spatial interaction between residential agents, which seem accentuated as the agent’s preferences become more heterogeneous. Then, the review turns to practical applications that employ such models to spatially inform urban planning and assess future scenarios. A concluding discussion summarizes potential contributions to the debate on urban sprawl as well as some epistemological implications.
O18|Sustainability of the transport sector during the last 20 years: evidences from a panel of 35 countries|Between 1990 and 2015, the annual global amount of CO 2 emission generated by transport has increased by 68%, from around 4.6 GtCO 2 to around 7.7 GtCO2. Technological advances towards eco friendly vehicles and policy incentives promoting environmental friendly modes of transport have thus been offset by economic growth and increasing mobility. This study questions the relationship between economic growth and sustainability performance of transport sector. It adds to the literature new insights concerning recent trends in the relationship between gross domestic product and various aspects of transport sustainability such as carbon footprint, carbon intensity and transport safety. A particular attention is given to discussing the emerging issues of “carbon inequality” and the role of political entities that contribute most to global CO2 emissions, such China, USA and the EU. Finally, this study adds to the literature a composite index of transport sustainability performance and explores between country inequalities in terms of sustainability performance.
O18|Who Gained from India’s Demonetization? Insights from Satellites and Surveys|On November 8, 2016, the Indian government abruptly demonetized 86% of its currency in circulation in an attempt to reduce black money, corruption, and counterfeiting. Yet, 99% of the currency was eventually returned to banks. We exploit large regional variations in deposit growth as a result of demonetization to study the medium-term effects of this policy. Using night-light data, we show that districts which experienced higher deposit growth during the demonetization period recorded higher levels of economic activity in the year and a half that followed. We estimate a one standard deviation increase in deposits is associated with a 5% increase in district GDP per capita. Further, districts with larger rural population, agricultural and non-agricultural informal labor shares also recorded an increase in nighttime light activity. The results are also supported by household-level surveys on income and expenditures.
O18|Commuting between rural and urban areas: evidence from India|This paper is an attempt to extend the dialogue on the nature of commuting between rural and urban areas and its implications for labour market outcomes in rural and urban India. We show that over the period 2004–2005 to 2011–2012, the magnitude of commuting workers has not changed but the composition has changed with reduction in rural no fixed place workers and increase in urban-no fixed place workers. We further highlight that rural–urban commuting can be considered mobility for better opportunities on account of diversification of livelihood strategy and underemployment in rural areas.
O18|The Impact of Regional Isolationism: Disentangling Real and Financial Factors|Recently, there is a pressure for isolation policies both within the United States and among the EU members. The pressure arises due not only to the difference between regions in the U.S. and/or countries in the EU, but also to the difference across their population which affect the gains and losses from economic integration, both real as from trade in a common market and financial as in a monetary financial union. To get a better understanding of this pressure, one would need a model of trade and capital flows that takes into account the difference between individuals in a region and differences across regions. There is also a need for detail data at the individual and aggregated level, which often are not available. In this paper, we use unique long-panel data of households in Thailand, and from these data, we construct the household financial accounts, the village economic accounts, and the village balance of payments account. We also provide stylized facts on factor prices, factor intensities, financial obstacles, and village openness document differences across regions. Finally at the national level it is clear there is co-mingled variation in trade via devaluations and in finance via policies toward off shore bank and within-country financial infrastructure. We develop a heterogeneous-agent/occupational-choices/trade model with financial frictions carefully built up and calibrated around micro and regional facts, that is, at both the individual level and the aggregate level. Then, we conduct two counterfactual policy experiments. In the first counterfactual experiment, we distinguish the effects of trade from the effects of capital flows. More specifically, we determine what would happen if we allow the prices of goods to change as in baseline scenario while keep borrowing limits and interest rates constant, and vice versa. In the second counterfactual experiment, we determine the effect of isolation policies that impede trade and/or capital flows across regions. We find through these counterfactual experiments that both real and financial factors are at play, that there are differences across regions in impact even when (policy) movements in variables such as interest rates and relative prices, which are exogenous to the regions, are common; impacts can be large, and vary with policy; and impacts are significant heterogeneous with both gains and losses and non-monotone movement across wealth classes and occupations, even allowing for occupation shifts which apriori might have mitigated impact.
O18|Location, industry structure and (the lack of) locally specific knowledge: On the diverging development of rural areas in Germany's East and West|Some rural regions in Western Germany have experienced a very positive economic development in terms of employment and incomes in the past decade. This development, however, is in sharp contrast to the the enduring economic lag of many rural regions in Eastern Germany. This paper seeks to find out, to what extent these differences in employment development can be explained by sectoral patterns and region-specific capacities and capabilities. We employ an extended shift-share regression model that explains the employment development in German districts between 2007 and 2016. The model differentiates between Western and Eastern German regions as well as between urban and rural regions by means of spatial location effects. This specification helps us to capture both: the historically evolved differences inherent in the socialist and capitalist past of Eastern and Western Germany and the varying economic environments in urban and rural areas. The extended shift-share regression confirms that simple industry effects, i.e. linear effects of industry shares, only explain a small part of the differences in employment development between rural regions. Most deviations are instead captured in the competitive share effects (CSE) that represents how employment development in a region systematically deviates from the average development of its industries at national level. Further analyses of the CSE reveal that the manufacturing sector, despite its general loss in employment shares, is of crucial importance for rural prosperity. In this regard, the apparent disadvantage of rural districts in Germanyâ€™s East can be explained by a lack of locally specific, complementary immobile production capacities and capabilities for manufacturing. These locally specific skills develop endogenously. Urban districts in the East, in contrast, do not have to rely on endogenous factors alone but may overcome their historical disadvantage if they manage to exploit their agglomeration advantages in order to attract knowledge intensive industries and high-skilled workers.
O18|Quality Infrastructure Investment: Ways to Increase the Rate of Return for Infrastructure Investments|Private–public partnerships in infrastructure have been advocated for many years. Investors currently receive a low rate of return on infrastructure investment. This is because the main sources of revenue from infrastructure investment are user charges. For example, user charges for a water supply cannot be increased since water is a necessary good for everyone. However, a water supply can help to develop regions. For example, new apartments can be constructed, and new businesses can be created in the region where the water is supplied. From this, property tax, corporate income tax, and income tax revenues will rise. In the past, these increased tax revenues have gone to the government rather than being returned to infrastructure investors. If these increased tax revenues were to be returned to investors, the rate of return would rise significantly. Hometown investment trust funds can also provide financing for start-up businesses along with the new infrastructure investments. Land acquisition creates huge difficulties for completing infrastructure investment. Land trusts will solve the issue of owners not wanting to sell their land by giving them the option to keep it and instead lease the land to infrastructure companies and receive long-term rent income, for example for 99 years. In this way, land trusts will smoothen the use of land and transfer the usage rights to infrastructure companies.
O18|Anatomy of Regional Price Differentials: Evidence From Micro Price Data|Over the last three decades the supply of economic statistics has vastly improved. Unfortunately, statistics on regional price levels (sub- national purchasing power parities) have been exempt from this positive trend, even though they are indispensable for meaningful spatial comparisons of regional output, income, wages, productivity, standards of living, and poverty. To improve the situation, our paper demonstrates that a highly disaggregated and reliable regional price index can be compiled from data that already exist. We use the micro price data that have been collected for Germany’s Consumer Price Index in May 2016. For the computation we introduce a multi-stage version of the Country-Product-Dummy method. The unique quality of our price data set allows us to depart from previous spatial price comparisons and to compare only exactly identical products. We find that the price levels of the 402 counties and cities of Germany are largely driven by the cost of housing and to a much lesser degree by the prices of goods and services. The overall price level in the most expensive region, Munich, is about 27 percent higher than in the cheapest region. Our results also reveal strong spatial autocorrelation.
O18|Flow specific capital controls for emerging markets|Policymakers need better information regarding wellbeing inequality to ascertain the contributing factors and to determine whether policy has been successful in improving the spread over time. In this paper, we construct a multidimensional composite wellbeing measure, at a micro level, which includes â€œeconomic and non-economicâ€ and â€œobjective and subjective measuresâ€ of wellbeing. We use NIDS data spanning the period 2008 â€“ 2015. We compare the results on measuring wellbeing inequality using the composite index and income. This allows us to gain insight into, which is a better measure of wellbeing inequality. Additionally, we investigate the determinants of cross-sectional wellbeing inequality in 2008 and 2015 using regressions of the recentered influence function. Lastly, we use the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition to identify the role played by covariates in shaping the evolution in wellbeing inequality. This allows us to determine if the observed change in wellbeing inequality is mainly due to a coefficient â€“ or endowment effect. We focus on South Africa, as it is one of the most unequal societies in the world. Our results show a more equal distribution in multi-dimensional wellbeing than either income per person or life satisfaction and indicate that the spread in wellbeing has improved from 2008 to 2015. Factors that decrease wellbeing inequality are mostly demographic in nature. Factors that increase wellbeing inequality are (i) the gap in wellbeing between rural and urban areas (ii) the limited number of people that have access to computer literacy, credit and transport and (iii) relative income. Lastly, we find that improved wellbeing inequality is due to better efficiencies in the use of endowments, rather than increases in the endowments itself. Policies should not only endeavour to increase endowments but also to improve the efficient translation of these endowments into higher levels of wellbeing equality by improving institutions and limiting corruption.
O18|EU28 legal and fiscal readiness for the adoption of an on-tax financing mechanism - EuroPACE|EuroPACE is an innovative financial mechanism inspired by an American building improvement initiative called Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE). The innovative character of the EuroPACE mechanism is that financing through EuroPACE is linked to the taxes paid on a property. In other words, the financing lent by a private investor is repaid through property taxes and other charges related to the buildings. EuroPACE is therefore in line with the EC’s objectives of (1) putting EE first, (2) contributing to the EU’s global leadership, and (3) empowering consumers to enable MS to reach their energy and climate targets for 2030. Last but not least, EuroPACE could contribute to the democratisation of the energy supply by offering cash-flow positive, decentralised EE solutions. The EuroPACE mechanism engages several stakeholders in the process: local government, investors, equipment installers, and homeowners. To establish the EuroPACE programme, several conditions must be satisfied, each of which are relevant for different stakeholder at different stages of the implementation. For the purpose of this report, we divided these criteria into two categories: key criteria, which make the implementation possible, and complementary criteria, which make the implementation easier. For the time being, it is a pure hypothesis to be tested with potential EuroPACE implementation.
O18|The Social Mobility of Home Ownership: To What Extent Have the Millennials Fared Worse?|This paper considers home ownership rates for different generational cohorts in the UK, and how they are related to family background, as measured by parental occupation status. The results show home ownership rates have fallen across recent generational cohorts, even when they are compared at the same stage in their lives. Concurrent with this fall, there has been an increasing importance of family background in determining whether an individual owns their own home. While such an effect has always been present for individuals who do not reach the higher levels of education or occupation hierarchies, this is a newer phenomenon for successful graduates in professional/managerial occupations, for whom home ownership is also now strongly related to family background amongst the Millennial cohort.
O18|Capital Cities, Conflict, and Misgovernance|We investigate the links between capital cities, conflict, and the quality of governance, starting from the assumption that incumbent elites are constrained by the threat of insurrection, and that the latter is rendered less effective by distance from the seat of political power. We show evidence that (i) conflict is more likely to emerge (and dislodge incumbents) closer to the capital, and (ii) isolated capitals are associated with misgovernance. The results hold only for relatively nondemocratic countries and for intrastate conflicts over government (as opposed to territory)—exactly the cases where our central assumption should apply.
O18|Modeling temporal treatment effects with zero inflated semi-parametric regression models: the case of local development policies in France|A semi-parametric approach is proposed to estimate the variation along time of the effects of two distinct public policies that were devoted to boost rural development in France over a similar period of time. At a micro data level, it is often observed that the dependent variable, such as local employment, does not vary along time, so that we face a kind of zero inflated phenomenon that cannot be dealt with a continuous response model. We introduce a conditional mixture model which combines a mass at zero and a continuous response. The suggested zero inflated semi-parametric statistical approach relies on the flexibility and modularity of additive models with the ability of panel data to deal with selection bias and to allow for the estimation of dynamic treatment effects. In this multiple treatment analysis, we find evidence of interesting patterns of temporal treatment effects with relevant nonlinear policy effects. The adopted semi-parametric modeling also offers the possibility of making a counterfactual analysis at an individual level. The methodology is illustrated and compared with parametric linear approaches on a few municipalities for which the mean evolution of the potential outcomes is estimated under the different possible treatments.
O18|Convergence in House Prices: Cross-Regional Evidence for Turkey|This paper analyzes the long-run convergence of regional house prices in Turkey. Using a non-linear time-varying factor model and quarterly house price data for the period between 2010 and 2018, we find that house prices do not converge across the 26 regions. The results reveal that the regions can be grouped into seven convergence clubs and one divergent club, confirming the heterogeneity and complexity of the Turkish housing market. These results also imply the existence of multiple steady states in the housing market. These outcomes will be beneficial to home buyers/sellers, investors, regulators and policymakers, who are interested in analyzing the dynamic interlinkages among house prices and the effects of shocks originating from the regional housing markets.
O18|Diversifying in green technologies in European regions: does political support matter?|Regional diversification is a process characterized by past and place dependence: new activities tend to emerge and develop in a region in technological or industrial fields closely related to existing local activities. Recently, the relatedness concept has also been applied successfully to studies on green diversification of regions, providing new insights to the transition literature that is primarily focused on disruptive change. What has received little attention is a systematic approach that assesses the role of political support for the ability of regions to diversify into new green activities. This paper makes a first attempt to test the impact of regional capabilities and political support for environmental policy at the national and regional scale on the ability of 95 regions in 7 European countries to diversify into new green technologies during the period 2000-2012. We find evidence that related capabilities rather than political support in a region is associated with green diversification of regions in Europe. However, political support tends to moderate the role of regional capabilities.
O18|Autonomous, Connected, Electric Shared vehicles (ACES) and public finance: an explorative analysis|This paper discusses the implications of autonomous-connected-electric-shared vehicles (ACES) for public finance, which have so far been widely ignored. In OECD countries, 5-12% of federal and up to 30% of local tax revenue are currently from fuel and vehicle taxation. The diffusion of ACES will likely reduce these important sources of government revenues, while also affecting transport-related government expenditures. We argue that the realization of socioeconomic benefits of ACES depends on the implementation of tailored public finance policies. In particular, the introduction of road tolls in line with ‘user pays’ and ‘polluter pays’ principles will become more attractive. Moreover, innovation in taxation schemes to fit the changing technological circumstances may alter the (relative) importance of levels of governance in transport policy making, likely shifting power towards local (in particular urban) governmental levels. We finally argue that due to path-dependencies, and the risk of lock-in effects in sub-optimal public finance regimes, further research and near-term policy action regarding ACES is required.
O18|Productivity effects of an exogenous improvement in transport infrastructure: accessibility and the Great Belt Bridge|Most studies of the effects of transport infrastructure on the performance of individual firms have focused on marginal expansions of the rail or highway network over time. In this paper, we study the short-run effects of a large discrete shock in the quality of transport infrastructure, viz. the opening of the Great Belt bridge connecting the Copenhagen area with a neighboring island and the mainland of Denmark. We analyse the effect of the opening of the bridge on the productivity of firms throughout the country using a two-step approach: we estimate firm- and year-specific productivity for a large panel of individual firms, using the approaches developed by Levinsohn and Petrin (2003) and De Loecker (2011). Then, controlling for firm-fixed effects, we relate productivity to a calculated measure of accessibility that captures the effect of the opening of the bridge. We find large productivity effects for firms located in the regions near the bridge, especially for relatively small firms in the construction and retail industry. Estimation results further suggest statistically significant but small positive wage effects throughout the country, even in regions far from the bridge. Finally, there is some evidence that the bridge has stimulated new activities in the Copenhagen region at the expense of firms disappearing on the neighboring island Funen.
O18|Anatomy of Regional Price Differentials: Evidence From Micro Price Data|Our paper uses micro price data collected from Germany’s Consumer Price Index to compile a highly disaggregated regional price index for the 402 counties and cities of Germany. We introduce a multi-stage version of the weighted Country-Product-Dummy method. The unique quality of our price data allows us to depart from previous spatial price comparisons and to compare only exactly identical products. We find that the price levels are spatially autocorrelated and largely driven by the cost of housing. The price level in the most expensive region is about 27 percent higher than in the cheapest region.
O18|The Use Of The Mechanism Of Tax Increment Financing (Tif) In The Financing Of Infrastructure Projects|The article presents an analysis of the foreign experience of the mechanism of tax increment financing (TIF) in the financing of infrastructure projects and assesses the possibility of implementing this mechanism in the Russian investment practice.Investment in infrastructure development is an important factor in the socio-economic development of the country and has a multiplier effect. In the world practice, the involvement of private capital in the creation and subsequent operation of infrastructure facilities contributes to the sustainable growth of the national economy, the introduction of promising technological, organizational and institutional innovations, resource saving and energy independence, improving the quality of services provided to the population.The problem of efficiency of joint investment activity of private and public capital owners in infrastructure projects is due to the complexity of taking into account the interests of all participants. The format of joint activities should be based on the principles of risk sharing, connection of projects with the target socio-economic characteristics of the development of territories, obtaining benefits from the results of projects.The authors studied the most successful practices of infrastructure development financing, taking into account possible future benefits from the creation of these facilities in the form of additional revenues from taxes, fees, access rights to the operation of infrastructure and other privileges. One of these tools is the mechanism of tax increments of financing.The paper analyzes the conditions for the implementation and fulfillment of this mechanism in different countries of the world, studied the experience of the TIF mechanism, taking into account industry specifics and other features of the projects, describes the specific models of the TIF mechanism.The comparative approach and macroeconomic analysis were used to compare the conditions of implementation of the TIF mechanism and project financing, and to identify fundamental similarities and differences. The conclusion is made about the possibility of embedding (diffusion) of individual elements of the TIF mechanism in project financing in Russia.The use of institutional and statistical analysis, as well as the methodology for assessing the effectiveness of investment projects, allowed the authors to form a comprehensive assessment of the possibility of using the TIF mechanism in the Russian environment.
O18|Dinámicas de Pobreza en México, 2008-2014|Ante la poca disponibilidad de datos longitudinales para México, en este artículo se busca mostrar la dinámica de las personas en situación de pobreza con base en encuestas de corte transversal de ingresos y gastos de los hogares. Usando la metodología de pseudopanel de Dang y Lanjouw (2013), se estiman las dinámicas de pobreza en México entre 2008 y 2014. Los resultados de movilidad absoluta para todo el periodo estudiado, muestran que cerca de la mitad de la población se encontró en situación de pobreza por ingresos. Así mismo, los resultados de movilidad relativa muestran que si un hogar estuvo en situación de pobreza en algún año tiene altas probabilidades de seguir en esta situación dos años más tarde. Se identifica que los hogares más afectados son aquellos con rezago educativo, carencia por acceso a servicios básico en la vivienda, carencia por acceso a servicios de salud, o que han estado en situación de pobreza durante cuatro o más años.
O18|Modeling temporal treatment effects with zero inflated semi-parametric regression models: the case of local development policies in France|A semi-parametric approach is proposed to estimate the variation along time of the effects of two distinct public policies that were devoted to boost rural development in France over the same period of time. At a micro data level, it is often observed that the dependent variable, such as local employment, does not vary along time, so that we face a kind of zero inflated phenomenon that cannot be dealt with a continuous response model. We introduce a mixture model which combines a mass at zero and a continuous response. The suggested zero inflated semi-parametric statistical approach relies on the flexibility and modularity of additive models with the ability of panel data to deal with selection bias and to allow for the estimation of dynamic treatment effects. In this multiple treatment analysis, we find evidence of interesting patterns of temporal treatment effects with relevant nonlinear policy effects. The adopted semi-parametric modeling also offers the possibility of making a counterfactual analysis at an individual level. The methodology is illustrated and compared with parametric linear approaches on a few municipalities for which the mean evolution of the potential outcomes is estimated under the different possible treatments.
O18|Roadways, Input Sourcing, and Patterns of Specialization|We propose a model where the internal transport network facilitates the sourcing of intermediate goods from different locations. A denser internal transport network promotes thus the growth of industries that rely on a large variety of inputs. The model shows that heterogeneities in internal transport infrastructures can become a key factor in shaping comparative advantage and specialization. Moreover, when sufficiently pronounced, such heterogeneities may even overshadow more traditional sources of specialization based on factor productivities. Evidence based on industry-level trade data grants support to the main prediction of the model: countries with denser road networks export relatively more in industries that exhibit broader input bases. We show that this correlation is robust to several possible confounding effects proposed by the literature, such as the impact of institutions on specialization in complex goods. Furthermore, we show that a similar correlation arises as well when the density of the local transport network is measured by the density of their internal waterways, and also when road density is instrumented with measures of terrain roughness.
O18|Enduring Gendered Mobility Patterns in Contemporary Senegal|This study explores internal migration patterns of men and women using individual panel data from a nationally representative survey collected in two waves, in 2006-2007 and 2010-2012, in Senegal. The data used are unique in that they contain the GPS coordinates of individuals' location in both waves. We are thus able to precisely calculate distances and map individual moves, avoiding limitations and constraints of migration definitions based on administrative units. Our results reveal major differences across gender. Women are found to be more likely to migrate than men. However, they move less far and are more likely to migrate to rural areas, especially when originating from rural areas. Education is found to increase the likelihood of migration to urban destinations, especially for women. An analysis of the motives for migrating confirms the existence of gendered migration patterns, as female mobility is mostly linked to marriage while labor mobility is frequently observed for men.
O18|Shocks, vulnerability and income generating capacity of rural households: Evidence from Southeast Asia|Against the background of rising weather risks this paper seeks to understand how risks impact the income generating capacity of rural households in Southeast Asia. In this study, we use assets to predict households' income generating capacity and examine the role of different shock categories on asset accumulation. In addition, we detect region, country and income group specific patterns. We use panel data from Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam covering 5,200 rural households. Households' income generating capacity is estimated in a fixed-effects regression based on assets owned or accessed by the household. The findings suggest that shocks decrease the asset accumulation rate of rural households by 1.4 percentage points across all four countries. While health shocks decrease households' asset accumulation rate by 1.2 to 1.4 percentage points, the effect of drought and flood shocks is twice as high. At the country level, the effect of flood shocks on asset growth are strongest in Vietnam while drought shocks disproportionately affect Laotian households. Households are largely able to anticipate the occurrence of health shocks, while droughts and floods are less predictable and thus, have a more detrimental effect on asset growth. The effects of shocks differ across income quartiles. While households in the richest quartile are able cope with weather shocks, health shocks affect their asset accumulation disproportionately. Poor households are strongest affected by drought shocks.
O18|Urbanization and child malnutrition: A comparison of three countries in the Greater Mekong Sub-region|Success in reducing monetary poverty in Southeast Asia has not fully translated into reduction in malnutrition. Using a two-year panel data from one province each in Thailand, Lao PDR and Vietnam, we study the correlation between monetary poverty and nutritional outcomes of children under five. Furthermore, we compare nutritional outcomes of children below five between rural and peri-urban areas. We apply ordinary least squares and district fixed-effects regressions and find that child nutrition remains a problem in rural areas across Southeast Asia despite achievements in poverty alleviation. Results reveal that although the households in the poorest quintile in both rural and peri-urban areas spend less on food; only the rural children are more likely to be stunted or underweight. It underscores the importance of investment in medical facilities near rural vicinities.
O18|Gender Composition of Children and Sanitation Behavior In India|Open Defecation has been linked to various public health issues and has gained significant policy attention. Investing in adoption of better sanitation has also been advocated on the grounds of providing women with privacy and protection from po-tential harassment. Nonetheless, previous research has shown that due to son-biased preferences, households in India under-invest in outcomes for their female children. I use the gender of the first-born child as an indicator of the presence of adult female children in households and find that, in certain cases, households reduce open defeca-tion if the first-born child is a girl. The findings in this paper provide a new first stage association between gender composition of children and sanitation behavior and also contribute to the economic literature on decision making in households belonging to developing countries.
O18|Marriage, Work and Migration: The Role of Infrastructure Development and Gender Norms|Traditional gender norms can restrict independent migration by women, thus preventing them from taking advantage of economic opportunities in urban non-agricultural industries. However, women may be able to circumvent such restrictions by using marriage to engage in long-distance migration - if they are wealthy enough to match with the desirable migrating grooms. Guided by a model in which women make marriage and migration decisions jointly, we hypothesize that marriage and labour markets will be inextricably linked by the possibility of marital migration. To test our hypotheses, we use the event of the construction of a major bridge in Bangladesh - which dramatically reduced travel time between the economically deprived north-western region and the industrial belt located around the capital city Dhaka - as a source of plausibly exogenous variation in migration costs. In accordance with our model's predictions, we find that the bridge construction induced marriage-related migration (not economic migration) among rural women, but only for those women coming from families above a poverty threshold.
O18|Measuring the Effect of Agricultural Extension on Technical Efficiency in Crop Farming: Meta-Regression Analysis|Agricultural extension services have been dominated by development programs to improve the productivity of crops and to increase farmers’ income. The virtues and limitations of these programs ignite a debate among scholars from distinct strands of research. How effective are agricultural extension services in improving the productivity level of the agricultural output? We examine the key determinants driving systematic variations in the obtained technical efficiency estimates from all relevant crop farming studies. A weighted least square meta-regression analysis is conducted by using 193 observations from 96 farm level studies to evaluate the estimates of technical efficiency in crop farming and to review the relationship between agricultural extension services and farm performance. Evidence for the absence of a publication bias in the farm studies used in the meta-analysis is identified. The empirical results manifest that there is a positive and significant effect of extension services on technical efficiency estimates. Farm productivity is significantly influenced by country level characteristics, sample size of farm studies and type of crops. Our empirical findings are robust when replacing missing observations with imputed values applying the multiple imputation method.
O18|A Scoping Study of PPP Guidelines|The Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the Third Conference on Financing for Development underscores sustainable and resilient infrastructure as a pre-requisite to sustainable development. Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) are expected to deliver infrastructure in furtherance of this Agenda. In view of this expectation, twelve prominent PPP guidelines were reviewed for alignment with the Addis Agenda and key public governance factors. The research found that the PPP guidelines are not sufficiently aligned with the Addis Agenda, have insufficient sustainability content, and do not acknowledge the role of the public in PPPs. It recommends that the next generation of the guidelines address these aspects. This paper is an updated version of the draft paper presented to the expert group meeting of the Inter-agency Task Force in December 2016. The author is grateful for discussion and comments received on the earlier versions of this paper. Some are reflected in the paper without attribution, owing to the Chatham House rule followed at the meeting. The author takes full responsibility for the contents of this report. The opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect the view of the United Nations.
O18|Top Lights - Bright Cities and their Contribution to Economic Development|The commonly-used satellite images of nighttime lights fail to capture the true brightness of most cities. We show that night lights are a reliable proxy for economic activity at the city level, provided they are first corrected for top-coding. We present a stylized model of urban luminosity and empirical evidence which both suggest that these ‘top lights’ follow a Pareto distribution. We then propose a simple correction procedure which recovers the full distribution of city lights. Applying this approach to cities in Sub-Saharan Africa, we find that primate cities are outgrowing secondary cities but are changing from within.
O18|Evolving Practice in Land Demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
O18|Religion, Division of Labor, and Conflict: Anti-semitism in Germany over 600 Years|We study the role of economic incentives in shaping the coexistence of Jews, Catholics, and Protestants, using novel data from Germany for 1,000+ cities. The Catholic usury ban and higher literacy rates gave Jews a specific advantage in the moneylending sector. Following the Protestant Reformation (1517), the Jews lost these advantages in regions that became Protestant. We show (i) a change in the geography of anti-Semitism with persecutions of Jews and anti-Jewish publications becoming more common in Protestant areas relative to Catholic areas; (ii) a more pronounced change in cities where Jews had already established themselves as moneylenders. These findings are consistent with the interpretation that, following the Protestant Reformation, Jews living in Protestant regions were exposed to competition with the Christian majority, especially in moneylending, leading to an increase in anti-Semitism.
O18|Tourism Observatories 3.0: A Transnational Experiment in the MED|Following the precedent set by the Virtual Tourism Observatory run by the European Commission-DG GROW a few years ago, several initiatives have taken place to design and manage tourism observatories at both the transnational and local level. However, these initiatives do not yet seem able to provide adequate operational responses to the challenges that the Commission launched with the original VTO. While the opportunities offered by the Web 3.0 still do not seem to have been sufficiently taken advantage of, such initiatives also have not yet developed suitable methodologies to operationally include the tourism industry in the studies and monitoring performed by the OTs. This work presents an OT prototype including a participatory DSS (PDSS) designed specifically to overcome the aforementioned limits. The prototype was tested in 2017 on the entire eligible area of the 2014-2020 MED Programme covering 52 regions. The potentialities of this PDSS are shown through two case studies, one Italian and the other Portuguese.
O18|Place-Based Policies for Development|"Many development policies, such as placement of infrastructure or local economic development schemes, are ""place-based."" Such policies are generally intended to stimulate private sector investment and economic growth in the treated place, and as such they are difficult to appraise and evaluate. This paper sets out a framework for analyzing the effects of such policies and assessing their social value. It then reviews the literature on place-based policies in the contexts of transport improvements, economic corridors, special economic zones, lagging regions, and urban policies."
O18|Bridge to Bigpush or Backwash? Market Integration, Reallocation, and Productivity Effects of Jamuna Bridge in Bangladesh|This paper uses a quasi-experimental study of a major bridge construction in Bangladesh to understand the effects of a large reduction in trade costs on the pattern of structural change and agricultural productivity. We develop a spatial general equilibrium model with a core and two hinterlands at the opposite sides separated by rivers and allow for productivity gains through agglomeration in both agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The model yields insights different from the standard core-periphery and trade models:(i) the newly connected hinterland may experience higher population density and agricultural productivity despite significant de-industrialization, (ii) even with increased specialization in agriculture, the share of agricultural employment may decline when inter-regional trade requires local services (e.g. processing and trading), and (iii) the strongest effects on employment structure are felt not necessarily in the areas next to the bridge but in the areas that move out of autarky as a result of the bridge. In empirical estimation, we use doubly robust estimators in a difference-in-difference design where the comparison hinterland comes from a region which was supposed to be connected to the core (capital city) by the proposed, but not yet constructed, Padma bridge due to idiosyncratic political factors. In the short run, we find significant labor reallocation from agriculture to services in the connected hinterland, but no perceptible effects on the employment share of manufacturing, population density, and night-lights. In the long run, the labor share of manufacturing declines in the treatment hinterland and increases in the core, consistent with the de-industrialization effect emphasized in core-periphery models. However, there are significant positive effects on population density, night light luminosity and agricultural yields in the treatment hinterland which contradict backwash effects of the bridge. The effects of the bridge on intersectoral labor allocation are spatially heterogeneous, with relatively weak effects in the areas close to the bridge.
O18|Transport Costs, Comparative Advantage, and Agricultural Development: Evidence from Jamuna Bridge in Bangladesh|This paper studies the effects of a large reduction in transport costs on agricultural development in a developing country with a focus on the interactions among comparative advantage and transport costs of a location, and transport intensity and value of a commodity. We extend the von Thunen model of land allocation to incorporate costly technology adoption and comparative advantage based on land productivity. The theoretical analysis predicts spatial non-linearity in cropland allocation, and produces deviation of observed cropping pattern from the efficient crop choices. A reduction in transport costs leads to adoption of productivity-enhancing inputs in the newly-connected region, and increases the share of land devoted to the high-value transport-intensive crop, with the strongest effect in the areas that are not too near or too far from the center and also have a higher land productivity in that crop. The empirical context of our analysis is the Jamuna bridge in Bangladesh, which opened in 1998, and reduced the transport costs from the poor hinterland in the north-west to the capital city Dhaka by more than 50 percent. Using sub-district level panel data, we implement doubly robust estimators in a difference-in-difference design where the comparison areas come from a region which is supposed to be connected to the capital city by the proposed, but yet to be built, Padma bridge. We find that the construction of Jamuna bridge led to increased adoption of technology (fertilizer, irrigation, green-ness and cropping intensity) and reallocation of land from low-value and non-perishable crop rice to high-value crops, pulses (non-perishable) and vegetables (perishable). The evidence indicates spatial non-linearity in the effects on cropping intensity and on the reallocation of land in areas with comparative advantage in vegetable production. For cropping intensity, the magnitude of the effect is large in the intermediate distance (130-150 km) from the bridge. In areas with relatively higher vegetable productivity, land allocated to rice declined, and in particular, the land was reallocated from HYV rice to vegetables in the intermediate distance (110-150 km). This improved productive efficiency by aligning the cropping pattern more closely with comparative advantage. The bridge thus led to agricultural development through technology adoption, higher cropping intensity, and by reducing the spatial mismatch between land suitability and crop choice.
O18|Definition Matters: Metropolitan Areas and Agglomeration Economies in a Large Developing Country|A variety of approaches to delineate metropolitan areas have been developed. Systematic comparisons of these approaches in terms of the urban landscape that they generate are however few. This paper aims to fill this gap. The paper focuses on Indonesia and makes use of the availability of data on commuting flows, remotely-sensed nighttime lights, and spatially fine-grained population, to construct metropolitan areas using the different approaches that have been developed in the literature. The analysis finds that the maps and characteristics of Indonesia's urban landscape vary substantially, depending on the approach used. Moreover, combining information on the metro areas generated by the different approaches with detailed micro-data from Indonesia's national labor force survey, the paper shows that the estimated size of the agglomeration wage premium depends nontrivially on the approach used to define metropolitan areas.
O18|Western Balkans EU Accession: Is the 2025 Target Date Realistic?|The European Commission has set a target date of 2025 for Western Balkan EU accession, while also outlining a broader new strategy which includes Brussels taking a more active role in solving political disputes in the region, and upgrading infrastructure as part of the Berlin Process. We welcome these moves economic underdevelopment in the region is closely tied to political fractures. Aside from resolving political conflicts, improved governance in the region will also be necessary. In terms of meeting economic accession criteria, the region faces a host of challenges, but we believe that a focus on upgrading infrastructure and developing a much bigger and more competitive industrial base should be the priorities. While the economic influence of third parties in the region is not as significant as often portrayed, this is not guaranteed to last, particularly in the case of China, which is set to increase its economic presence in the Western Balkans in the coming years. Even if the region takes a great leap forward towards the EU, there are other barriers in the way which could also hold back accession. Nevertheless, while the 2025 target represents a highly ambitious best-case scenario, it could serve as a powerful incentive for countries in the region to speed up their reform agendas. We do not completely rule out at least Montenegro and Serbia joining the bloc by 2025 or shortly thereafter.
O18|Economic Policy Implications of the Belt and Road Initiative for CESEE and Austria|The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a vision to revive the ancient ‘Silk Road’ by means of massive infrastructure investments throughout Eurasia and Africa, was first presented by China’s President Xi Jinping in 2013. China has identified the region of Central East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) as the gateway to Western European markets. This was manifested by the investment in the Port of Piraeus (Greece) and the diplomatic initiative ‘16+1’, comprising eleven EU Member States and five Western Balkan countries, which is interesting for Austria due to its strong economic relations with this region. The Policy Brief analyses the most recent developments in trade and investment activities of China, Austria and the EU in CESEE, which are compared to the state of infrastructure in the region in the areas of transport, energy, information and communication technology as well as finance. Overall, CESEE has a high need for infrastructure investments, particularly in the transport sector. Chinese loans and investments in the region are becoming more important, especially for the Western Balkan countries, which have limited access to EU grants. The paper concludes with seven policy areas for future cooperation between Austria and China. The Policy Note is based on a study conducted for the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in Austria. It is available upon request. Please contact Ms ZHANG Yiran (yiran_zhang@mfa.gov.cn) or Mr CHEN Lin (Chen_lin@mfa.gov.cn).
O18|BRATISLAVA and VIENNA: Twin Cities with big Development Potentials|The German version can be found here. The economies of Vienna and Bratislava have followed quite different development paths over the last decades. While Vienna’s population increased by about 20% within two decades, Bratislava’s population mostly stagnated. However, when measured in GDP per capita at purchasing power parties, average income in Bratislava has surpassed that of Vienna and is now among the top-10 leading regions in Europe. Massive foreign direct investment, particularly in the automotive sector, has created full employment in Bratislava. Nevertheless, Vienna, as one of the world’s most liveable cities, is still attracting more immigration and labour markets are in less favourable conditions. Transport infrastructure between the two close cities has only recently been improving, which has left considerable scope for further reductions in travel time. Regional cooperation is under way and should be reinforced in order to meet the challenges ahead. Mass-emigration of young Slovaks over the last decades will lead to a rapid ageing in Slovakia over the next decades and the working age population is expected to shrink by almost a third by the end of the century, while Austria’s will mostly stagnate. By creating a truly common labour market in the twin-city region, Bratislava could solve the problem of labour shortages and Vienna could solve its youth unemployment problem. Policy recommendations in this respect include inter alia a more substantial improvement of intercity public transport; common educational planning and training programmes; and, commuter allowances during the nominal wage-equalisation-transition. Other major long-run challenges are the ongoing processes of digitalisation and robotisation. Here, policy recommendations include projects of innovation cooperation; coordination of innovation oriented public procurement; and, improvement of transport infrastructure to connect the twin-city region with the rest of the world in order to reap potential future gains from increased economies of scale.
O18|BRATISLAVA und Wien: Twin Cities mit großem Entwicklungspotenzial|The English version can be found here. Die Wirtschaften von Wien und Bratislava haben sich in den letzten Jahrzehnten sehr unterschiedlich entwickelt. Die Bevölkerung Wiens ist um etwa 20% angestiegen, jene von Bratislava hat dagegen stagniert. Nimmt man allerdings das BIP pro Kopf zu Kaufkraftparitäten als Maß, so hat das Durchschnittseinkommen in Bratislava jenes in Wien bereits überholt und liegt nun unter den Top-10 führenden Regionen in Europa. Massive Investitionen, besonders im Automobilsektor, haben dazu beigetragen, dass in Bratislava Vollbeschäftigung herrscht. Wien, eine der lebenswertesten Städte der Welt, zieht immer noch Zuwanderung an; die Arbeitsmarktsituation ist weniger günstig. Die Transportinfrastruktur zwischen den beiden Städten hat sich nur in jüngster Zeit verbessert. Es gibt jedoch durchaus noch Potential zu einer erheblichen Reduktion der Reisezeit. Eine Zusammenarbeit auf regionaler Ebene besteht schon seit geraumer Zeit. Diese sollte aber verbessert werden, um gemeinsam künftige Herausforderungen zu bewältigen. Die bisherige Emigration, vorwiegend junger Personen, aus der Slowakei wird dort in den nächsten Jahrzehnten zu einer starken Überalterung führen; die Bevölkerung im arbeitsfähigen Alter wird bis zum Ende des Jahrhunderts voraussichtlich um beinahe ein Drittel zurückgehen; jene in Österreich wird voraussichtlich stagnieren. Ein echter gemeinsamer Arbeitsmarkt der beiden Städte könnte daher für beide vorteilhaft sein, die Arbeitskräfteknappheit in Bratislava senken und das Problem der Jugendarbeitslosigkeit in Wien reduzieren. Wirtschaftspolitische Empfehlungen gehen daher in die Richtung einer deutlichen Verbesserung des öffentlichen Transports; Entwicklung einer gemeinsamen Planung von Ausbildung und Pendlerunterstützung, um zu einem Lohnausgleich beizutragen. Der Prozess der Digitalisierung und Robotisierung stellt eine zweite große Herausforderung dar. Politikempfehlungen dazu umfassen Kooperationsprojekte im Bereich Innovation; die Koordination einer innovationsorientierten öffentlichen Beschaffung und die Verbesserung der Transportinfrastruktur, die die Region mit dem Rest der Welt verbindet, um so für die Zukunft von günstigeren Skaleneffekten zu profitieren.
O18|Investment in the Western Balkans|New Directions and Financial Constraints in Infrastructure Investment Investment in infrastructure is important to generating long-term productivity gains. The Western Balkans lack infrastructure capacity and investment – particularly in non-traditional sectors such as water, sewerage, waste, health, social affairs and education. Two important regional infrastructure investment initiatives are active in the Western Balkans the European Western Balkans Investment Framework WBIF and the Chinese Belt and Road Initiative BRI. Both are focusing on traditional infrastructure such as energy and transport and both come with a volume of about EUR 8 billion in loans. The European initiative has in addition provided for some EUR 800 million in grants and has an emphasis on Green Economy projects. Overall infrastructure investment needs in the region are huge. Lower bound estimates of additional investment needs only in alternative infrastructure investment for the next five years are at around EUR 800 million. The financial conditions in the region are underdeveloped but improving. Nevertheless, external debt levels have increased substantially since the outbreak of the global financial crisis and thus pose a serious threat to economic stability in a situation when the global interest rates are again on the rise. Thus, substantially hiking up investment in traditional as well as non-traditional infrastructure in the Western Balkans without dramatically increasing the countries’ indebtedness is the primary duty in order to achieve higher long-run productivity growth and provide the population a perspective for a better future without a need to migrate. Short-run pragmatic policy recommendations include Western Balkan governments should rebalance their infrastructure investment mix to support the Green Economy; the new EU IPA III funds should be rearranged to focus more on Western Balkan alternative infrastructure sectors; in order to create the necessary financial leeway for more public investment in non-traditional infrastructure, national governments in the Western Balkans could adopt the Austrian ASFINAG model; similarly, PPP projects might be considered but these need particularly good management; the IFIs should issue GDP-linked loans for crucial investment in the region in order to avoid macro-financial crises in the future. Long-run forward-thinking policy recommendations include a Joint Project Pipeline of a Common Western Balkans Investment Committee with supranational overruling powers representing the infrastructure interests of the whole region; the creation of a Western Balkans Regional Infrastructure Fund with a much bigger volume and much stronger grant component than the current Western Balkans Investment Framework in order to curb the influence of external players in the region and reduce indebtedness; joining the euro area – even if only with limited rights, e.g. without voting rights – before EU accession would be a powerful tool to bring down interest rates and improve the financial conditions for both the private as well as the public sector’s investment. Acknowledging that often political tensions are a barrier to greater connectivity and trade between countries, support for infrastructure investment could be used as a bargaining chip in EU-brokered negotiations to solve long-standing political stalemates in the Western Balkans.
O18|Die „Europäische Seidenstraße“|The English version can be found here. In dieser Studie argumentieren wir für einen „Big Push“ bei den Infrastrukturinvestitionen im größeren Europa. Wir schlagen den Bau einer „Europäischen Seidenstraße“ vor, welche die industriellen Zentren im Westen mit den bevölkerungsreichen, aber weniger entwickelten Gebieten im Osten des Kontinents verbinden und damit für mehr Wachstum und Beschäftigung sowohl kurz- als auch mittel- und langfristig sorgen soll. Im Vollausbau soll die „Europäische Seidenstraße“ auf dem Landweg rund 11.000 Kilometer auf einer Nordroute von Lissabon bis Uralsk an der russisch-kasachischen Grenze und auf einer Südroute von Mailand bis nach Wolgograd und Baku verlaufen. Kernstücke sind im Norden die Strecke von Lyon bis Moskau und im Süden von Mailand bis Konstanza. Die Südroute würde Mitteleuropa mit dem Schwarzmeerraum und den Anrainerstaaten des Kaspischen Meeres verbinden. Eine moderne Autobahn- und Hochgeschwindigkeitszugstrecke mit einer Reihe von Logistikzentren, See-, Fluss- und Flughäfen soll neue europäische Standards unter anderem in der E-Mobilität setzen. Der Vollausbau würde rund 1.000 Milliarden Euro oder rund 8% des Bruttoinlandsproduktes der auf den beiden Routen liegenden Länder ausmachen. Die Kosten relativ zur Wirtschaftsleistung der EU machen rund 7% aus. Über einen Investitionszeitraum von 10 Jahren könnte die „Europäische Seidenstraße“ entlang der Routen nach einer konservativen Schätzung zu einem Wirtschaftswachstum von durchschnittlich 3,5% und einem Anstieg der Beschäftigung von rund 2 Millionen führen. Unter günstigen Umständen und bei weiterhin anhaltenden niedrigen Zinsen kann mit einem Beschäftigungseffekt von über 7 Millionen im größeren Europa gerechnet werden. Alleine auf der Nordroute in den russischen Zentralraum könnte die verbesserte Infrastruktur der Kernstrecke bedeutende Zeitersparnisse von über 8% im Straßentransport bringen. Das wäre im Schnitt und beispielsweise auch ab Wien eine Ersparnis von rund 2,5 Stunden. Damit könnten die Länder entlang der Nordroute ihre Exporte nach Russland um über 11% steigern. Dies würde zusätzliche Exporte von über 12,5 Milliarden Euro bedeuten. Die österreichische Exportwirtschaft würde ganz besonders von diesen Infrastrukturmaßnahmen profitieren. Österreichs Russland-Exporte würden um über 14% ansteigen. Das sind rund 330 Millionen Euro. Die Baumaßnahmen bringen Österreich 34.000 Arbeitsplätze. Unter günstigen Umständen könnten bis zu 121.000 neue Jobs in Österreich geschaffen werden. English Summary A ‘European Silk Road’ The study concludes that Europe should respond to China’s New Silk Road initiative with a coherent infrastructure network and transport strategy of its own to leverage its economic potential. It should not rely on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to achieve this, but invest itself to ensure that it suits European priorities. Nevertheless, a ‘European Silk Road’ can be seen as complementary to China’s efforts. The study finds that the development of a European Silk Road could create 2-7 million new jobs and could increase GDP on average by 3.5% in Wider Europe over a ten-year period. Eastern Europe in particular needs an upgrading of its transport infrastructure. If this is achieved, the boost to incomes and living standards would be particularly significant in that part of the continent, as a ‘big push’ in transport infrastructure investment has the potential to industrialise broad sectors of the economy.
O18|A ‘European Silk Road’|The German version can be found here. In this study we argue for a ‘Big Push’ in infrastructure investments in greater Europe. We propose the building of a European Silk Road, which connects the industrial centres in the west with the populous, but less developed regions in the east of the continent and thereby is meant to generate more growth and employment in the short term as well as in the medium and long term. After its completion, the European Silk Road would extend overland around 11,000 kilometres on a northern route from Lisbon to Uralsk on the Russian-Kazakh border and on a southern route from Milan to Volgograd and Baku. Central parts are the route from Lyon to Moscow in the north and from Milan to Constanţa in the south. The southern route would link Central Europe with the Black Sea area and the Caspian Sea littoral states. A state-of-the-art motorway and high-speed railway line with a string of logistics centres, seaports, river ports and airports shall set new European standards, among others in e-mobility. The full extension would constitute around EUR 1,000 billion or approximately 8% of the gross domestic product of the countries situated along its two routes. The costs relative to the EU’s economic output amount to about 7%. According to a conservative estimate, the European Silk Road could lead to an economic growth of 3.5% on average and an increase in employment of around 2 million along its routes in the course of an investment period of 10 years. Under favourable circumstances and at continued low interest rates, an employment creation of over 7 million can be expected in greater Europe. The improved infrastructure of the key route could yield significant time savings of over 8% in road transport on the northern route into the central region of Russia alone. On average this would save approximately 2.5 hours, for instance from Vienna. Thus the countries along the northern route would be able to increase their exports to Russia by more than 11%. This would imply additional exports of over EUR 12.5 billion. The Austrian export industry would particularly benefit from these infrastructural measures. Austria’s exports to Russia would rise by over 14%. This corresponds to about EUR 330 million. The construction projects would create 34,000 jobs in Austria. Under favourable conditions, up to 121,000 new jobs could be created in Austria. Summary A ‘European Silk Road’ The study concludes that Europe should respond to China’s New Silk Road initiative with a coherent infrastructure network and transport strategy of its own to leverage its economic potential. It should not rely on China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) to achieve this, but invest itself to ensure that it suits European priorities. Nevertheless, a ‘European Silk Road’ can be seen as complementary to China’s efforts. The study finds that the development of a European Silk Road could create 2-7 million new jobs and could increase GDP on average by 3.5% in Wider Europe over a ten-year period. Eastern Europe in particular needs an upgrading of its transport infrastructure. If this is achieved, the boost to incomes and living standards would be particularly significant in that part of the continent, as a ‘big push’ in transport infrastructure investment has the potential to industrialise broad sectors of the economy.
O18|High-speed rail and inventory reduction: Firm-level evidence from China|Using a balanced panel of manufacturing firms from China between 2007 and 2013, we estimate that being connected to a high-speed rail system leads to 9.5% reduction in local firms' input inventory spending. The e ect is stronger for downstream industries and private enterprises. A back-of-envelope calculation suggests that each dollar of HSR investment reduces input inventory stock by 12 cents, which is significantly larger than the e ects found in previous studies based on highway or road investment. Declines in transportation and communication cost, as well as agglomeration e ect are identified as plausible mechanisms. Our findings reveal a micro channel through which improved transport infrastructure brings about economic gains, and contribute to the cost-benefit assessment of high-speed rail investment.
O18|Rethinking Policy Evaluation – Do Simple Neural Nets Bear Comparison with Synthetic Control Method?|With the advent of big data in economics machine learning algorithms become more and more appealing to economists. Despite some attempts of establishing artificial neural networks in in the early 1990s, only little is known about their ability of estimating causal effects in policy evaluation. We employ a simple forecasting neural network to analyze the effect of the construction of the Oresund bridge on the local economy. The outcome is compared to the causal effect estimated by the proven Synthetic Control Method. Our results suggest that – especially in so-called prediction policy problems – neural nets may outperform traditional approaches.
O18|Measuring Financial Capability of the Street Vendors|Financial capability of an individual is the ability to use and manage financial products for current and future financial needs with adequate financial knowledge. This paper examines financial capability on four dimensionsfinancial management to meet current needs, future financial planning, financial products management, and financial knowledge using a sample of street vendors in Bhubaneswar, India. A financial capability index for each individual in the sample has been calculated in a manner that satisfies monotonicity, anonymity, normalisation, uniformity, shortfall sensitivity and hiatus sensitivity to level axioms. We find that education, age, business experience, and daily turnover significantly affect the financial capability of an individual. Moreover, street vendors in regions with higher number of bank branches are found to have significantly higher financial capability
O18|Regionale Analyse des Gründungsgeschehens in Nordrhein-Westfalen - 2015 bis 2017|Das IfM Bonn hat mittels Sonderauswertungen der Gewerbeanzeigenstatistik und Angaben der Finanzverwaltungen das Gründungsgeschehen in den Wirtschaftsregionen Nordrhein-Westfalens analysiert. Dabei zeigen sich zum Teil erhebliche Unterschiede zwischen den Regionen, z.B. in der Existenzgründungsintensität, der Entwicklung im Zeitverlauf und der Bedeutung bestimmter Tätigkeitsbereiche. Eine hohe Gründungsintensität weisen die Regio-nen Düsseldorf/Kreis Mettmann und Köln-Bonn auf, sowohl im Bereich der gewerblichen als auch der freiberuflichen Gründungen. Gründungsschwach in diesem Sinne sind die Regionen Südwestfalen, Ostwestfalen-Lippe und das Münsterland.
O18|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
O18|Strukturwandel in der Wissensökonomie: Eine Analyse von Branchen-, Lage- und Regionseffekten in Deutschland|"Der vorliegende Thünen-Report diskutiert die Ergebnisse einer Analyse des Branchenstrukturwandels in Deutschland auf Kreisebene. Im Zentrum steht die Frage danach, in welchem Ausmaß wirtschaftliche Entwicklung strukturell determiniert ist. Theoretisch wird ausgehend von der neuen Wachstumstheorie argumentiert, dass in der modernen Ökonomie das Wissen der zentrale differenzierende Produktionsfaktor ist. Eine Differenzierung unterschiedlich mobiler Wissensformen ermöglicht es, theoretische Erwartungen zur Verteilung und Entwicklung verschiedener Branchen in städtischen und ländlichen Regionen in den ""alten"" und den ""neuen"" Bundesländern Deutschlands abzuleiten. Die empirische Analyse beruht im Wesentlichen auf einer entsprechend differenzierten Shift-Share-Regression, mit der die Entwicklung der Zahl von Betrieben und Beschäftigten auf Kreisebene in Branchen- und Regionseffekte zerlegt werden kann. Die ermittelten Effekte werden in einem zweiten Schritt weiter statistisch untersucht, um unter anderem unterschiedliche, nicht lineare Brancheneffekte zu identifizieren. Die Analyse bestätigt die wichtigsten theoretisch abgeleiteten Erwartungen: Die Wirtschaft prosperierender ländlicher Räume wird vor allem vom produzierenden Gewerbe getragen, auch wenn dessen eigene Beschäftigungsanteile rückläufig sind. Das für die Wettbewerbsfähigkeit seiner kleineren und mittleren Unternehmen relevante Erfahrungswissen ist nur begrenzt mobil. [...]"
O18|Klimaanpassung in Land- und Forstwirtschaft: Ergebnisse eines Workshops der Ressortforschungsinstitute FLI, JKI und Thünen-Institut|Das Working Paper stellt die Ergebnisse einer Umfrage und eines Workshops zusammen, die von Wissenschaftlern und Wissenschaftlerinnen der Ressortforschungsinstitute Thünen-Institut, Julius Kühn-Institut (JKI) und Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut (FLI) im Herbst 2016 zusammengetragen und diskutiert worden sind. Ziel des Workshops und der Umfrage war, den Stand des Wissens zu Klimaanpassungsthemen in der Ressortforschung des BMEL und die zukünftigen Herausforderungen einer Anpassung an den Klimawandel in der deutschen Land- und Forstwirtschaft zu analysieren. Die deutsche Land- und Forstwirtschaft ist von primären Klimafolgen wie stetig steigenden Durchschnittstemperaturen, veränderten Niederschlagsmustern und immer häufiger auftretenden, regional und saisonal sehr unterschiedlich ausgeprägten Extremwetterereignissen betroffen. Zudem führen sekundäre Klimafolgen wie ein erhöhter Schaderreger- und Infektionsdruck, Probleme bei der Bekämpfung von Schadnagern in Land- und Forstwirtschaft, eine Verschiebung der Vegetationsphasen oder eine Änderung der Produktqualität zu höheren Anbau- und Produktionsrisiken. Viele ertragswirksame Faktoren wie z. B. steigende Ozon-Konzentrationen und deren Interaktion mit Schädlingsbefall und Extremwetterereignissen sind noch weitgehend ungeklärt. Der CO2-Düngeeffekt, höhere Temperaturen und die Verlängerung der Vegetationsperiode bieten aber auch Chancen für die deutsche Landwirtschaft, vor allem für den Pflanzenbau. Im Vergleich zu anderen Regionen der Welt werden die Produktionsbedingungen in Mitteleuropa voraussichtlich auch künftig stabil und günstig für den Pflanzenbau bleiben. Damit verbunden sind Möglichkeiten, stabil hohe und ggf. höhere pflanzenbauliche Erträge zu erzielen und die Wettbewerbsfähigkeit der deutschen Landwirtschaft an den Weltagrarmärkten zu verbessern. Zum Teil kann durch eine Anpassung der Produktionssysteme von Kulturpflanzen und in der Tierhaltung mit relativ einfachen Maßnahmen auf Klimaänderungen reagiert werden. Es werden jedoch weitere Maßnahmen und vor allem auch Strategien für den Umgang mit Klimafolgen und Extremwetterereignissen benötigt. Insgesamt wird eine regionalspezifische Ausrichtung der Produktionssysteme immer wichtiger. Im Forst ist es von essentieller Bedeutung, die am besten an die zukünftigen Klimabedingungen einzelner Standorte angepassten Baumarten und Herkünfte zu identifizieren und in die Bestände zu integrieren. Parallel dazu sollte die Identifizierung der genetischen Grundlagen einzelner Resistenz- und Toleranzmerkmale gegenüber abiotischen und biotischen Schadfaktoren verstärkt erforscht und die Ergebnisse für die gezielte Züchtung resistenter Bäume genutzt werden.Für den Ackerbau werden angepasste und tolerante Sorten sowie Ertragsmodelle benötigt, die sowohl Schäden durch Extremwetterereignisse als auch durch Schaderreger vorbeugen, aber auch positive Faktoren und Interaktionen nutzen können. Die Modelle werden auch als Grundlage der Bewertung von Risikomanagementsystemen benötigt. Zudem besteht Bedarf an der Entwicklung von (digitalen) Entscheidungshilfen für den bestmöglichen und effektivsten Düngezeitpunkt, eine gezielte Bewässerung oder auch die Anwendung von Pflanzenschutzmitteln. Anpassungsmaßnahmen sollten anhand ihrer Kosten und Nutzen aus ökonomischer, ökologischer und gesellschaftlicher Sicht bewertet werden. Um Handlungsempfehlungen zum Anbau einzelner Kulturen an verschiedenen Standorten erarbeiten zu können, ist neben der wissenschaftlichen Analyse der Risiken ebenso die weitere Erforschung der Chancen, die sich durch die erwarteten Klimaänderungen ergeben könnten, erforderlich. [...]
O18|Shedding Light on the Spatial Diffusion of Disasters|Climate research suggests that global warming will lead to more frequent and more extreme natural disasters. Most disasters are local events with effects on local economic growth. Hence, assessing their economic impacts with the help of econometric country-level analysis may lead to biased results. Moreover, correct identification is further complicated by the possibility that local shocks shift production and consumption to neighboring locations. In this paper, annual night-time light emission data covering about 24,000 grid cells for the years 1992-2013 are matched to geocoded information on meteorological and geological events. Spatial econometric panel methods are applied to account for interdependencies between locations. Interpreting variation in light emissions as reflecting changes in economic activity, findings convey evidence for pronounced local average treatment effects and strong spatial spillovers, particularly for weather shocks. In particular, results suggest that spatial shifts of economic activity after a natural disaster are a rather local phenomenon, stressing the importance of local adaptation policies. Moreover, substantial heterogeneity across income groups and regions is identified.
O18|Fast Track to Growth? Railway Access, Population Growth and Local Displacement in 19th Century Switzerland|We study the effect of railway access on population growth in 19th century Switzerland. Our analysis is based on geo-referenced railway network information and an inconsequential units IV approach. Gaining direct railway access increased annual population growth by 0.4 percentage points, while municipalities in close vicinity but no direct access (i.e. 2{10 km distance) experienced a growth slump of similar magnitude. We interpret these findings as evidence of highly localised displacement effects related to railway connections.
O18|The Making of the Modern Metropolis: Evidence from London|Modern metropolitan areas involve large concentrations of economic activity and the transport of millions of people each day between their residence and workplace. We use the revolution in transport technology from the invention of steam railways, newly-constructed spatially-disaggregated data for London from 1801-1921, and a quantitative urban model to provide evidence on the role of these commuting flows in supporting such concentrations of economic activity. Steam railways dramatically reduced travel times and permitted the first large-scale separation of workplace and residence. We show that our model is able to account for the observed changes in the organization of economic activity, both qualitatively and quantitatively. In counterfactuals, we find that removing the entire railway network reduces the population and the value of land and buildings in Greater London by 20 percent or more, and brings down commuting into the City of London from more than 370,000 to less than 60,000 workers.
O18|One or Many Cohesion Policies of the European Union? On the Diverging Impacts of Cohesion Policy across Member States|Do regions in all Member States (MSs) of the European Union (EU) benefit from Cohesion Policy? Are regional impacts persistently diversified across countries? In order to answer these questions this paper explores how the impact of the EU Cohesion Policy on growth and employment varies across countries. A spatial Regression Discontinuity Design (RDD) makes it possible estimate distinct but fully comparable impacts for each individual MS both before the Great Recession and during recovery. The results show that Cohesion Policy has exerted a positive and significant EU-wide impact on both regional economic growth and employment. However, regional impacts are not evenly distributed across MSs. Large part of the regional growth bonus generated by Cohesion Policy is concentrated in Germany. Conversely, impacts on regional employment are confined to the United Kingdom. The picture for beneficiary regions in Southern European Member States is less rosy with positive impacts on employment in Italy until the Great Recession and on economic growth in the recovery period in Spain.
O18|Cohesion Policy Incentives for Collaborative Industrial Research. The Evaluation of a Smart Specialisation Forerunner Programme|This paper evaluates a program of subsidies for Collaborative Industrial Research (co-)funded by the EU Cohesion Policy in Italy mobilizing over 1 billion euros. This program anticipated in the 2007-2013 funding cycle some of the key features of Smart Specialization Strategy (S3) programmes, offering evidence-based insights on potential challenges to the practical application of the S3 approach. The programme was not successful in boosting investments, value added or employment of beneficiary firms. The collaborative dimension of the projects added limited value and a more generous level funding would have not improved effectiveness. However, positive impacts emerged in low tech sectors.
O18|Shedding Light on the Spatial Diffusion of Disasters|Climate research suggests that global warming will lead to more frequent and more extreme natural disasters. Most disasters are local events with effects on local economic activity. Hence, assessing their economic impacts with the help of econometric country-level analysis may lead to biased results. Moreover, correct identification is further complicated by the possibility that local shocks shift production and consumption to neighboring locations. In this paper, annual night-time light emission data covering about 24,000 grid cells for the years 1992-2013 are matched to geocoded information on meteorological and geological events. Spatial econometric panel methods are applied to account for interdependencies between locations. Interpreting variation in light emissions as reflecting changes in economic activity, findings convey evidence for pronounced local average treatment effects and strong spatial spillovers, particularly for weather shocks. Moreover, substantial heterogeneity across income groups and regions is identified.
O18|What Stayers Do? Capital Endowments and On-Farm Transitions in Rural China|While much research on China has focused on rural to urban migration and transitions of rural households away from agriculture, little is known about the changes within the rural agricultural sector. Yet, the agricultural sector continues to account for a large share of employment. We study the determinants of transitions from subsistence farming into either formal agricultural employment or agricultural self-employment. We pay particular attention to the role of capital endowments. We find that financial capital plays a relatively limited role, compared to natural, human, social and political capital.
O18|A Threshold Model of Urban Development|We propose a simple model of distribution of economic activity across cities of endogenous size and number determined by individual incentives in the tradition of threshold models of social interaction. The individuals populating our model are endowed with idiosyncratic entrepreneurial creativity the realization of which requires urban agglomeration linked to a crowding cost. As the latter is higher in cities of larger size, this leads to a trade-off between productivity and congestion. While our focus on distributive aspects comes at the cost of highly stylized behavior, we aim to provide a tractable framework to think about the interlinkages between various measures of urban development which became increasingly available through accessible data sets. Our predictions include an U-shaped relationship between the well-known measures of urbanization and urban primacy, a hypothesis that we test empirically using World Bank data.
O18|Top Lights: Bright cities and their contribution to economic development|Tracking the development of cities in emerging economies is difficult with conventional data. We show that satellite images of nighttime lights are a reliable proxy for economic activity at the city level, provided they are first corrected for topcoding. The commonly-used data fail to capture the true brightness of many cities. We present a stylized model of urban luminosity and empirical evidence which both suggest that these 'top lights' can be characterized by a Pareto distribution. We then propose a simple correction procedure which recovers the full distribution of city lights. Our results show that the brightest cities account for nearly a third of global economic activity. Applying this approach to cities in Sub-Saharan Africa, we find that primate cities are outgrowing secondary cities but are changing from within. Poorer neighborhoods are developing, but sub-centers are forming so that Africa's largest cities are also becoming increasingly fragmented.
O18|Telecommunication Submarine-Cable Deployment and the Digital Divide in Sub-Saharan Africa|The recent deployment of fibre-optic submarine cables (SMCs) in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) raised the prospects for the digital economy expansion and the whole sub-continent take-off, but also exposed countries and populations to new sources of vulnerability. This paper provides empirical evidence on the ambivalent effect of SMC deployment on the digital divide in 46 SSA countries. On the one hand, results show that the laying of SEACOM, MainOne and EASSy cables in 2009-2010 has yielded a three percentage points increase in internet penetration rates. This is a huge increase, meaning that the deployment of these cables has almost doubled the penetration of Internet in the sub-continent’s population. On the other hand, exogenous sources of telecommunication disruptions related to SMC laying – the country’s exposure to SMC outages and digital isolation – are found to reduce internet and mobile penetration rates, to lower investments in ICTs, and to increase mobile-cellular tariffs and the wireline network instability. Therefore, while SMC arrival in SSA has reduced the digital divide, this divide would be lower if SSA countries were less digitally vulnerable.
O18|China’s Mobility Barriers and Employment Allocations|China's hukou system imposes two main barriers to population movements. Agricultural workers get land to cultivate but are unable to trade it in a frictionless market. Social transfers (education, health, etc.) are conditional on holding a local hukou. We show that the land policy leads to over-employment in agriculture and it is the more important barrier to industrialization. Effective land tenure guarantees and a perfect competitive rental market would correct this inefficiency. The local restrictions on social transfers favour rural enterprises over urban employment with a relatively smaller impact on industrialization.
O18|The wider impacts of high-technology employment: Evidence from U.S. cities|Innovative, high-technology industries are commonly described as drivers of regional development. ‘Tech’ workers earn high wages, but they are also said to generate knock-on effects throughout the local economies that host them, spurring growth in jobs and wages in nontradable activities. At the same time, in iconic high-tech agglomerations like the San Francisco Bay Area, the home of Silicon Valley, the success of the tech industry creates tensions, in part as living costs rise beyond the reach of many non-tech workers. Across a large sample of U.S. cities, this paper explores these issues systematically. Combining annual data on wages, employment and prices from the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Consumer Price Index, it estimates how growth in tradable tech employment affects the real, living-cost deflated wages of local workers in nontradable sectors. Results indicate that high-technology employment has significant, positive, but modest effects on the real wages of workers in nontradable sectors. These effects appear to be spread consistently across different kinds of nontradable activities. In terms of substantive wider impacts, tech appears benign, though fairly ineffectual.
O18|Lightning the future of education in Brazil: the impact of rural electrification on educational outcomes|We analyze the impact of rural electricity access on different educational outcomes for children by taking advantage of the priorization criteria of the brazilian program Luz Para Todos (LPT) which determines an assignment variable that extracts the exogenous variation in rural electricity access. Using test scores and census data at the school and child level we establish that having electricity access through LPT has a positive and significant effect on Language and Math test scores for 5th and 9th graders, on literacy likelihood and on approval rates. We argument that the effect is driven by an increase in electricity access and use within schools which empirically remarks the importance of electrical device access and technology use on modern education.
O18|Conectando mercados: vías rurales y producción agrícola en el contexto de una economía dual|Las economías en desarrollo se caracterizan por la coexistencia de sectores tradicionales y modernos, resultado de fallas de mercado, principalmente, costos de transacción. Las vías rurales son uno de los mecanismos para suavizar estas fricciones pues facilitan el acceso a mercados. Estudio el efecto que cambios en la calidad de las vías rurales tienen sobre las decisiones de producción agrícola de los hogares colombianos y encuentro efectos heterogéneos según la distancia a los mercados nacionales y locales. Los hogares centrales reducen su producción mientras los hogares periféricos la expanden, se vuelven más productivos e intensifican el uso de insumos. Este trabajo se une a la literatura que analiza el impacto de vías rurales sobre la productividad agrícola y el cambio estructural.
O18|La desigualdad económica entre las regiones de Colombia, 1926-2016|Este documento estima la actividad económica regional observada durante el siglo XX en Colombia. Se hace un recuento de los factores que incidieron sobre el desempeño económico de las regiones, entre los cuales se considera la baja integración de los mercados locales y el desarrollo tardío de la infraestructura de transporte. Dado que las cifras oficiales de producción regional sólo están disponibles para las últimas tres décadas, se presenta una estimación de la actividad económica para seis regiones colombianas durante el siglo XX. Dicha estimación permite la aplicación de técnicas de análisis de convergencia regional, como las realizadas por Robert Barro y Xavier Sala-i-Martin. Se concluye que Colombia es un país donde no se ha observado un proceso de convergencia regional del producto per cápita. La producción se concentra en las regiones cercanas al centro del país, mientras que las regiones periféricas como las costas Caribe y Pacífica presentan una disminución en términos relativos en su actividad económica per cápita. **** ABSTRACT: This paper estimates regional economic activity in Colombia during the 20th century. Some factors that influenced the development of regional inequalities in economic activity are, among others, the low regional integration because of the late development of transport infrastructure. Given that official data on economic activity is only available for the last three decades, we present an estimation of regional production for the 20th century. These estimations are then used to discuss the absence of regional convergence in the country. Well-known techniques used in the literature of economic convergence are applied, such as those proposed by Robert Barro and Xavier Sala-i-Martin. We conclude that the central regions in Colombia have improved in terms of their per capita economic production, while peripheral regions, such as the Caribbean and Pacific coasts, have lagged in relative terms.
O18|Proyecciones de actividad económica regional 2017-2021|Informe presentado a Emgesa S.A ESP sobre las principales tendencias y proyecciones del Producto Interno Bruto - PIB, crecimiento económico, actividades socioeconómicas a nivel nacional, regional y departamental de Colombia. Incluye anexos de datos históricos y proyectados por regiones y por ramas de actividad económica (Proyecciones Fedesarrollo).
O18|Costo económico de la inestabilidad y debilidad institucional de la gestión socio-ambiental de los proyectos de inversión en los sectores de minería energía e infraestructura en Colombia|Foro de un grupo de empresas que analizan el entorno de las inversiones con el propósito de hacer diagnósticos y recomendaciones para la remoción de los obstáculos al buen funcionamiento de los mercados y su regulación. Encomiendan un estudio a Fedesarrollo para determinar el impacto de la debilidad institucional y de la inestabilidad normativa en la gestión socio ambiental de los grandes proyectos de inversión de Colombia. Aquí presentamos únicamente los mineros y de hidrocarburos.
O18|Limitantes sociales y políticos de la industrialización por sustitución de importaciones en Colombia 1950-1980|El presente trabajo tiene como objetivo lograr un acercamiento a las dificultades sociales y políticas por las cuales atravesó el modelo de Industrialización por Sustitución de Importaciones (ISI) en Colombia. A lo largo del texto se realiza un recorrido por diversos problemas afrontados en el país entre 1950 y 1980, periodo durante el cual el problema agrario, el conflicto armado y la falta de una élite económica que propiciara un proceso de industrialización aparecen como razones generadoras de dificultades en el proceso de industrialización colombiano. Finalmente, se concluye que estos motivos generan consecuencias que no permiten consolidar un mercado interno fuerte, factor fundamental para el proceso de industrialización.
O18|Instituciones como factor decisivo para el crecimiento económico|Este documento busca caracterizar la relación existente entre el crecimiento económico y el papel desempeñado por las instituciones en una economía, ya que determinan los incentivos y las limitaciones de los actores económicos, y dan forma a los resultados económicos. Para este fin se realizará una revisión de las teorías vigentes sobre desarrollo económico que incluyen o parten de una visión institucionalista y neoinstitucionalista desarrollando los aspectos de la ontología de las instituciones, la gobernanza, la corrupción como factor que limita el crecimiento económico, y la introducción de la distribución de la propiedad de la tierra como antesala al desarrollo equitativo. El documento se apoya principalmente en las publicaciones de Douglass North, Daron Acemoglu y James Robinson.
O18|Roadways, Input Sourcing, and Patterns of Specialisation|We propose a model where the internal transport network facilitates the sourcing of intermediate goods from di¤erent locations. E¢ cient internal transportation promotes thus the growth of industries that rely on a large variety of inputs. The model shows that heterogeneities in internal transport infrastructures can become a key factor in shaping comparative advantage and specialisation. Moreover, when su¢ ciently pronounced, such heterogeneities may even overshadow more traditional sources of specialisation based on factor productivities. Evidence based on industry-level trade data grants support to the main prediction of the model: countries with denser road networks export relatively more in industries that exhibit wider input bases. We show that this correlation is robust to several possible confounding e¤ects proposed by the literature, such as the impact of institutions on specialisation in complex goods. Furthermore, we show that a similar correlation also arises when the density of the local transport network is measured by the density of their internal waterways, rather than by roadway density.
O18|The Economic Effects on Regional Australia of RUN-member Universities|The study analyses the impacts of selected regional universities on regional economies within Australia using a multi-regional CGE model, VU-TERM. Universities enhance a community's knowledge base through teaching and research, raising productivity within the region. To depict the regional economic contribution of universities, we simulate a hypothetical removal of regional campuses. We estimate demand-side shocks using expenditure patterns of university enrolees. Supply-side impacts use inputs from econometric studies estimating rates-of-return to levels of educational attainment. Armidale's local economy is hit hardest by a hypothetical removal of its university. Other regions suffering substantial losses include Ballarat, Toowoomba and Rockhampton.
O18|Equilibrium selection and stability in dynamic core-periphery models with heterogeneous preferences|In New Economic Geography, recent models have shown that idiosyncratic preferences of workers for locations act as a dispersion force affecting the number and stability of equilibrium population distributions. Yet those models are based on ad hoc deterministic adjustment procedures that have two shortcomings. Firstly, they remove the aggregate effect of idiosyncratic preferences on the collective spatial dynamics of workers, whose study would require the use of specific notions of equilibrium stability. Secondly, these adjustment dynamics lack an explicit time unit that prevents adjustment trajectories to be expressed as dynamic scenarios. Those two shortcomings strive against the use of New Economic Geography models to support policy recommendations. Starting from a classic core-periphery model of New Economic Geography, this paper proposes a novel approach to adjustment dynamics, based on stochastic migration models, by which the dynamics of the population distribution is a continuous-time Markov chain. Using a diffusion approximation, the dynamic system is reduced to a set of Itô stochastic differential equations, which is an original contribution to New Economic Geography. In those equations, deterministic and stochastic effects are still distinct at the aggregate scale, which enables to numerically compute equilibrium population distributions as well as to evaluate their stability and selection under stochastic perturbations generated by idiosyncratic preferences. Those equations also enable to complete expected adjustment trajectories with an explicit time unit and with confidence intervals, for different scenarios. Hence this paper is a substantial improvement of the capacity of New Economic Geography models to support policy recommendations.
O18|Unintended Impacts from Forest Certification: Evidence from Indigenous Aka Households in Congo|"Does Forest Stewardship Council certification of \responsible"" commercial forestrychange nutrition, health and wealth for indigenous peoples, like the Aka of the Congo Basin? Using hand-collected data from the boundary of a certified and an uncertified forest in the Republic of Congo five years after certification, I compare nutrition, health, and wealth using questions that are locally salient and survey timing designed to reach semi-nomadic hunter-gatherers. Though I only observe outcomes after certification, I find suggestive evidence that forest certification may cause increased food insecurity and illness frequency for Aka households. I find no evidence of increased material wealth; instead, the poorest 15th percentile is poorer. Forest certification includes a bundle of activities, including participatory mapping, greater market integration and hunting restrictions, making it difficult to pinpoint the mechanisms driving these results."
O18|Place-Based Policies for Development|Many development policies, such as placement of infrastructure or local economic development schemes, are “place-based.” Such policies are generally intended to stimulate private sector investment and economic growth in the treated place, and as such they are difficult to appraise and evaluate. This paper sets out a framework for analyzing the effects of such policies and assessing their social value. It then reviews the literature on place-based policies in the contexts of transport improvements, economic corridors, special economic zones, lagging regions, and urban policies.
O18|Anonymity of distance? Job search and labour market exclusion in a growing African city|Do obstacles to job search contribute to labour market exclusion in developing countries? To answer this question, we contrast two very different interventions, designed to alleviate spatial and informational constraints for unemployed youth in a congested African city: a transport subsidy and a job-application workshop. Both treatments have large positive effects on the probability of finding stable and formal jobs. Neither treatment has a significant average effect on the overall probability of employment, but we detect a sizeable increase in earnings and employment rates among the most disadvantaged job-seekers. Our results highlight the importance of job-search constraints as mechanisms for exclusion of the most disadvantaged. They also show that, if targeted well, low-cost interventions can have large impacts, improving equity in the labour market
O18|Definition Matters : Metropolitan Areas and Agglomeration Economies in a Large Developing Country|A variety of approaches to delineate metropolitan areas have been developed. Systematic comparisons of these approaches in terms of the urban landscape that they generate are however few. This paper aims to fill this gap. The paper focuses on Indonesia and makes use of the availability of data on commuting flows, remotely-sensed nighttime lights, and spatially fine-grained population, to construct metropolitan areas using the different approaches that have been developed in the literature. The analysis finds that the maps and characteristics of Indonesia?s urban landscape vary substantially, depending on the approach used. Moreover, combining information on the metro areas generated by the different approaches with detailed micro-data from Indonesia's national labor force survey, the paper shows that the estimated size of the agglomeration wage premium depends nontrivially on the approach used to define metropolitan areas.
O18|Can Kings Create Towns that Thrive? The long-run implications of new town foundations|Town foundations have been at the core of urban planning since the onset of civilization. This paper describes the long-run impact of an urbanization place-based policy that was considered a failure by contemporary policymakers. We test the impact of founded towns using a series of town foundations that took place between 1570 and 1810, when the Swedish Crown conferred monopoly market rights to trade upon 31 previously rural ordinary parishes. We show that towns were founded in locations with little natural potential, evident in their limited impact on agricultural surplus in the surrounding hinterlands. However, the new foundations drove extensive growth in terms of population and created positive spillover effects up to 40-50 km around the settlements. Still, the founded towns remained extraordinarily small by the end of the policy period. It was not until the Industrial Revolution that these towns began to thrive. We suggest that trading rights and sunk investments initially served to coordinate expectations about future growth. Once the towns started to grow, agglomeration effects generated persistence in the long term.
O18|Regional Market Integration and City Growth in East Africa: Local but no Regional Effects?|We investigate changes in the spatial concentration of economic activities after the establishment of a regional economic community between Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda in 2001. Measuring city growth using satellite imagery of lights emanated out to space at night, we demonstrate that cities close to the community’s internal borders expanded more than other cities further away. The growth effect is temporary and also highly localized: only cities less than 90 minutes of travel from the border experience an acceleration in growth rates; after four years growth rates revert to their pre-treatment level. We show that this is consistent with an asymmetric reduction in trade costs for two types of trade modalities that co-exist in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, local small-scale trade and regional large-scale trade, with a larger reduction in costs of the former. Yet, while local e?ects are relatively large, equivalent to a 5.6% higher GDP for cities near the EAC’s internal borders, they do not imply a large reorganisation of economic activity across space nor a substantial alteration of countries’ urban systems.
O18|Regional income inequality in France : what does history teach us?|This paper studies regional income inequality in France since mid-nineteenth century. Given the dominant role played by Île-de-France and the city of Paris, which inspired the publication of “Paris et le désert française” (Gravier, 1947) and a debate on regional development in the aftermath of World War II, France seems an ideal scenario to examine the dynamics of regional income. In doing so, we first document the existing evidence before and after the development of national accounting. Using different approaches, several studies have produced regional (département, NUTS3) Gross Domestic Product (GDP) estimates from 1840 to 1930. Thus, our first contribution is to present these findings, assess the appropriateness of each methodology, and address potential concerns. The comparison of existing estimates for 1861-1930 raises some doubts about the pattern of regional inequality followed since 1861 to 1911. Hence we present new estimates for 1860-1930 based in the Geary and Stark (2002) method. In short, our estimates sum up new evidence in favour of an incessant decline in regional inequality since mid 19th up to 1930 and turn down the hypothesis of a potential U-shaped pattern in France since mid 19th century to nowadays. Additionally, we found that the use of nominal relative wages could overestimate the level or regional income inequality.
O18|Build It, and They Will Come? Secondary Railways and Population Density in French Algeria|This paper estimates the effect of gaining access to railways on settler and indigenous population densities in nineteenth-century French Algeria. A growing amount of research shows that railway expansion allowed previously marginalized regions to participate in international trade and thereby to boost growth. However, few studies point out that railways increased marginalization in areas that did not gain access to the infrastructure or that did not have the required geographic characteristics needed to engage in international markets. By taking advantage of unique territorial population data and digitized historical colonization maps in the Constantine region, this paper measures the effect of gaining access in relatively isolated areas where the infrastructure arrived later using a differences-in-differences combined with a propensity score matching methodology. Results show that the indigenous population responded positively to rail infrastructure only in the regions where settler density was already high, while the settler population growth did not respond to the new infrastructure. These results are consistent with an additional IV strategy. A more detailed analysis of freight and passenger transport shows that the potential gains were restricted by tariffs, which mirrored Constantine's geographical restrictions; that is, limited fertile land and the vulnerability of agricultural production to climate.
O18|Measuring Stick-Style Housing Policies: a Multi-Country Longitudinal Database of Governmental Regulations|This paper introduces a new international longitudinal database of governmental housing policies. The regulations are measured using binary variables based on a thorough analysis of the real-time country-specific legislation. Three major restrictive policies are considered: rent control, protection from restriction, and housing rationing. The database covers 47 countries and states between 1910 and 2018. This allows comparisons of regulation stringency across both time and space. The analysis reveals a surge of all restrictive policies in the first half of the 20th century. However, following World War II, the evolution of policies diverged: while rent control became more flexible or was phased out, tenure security stabilized at a high level or even increased, while housing rationing became used less frequently. An application of dynamic multivariate longitudinal clustering permits dividing the sample in two groups. One cluster comprises countries with more flexible rent control, stronger tenure security, and more housing rationing. It mostly includes European continental countries. Another cluster unifies countries with a more rigid rent control, weaker tenant protection, and rarely used housing rationing.
O18|3 - Descentralización en Bolivia: eficacia y externalidades|Las investigaciones están divididas en capítulos y han sido ordenadas comenzando con los enfoques microeconómicos hasta llegar a los macroeconómicos. Cada capítulo contiene dos secciones. La primera ha sido llamada “síntesis de política”, donde se describe brevemente la investigación para una audiencia no especializada en el tópico tratado y se enfatiza en pautas y recomendaciones para políticas públicas. La segunda se constituye en el “estudio completo” propiamente dicho.
O18|Heterogeneous Effects of Property Rights on Housing Investment in Urban Peru|Empirical results reported by Field (2005) indicate that improved property rights tend to raise average housing investment among poor urban households in Peru. We investigate if this effect varies across households with differing incomes, how it evolves over time, and whether heterogeneous expectations about future tenure security matter for the estimated effects. The results indicate that the investment response among the poorest households represented by our sample is weak and not significant. Among households with higher incomes, the response is quantitatively large and statistically highly significant. The results further indicate that it may take several years until the response of long-run investment to reformed property rights can be found in the data. Finally, even though expectation of treatment affects the behaviour of non-treated households, the treatment effect changes only slightly when we take into account expectations in our previous estimations, indicating that our results are robust to this problem.
O18|Institutional change and the development of lagging regions in Europe|According to the dominant economic theories, economic growth is the result of a combination of three factors – physical capital, human capital or labour, and innovation –plus a residual factor or error term, which represents what we do not know or cannotexplain. Depending on whether a neoclassical growth (Solow, 1956; Swan, 1956) or an endogenous growth approach is adopted (Romer, 1986: Lucas, 1988), the weight attributed to each of the components varies, but they remain, in different guises the fundamental drivers informing development policies across the world. The European Union’s (EU) regional development and cohesion policy has been no exception. The bulk of cohesion investments have been channelled towards improving the infrastructure endowment and accessibility of the least developed regions of the EU, as well as increasing the availability and quality of human resources, and developing the innovative capacity of individuals and firms across lagging areas of Europe.
O18|Please in my back yard: the private and public benefits of a new tram line in Florence|Urban agglomerations, revealing the highest levels of productivity and growth, raise severe congestion problems. This issue can be mitigated by the construction of transport facilities allowing a higher centre-suburbs permeability. The returns of similar infrastructures are under debate, especially in cities characterized by huge artistic and urbanistic constraints. The purpose of this paper is to estimate the private and public benefits of a new tramline recently built in Florence. We apply the synthetic control method on metropolitan micro-zones in order to estimate the impact of the facility on house prices in the suburbs located close to the tram stops. We also estimate a hedonic pricing model on individual bids downloaded from a popular real estate agency. The results, coherent in both approaches, demonstrate that houses located in proximity to the new tram network register a price increase of 200-300 euros per square meter, the 7-10 per cent of the total value. The study also confirms the presence of public benefits related to the facility in terms of accidents reduction and improved air quality.
O18|La desigualdad económica entre las regiones de Colombia, 1926-2016|Este documento estima la actividad económica regional observada durante el siglo XX en Colombia. Se hace un recuento de los factores que incidieron sobre el desempeño económico de las regiones, entre los cuales se considera la baja integración de los mercados locales y el desarrollo tardío de la infraestructura de transporte. Dado que las cifras oficiales de producción regional sólo están disponibles para las últimas tres décadas, se presenta una estimación de la actividad económica para seis regiones colombianas durante el siglo XX. Dicha estimación permite la aplicación de técnicas de análisis de convergencia regional, como las realizadas por Robert Barro y Xavier Sala-i-Martin. Se concluye que Colombia es un país donde no se ha observado un proceso de convergencia regional del producto per cápita. La producción se concentra en las regiones cercanas al centro del país, mientras que las regiones periféricas como las costas Caribe y Pacífica presentan una disminución en términos relativos en su actividad económica per cápita. **** ABSTRACT: This paper estimates regional economic activity in Colombia during the 20th century. Some factors that influenced the development of regional inequalities in economic activity are, among others, the low regional integration because of the late development of transport infrastructure. Given that official data on economic activity is only available for the last three decades, we present an estimation of regional production for the 20th century. These estimations are then used to discuss the absence of regional convergence in the country. Well-known techniques used in the literature of economic convergence are applied, such as those proposed by Robert Barro and Xavier Sala-i-Martin. We conclude that the central regions in Colombia have improved in terms of their per capita economic production, while peripheral regions, such as the Caribbean and Pacific coasts, have lagged in relative terms.
O18|Evolving practice in land demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
O18|Not all cities are alike : House price heterogeneity and the design of macro-prudential policies in China|This paper investigates the implementation of regionally differentiated macro-prudential policies in China. To assess the relative intensity of the city-level macro-prudential policies over time, we construct a time-varying city-level macro-prudential policy intensity indicator for 70 Chinese cities from 2010-2017. The empirical evidence shows China’s macro-prudential toolbox has gradually evolved toward city-level policies tailored to granular local conditions to mitigate risks.
O18|Revisiting the determinants of non-farm income in the Peruvian Andes in a context of intraseasonal climate variability and spatially widespread family networks|Las fuentes de ingresos no agrícolas son cada vez más importantes en el mundo en vías de desarrollo, representando hasta el 50 por ciento del ingreso promedio de los hogares rurales. Aunque existe una amplia literatura sobre los determinantes de las estrategias de diversificación de ingresos de los hogares rurales, dos factores asociados con las transformaciones a largo plazo y comunes a muchos países en vías de desarrollo aún no se han integrado al análisis: (i) el rol de la variabilidad climática intraestacional (afectada por el cambio climático), y (ii) el rol de las redes familiares ubicadas en áreas distantes (cada vez más relevante dado el desplazamiento de la población debido al conflicto interno y al aumento de la conectividad a través de carreteras y comunicaciones). Mientras que un aumento en la variabilidad climática implica un aumento en el riesgo y la vulnerabilidad para las actividades agrícolas, las redes familiares ubicadas en regiones distantes (que no comparten el clima local o los shocks del mercado) pueden convertirse en un activo clave para gestionar el riesgo y promover oportunidades de ingresos (siempre y cuando transmitan información y oportunidades que no estén disponibles a través de las redes locales). Dadas las imperfecciones del mercado que son comunes en las áreas rurales en desarrollo, especialmente aquellas relacionadas con la gestión del riesgo climático, la consideración explícita de ambos factores es clave para entender las estrategias de diversificación de los hogares rurales. Este estudio tiene como objetivo contribuir con esta agenda pendiente, investigando el rol de estos dos factores en la diversificación de ingresos de un hogar en actividades no agrícolas en los Andes peruanos, una región montañosa con gran variabilidad climática intraestacional y conectividad espacial limitada pero creciente, donde la población rural la población se vio severamente afectada por el conflicto interno que tuvo lugar en el país durante los años ochenta y noventa. Se modelan dos resultados económicos: la proporción de horas de trabajo no agrícolas y la proporción de los ingresos del trabajo no agrícola. Se encuentra que al controlar por otros activos y condiciones ambientales, los hogares con redes distantes, pero fuertes tienden a diversificarse más en actividades no agrícolas (los resultados sugieren que existe un efecto de sustitución entre los vínculos lejanos fuertes y débiles). Los aumentos en la variabilidad climática intraestacional (representados por el rango de temperatura durante la temporada principal de cultivo) inducen a los hogares rurales a aumentar la participación relativa de los ingresos no agrícolas y las horas de trabajo. El análisis muestra efectos heterogéneos dentro de la región andina. Mientras que en la región norte y las áreas más frías de la región centroandina (menos de 13ºC durante la temporada de cultivo) un aumento en la variabilidad climática intraestacional induce a los hogares rurales a aumentar las actividades generadoras de ingresos no agrícolas, la región sur no muestra un impacto significativo. Se necesita de un análisis más amplio para comprender si esta falta de un efecto se explica por las respuestas relacionadas con la granja. Estos resultados sugieren que las intervenciones centradas en ayudar a los agricultores a hacer frente al cambio climático deberían considerar no solo las actividades agrícolas, sino también las habilidades y los activos necesarios para acceder a ocupaciones no agrícolas. Un tipo de activo que generalmente es descuidado por los proyectos de desarrollo son las redes distantes de los hogares, que de hecho pueden desempeñar un rol en las estrategias de gestión de riesgos, de acuerdo con nuestros hallazgos.
O18|Using a co-occurrence index to capture crop tolerance to climate variability: a case study of Peruvian farmers|Los pequeños agricultores peruanos de la región montañosa de los Andes han enfrentado históricamente una amplia variabilidad climática (de año a año y en la temporada de cultivo). Los conocimientos y prácticas tradicionales, incluida la diversificación de la cartera de cultivos y la selección de cultivos tolerantes, apuntan a salvaguardar la seguridad alimentaria incluso en los años “malos” cuando se materializan los riesgos relacionados con el clima o el mercado. A pesar de este conocimiento y experiencia históricos, los cambios climáticos acelerados plantean nuevos desafíos, frente a los que los agricultores luchan por adaptarse, especialmente debido a la falta de información oportuna y de recursos financieros y físicos. Comprender cómo los agricultores se están adaptando de forma autónoma es una necesidad pendiente, para poder informar a los responsables de las políticas sobre los cuellos de botella y las prácticas sostenibles que pueden fortalecerse para apoyar la adaptación eficiente. Este estudio se centra en un tipo de adaptación: seleccionar cultivos que parecen ser más tolerantes a condiciones climáticas variables. Los autores usan el índice de co-ocurrencia de Fridley et al. (2007), que mide la amplitud del nicho ecológico de una especie, para estimar la tolerancia relativa de los cultivos a un rango de condiciones ambientales. Utilizando datos del censo (paneles distritales de 1994 y 2012), estiman la tolerancia de cultivos para 252 cultivos en diversas condiciones ambientales en todo el país, desde las regiones montañosas de los Andes hasta las regiones costeras y selva amazónica. Los investigadores prueban la idoneidad del índice de cultivo para capturar la tolerancia del cultivo a condiciones climáticas variables (temperatura máxima, mínima y promedio, y precipitación) utilizando dos definiciones de variabilidad climática. Encuentran la correlación positiva esperada entre el índice y la variabilidad climática, lo que confirma la idoneidad del índice para capturar la tolerancia relativa a la variabilidad climática. También empíricamente aplican el índice para explorar el papel de la variabilidad climática intraestacional (durante la temporada de crecimiento) en la tolerancia relativa de la cartera de cultivos de los agricultores. Aunque se necesitan más análisis para modelar por completo las decisiones de los agricultores, nuestras estimaciones preliminares muestran que los agricultores ajustan sus carteras para incluir cultivos más tolerantes cuando enfrentan una mayor variabilidad climática.
O18|Agglomeration externalities in Ecuador: do urbanization and tertiarization matter?| The paper investigates whether the tertiarization and rapid urbanization faced by developing countries favour agglomeration economies. Focusing on Ecuadorian cantons, a productivity equation is estimated using the generalized method of moments model with instruments controlling for endogeneity. The varying impact of industrial concentration, diversity, competition and density across industries is investigated and, for the first time, the implication of the level of urbanization on agglomeration externalities is studied. Stronger effects are found for services. The threshold of urbanization at which diversity, density and competition agglomeration externalities all generate positive effects was 33%, while they seem challenged by congestion in highly urbanized cantons.
O18|Institutional change and the development of lagging regions in Europe|The success of the policy in delivering greater economic convergence does not hide the fact that we are witnessing a decline in the returns of intervention in the three main growth axes. There is, for example, growing concern about a potential exhaustion of additional investments in transport infrastructure and of improvements in accessibility as drivers of growth in certain lagging regions of Europe (Crescenzi and Rodríguez-Pose, 2012). While this issue remains controversial, the truth is that physical capital, human capital, and technology can explain a waning share of the variation in regional economic growth in Europe. Growth theories that accounted for differences in economic performance relatively well two decades ago are becoming less capable of doing so. The residual factor is growing, meaning that, in spite of improvements in growth theory, we tend to know less about what determines regional growth in Europe.
O18|Development Economics Meets the Challenges of Lagging U.S. Areas: Applications to Education, Health and Nutrition, Behavior, and Infrastructure|This chapter examines the development economics evidence base for insights into policy reforms that would benefit struggling areas in the United States. My focus is on improving education, physical and mental health, infrastructure, and institutions. First, consistent with findings on education policy effectiveness, I propose raising the legal minimum dropout age (prospectively to 19), providing better information about the benefits of completing high school, supporting targeted paraprofessional tutoring, and providing family financial incentives for attending school and graduating from high school. Second, to improve health outcomes in struggling areas, the focus is using and building on existing effective health and nutrition programs and services, identifying ways to include more families who are eligible for but not participating in these programs. Moreover, the recent development and behavioral economics evidence base has extended our understanding of the psychological, cognitive, and economic behavioral lives of the poor; the literature highlights the ways that poverty can impede cognitive functioning, with implications for policies to uplift lagging U.S. areas. Third, a review of evidence on the benefits of improving lagging rural and urban area transportation infrastructure points to the likely benefits of improved connectivity for lagging U.S. areas: reversing the legacy of past discriminatory policies, encouraging sector-based clusters, and extending access to high-speed internet. Finally, the chapter highlights the relevance of some cross-cutting themes in development economics, including the high returns to reliable household microdata and the importance of improving institutions to enable more inclusive, substantial, and lasting progress.
O18|Impact of Decentralized Electrification Projects on Sustainable Development: A Meta-Analysis|This paper is the first product of a project which aims to build a Collaborative Smart Mapping of Mini-grid Action (CoSMMA), whose principal objective is to identify best practice in decentralized electrification projects. Using evaluations of 421 projects, from published research papers, we built a pilot CoSMMA which proves its feasibility. Its relevance is demonstrated by a meta-analysis, which reveals the principal characteristics of decentralized electrification projects which have positive impacts on sustainable development. Four main characteristics were considered: technology (source or energy), system size (power), decision level (from local to country level) geographic location. When searching for best practices, technology and system size must be considered together, because the chosen technology may constrain the power, which is provided by the system. We find that the most popular projects, which are based on Solar Home Systems (SHS) are not the most effective. The problem with SHS is not the use of solar energy, but the small system size often chosen for SHS. Mini-grids, of larger size, especially those which use hybrid renewable sources of energy, have more positive impacts, because these systems combine the benefits of sustainability and flexibility. In terms of decision level, we find that both top-down and bottom-up approaches have advantages, with the observation of a U-shaped curve for the influence of the decision level on the probability of obtaining positive impacts. Geographical location matters, as it is very often the key to system feasibility. We find that DEPs are more effective in Latin America than in Asia, and more effective in Asia than in Africa. We also attempted to study the type of effects resulting from DEPs. Descriptive data suggest that for some types of effects, positive impacts are more likely than for others. Decentralized electrification projects have a more positive impact on Lifestyle & NICT or Household agenda than on Economic transformation or Community life. However, this pilot CoSMMA does not contain enough information to study precisely the types of effects, because some types of effects have not been studied frequently in the existing literature. This is the case, for instance, for environmental effects, which have been rarely measured scientifically. Finally, we attempted to broaden our information set by including expert data, which was entered into the CoSMMA meta-analysis. We define expert data as data that are not supported by statistical tests with measures of significance, whereas the evaluations based on scientific data were supported by statistical tests of significance. The expert data may be valid, but our attempt to include it in the analysis failed at this stage. The determinants of unproven effects appear to be quite different from the determinants of proven effects in our meta-analysis, and using expert data would imply merging proven and unproven effects, which would totally blur the conclusions
O18|Impact of Decentralized Electrification Projects on Sustainable Development: A Meta-Analysis|This paper is the first product of a project which aims to build a Collaborative Smart Mapping of Mini-grid Action (CoSMMA), whose principal objective is to identify best practice in decentralized electrification projects. By evaluation of 421 projects, from published research papers, we have built a pilot CoSMMA which proves its feasibility. Its relevance is demonstrated by a meta-analysis, which reveals the principal characteristics of decentralized electrification projects which have positive impacts on sustainable development. Four main characteristics were considered: technology (source or energy), system size (power), decision level (from local to country level), geographic location. When searching for best practice, technology and system size must be considered together, because the chosen technology may constrain the power, which is provided by the system. We find that the most popular projects, which are based on Solar Home Systems (SHS) are not the most effective. The problem with SHS is not the use of solar energy, but the small system size often chosen for SHS. Mini-grids, of larger size, especially those which use hybrid renewable sources of energy, have more positive impacts, because these systems combine the benefits of sustainability and flexibility. In terms of decision level, we find that both top-down and bottom-up approaches have advantages, with the observation of a U-shaped curve for the influence of the decision level on the probability of obtaining positive impacts. Geographical location matters, as it is very often the key to system feasibility. We find that DEPs are more effective in Latin America than in Asia, and more effective in Asia than in Africa. We also attempted to study the type of effects resulting from DEPs. Descriptive data suggest that for some types of effects, positive impacts are more likely than for others. Decentralized electrification projects have a more positive impact on Lifestyle & NICT or Household agenda than on Economic transformation or Community life. However, this pilot CoSMMA does not contain enough information to study precisely the types of effects, because some types of effects have not been studied frequently in the existing literature. This is the case, for instance, for environmental effects, which have been rarely measured scientifically. Finally, we attempted to broaden our information set by including expert data, which was entered into the CoSMMA meta-analysis. We define expert data as data that are not supported by statistical tests with measures of significance, whereas the evaluations based on scientific data were supported by statistical tests of significance. The expert data may be valid, but our attempt to include it in the analysis failed at this stage. The determinants of unproven effects appear to be quite different from the determinants of proven effects in our meta-analysis, and using expert data would imply merging proven and unproven effects, which would totally blur the conclusions.
O18|Urbanization and agricultural productivity: some lessons from European cities|This article evaluates the effect of increasing urbanization on agricultural productivity at the rural-urban fringe for a set of European metropolises. It takes into account changes in total developed area, population density and the level of urban fragmentation associated with urbanization. To cope with endogeneity issues related to urban equilibrium covariates, we set up an instrumental variables strategy based on historical and institutional instruments. Our results indicate that increasing population density increases agricultural productivity at the rural-urban fringe, while increasing urban fragmentation may have a detrimental effect on agricultural productivity at low levels of fragmentation. We use instrumental variable Bayesian model averaging (IVBMA) to address model uncertainty and use an alternative panel dataset to confirm our instrumental strategy. Our results are robust to alternative model specifications and estimation methods.
O18|Building connections: Political corruption and road construction in India|Politically-driven corruption is a pervasive challenge for development, but evidence of its welfare effects are scarce. Using data from a major rural road construction programme in India we document political influence in a setting where politicians have no official role in contracting decisions. Exploiting close elections to identify the causal effect of coming to power, we show that the share of contractors whose name matches that of the winning politician increases by 83% (from 4% to 7%) in the term after a close election compared to the term before. Regression discontinuity estimates at the road level show that political interference raises the cost of road construction and increases the likelihood that roads go missing.
O18|Tentatives de réhabilitation de la théorie de la base : à la recherche des origines|L'objectif de ce papier est double. D'une part, il cherche à établir la cohérence des travaux actuels qui mobilisent les éléments clés de la théorie de la base pour déterminer les ressorts du développement économique local en Europe et outre-Atlantique (Farness, 1989 ; Markusen, 2006 ; Rutland & O'Hagan, 2007, Davezies, 2001, 2009, 2012, ...). D'autre part, il doit permettre de remettre au goût du jour une question qui nous semble aujourd'hui négligée et qui mérite d'être approfondie tant elle cristallise des enjeux importants : à quelle(s) échelle(s) d'organisation territoriale mobiliser la théorie de la base ? Sur le premier point, nous montrons que les deux tentatives actuelles de réhabilitation de la théorie de la base semblent privilégier, sans se concerter, une lecture particulière des ascendants intellectuels de ce paradigme (Blumenfeld, 1955 ; Tiebout, 1962) au détriment d'un autre héritage possible (North, 1955). Sur le second point, nous montrons comment le questionnement sur l'échelle de l'analyse économique débouche sur la prise en compte de fractales territoriaux. Mots clés : Base économique, développement territorial, multiplicateur keynésien, économie résidentielle Codes JEL: B29, O18, R10 2
O18|Enduring Gendered Mobility Patterns in Contemporary Senegal|This study explores internal migration patterns of men and women using individual panel data from a nationally representative survey collected in two waves, in 2006-2007 and 2010-2012, in Senegal. The data used are unique in that they contain the GPS coordinates of individuals' location in both waves. We are thus able to precisely calculate distances and map individual moves, avoiding limitations and constraints of migration definitions based on administrative units. Our results reveal major differences across gender. Women are found to be more likely to migrate than men. However, they move less far and are more likely to migrate to rural areas, especially when originating from rural areas. Education is found to increase the likelihood of migration to urban destinations, especially for women. An analysis of the motives for migrating confirms the existence of gendered migration patterns, as female mobility is mostly linked to marriage while labor mobility is frequently observed for men.
O18|Laboratory Evidence on the Effects of Sponsorship on the Competitive Preferences of Men and Women|Sponsorship programs have been proposed as one way to promote female advancement in competitive career fields. A sponsor is someone who advocates for a protï¿½gï¿½, and in doing so, takes a stake in her success. We use a laboratory experiment to explore two channels through which sponsorship has been posited to increase advancement in a competitive workplace. In our setting, being sponsored provides a vote of confidence and/or creates a link between the protï¿½gï¿½s and sponsorï¿½s payoffs. We find that both features of sponsorship significantly increase willingness to compete among men on average, while neither of these channels significantly increases willingness to compete among women on average. As a result, sponsorship does not close the gender gap in competitiveness or earnings. We discuss how these insights from the laboratory could help to inform the design of sponsorship programs in the field.
O18|The Economics of the World Cup|The quadrennial World Cup is perhaps the worldï¿½s most popular sporting event with millions of live fans and a worldwide television audience in the billions. It is also one of the most costly events to host with recent hosts countries such as Brazil and Russia spending around $12 billion putting on the tournament. This paper examines the costs and the benefits of hosting the World Cup with a focus on historical data and past economic impact studies.
O18|The Economic Impact of Olympic Games: Effects of Host Country Announcements on Stock Market Returns|Roughly seven years before an Olympic games, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) accepts bids from countries to host an Olympics. Subsequently, the IOC determines and announces to the world who has won and lost the right to host. Contrary to prior evidence, we find the announcements do not affect the bidding countriesï¿½ stock markets. We complement prior studies by using additional years of announcements, by investigating whether there are effects prior to the announcement, and by testing for an effect both parametrically and non-parametrically.
O18|Is There A Case For Subsidizing Sports Stadiums?|In recent decades, governments have committed enormous public resources to subsidize construction of new stadiums, and the dollar value of taxpayer contributions for these subsidies continues to climb. Spending of taxpayer dollars includes both direct subsidies from state and local governments, as well as indirect subsidies from the use of tax-exempt bonds to finance construction. In granting stadium subsidies, governments claim that the stadiums are a public good that attracts tourists and businesses, thereby generating increased spending and job creationï¿½benefits that flow to the community rather than to team owners. But do such benefits exist, and are they large enough to justify the scale of the subsidies? Brad Humphreys, Professor of Economics at West Virginia University, and Victor Matheson, Professor of Economics at the College of the Holy Cross, address the wisdom of public funding of sports stadiums based on the evidence. Brad argues that stadiums should not be subsidized by taxpayers, as the evidence fails to identify any tangible economic benefits generated by stadiums, and a growing body of evidence reveals that stadiums also generate additional local crime, pollution, and congestion. In contrast, Victor argues that while the economic benefits of a new stadium are probably not high enough to justify a taxpayer subsidy of the full construction costs, the benefits may be enough to justify covering some fraction of the costs. Furthermore, governments may use the subsidies to achieve desired development in targeted neighborhoods.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O18|The Rise and Fall (and Rise and Fall) of the Olympic Games as an Economic Driver|This paper traces the economic history of major sporting events focusing on the Olympics. Historically, the Olympic Games as well as other major sporting events have been considered costly events that place a burden on host cities. Only in relatively recent years, coinciding with the massive increases in the cost of hosting these events, have event organizers begun to claim that these events bring with them large economic benefits.
O18|Professional Sports, Hurricane Katrina, and the Economic Redevelopment of New Orleans: Revisited|Hurricane Katrina devastated the city of New Orleans in late August 2005, resulting in damage to much of the cityï¿½s sports infrastructure and the temporary departure of both of New Orleansï¿½ major league professional sports teams, the National Football League Saints and the National Basketball Association Hornets. The city spent over $500 million restoring the sports infrastructure in New Orleans, and both teams subsequently returned to the city. In addition, New Orleans has since hosted numerous mega-sporting events including the Super Bowl, NCAA Menï¿½s Basketball Final Four, and several college football national championships. This paper examines the economic impact of Hurricane Katrina on professional sports in New Orleans and traces the recovery of the city in conjunction with spectator sports.
O18|The Impact of the Announcement of Temporary Building Sites for Refugees on House Prices in Gothenburg|We evaluate the price development of apartments in neighborhoods surrounding temporary housing for refugees using the unpredicted announcement of three building sites, targeting refugees, in Gothenburg. More in particular, we look at the price development in the year after the announcement. We use a causal outcome model that takes account of time and postal-code fixed effects and we define an area to be affected by the announcement based on walking distance. We find support for a small and significant price effect. In addition, we find that the price effect of the neighborhood depends on the income level of the neighborhood. We interpret this as evidence for the fact that not having to live close to refugees can be seen as a luxury good.
O18|Ethnic Enclaves and Labor Market Outcomes – What Matters Most: Neighborhood, City or Region?|The relevance of residential segregation and ethnic enclaves for labor market sorting of immigrants has been investigated by a large body of literature. Previous literature presents competing arguments and mixed results for the effects of segregation and ethnic concentration on various labor market outcomes. The geographical size of the area at which segregation and/or ethnic concentration is measured, however, is left to empirical work to determine. We argue that ethnic concentration and segregation should not be used interchangeably, and more importantly, the geographical area at which they are measured relates directly to different mechanisms. We use a probabilistic approach to identify the likelihood that an immigrant is employed or a self-employed entrepreneur in the year 2005 with respect to residential segregation and ethnic concentration at the level of the neighborhood, municipality and local labor market level jointly. We study three groups of immigrants that accentuate the differences between forced and pulled migrants: (i) the first 15 member states of European Union (referred to as EU 15) and the Nordic countries, (ii) the Balkan countries, and (iii) countries in the Middle East. We find that ethnic enclaves, proxied by ethnic concentration at varying levels indicate mixed results for the different immigrant groups we study, both for their employment and entrepreneurship probability. Whereas residential segregation has a more uniformly distributed result where its relationship to any of the two labor market outcomes is almost always negative or insignificant.
O18|Of Cities and Slums|The emergence of slums is a common feature in a country's path towards urbanization, structural transformation and development. Based on salient micro and macro evidence of Brazilian labor, housing and education markets, we construct a simple model to examine the conditions for slums to emerge. We then use the model to examine whether slums are barriers or stepping stones for lower skilled households and for the development of the country as a whole. We calibrate our model to explore the dynamic interaction between skill formation, income inequality and structural transformation with the rise (and potential fall) of slums in Brazil. We then conduct policy counterfactuals. For instance, we find that cracking down on slums could slow down the acquisition of human capital, the growth of cities (outside slums) and non-agricultural employment. The impact of reducing housing barriers to entry into cities and of different forms of school integration between the city and the slums is also explored.
O18|Brain-Circulation Network: The Global Mobility of the Life Scientists|Global mobility and migration of scientists is an important modern phenomenon with economic and political implications. As scientists become ever more footloose it is important to identify general patterns and regularities at a global scale. At the same time cities, and especially global cities, have become impor- tant loci of economic and scientific activity. Limiting research to international migration, would disregard the importance of local innovation systems. The analysis of the mobility and brain circulation patterns at global scale remains challenging, due to difficulties in obtaining individual level mobility data. In this work we propose a methodology to trace intercity and international mobility through bibliographic records. We reconstruct the intercity and international mobility network of 3.7 Million Life Scientists moving between 9,745 cities. We present several features of the extracted network, offer evidence that the international innovation system is marked by national borders and linguistic similarity and show that international mo- bility largely contributes to the scientific output of national research systems. Moreover we find evidence to suggest that global cities attract highly productive scientist early in their careers.
O18|Transport liberalization and regional imbalances with endogenous freight rates|This paper develops a tractable two-region New Economic Geography model with footloose capital and endogenous freight rates to investigate the welfare implications and long-run industry reallocation patterns triggered by transport liberalization. Two policy scenarios are considered: one where a unique tariff per route is imposed, independently of the direction of shipment, and one of complete deregulation. Carriers in fully deregulated transport markets are shown to charge higher markups in shipments towards the periphery. This pricing behavior counterbalances the welfare-decreasing agglomeration forces associated with lowering trade costs and ensures welfare gains in both region in the short and long run.
O18|Explaining Thailand’s Automotive Manufacturing Success|We argue that the success of Thailand’s export-oriented automotive industry was based on three factors. First was the substantial public investment in productivity-raising port facilities and related infrastructure, beginning in the 1990s, that constituted the Eastern Seaboard economic corridor. The second was the exchange rate depreciation that accompanied the 1997-99 Asian Financial Crisis. Jointly, these two factors made manufacturing production for export more profitable. The third was two key policy changes adopted by the Thai government shortly after the crisis, and partly in response to it: (a) abolition of restrictions on foreign ownership, and (b) abolition of local content requirements.
O18| Variegated dependence: The geographically differentiated economic outcomes of resource-based development in Peru, 2001-2015| The economic impacts of resource-based development are distributed unevenly across national space, and not even mining regions experience economic development in the same way. We build on the methodology of Rehner et. al. (2014) to typify resource-based economic development in Peru in the period 2001- 2015 and compare it with the case of mineral-abundant Chile. What we find is a nuanced version of the same dependency-related resource curse phenomenon. With the commodity cycle: (i) export specialization is not the same in all places; (ii) regional growth volatility is much higher in Peru than in Chile; (iii) the Dutch disease does not clearly manifest itself; and therefore (iv) economic dependence within Peru is variegated. At the national level, gold-and-copper-dependent Peru is not as vulnerable as copper-dependent Chile to external shocks. At the subnational level, outside Lima in particular, dependence-related volatility can be very high for clusters of regions. The results of the quantitative analysis are attuned to a theoretical framework of variegated dependence, which, while acknowledging the centrality of the center-and-periphery supranational structure for economic development, attributes variation in resource curse phenomena to subnational differences across space and over time in economic- geography configurations and institutional regimes. JEL Classification-JEL: F43 , O11 , O18 , Q33 , Q34 , Q37 , R58
O18| El espacio importa para el desarrollo humano: el caso peruano| El desarrollo definido como la expansión de las capacidades y oportunidades de las personas se da en espacios realmente existentes, que pueden promover o retardar su desarrollo y, en consecuencia, limitar sus libertades. Este trabajo explora el papel del espacio geográfico-social en el desarrollo humano de las distintas regiones del Perú. Encontramos que, efectivamente, el espacio importa para el desarrollo humano. JEL Classification-JEL: O15 , O18 , O54 , R11
O18|Bridge to bigpush or backwash ? market integration, reallocation, and productivity effects of Jamuna bridge in Bangladesh|This paper uses a quasi-experimental study of a major bridge construction in Bangladesh to understand the effects of a large reduction in trade costs on the pattern of structural change and agricultural productivity. The paper develops a spatial general equilibrium model with a core and two hinterlands at the opposite sides separated by rivers, and allows for productivity gains through agglomeration in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The model yields insights different from the standard core-periphery and trade models: (i) the newly connected hinterland may experience higher population density and agricultural productivity despite significant de-industrialization; (ii) even with increased specialization in agriculture, the share of agricultural employment may decline when interregional trade requires local services (such as processing and trading); and (iii) the strongest effects on employment structure are felt not necessarily in the areas next to the bridge but in the areas that move out of autarky as a result of the bridge. The empirical estimation uses doubly robust estimators in a difference-in-difference design where the comparison hinterland comes from a region which was supposed to be connected to the core (capital city) by the proposed, but not yet constructed, Padma bridge. In the short run, there is significant labor reallocation from agriculture to services in the connected hinterland, but no perceptible effects on the employment share of manufacturing, population density, and night-lights. In the long run, the labor share of manufacturing declines in the treatment hinterland and increases in the core. However, there are significant positive effects on population density, night light luminosity, and agricultural yields in the treatment hinterland which contradict backwash effects of the bridge. The effects of the bridge on intersectoral labor allocation are spatially heterogeneous, with relatively weak effects in the areas close to the bridge.
O18|Tax Policy and Toxic Housing Bubbles in China|This paper explores the effects of a government tax policy in a growth model with economic transition and toxic housing bubbles applied to China. Such a policy combines taxing entrepreneurs with a one-time redistribution to workers in the same period. Under the tax policy, we find that the welfare improvement for workers is non-monotonic. In particular, there exists an optimal tax at which social welfare is maximized. Moreover, we consider the welfare effects of setting the tax at its optimum. We show that the tax policy can be welfare-enhancing, compare to the case without active policies. The optimal tax may also yield a higher level of welfare than the case even without housing bubbles. Finally, we calibrate the model to China. Our quantitative results show that the optimal tax rate is about 23 percent, and social welfare is signicantly improved with such a tax policy.
