O21|Tariffs, Domestic Import Substitution and Trade Diversion in Input-Output Production Networks: how to deal with Brexit|This paper challenges and complements existing studies on the economic impact of Brexit providing a discussion of the UK's decision to leave the EU and how it will affect international trade networks and value-added. Using the World Input-Output Database, we develop a multi-sector inter-country model that allows us to identify the channels through which the economic effects of Brexit would propagate. The inclusion of global value chains and indirect Brexit effects in the model leads to estimates that diverge with the results of the main literature. Indeed our findings, suggest that Brexit could be risky and costly not only for the UK but also for many EU countries. Furthermore, building on the Dietzenbacher and Lahr (2013) method of hypothetical expansion, we develop a second model and present the first empirical analysis on the consequences of domestic import substitution and trade diversion policies in Input-Output schemes. We found that allowing sectors and countries to partly substitute foreign products, leads to significantly lower losses for both macro-regions. In the second model, the UK and EU27 would lose, at worst, the 0.05 and 0.5 percent of value-added, respectively.
O21|Los polos de desarrollo de François Perroux en el modelo de regionalización para Colombia (1969-1972)|Con la creación del Modelo de regionalización en el capitulo para el desarrollo urbano y regional del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1969-1972, una buena parte de la teoría de François Perroux llega a Colombia bajo la dirección de Edgar Reveiz. Se encuentran al menos tres influencias claras de Perroux sobre las propuestas de política pública para Colombia. En primer lugar, el concepto de crecimiento desequilibrado y subdesarrollo se evidencia en el diagnóstico hecho en el plan sobre las desigualdades territoriales que afrontaba el país. En segundo lugar, la unidad motriz, efecto impulso y aglomeración se aplican en el Modelo de Regionalización en la selección de criterios para la identificación de industrias motrices. Finalmente, la definición de desarrollo que propone Perroux, como aquellos cambios sociales y mentales de la población para crear un crecimiento sostenible, se ve inmersa en la esencia del Modelo de regionalización en el sentido de la identificación de polos de desarrollo para Colombia. *** With the creation of the Regionalization Model in the chapter for the urban and regional development of the National Development Plan 1969-1972, a good part of François Perroux’ theory arrives in Colombia under the direction of Edgar Reveiz. There are at least three clear influences of Perroux on the proposals of public policy for Colombia. Firstly, the concept of unbalanced growth and underdevelopment is evident in the diagnosis made in the plan of territorial inequalities faced by the country. Secondly, the driving unit, propulsive effect and agglomeration are applied in the Regionalization Model in the selection of criteria for the identification of propulsive industries. Finally, the definition of development proposed by Perroux, as those social and mental changes of the population to create sustainable growth, is immersed in the essence of the Regionalization Model in the sense of identifying development poles for Colombia.
O21|Recovering Tinbergen|From the long viewpoint of history of economics, the two most important contributions that Jan Tinbergen made to economics are surely the development of the first macro-econometric model and a general theory of economic policy-making. This paper explores these two innovations to recover why they deserve such recognition, analyses their technical and conceptual depths, and shows how they relate to the economic history of the period and his personal history. In the process, it becomes clear that they are not separate innovations, but, as Tinbergen recognised, involved the same logic; and as we can recognise, were driven by the same ambition to make economics usable in the world.
O21|Ratio Working Paper No. 317: China’s Wind Power Development – An Anatomy of Mishaps|China has in recent decades expanded its wind power generation capacity and become the world leader. Still, despite robust government support, wind power in China is obstructed by various barriers (e.g. quality deficiencies, inability to export, missing grid connections, and permit delays from central government for grid construction etc.). This paper synthesises the literature that has discovered weaknesses in the Chinese wind power development and suggests improvements. One energy policy relevant observation is that when the Chinese government sets command-and-control construction targets over new installed capacity, actors delivered to target – but with several power plants without grid connectivity and severe quality problems. The article contributes to the academic debate over the role of policy making in renewable energy development and argues that China should improve their incentive structure and coordination of regulations.
O21|Economic Planning under Capitalism: The New Deal and Postwar France Experiments|By the beginning of the 20th century, the possibility and efficacy of economic planning was believed to have been proven by totalitarian experiments in Germany, the Soviet Union, and, to a lesser degree, Fascist Italy; however, the possibilities and limitations of planning in capitalist democracies was unclear. The challenge in the United States in the 1930s and in postwar France was to find ways to make planning work under capitalism and democratic conditions, where private agents were free to not accept its directives. This paper begins by examining the experience with planning during the first years of the New Deal in the United States, centered on the creation and operation of the National Recovery Administration (NRA) and the Agricultural Adjustment Administration (AAA), and continues with a discussion of the French experience with indicative planning in the aftermath of World War II. A digression follows, touching on the proximity between the matters treated in this paper and Keynes's view that macroeconomic stabilization could require a measure of socialization of investments, following James Tobin's hunch that French indicative planning, as well as some social democrat experiences in Northern Europe, could be playing precisely that role. The paper concludes by identifying the lessons one can draw from the two experiences.
O21|Learning from Results-Based Management evaluations and reviews|What have we learned from implementing results-based management in development co-operation organisations? What progress and benefits can be seen? What are the main challenges and unintended consequences? Are there good practices to address these challenges?To respond to these questions this paper reviews and analyses the findings from various evaluations and reviews of results-based management systems conducted by members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), the OECD/DAC Results Community Secretariat and other bodies in the past four years (2015-2018). It also draws on emerging lessons from new methods for managing development co-operation results.This analytical work aims to: identify recent trends in results-based management, explore challenges faced by providers when developing their results approaches and systems, select good practices in responding to these challenges that can be useful for the OECD/DACResults Community, considering new approaches, new technologies and evolving contexts. This body of evidence will inform the development of a core set of generic guiding principles for results-based management in development co-operation.
O21|Regional Integration in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, highlights the contribution of border towns to the process of regional integration in West Africa. For 18 countries, six indicators are used to identify the specificities of border towns at the local, national and international levels: demography, urban morphology, formal enterprises, health infrastructure, road accessibility, border control posts. These indicators are analysed from the perspective of three geographical scales of regional integration (density, distance and division). The report details the economic and institutional obstacles facing border towns. It concludes with place-based political options to facilitate the economic and political development of West African border towns.Also in this Collection:“Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
O21|Population and Morphology of Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, provides an analysis of the demographic and morphological changes in West African border cities since the mid-20th century. Using the Africapolis harmonised database makes it possible to show that since 1950 border cities have experienced higher rates of growth than other cities in the region. While the average size of cities increases with distance from a border, the opposite is true for urban density; it decreases as distance from a border increases. This suggests that border cities form urban centres that differ from other such centres due to the fact that they specialise in the commercial activities that stimulate growth and foster higher densities. The report identifies the 27 main cross-border agglomerations in the region and discusses their specificcharacteristics.Also in this Collection:“Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20“Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22“Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
O21|Businesses and Health in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses the spatial distribution of formal enter¬prises and health infrastructure in West Africa. The analysis shows that sectors crucial for regional integration are concentrated in economic capitals rather than in border areas. These results illustrate the difficulty that many West African countries have in distributing the potential for economic development throughout the country. The mapping of health infrastructure shows that border towns have a surplus of medical centres and a deficit of hospitals and maternity wards relative to their urban populations. The report identifies several regions in which closer co-operation could favour the establishment of cross-border health facilities.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities”, No. 23
O21|Accessibility and Infrastructure in Border Cities|This report, part of the “Cities” collection, analyses road accessibility, transport corridors and checkpoints set up in border towns in West Africa. An innovative model shows that the population base of border towns could be 14% greater if there were no delays at border crossings. The existence of roadside checks decreases the size of this population base from 12 to 50%. A study of 59 jointly planned or operated border posts in sub-Saharan Africa shows that trade facilitation runs up against the special interests of public servants and private-sector actors making a living from regional integration frictions.Also in this Collection: “Regional Integration in Border Cities”, No. 20 “Population and Morphology of Border Cities”, No. 21 “Businesses and Health in Border Cities”, No. 22
O21|Intégration régionale des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », souligne la contribution des villes frontalières au processus d’intégration régionale en Afrique de l’Ouest. Six indicateurs permettent d’appréhender les dynamiques locales développées en milieu urbain, les effets de la distance sur la cohésion nationale, et l’impact des divisions territoriales au plan international dans 18 pays. Cette analyse met en évidence les obstacles qui limitent le potentiel d’intégration des villes frontalières du point de vue des échanges socio-économiques et des institutions. La Note conclut par une synthèse des politiques territorialisées pouvant être mises en place dans la région pour faciliter le développement économique et politique des villes frontalières ouest-africaines.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
O21|Population et morphologies des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’évolution démographique et morphologique des villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest depuis le milieu du XXe siècle. L’utilisation d’une base de données harmonisée – ce qu’offre Africapolis – permet de montrer que les villes frontalières ont connu une croissance plus importante que les autres villes de la région depuis 1950. Alors que la taille moyenne des villes augmente avec la distance aux frontières, la densité urbaine diminue à mesure qu’on s’en éloigne. Ces résultats suggèrent que les villes frontalières forment des ensembles urbains différents des autres, notamment du fait de leur spécialisation dans les activités commerciales, qui stimulent la croissance et encourage les fortes densités. Le document identifie enfin 27 agglomérations transfrontalières principales dans la région et discute leurs particularités.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
O21|Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse la répartition spatiale des entreprises formelles et des infrastructures de santé en Afrique de l’Ouest. L’analyse montre que les secteurs cruciaux pour l’intégration régionale sont concentrés dans les capitales économiques plutôt que dans les espaces frontaliers. Ces résultats illustrent la difficulté qu’ont de nombreux pays ouest-africains à distribuer le potentiel de développement économique sur l’ensemble du territoire national. La cartographie des infrastructures de santé montre que les villes frontalières présentent un excédent de centres médicaux et un déficit d’hôpitaux et de maternités relativement à leur population urbaine. La Note identifie plusieurs régions dans lesquelles une coopération plus étroite pourrait favoriser la mise en place d’établissements de santé transfrontaliers.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières », No 23
O21|Accessibilité et infrastructures des villes frontalières|Cette Note qui fait partie de la Collection « Villes », analyse l’accessibilité routière, les corridors de transport et les postes de contrôle uniques mis en place dans les villes frontalières d’Afrique de l’Ouest. Un modèle inédit montre que le bassin de population des villes frontalières pourrait être 14 % plus important sans attente aux frontières. L’existence de contrôles routiers diminue de 12 à 50 % ce bassin de population. Une étude des 59 postes de contrôle d’Afrique subsaharienne montre ensuite que la facilitation du commerce se heurte aux intérêts des fonctionnaires et des acteurs privés vivant des frictions de l’intégration régionale.Aussi dans cette Collection : « Intégration régionale des villes frontalières », No 20 « Population et morphologies des villes frontalières », No 21 « Entreprises et santé dans les villes frontalières », No 22
O21|Managing Small Business Human Resources: An International Approach|While much of our knowledge concerning traditional HR topics (e.g., recruiting, compensation, or performance management) in large firms may also apply in small or emerging organizations, evidence suggests that new ventures are different and that management of people within them may not clearly map to management within larger, more established organizations. This paper reviews extant research on managing people within small and emerging ventures and highlights additional questions that have not yet been addressed. Our review suggests that as scholars, our understanding of the HR issues important to small and emerging firms is limited. While we have begun to understand how these firms should hire, reward, and perhaps even motivate their employees, we lack much of the theory and data necessary to understand how small and emerging firms train their employees, manage their performance, promote or handle organizational change, or respond to potential labor relations and political issues. The existing literature presents an often-confounded relationship between size and age, between the issues important to small firms and the issues important to young ones. Given the potential early HR decisions must impact the organization's downstream success, it is important that we understand how these functional areas of HR (as well as their integration and evolution) affect small and emerging firms, and how the HR decisions made during the formative stages of firm development impact the firm's long-term goals.
O21|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment
O21|Tariffs, Domestic Import Substitution and Trade Diversion in Input-Output Production Networks: how to deal with Brexit|This paper challenges and complements existing studies on the economic impact of Brexit providing a discussion of the UK's decision to leave the EU and how it will affect international trade networks and value-added. Using the World Input-Output Database, we develop a multi-sector inter-country model that allows us to identify the channels through which the economic effects of Brexit would propagate. The inclusion of global value chains and indirect Brexit effects in the model leads to estimates that diverge with the results of the main literature. Indeed our findings, suggest that Brexit could be risky and costly not only for the UK but also for many EU countries. Furthermore, building on the Dietzenbacher and Lahr (2013) method of hypothetical expansion, we develop a second model and present the first empirical analysis on the consequences of domestic import substitution and trade diversion policies in Input-Output schemes. We found that allowing sectors and countries to partly substitute foreign products, leads to significantly lower losses for both macro-regions. In the second model, the UK and EU27 would lose, at worst, the 0.05 and 0.5 percent of value-added, respectively.
O21|Tariffs, Domestic Import Substitution and Trade Diversion in Input-Output Production Networks: how to deal with Brexit|This paper challenges and complements existing studies on the economic impact of Brexit providing a discussion of the UK's decision to leave the EU and how it will affect international trade networks and value-added. Using the World Input-Output Database, we develop a multi-sector inter-country model that allows us to identify all the channels through which the economic effects of Brexit would propagate. The inclusion of global value chains and indirect Brexit effects in the model leads to estimates that diverge with the results of the main literature. Indeed our findings, suggest that Brexit could be risky and costly not only for the UK but also for many EU countries. Furthermore, building on the Dietzenbacher and Lahr (2013) method of hypothetical expansion, we develop a second model and present the first empirical analysis on the consequences of domestic import substitution and trade diversion policies in Input-Output schemes. We found that allowing sectors and countries to partly substitute foreign products, leads to significantly lower losses for both macro-regions. In the second model, the UK and EU27 would lose, at worst, the 0.05 and 0.5 percent of value-added, respectively.
O21|Anchoring in project duration estimation|The success of a business project often relies on the accuracy of its schedule. Inaccurate and overoptimistic schedules can lead to significant project failures. In this paper, we explore whether the presence of anchors, such as relatively uninformed suggestions or expectations of the duration of project tasks, play a role in the project estimating and planning process. Our laboratory experiment contributes to the methodology of investigating the robustness and persistence of the anchoring effect in the following ways: (1) we investigate the anchoring effect by comparing the behavior in low and high anchor treatments with a control treatment where no anchor is present; (2) we provide a more accurate measurement by incentivizing participants to provide their best duration estimates; (3) we test the persistence of the anchoring effect over a longer horizon; (4) we evaluate the anchoring effect also on retrospective estimates. We find strong anchoring effects and systematic estimation biases that do not vanish even after the task is repeatedly estimated and executed. In addition, we find that such persisting biases can be caused not only by externally provided anchors, but also by the planner's own initial estimate.
O21|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
O21|How to Improve the Accuracy of Project Schedules? The Effect of Project Specification and Historical Information on Duration Estimates|The success of a business project often depends on the accuracy of project estimates. Inaccurate, often overoptimistic schedules can lead to significant project failures. In this paper, we experimentally investigate the effectiveness of two interventions designed to mitigate the pervasive underestimation bias and improve the accuracy of project duration estimates: (1) increasing the quantity of available information prior to estimation by providing historical information regarding the average duration of similar projects in the past and (2) increasing the quality of available information prior to estimation by providing a more detailed project specification. In addition, we also test whether it is more effective to provide historical information together with the project specification or only after the initial beliefs regarding the project duration are formed. We find that increasing both the quantity and quality of project relevant information successfully mitigates the underestimation bias. However, only the provision of historical information is also associated with significant improvement in absolute estimation accuracy. The timing at which such information is disclosed to planners does not seem to influence the effectiveness of the intervention. We also find that subjective confidence in the accuracy of duration estimates does not vary across experimental treatments, suggesting that the confidence in estimates is neither a function of the quantity nor the quality of available information prior to estimation.
O21|Economic growth and well-being beyond the Easterlin paradox|Recent studies suggest that economic growth and well-being can grow together in the long run in presence of generous social safety nets, increasing social capital and declining income inequality. We put these conditions to a test in an attempt to explain the absence of a relation between economic growth and well-being in Luxembourg. To this aim we apply an error correction model to a panel of 15 Western European countries, and we use the results to predict life satisfaction in Luxembourg between 1991 and 2015. We find that the flat trend of life satisfaction in Luxembourg is likely the result of four forces acting in opposite directions. This suggests that the available list of moderating conditions -- although not exhaustive -- is a promising starting point to design new policies to durably improve well-being.
O21|An Integrated Approach For Building A Sustainable City Development Assessment Model|In recent years, countries around the world have proposed the vision of future cities such as ?smart cities?, ?sustainable cities? and ?inclusive cities?. Cities have also proposed relevant policies and measures, and hope to create a livable place. However, the composition of the city is wide and complex, and the future city is not only able to consider only one aspect. The planning of the future city should incorporate the concept of smartness, suatainability and inclusiveness. With the application of novel technologies in the future, the effective use and management of urban resources can be achieved, and the social network of citizens tends to be fair and harmonious, which enables the city to move towards sustainable urban development. Based on the planning criteria of smart cities, sustainable cities, and inclusive cities, this study will construct an assessment framework that is consistent with future cities. Through the Fuzzy Delphi Method (FDM) and the Analytic Network Process (ANP), the future urban development evaluation model is constructed considering the priority of its evaluation criteria. Finally, an empirical analysis of the future urban assessment model for Taichung City, Taiwan will be conducted to verify the suitability of the model and propose further planning strategies.
O21|Participatory Value Evaluation: a novel method to evaluate future urban mobility investments|Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) is a widely applied economic appraisal tool to support the planning and decision-making process for transport projects. However, in the planning literature CBA has been criticized for at least three reasons: 1) CBA focuses on traditional transport system related planning goals and poorly considers the broader goals of urban transport planning such as social equity; 2) CBA corrodes and degrades the forward looking nature of the planning proficiency. The instrument can be conceived as a backward looking methodology as it assumes that people’s past decisions in a (private) market setting reflect their normative ideas regarding their preferred future urban mobility system; 3) CBA fails to recognize the specific (local) features of the problem which a transport project aspires to solve as practical CBA studies use generic price tags to value impacts of a transport project. Participatory Value Evaluation (PVE) is a novel evaluation approach specifically designed to overcome these criticisms while preserving the positive aspects that CBA brings to planning. This paper illustrates the PVE method with a case study on the evaluation of a transport investment scheme of the Transport Authority Amsterdam. In total 2,498 citizens participated in the PVE. We find that projects with the highest social value focus on safety and improvements for cyclists and pedestrians, whereas projects that focus on reducing travel times for car users have lower value. Moreover, we establish that PVE captures citizens’ preferences towards broader goals of transport planning such as improving health and the environment, fostering city cycling as well as the inclusion of ethical considerations such as spatial equality. PVE also allows for the inclusion of citizens’ normative ideas regarding their preferred future urban mobility system and local characteristics of the transport problem/solution.
O21|What Drives Size Reductions for Protected Areas? Evidence about PADDD from across the Brazilian Amazon|Protected areas (PAs) have been the most widely used tool to conserve ecosystem services. New PAs are created every year and the effective PAs block some economic development. Yet that opportunity cost of conservation leads PAs to have isolated locations and even to suffer considerable PA degazettements, downsizings and degradation (jointly ‘PADDD’). Adding to a sparse literature on PADDD, we assess some drivers of PAs’ size reductions, i.e., degazettements and downsizings. We base our empirical efforts upon a simple model of size reductions that result from interactions between agencies with differing objectives, conservation versus development. Gradients across space for the agency benefits and costs yield predictions about where each agency is most against, or for, size reductions for PAs. Analyzing Brazilian Amazon data from a relatively new and growing global data set from PADDDtracker, we find size reductions are influenced by: distance to cities and roads, i.e., transport that affects private profits and public enforcement costs; PA size, which affects enforcement costs; and previous deforestation in a PA, which lowers impacts of PADDD.
O21|LDC Graduation: Challenges and Opportunities for Vanuatu|"Vanuatu will graduate from the least developed country (LDC) category on 4 December 2020. This will be a momentous occasion, heralding a new era in the nation’s development journey. However, it will be essential to carefully manage the transition leading up to, and following graduation. A smooth transition will be dependent on improving institutional and productive capacity; providing the stimulus for the private sector to flourish; ensuring inclusive, culturally sensitive development; and working to mitigate the country’s deep-seated vulnerabilities. Transition strategies should be led by, and continue to inform, the implementation of Vanuatu 2030 | The People’s Plan - the national sustainable development plan - and be integrated into sector strategies and action plans. Overcoming the challenges and maximizing the opportunities associated with graduation will require collaborative partnerships between government, community leaders, businesses, civil society, and the country’s development and trading partners. Working together, these partnerships should honour the global commitments made by the international community and serve to deliver the development aspirations articulated by the people through Vanuatu 2030. This background paper is intended to build awareness and increase understanding of the key issues associated with Vanuatu’s graduation to help inform national consultations, and the formulation of strategies that guide the smooth transition. It is based on a synthesis of the existing knowledge base, analysis and shared learning that exists on the topic, and has benefited from an initial round of consultations with key stakeholders. While it concludes with a series of recommendations in support of the formulation of appropriate transition strategies, this paper is not presented as a final strategy document. Rather, it is envisaged that it will provoke the necessary further thinking, discussion, research and analysis that will be guided by the National Coordinating Committee for LDC graduation in the lead up to December 2020."
O21|Power generation and structural change: Quantifying economic effects of the coal phase-out in Germany|In the fight against global warming, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a major objective. In particular, a decrease in electricity generation by coal could contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. Using a multi-region dynamic general equilibrium model, this paper studies potential economic consequences of a coal phase-out in Germany. Different regional phase-out scenarios are simulated with varying timing structures. We find that a politically induced coal phase-out would lead to an increase in the national unemployment rate by about 0.10 percentage points from 2020 to 2040, depending on the specific scenario. The effect on regional unemployment rates varies between 0.18 to 1.07 percentage points in the lignite regions. However, a faster coal phase-out can lead to a faster recovery. The coal phase-out leads to migration from German lignite regions to German non-lignite regions and reduces the labour force in the lignite regions by 10,000 people by 2040.
O21|Федеральное Агенство Развития. Оно Необходимо Для Разработки И Реализации Успешных Стратегий<BR>[Federal development agency. It is necessary to design and implement successful strategies]|It is shown that in the success of catching-up development, an important role was played by special structures - general development agencies- that coordinated the activities of ministries and offices. The functions of such agencies are considered, the main tasks that the similar Russian Federal Development Agency (FDR) should solve, are described. The creation in late 2016 of the Department of Project Activities of the Government Office of the Russian Federation can be considered as the first stage of the creation of FDR. A number of further steps are proposed for its formation.
O21|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|An analytical, ecosystemic, epistemological and methodological framework, encompassing the combination and co-design of four dimensions of being in the world (intimate, interactive, social and biophysical), is posited to identify and deal with the problems of difficult settlement or solution in the world, reconceptualising roles and drives, in view of a transformative change of the current paradigms of development, growth, power, wealth, work and freedom embedded at institutional, cultural, economic and political level.
O21|Governance, Science–Policy Interfaces, Societal Organisation and the Transition to an Ecosystemic Model of Culture|The ecosystemic approach favours the development of healthy societies, that invest in each other rather than in mega-projects with intensive use of resources, it extends to environmental problems, quality of life and the state of the world a larger conceptual framework that includes ontological and epistemological issues, in view of the isomorphy and transfers of concepts, laws and models in various fields; it relates to how taken for granted worldviews, values and perceptions affect the definition and treatment of the problems by public policies, research and teaching programmes in the contemporary world.
O21|A novel Optimization Plan for Multiple-Area Economic Dispatch : An Electro Search Optimization Approach|Economic dispatch is an approach that can indirectly improve the power system resonance. A novel algorithm called JAYA is introduces in this manuscript to have an answer for the non-convex multiple-area economic dispatch (MAED). MAED comprises some zone which satisfy the load-generation balance in each area. The aggregated cost is minimized through transferring the energy from the area that has the lower cost to the zone owns the higher-cost. In above of the transmission line rating, our proposed approach provides the scientists with the multiple petroleum cost function for the generators as well as the prohibited zones for generating the power in the large-scale power generations. Moreover, a new procedure according to the electro search optimization algorithm (ESOA) is projected to obtain the global solution for the MAED problem, when all the limitations are simultaneously considered. The proposed approach is tested to validate its performance through a case system consist of seven generators located in two areas. The results show that the proposed ESOA procedure is more efficient in compare with the other approaches.
O21|Macroeconomic Determinants of Infant Mortality in WAEMU Countries: Evidence from Panel Data Analysis|This paper investigates the macroeconomic determinants of infant mortality in WAEMU countries for the period 1980¨C2016. A panel data model from WAEMU countries was used to identify the macroeconomic determinants of infant mortality. We used fixed effects instrumental variables (FE-IV) estimator in panel data model. Our analysis using econometric estimations after correcting for endogeneity showed that female literacy, GDP per capita as a proxy for income, public health expenditure as a percentage of GDP and urbanization significantly affect infant mortality rate in a negative way.
O21|Enabling sustainable and inclusive irrigation development in Cambodia|Cambodia’s 16% of the total cultivated area (2.7 million hectare) is irrigated by 950 irrigation schemes most of which were developed by the government. Financing irrigation development in Cambodia has two problems: (a) shrinkage of funds for construction of ongoing or new canal network, leading to delay in completion of projects; (b) crunch for operation and maintenance. This paper, focuses on status of financing irrigation development laying stress on identifying options to fund the irrigation development more aggressively and sustainably. Further, possible approaches, governance reforms required in water sector, and supportive policy and legal aspects are discussed.
O21|Public–Private Partnership Development in Southeast Asia|Infrastructure development in Southeast Asia has been financed mainly by public funds, which leave wide gaps in majority of countries. Governments have tried to attract the private sector by offering various schemes under public–private partnership (PPP). Typically, PPP contributes less than 1% of gross domestic product, while public finance greatly varies from about 2% to 10% of a country’s gross domestic product. Among major factors supporting PPP implementation, the following features are critical: coherent policy, public sector capacity to manage PPP appropriately, public sector willingness to have mutual relation with private partners, and leadership. Private participation is still continuously growing; and its implementation is not limited to hard infrastructure only, but also to social infrastructure.
O21|Aggressive tax planning indicators|"The aim of this study is to provide economic evidence of the relevance of aggressive tax planning (ATP) structures for all EU Member States. The study relies on economic indicators available at macro-level and on indicators derived from firm-level data. The objective is indeed to look at the relevance of ATP for all Member States through these two complementary angles. For each indicator, the study identifies outliers based on a consistent methodology. None of the indicators provides per se an irrefutable causality towards aggressive tax planning. However, considered together, the set of indicators shall be seen as a ""body of evidence"". While there are some data limitation, the study provides a broad picture of which Member States appear to be exposed to ATP structures, and how it impacts on their tax base (erosion or increase). The discussed ATP structures can be grouped into three main channels: i) ATP via interest payments, ii) ATP via royalty payments and iii) ATP via strategic transfer pricing. In addition to general indicators assessing the overall exposure to ATP, we also derive specific indicators for each of the ATP channels. In combination, these indicators allow to classify entities within multinational enterprises (MNEs) into three types: i) target entities, where the tax base is reduced ii) the lower tax entities where the tax base is increased but taxed at a lower rate, and iii) conduit entities which are in a group with ATP activities but no clear effect on the tax base is observable."
O21|Planificación: pasado, presente y prospectiva. A 50 años de la creación de la Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto|This working paper carries out a historical review of the role that the Office for Planning and Budget (OPP) has played in planning. The aim of the study is to examine to what degree the OPP has fulfilled one of its main tasks: to advise the executive branch in issues on development policies. For this purpose, annual reports and different documents that have been prepared by the Office in matters of Development are examined. Six periods are identified with very different characteristics in terms of the degree of fulfillment of the planning task and regarding the ideas and development strategies promoted. A long term-overview shows a loss of gravitation of the OPP in planning matters during the five decades. Regarding the dominant ideas on development, it can be argued that the transition from the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean´s ideas to the market-centered views of the 1990s was not radical but gradual, and began early in the founding stage of the OPP. Since 2005, its reversal has also been gradual.
O21|What drives the withdrawal of protected areas? Evidence from the Brazilian Amazon|Since the late 1970s protected areas have been one of the most widely used regulatory tools for the conservation of ecosystem services. In this paper, we assess the possible drivers to the choice of withdrawing protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon. Protected areas are subject to inefficiencies because of the existence of conflicts over land between conservation and development activities. Further additionality is an issue, as protected areas tend to be located in areas with low opportunity cost of conservation, where forests are not likely to be cleared. This issue is particularly important in the Brazilian Amazon where growing development must be combined with the need to avoid deforestation. We first present a simple model of degazettement choice which leads us to assess how the presence of two agencies having different development and conservation objectives can lead to implementing this decision. We suggest that the probability to decide the removal of protected areas is larger in places with low and high development pressures. Then, we investigate the empirical determinants of protected area withdrawal by taking advantages of the new PADDDtracker (Protected Area Downgradement, Degazettement and Downsizement) dataset (WWF, 2017b). We confirm that the likelihood of degazettement is strongly influenced by developmentpressures, through characteristics of the land that enable agricultural development, and by variables related to protected area quality of enforcement and management costs. As protected areas located in highest pressure areas are more likely to be additional, there is a risk that only the most effective protected areas may loose their protection.
O21|Development paths: A case for public investment as the alternative to the Washington Consensus|This paper's aim is to provide a different standpoint in the development debate, by focusing on the short-sightedness of the international institutions when they propose a development agenda. Focusing on macroeconomic performance and on privatisation, they have found a solution in PPPs, which offer financing opportunities for public investment and at the same time they reduce the burden on governments budgets. As an alternative this paper proposes a model based on investment and self-dependency with combining elements from post- Keynesian theory as well as the Beijing Consensus. The model rests on the importance of SOEs to use industrial policy as a tool to achieve independence from western powers as well as to increase investment. The theoretical claims are supported by empirical analysis based on 98 developing countries over a 15 year period.
O21|Rural electrification through mini-grids: Challenges ahead|Recent debates on how to provide electricity to the roughly one billion still unconnected people in developing countries have identified mini-grids as a promising way forward. High upfront costs of transmission lines are avoided, and unlike home-scale solar, mini-grids can provide sufficient electricity for productive uses. This note outlines the challenges the mini-grid sector faces to achieve that potential. To date, few examples of sustainably working mini-grid programs exist. We identify regulatory issues, low electricity demand in rural areas, high payment default rates and over-optimistic demand projections as among the key challenges. Business models that account for high transaction costs in rural areas and are based on realistic demand forecasts could considerably increase the commercial viability of village grids.
O21|Institutional change and the development of lagging regions in Europe|According to the dominant economic theories, economic growth is the result of a combination of three factors – physical capital, human capital or labour, and innovation –plus a residual factor or error term, which represents what we do not know or cannotexplain. Depending on whether a neoclassical growth (Solow, 1956; Swan, 1956) or an endogenous growth approach is adopted (Romer, 1986: Lucas, 1988), the weight attributed to each of the components varies, but they remain, in different guises the fundamental drivers informing development policies across the world. The European Union’s (EU) regional development and cohesion policy has been no exception. The bulk of cohesion investments have been channelled towards improving the infrastructure endowment and accessibility of the least developed regions of the EU, as well as increasing the availability and quality of human resources, and developing the innovative capacity of individuals and firms across lagging areas of Europe.
O21|What drives the withdrawal of protected areas? Evidence from the Brazilian Amazon|Since the late 1970s protected areas have been one of the most widely used regulatory tools for the conservation of ecosystem services. In this paper, we assess the possible drivers to the choice of withdrawing protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon. Protected areas are subject to inefficiencies because of the existence of conflicts over land between conservation and development activities. Further additionality is an issue, as protected areas tend to be located in areas with low opportunity cost of conservation, where forests are not likely to be cleared. This issue is particularly important in the Brazilian Amazon where growing development must be combined with the need to avoid deforestation. We first present a simple model of degazettement choice which leads us to assess how the presence of two agencies having different development and conservation objectives can lead to implementing this decision. We suggest that the probability to decide the removal of protected areas is larger in places with low and high development pressures. Then, we investigate the empirical determinants of protected area withdrawal by taking advantages of the new PADDDtracker (Protected Area Downgradement, Degazettement and Downsizement) dataset (WWF, 2017b). We confirm that the likelihood of degazettement is strongly influenced by development pressures, through characteristics of the land that enable agricultural development, and by variables related to protected area quality of enforcement and management costs. As protected areas located in highest pressure areas are more likely to be additional, there is a risk that only the most effective protected areas may loose their protection.
O21|Institutional change and the development of lagging regions in Europe|The success of the policy in delivering greater economic convergence does not hide the fact that we are witnessing a decline in the returns of intervention in the three main growth axes. There is, for example, growing concern about a potential exhaustion of additional investments in transport infrastructure and of improvements in accessibility as drivers of growth in certain lagging regions of Europe (Crescenzi and Rodríguez-Pose, 2012). While this issue remains controversial, the truth is that physical capital, human capital, and technology can explain a waning share of the variation in regional economic growth in Europe. Growth theories that accounted for differences in economic performance relatively well two decades ago are becoming less capable of doing so. The residual factor is growing, meaning that, in spite of improvements in growth theory, we tend to know less about what determines regional growth in Europe.
O21|A Comparison of the Economics Impacts of Conditional and Unconditional Cash Transfers in Egypt|This paper uses a computable general equilibrium model to distinguish between the economy-wide impact of targeting conditional and unconditional cash transfer to Egyptian households following the full removal of subsidies. Analyzing the impact on the middle class whose vulnerability increased during the reform is another addition of this paper that makes an empirical contribution to the literature discussing the effectiveness of cash transfer compared to price subsidies. The STAGE model is calibrated on the Egyptian Social Accounting Matrix 2012/13. The results show that the removal of subsidies will have the largest negative impact on the consumption of middle class. Moreover, Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) maintains the best policy for mitigating the harmful effect of removing subsidies. It has a positive impact on the demand for labor in education and health sectors where the majority of labor is skilled males and semi-skilled females. Similarly, introducing CCT will boost production in health and education sectors.
O21|Social Accounting Matrix: A user manual for village economies|The application of Social Accounting Matrices (SAM) is well established at the national level and provides a comprehensive economic framework. The procedure for developing national SAMs is extensively documented in literature. However, it can also be constructed for smaller economies, such as a village. Studies dealing with village SAMs are rare. In addition, there are hardly any guidelines for design. This gap will be addressed in this paper, which provides a manual for the construction of a village SAM. Theoretical principles and data requirements are discussed. A hypothetical village SAM is constructed by using numerical examples. Subsequently, the SAM of a real-world village case study from Zambia is analyzed. It is demonstrated how macroeconomic indicators can be calculated and microeconomic information obtained. Furthermore, a village SAM provides the database for scientific modelling approaches which are presented. Village SAMs are thus a useful management tool and support policy planning at local and regional level.
O21|Management and Execution of Investment Projects, the Task Prior to the Measurement of Development Effectiveness: The Case of the Inter-American Development Bank|The literature on development effectiveness has traditionally focused on the ex-post analysis of projects. While this is the appropriate method of measuring benefits, a previous step must be taken as a forerunner to good ex-post evaluation: the measurement of the efficiency in the execution of investment projects. This document aims to identify the determinants of good execution. Unlike previous studies, the current study analyzes execution using a project life cycle approach. Using an Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) database with information from various departments, the authors identify the factors that are associated with faster or slower disbursement on several stages of the projects’ life cycle. The basic premise is that the duration of an investment project– that is, the days elapsed from its approval to its final disbursement– is associated with preparation and execution-related factors as well as exogenous country factors. There is evidence that a sound macroeconomic and fiscal environment in countries is important for the purposes of good execution. Moreover, the authors find that delays in project planning and execution substantially extend project lives. These findings suggest the need to continue to improve efficiency in these areas. Finally, the authors find differences in project life cycles that are associated with delays caused by the projects’ executing units.
O21|Real estate and land property automated valuations systems: a taxonomy and conceptual model|Purpose - Automated valuation models have been in use at least for the last fifty years in both academia and practice, while a proper definition was coined only in the last decade. Automated valuation models is a very mature topic that has recently reemerged as very important with the rise of digital infrastructure. Therefore, this paper provides needed analysis and synthesis of the accumulated body of knowledge, and proposes a conceptual framework adapted to reemerging trend.Design/methodology/approach - This imply two-sided contribution of this paper, a taxonomy and a conceptual framework. In order to address properly a broad notion of automated valuation models’ use, this paper introduces automated valuation system as a term and its taxonomy based on key facets, properties and measurements. Proposed taxonomy is non-hierarchical because all automated valuation systems have the same importance and each one has these facets. Furthermore, conceptual model represents the relationships between the facets. The conceptual model for automated valuation system is based on the visualized decision support system consisting of decision, end user, interface data and model. Both taxonomy and conceptual model came into being after literature review that included a bit more than one hundred references.Findings - The overview of facets, their properties and their dummy measurement is discussed only with examples that would be sufficient to illustrate their regularities. Examples are selected as the most cited articles for each of the newly introduced automated valuation approaches. As mentioned, all indicated facets are visualized in a conceptual model that is again an adapted version of the most visuals example of a decision support systems.Research limitations/implications – As mentioned, taxonomy and conceptual model are built upon although relatively broad but selective choice on more than one hundred references. Perhaps a systematic literature review process could additional validate the proposed taxonomy and conceptual model.Practical implications - Assuring the credibility of an automated valuation model that is based purely on comparing the predictive accuracy of method ‘a’ versus method ‘b’ has become a common practice. Therefore, discussion of the use of the proposed automated valuation has been push forward. In addition, as a domain of price estimates has been far surpassed any unique discipline, term that is more generic would be appropriate to accommodate future research coming from multitude of disciplines.Originality/value – By knowledge of the authors this is the first paper that develops taxonomy and conceptual model of automated valuation systems.
O21|Subsidizing Renewable Energy: Higher Welfare by lower depreciation costs for fossil power plants?|There is a broad agreement that renewable energy sources (RES) will play an important role to abate CO2 emissions but there is a contentious debate about the economic sense to promote RES via subsidies. Many static analyses conclude that subsidizing RES ties up capital which could have been used more efficiently by other reduction strategies with lower marginal abatement costs (MAC). Dynamic models, in contrast, emphasize learning effects which lead to lower MAC of RES. In particular a start-up funding to induce an early market entry of RES may be advantageous to benefit from reduced MAC. To our knowledge there has been no attention so far to the effects of renewables’ promotion to the necessary shut down of power plants based on fossil energy sources (FES). With respect to the achievement of a certain long-term reduction objective an early market entry of RES allows a longer transition from FES to RES. This also means more time to shut down fossil-based power plants which can reduce respective depreciation costs. We use an endogenous growth model to focus on the trade off between the described decrease of depreciation costs and the capital tie-up of a subsidization of RES. We find that subsidizing RES can indeed lead to a higher welfare solely because of reduced depreciation costs. We conclude that an optimal strategy to reduce emissions should consider both the increase of renewable and the decrease of fossil electricity generation.
O21|Options of optimal dam capacity under externality and uncertainty|This paper analyses the relation between optimal dam capacity and water management in a unified approach. Having extended a hydropower generation model, we investigate the optimal dam capacity for multi-functional dams such as providing infrastructure for industrial and households water use, conjunctive use of hydropower generation and irrigation; storing water in the wet season for use in the dry season, and mitigating flooding damages. Our optimal solution shows that optimal dam capacity is characterized by the marginal benefits of hydropower generation, the marginal costs of flooding damages, and the constraining factors. We also provide the implication of the optimal solution for three real world cases of dam construction, i.e. for flood control, for irrigation and for hydropower generation.
O21|Child well-being and the Sustainable Development Goals: How far are OECD countries from reaching the targets for children and young people?|This paper summarises available evidence on the distance that OECD countries need to travel in order to reach the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) targets for children and young people. More than 50 indicators are included in this analysis, covering 43 of the 169 targets, and 11 of the 17 Goals. The analysis finds that, on average, OECD countries are still far from reaching the targets pertaining to Goals 4 “Quality education”, and 8 “Decent work and economic growth”. Goals 1 “No poverty”, 2 “Zero hunger” and 16 “Peace, justice and strong institutions” are also highlighted as priority areas. However, the results vary widely across OECD countries, and among specific targets within each of the goals. Yet, all of these findings need to be considered in light of what it is not currently possible to measure. In particular, there are large data gaps for Goals 1 (“No poverty”), 5 (“Gender equality”), 11 (“Sustainable cities and communities”), and 16 (“Peace, justice and strong institutions”).
O21|The cost of floods in developing countries’ megacities: A hedonic price analysis of the Jakarta housing market, Indonesia|Although many megacities in developing countries experience floods that affect a large number of people, relatively few empirical studies have evaluated the costs involved. This paper estimates such costs by conducting a hedonic price analysis of the impacts of floods on the housing market in Jakarta. A robust regression technique on a simple linear transformation model, and a maximum likelihood estimation technique on the spatial lag version of the simple linear transformation model are utilized to estimate the correlation between the level of the 2007 floods and monthly housing rental prices in Jakarta, Indonesia. This paper concludes that in developing countries’ megacities the total cost of floods is not as considerable as the total estimated cost of making the city of Jakarta floodfree
O21|Determinants Of Weanling Thoroughbred Auction Prices| Determinants of prices of 1,302 weanling Thoroughbreds sold at the 2010 November Breeding Stock Sale at the Keeneland Association, Inc. are investigated. Weanlings, who are less than one-year-old, are of unknown breeding and racing quality; still, prices at auctions display high variability. A hedonic price analysis is utilized to identify the determinants of weanling sales prices, and the corresponding marginal values of those determinants are estimated. Prices were highly responsive to variables related to pedigree quality, including the sire’s stud fee, whether the sire was relatively new in his breeding career or not, and whether the dam or the dam’s progeny had earned black type. In addition, prices were influenced by individual characteristics such as gender, age, state of birth. The weanling’s placement in the sale and pinhooked weanlings also influenced price. Results can be used as a decision tool by both buyers and sellers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O21|Airports and economic performance in China|China's airport construction policy has been successful in boosting manufacturing output, according to research by Stephen Gibbons and Wenjie Wu. Their study also finds that productivity impacts have been greater for private firms in areas with relatively high population and low educational achievement. The researchers address the question of whether opening new airports and expanding airport capacity stimulate economic growth, particularly in developing countries. The evidence they find on the positive impact of airport infrastructure in China suggests that reduced travel times and improved domestic market access help to boost industrial productivity.
O21|Airports, Market Access and Local Economic Performance: Evidence from China|In this paper we study the effect of airports on local economic performance that arises from better access to domestic markets, using China's recent rapid air network expansion. We estimate the effects of the implied changes in access to population on measures of economic performance using a panel of counties built from administrative records and micro data on industrial firms. To mitigate endogeneity concerns we focus on a subsample of 'incidentally' affected counties, whose location midway between existing and new airports implies they not were explicitly targeted for development nor directly affected by airport operations. We also decompose market access into land-side and air-side components. Our key finding is that improved population access due to land-side distance reductions to airports increased industrial output and GDP, with an elasticity of around 0.25. An instrumental variables strategy exploiting conversion of historical military airports to civil use yields higher elasticities.
O21|Forming State through Land Reform Policy: The Dynamics of Baldío Allocation in Peripheral Colombia|This paper analyses land policy when the state lacks the monopoly of legitimate violence (MLV) through a territory. I use historical data for Colombia to empirically assess the dynamics through which the central state allocates land in such a scenario. I argue that colonization processes directed towards peripheral areas with lack of the MLV induces the state to attempt building capacity using land policy. Public goods nevertheless do not follow. I use an instrumental variable strategy in order to examine these hypotheses. Results show that rural migration towards the peripheral areas accounts for 42.01% of the total number and 68.55% of the total hectares of public land allocations. Allocations however account for only the 7.89% of the number policemen and the 6% of the number of policemen per inhabitant in these regions. Moreover, both their total and per hectare effect on police presence is much higher in the integrated zones than in the peripheral ones.
O21|A Review of the Literature on Smart Development: Lessons for Small Municipalities|Nowadays, scientists and practitioners unify modern regional development under the term “smart,” what brings technologies and creation of a new knowledge in a front of economic activities. Small municipalities as participants of the process have been studied seldom. Moreover, a huge part of the literature on smart development mostly pays attention to such key elements, which have limited capabilities in small municipalities (e.g. development of high technologies, patent activities, sustainability etc.). Thus, involvement of small municipalities into the process of smart development may be slowed-up, due to their insufficient knowledge and experience. This paper offers a literature review on scientific findings and practical guides about smart development with aim to show how small municipalities could develop “smartly” in bigger extent. The research results highlight scientifically proved cornerstones of smart development and provide analysis of successful experience how small municipalities can apply it in a practice.
O21|Enhancement of Academic Research Activity in Higher Education Institutions with the Usage of Foresight Methodology|Applicability of this paper is determined by a number of factors: Fragmentary nature of the topic of foresight in higher education institutions (HEIs), often weak connection between research projects in various departments and divisions in universities, insufficient degree of commercialization of academic research projects, lack of foundation for formulation of academic priority subject fields. Foresight methodology makes it possible to gather data necessary for making decisions on current state and directions of research; keep track of projects that are of interest to government bodies and business structures, as well as determine necessary resources for allocation in order to achieve leading positions. With this in mind, it is possible for a HEI to formulate scenarios and execution stages of “foresight” program and define offer-projects for funding from both state-financed and off-budget sources. The intended effect from foresight program implementation is to assure significant increase in revenue side of academic research projects. Thus, this paper focuses on establishing the connection between formulation of academic research policy and the end results of foresight usage in a specific subject area.
O21|How the New International Goal for Child Mortality is Unfair to Sub-Saharan Africa (Again)|The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) include level-end goals for both under-five and neonatal mortality to be obtained by 2030: no more than 25 and 12 deaths per 1,000 births, respectively. Recent accelerations in the rate of reduction in under-five mortality have been cited as a cause for optimism. In this paper, we show that changes in mortality rates are subject to mean reversion. Hence, high rates observed recently for Sub-Saharan Africa make for an overly optimistic estimate of future reductions. Taking this into account in projecting mortality rates until 2030, we find that only very few countries in Sub-Saharan Africa are likely to attain the new targets while a majority of countries elsewhere are likely to attain the target or have done so already. We also show that while MDG4 has been rightly criticized as ‘unfair’ to Sub-Saharan Africa in the past, a relative target may have been more appropriate today and would be relevant for all countries. We also offer a discussion of likely challenges the region faces in making further inroads against preventable deaths.
O21|Chained to Sustainable Development Goals? The Changing Role of Entities for Enhanced Resilience along Agriculture Food Value Chains in Thailand|The operation period of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) ended in 2015, and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will be in operation in 2016-2030. The sustainable development agenda contained 17 goals and covered a broad range of quantitative and qualitative objectives across social, economic, and environmental dimensions of sustainable development. These include (i) ending poverty and hunger, (ii) sustainable consumption and production, (iii) improving health and education, (iv) making cities more sustainable, (v) combating climate change, and (vi) protecting oceans and forests. Sustainable food production, marketing, and other post-harvest management practices are important to achieving majority of the SDGs. This paper examines the required changing roles of private and public organisations, as well as international organisations, in 2016-2030 to enhance resilience of agricultural food value chains in Thailand. The Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP) of Thailand is a growth and development model characterised by its universality and inclusiveness; people-centred approach; moderation, moral values, and reasonableness; and knowledge and integrity. The SEP encourages a holistic farm management system to promote sustainability, food security, water conservation and biodiversity, development of human resources, risk management, investment, and expansion of businesses, thereby creating self-sufficiency at the household, community, organisational, and national levels. These objectives of the SEP are somewhat consistent with Goals 1, 2, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, and 15 of the SDGs. The required roles of organisations to enable Thailand to achieve the SDGs towards enhancing the resilience of agricultural food value chains are presented, and the policy implications are highlighted.
O21|Innovation, Finance, and Economic Growth: An Agent-Based Approach|This paper extends the endogenous-growth agent-based model in Fagiolo and Dosi (2003) to study the finance-growth nexus. We explore industries where firms produce a homogeneous good using existing technologies, perform R&D activities to introduce new techniques, and imitate the most productive practices. Unlike the original model, we assume that both exploration and imitation require resources provided by banks, which pool agent savings and finance new projects via loans. We find that banking activity has a positive impact on growth. However, excessive financialization can hamper growth. Indeed, we find a significant and robust inverted-U shaped relation between financial depth and growth. Overall, our results stress the fundamental (and still poorly understood) role played by innovation in the finance-growth nexus.
O21|Working Paper 05-17 - Une approche macrobudgétaire stylisée pour simuler des trajectoires de finances publiques - Quelques enseignements pour la conduite de la politique budgétaire dans un référent exprimé en termes structurels<BR>[Working Paper 05-17 - Een gestileerde macrobudgettaire benadering om trajecten voor de overheidsfinanciën te simuleren - Enkele lessen voor het voeren van het begrotingsbeleid in een referentiekader uitgedrukt in structurele termen]|This study presents a compact model that allows a stylised, yet dynamic reasoning on the main macrofiscal aggregates that are relevant for setting budgetary paths compatible with the structural budget balance requirements of the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. Some lessons on the conduct of fiscal policy in a reference framework in structural terms can be learned from the simulations provided for illustrative purposes. These simulations show in particular that – under certain conditions relating to the degree to which the budgetary adjustments have a permanent effect on the economic activity and thus on potential GDP – when the feedback effects of adjustments on the underlying macroeconomic environment are left out of consideration, this can be detrimental to the credibility of the considered structural paths.
O21|We Don’t Need No Education: Reconstruction and Conflict across Afghanistan|Field interviews conducted by the author in Afghanistan suggest current theories linking conﬂict to development do not adequately account for ideological drivers of resistance. We present a model demonstrating how reconstruction/development led by a foreign occupier can exacerbate violence through popular discontent, if projects are ideologically controversial. We test the model using detailed data on military-led reconstruction and public opinion from NATO, and a US-Government violence log covering Afghanistan from 2005 until 2009. We ﬁnd projects in the health sector successfully alleviate violence, whereas those in the education sector actually provoke conﬂict. The destabilizing effects of education projects are strongest in conservative areas, where public opinion polls suggest education projects breed antipathy towards international forces. Further underscoring the role of local perceptions, project-driven violence appears to be homegrown, rather than sourced externally. Our ﬁndings do not support competing theories; are not driven by reverse causation; and are robust when considering many sources of endogeneity.
O21|Roadmaps as a Tool for Modeling Complex Systems|Today roadmaps are becoming commonly used tool for detecting and designing a desired future for companies, states and the international community. The growing popularity of this method puts tasks such as identifying basic roadmapping principles, creation of concepts and determination of the characteristics of the use of roadmaps depending on the objectives as well as restrictions and opportunities specific to the study area on the agenda. However the system approach, e.g. the elements which are recognized to be major for high-quality roadmapping, remain one of the main fields for improving the methodology and practice of their development as limited research was devoted to the detailed analysis of the roadmaps from the view of system approach. System analysis can make the process of roadmap development easier because it identifies six key stages, the implementation of which is necessary for the construction of any roadmap. Two case studies undertaken in the paper demonstrate the implementation of system approach for roadmap creation in the Russian companies and industries
O21|Strategic Management Tools and Techniques: A Comparative Analysis of Empirical Studies|There is no doubt that strategic management tools and techniques are important parts of the strategic management process. Their use in organizations should be observed in a practice-based context. This paper analyzes the empirical studies on the usage of strategic management tools and techniques. Hence, the main aim of this study is to investigate and analyze which enterprises, according to their country development level, use more strategic management tools and techniques and which of these are used the most. Also, this paper investigates which strategic management tools and techniques are used globally according to the results of empirical studies. The study presents a summary of empirical studies for the period 1990–2015. The research results indicate that more strategic tools and techniques are used in developed countries, followed by developing countries and fewest in countries in transition. This study is likely to contribute to the field of strategic management because it summarizes the most used strategic tools and techniques at the global level according to varying stages of countries’ economic development. Also, the findings from this study may be utilized to maximize the full potential of enterprises and reduce the cases of entrepreneurship failures, through creating awareness of the importance of using strategic management tools and techniques.
O21|The Hedonic Approach to Vineyard Site Selection: Adaptation to Climate Change and Grape Growing in Emerging Markets|This paper shows how the hedonic approach to vineyard site selection can be used in the adaptation of vineyard land to climate change, natural disasters or other exogenous events. The basic idea is that, if the relation between weather and grape quality is known for each grape type in existing growing areas, then it is possible to predict the quality of grapes that would be produced in other locations, or in the same location with a changed climate. This permits the optimization of grape type selection for a location and also provides an indication of the value that a particular planting should produce. The relation of grape quality to the weather is provided for several well-known viticultural areas, including Burgundy, Bordeaux, Rioja, and the Piedmont. An application of the method to a new vineyard area in the Czech Republic following the demise of Communism is used to demonstrate the method.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O21|Even the Representative Agent Must Die: Using Demographics to Inform Long-Term Social Discount Rates|We develop a demographically-based approach for estimating the utility discount rate (UDR) portion of the Ramsey rule. We show how age-specific mortality rates and life expectancies imply a natural UDR for individuals at each age in a population, and these can be aggregated into a population-level social UDR. We then provide empirical estimates for nearly all countries and for the world as a whole. A striking part of the analysis is how the estimated UDRs fall within the range of those currently employed in the macroeconomics and climate change literatures. We use our results to derive heterogenous social discount rates across countries and explore the consequences for an integrated assessment model of climate change. We find that introducing regional heterogeneity of UDRs into the RICE model has little impact on the business-as-usual trajectory of global emissions. It does, however, change the trajectory of optimal emissions, the corresponding optimal carbon tax, and the distribution of emission reductions across countries.
O21|Planning and opportunism|The paper analyzes the occurrence of opportunistic behaviour opportunities in the planning processes. The following types of planning are distinguished: self-planning, collective planning, planning on behalf (or by contract), and directive (or prescriptive) planning. It is shown that any type of it excluding self-planning generates incentives to opportunistic behavior. Within this framework, two popular approaches in the planning theory are analyzed: participative planning and communicative one; it is shown that they are open to opportunism too. Basing on this analysis, the spheres of economy where government planning can be more efficient than market coordination mechanism are outlined.
O21|Data for Development: DAC member priorities and challenges|The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development commits the international community to support the modernisation and strengthening of national statistical capacities and systems in developing countries and to increase significantly the availability of high-quality, timely, reliable and disaggregated data to measure their progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. This paper, informed by a survey circulated among DAC members between February and April 2017, presents DAC members’ policies and practices to support national statistical capacities and systems in developing countries. It highlights some of the main challenges that DAC members face in relation to making data work for sustainable development, notably in co-ordinating their support for statistics to avoid duplication and find synergies, in mobilising more resources, and in using quality data for development co-operation decision-making, programming, monitoring and reporting. The findings presented in this paper will inform the analysis of the 2017 Development Co-operation Report on Data for Development which will be published in October 2017. The report will provide guidance to providers of development assistance on how to best support developing countries to have and use quality and timely data for enabling delivery of the SDGs.
O21|Strengthening the results chain: Synthesis of case studies of results-based management by providers|This paper presents an analysis of evidence from seven case studies of results-based management by development co-operation providers. Analysis of themes from the case studies reveal six interrelated challenges which providers face in their efforts to manage for the results of development co-operation. The six challenges are: linking results to development goals, ensuring the purpose of results systems is well-defined, weighing up the benefits of aggregating and attributing results from standard indicators, enabling country ownership, using performance information alongside results information, and building and embedding a results culture. Providers continue to adopt a range of approaches to pursue a focus on results and there are many examples of good practice. The case studies suggest that in a complex development landscape some providers are prioritising the use of aggregated results information for domestic accountability, communication, and performance management over their use for learning and policy direction. In this context, the paper argues that in agency-wide results frameworks development co-operation results are often detached (or de-contextualised) from development results and discusses the implications of this, including the use of standard indicators to measure aggregated outputs. The paper uses case study evidence to discuss and suggest practical ways providers can build and maintain a strong results focus which enables analysis, insights and learning, and has achievement of development outcomes as its objective.
O21|Economic corridors and regional development: The Malaysian experience|This paper examines prerequisites for a successful inter-state economic corridor development program in a country with a federal system of government through an in-depth study of the design, implementation and the developmental impact of the Northern Corridor Economic Region (NCER) in Malaysia that encompasses the states of Penang, Kedah, Perak and Perlis. The analysis suggests that the NCER has the potential to leverage on the core strengths of the state of Penang—global connectivity, mature business eco-system with a strong presence of multinational enterprises, and sizeable talent pool—in order to redress the widening inter-regional and urban–rural development divide. However, so far, the achievements have not matched the expectations primarily because of an inherent institutional limitation of the program: failure to constitute the Northern Corridor Implementation Authority (NCIA) with adequate power and operational flexibility to achieve the overarching goal of shared growth while ensuring compliance from all stakeholders.
O21|The Diversity Of Socioeconomic Development Of Rural AreasIn The Western Borderland And The Problem Of Post-State Farm Localities|One of the major dilemmas of regional policy is the answer to the question whether the growth should be concentrated at the core or if there is growth and development potential in each territory (Barca, McCann, Rodriguez-Pose 2012, p. 149). The arguments which refer to the place-based policy stress the fact that making use of the unused potential of intermediate and poorly developed territories may actually influence the local and national level of development (Farole et al., 2011). Rural areas, especially peripheral areas, are undoubtedly the territories of unused potential. The aim of the research is to measure the socioeconomic development, including the spatial diversification leading to the development of rural peripheral areas. Development is a multidimensional phenomenon. Therefore, its level will be determined by means of the synthetic feature. The synthetic feature will be used as the starting point for identification of peripheral areas and their delimitation. The results of the analysis showed significant differences level of socioeconomic development of rural areas in the western borderland. The research findings did not show a simple dependence between rural development and the share of former state-owned farms in the communes. Areas with a high share of former state-owned farms could be found both in the group of best and least-developed communes. Due to the range of research it is illegitimate to make other than intuitive inferences. Thus, we can intuitively indicate that the following group of factors triggered the process of development and helped to break the barriers resulting from the liquidation of state-owned farms: location in an urban agglomeration, natural and tourist values as well as the activity of local authorities. The research should be continued in order to identify the factors and pathways of development in individual areas under analysis.
O21|The Conceptualization of an Innovative Business Model – the Case of a Technology Enterprise|The complexity and dynamic changes of external conditions necessary for enterprises to function and increased competition in the local and global markets impose constant search for the most effective business model for the development of organizations. Its accurate identification and measurement influence the utilization of internal capacity of organizations, market opportunities and application of adequate instruments of competition. The scientific purpose of the study is to conduct a creative synthesis of the theoretical framework concerning business models. The empirical part of the paper is an attempt to present the conceptualization and descriptions of a real business model. It has been developed by young Polish IT enterprise for the implementation of a service for creating modern technological-programming solutions on the international market. The paper is of analytical and conceptual character. The application of the empirical method of a case study has made it possible to characterize the essence of creating an innovative business model and illustrate the progress of the studied phenomenon in business practice. The exploratory research has been conducted with regard to technological solutions offered by MindsEater Ltd. The research results reveal the existence of interdependencies between intellectual potential of staff members and success in business practice. By creating and implementing innovative business model, the enterprise must take into account the context of micro-business as well as social, economic and political environment in which it operates and the goals and mission of its activity. The conducted research is an authorial attempt to explain the concept of an innovative business model.
O21|On development paths minimizing the structural change costs in the three-sector framework and an application to structural policy|Structural change is associated with high costs for the economy and the society ranging from environmental pollution to unemployment. We focus on the three-sector framework (related to agriculture, manufacturing and services) and assume that the structural change costs increase with the strength of structural change. We show that monotonous structural change paths are minimizing the structural change costs in this framework. By using this result and the (qualitative) stylized facts of structural change based on the theoretical and empirical literature consensus, we derive the cost-minimizing strategy for a developing country. We use these results to discuss some well-known structural/trade strategies.
O21|Local Authorities’ contribution on Gastronomy Tourism Development: the case of Ontario, Canada|The role of Local Government (LG) in achieving tourism development is extremely important. A characteristic example is the province of Ontario in Canada, which managed with the assistance of the Ministries of Tourism and Culture and with the cooperation of the private sector, to create an effective tourism development tool promote the region through its gastronomy - Ontario Culinary Tourism Alliance (OCTA), a non-profit, industry driven organization which leads the implementation of the provincial Culinary Tourism Strategy. Specifically, the municipalities, the ministry and the enterprises assigned to OCTA to develop a comprehensive, Strategic Action Plan 2005-2015 for the Development of Gastronomy Tourism in order to make Ontario, firstly, the primary culinary tourism destination across Canada, and then worldwide. OCTA connects and coordinates successfully all food tourism stakeholders of Ontario
O21|Агропродовольственный Рынок Региона: Классификация Институтов, Административные Барьеры, Трансакционные Издержки, Неэффективные Посредники<BR>[The region's agro-food market: the classification of institutions, administrative barriers, transaction costs, ineffective intermediaries]|The paper examines the scientific basis for the development of the institutional structure at the national and regional levels. The materials of the region classified the market institutions, assessed their development, identified the main socio-economic problems that require solutions. The concept of improving the institutional structure of the regional agri-food market is proposed, which includes reduction of transaction costs due to administrative barriers and a reduction in the number of inefficient intermediaries. The possibility of using cluster formations of the region as tools through which state authorities and local self-government can regulate interaction between different groups of market institutions is considered. The specialty of economics and management at the enterprise (by branches), employees of regional government bodies, market research specialists, researchers, teachers and students of agrarian universities is addressed to teachers and students of universities.
O21|The Contribution of Passenger Movement to Economic Growth in Malaysia|This study investigates the causal relations between passenger movement handled by Malaysia airports and economic growth per capita from 1990 to 2015 by using co-integration approach, Granger causality and vector autoregression (VAR) model. By applying time series analysis, we explored whether the two variables lead each other to Malaysia’s economic growth. The result showed that both variables integrated to enhance Malaysia’s economic performance.
O21|The Roles of Knowledge Management for the Development of Organizations|Knowledge is the most important factor of production, next to labor, land and capital. It is about managing and sharing knowledge for the development of an organization. In the competitive business world, knowledge management (KM) has become more essential for the sustainable development of organizations. In the 21st century knowledge and KM become the most professional element in many fields of knowledge, such as, education, cognitive science, health, sociology, management science, information science, computer science, information and technology, economics, philosophy, psychology, knowledge engineering, artificial intelligence and all branches of business. Through the application of successful KM, organizations can improve their effectiveness and can gain competitive advantage. KM helps in the decision making process for the benefit of a company. It leads to higher efficiency in terms of less duplication of work, followed by notably better performance, enhancing new staffs’ capabilities and better quality decisions. The paper discusses the fundamentals and the importance of KM for professionals, users and technology experts. This article also examines the concepts of knowledge and KM in organizations. The major challenges and barriers for implementation of KM in organizations are discussed in some details. Additionally, the paper discusses the proficiencies, responsibilities, profiles and the roles of a knowledge manager. An attempt has been taken here to enhance knowledge related efficiencies in any organization.
O21|On the guidelines of good planning : The case of the Arab region|The paper uses a structured database of national planning that ESCWA is compiling to identify the well-known and lesser-known features of development planning in the Arab region. The paper first explores international best practices and reflects on country-specific context to develop a typology of good planning criteria for the Arab region. Based on this typology, the paper offers preliminary stylized facts about planning and compares individual planning initiatives across the region. Above all, the findings indicate the region is suffering with the following difficulties: (1) a lack of structure among individual planning documents, (2) a weak relation to international frameworks, (3) the paucity of specific measurable indicators that would help to effectively monitor achievements, (4) many countries did not publish any planning documents targeting the long-term and medium-term development of their whole economy at all or (5) did not make them readily available on-line, which points towards insufficient transparency and impaired participation. Finally, the paper envisions a way forward for integrative planning in the Arab region while linking it to the 2030 Agenda.
O21|Documentation note ESCWA'S national plans database|The Database of National Planning (DNP) compiled by the Economic Governance and Planning Section at UN-ESCWA provides standardised indicators about development planning practices in the Arab region in order to facilitate policy analysis and scholarly work. The goal of the DNP is to assess current policy practices in the Arab region against international standards of ‘good planning’, and facilitate identification of potential for improvement of planning practices. The database may also be used to monitor countries’ achievements towards their stated goals, mainstream international agendas in Arab countries’ planning thus informing the public debate and contributing toward aligning people’s expectations. The paper describes the framework used to ensure comparability of individual planning initiatives across the region. It provides detailed description of data gathering, and data treatment methodology. It explains the database structure and operations. It exemplifies ways to compute composite assessment indicators, currently based on the degree of ‘quality’ and ‘sophistication’ of planning in the Arab region. Finally, the paper explicitly reports the limitations of the database for meaningful analyses and cross-country comparisons and way forward. Currently, the National Planning Database contains selected planning data series for seventeen of ESCWA’s member states and Algeria; however, there is no information available for Syria, Comoros, Djibouti and Somalia. The qualitative and quantitative information compiled comes from Arab countries’ planning documents readily accessible online. The methodological paper is intended to be a living guide, whereby additional or updated information can be added when available and as appropriate.
O21|Failures of the national policy for sustainable development of Bulgaria – economic dimensions|Bulgaria is a member of the EU since 2007. The country has issues with its economic policy, which issues could have negative impact over the EU’s policies as a whole. When the economic policy of a Member State is blemished by a systematic strategic misconceptions, it is necessary this to be analysed in depth. The debate, about the future of the EU after Brexit and the concept about multi-speed Europe is consequence of the efficiency of the economic and political systems in each individual Member States. Economic challenges arising by the failure of Bulgarian’s national policy for sustainable development for the period 2000-2015, are examined in this publication. In terms of the economic globalization and energy and ecological regulations, remedies for the identified strategic misconceptions are proposed.
O21|Foresight in Strategic Planning and Technology Foresight in Kazakhstan: making Decisions about Long-term Investment in Science, International Experience|Development of the national science, technology and innovation (STI) strategy is a complicated process associated with a high level of uncertainty. Establishment of efficient framework for STI policy planning in Kazakhstan is an essential element of the sustainable policy planning system. From a perspective of future management, foresight provides a basis for decision-making process by identifying key areas for a long-term investments and assessing long-term perspectives of science, technology, economy and society. Foresight allows setting up future priorities by focusing on different aspects of anticipated changes. The main purpose of this paper is to investigate the role of foresight in the decision-making process and to elaborate recommendations on effective integration of national foresight results into the process of STI policy planning in Kazakhstan.
O21|On the growth of Korean technoparks|Abstract The Republic of Korea undertook a major initiative in the early 1970s to integrate high-technology industry with its regional development strategy. This effort involved three phases: the development of science towns in the 1970s, the initiation of a technopolis program in the 1980s, and the establishment of science parks or technoparks in the 1990s. We focus on the third phase in this paper, and we identify empirically covariates with the employment growth of Korean technoparks. We find faster employment growth in parks established after the ICT revolution in 2000, in parks with tenants involved in more complex technology development, and in parks with more research-intensive tenants.
O21|Embracing an entrepreneurial ecosystem: an analysis of the governance of research joint ventures|Abstract In this paper, we examine how one important type of relationship, research joint ventures (RJVs), is governed within the context of an entrepreneurial ecosystem. Based on agency theory, we investigate the relationship between the governance structure of an RJV and the likelihood that the venture will embrace elements of its research-based ecosystem, that is, the likelihood that the RJV will invite a university to become a research member of the venture. Using data from the National Research Joint Venture Database, we find that when the governance structure of the RJV affords the organizer/leader and research director (the principal) the ability to exert control over the activities of the other members of the RJV (the agents), universities are less likely to be invited to participate as a research member.
O21|An analytics framework for improving public service operations and processes towards transparency issues|It is critical for a public sector to raise awareness and fight against the corruption. Among many government projects, enhancing transparency through improving public service operations and processes can be seen as one of the solutions. This study presents the lesson learnt from the transparency project performed by government agencies including selection process and criteria, selected processes, attitudes towards the project, and various obstacles and limitations in deriving the right process. These findings are synthesized and an analytics framework of public service process selection for transparency is then proposed. Such framework incorporates data analytics methodologies and techniques so that it can be further developed to build transparency in today?s digital age.
O21|Innovation, Finance, and Economic Growth : an agent based approach|This paper extends the endogenous-growth agent-based model in Fagiolo and Dosi (2003) to study the finance growthnexus. We explore industries where firms produce a homogeneous good using existing technologies, perform R&D activities to introduce new techniques, and imitate the most productive practices. Unlike the original model, we assume that both exploration and imitation require resources provided by banks, which pool agent savings and finance new projects via loans. We find that banking activity has a positive impact on growth. However,excessive financialization can hamper growth. In- deed, we find a significant and robust inverted-U shaped relation between financial depth and growth. Overall, our results stress the fundamental (and still poorly understood) role played by innovation in the finance-growth nexus.
O21|Take-up of joint and individual liability loans: an analysis with laboratory experiments|This paper reports a study on decision-making by borrowers regarding take-up of different loan types in a laboratory microfinance experiment setting. I hypothesize that when borrowers are offered a flexible choice of different loan types (here, individual liability (IL) and joint liability (JL)), then they are able to self-select their desirable loan and this could lead to higher overall take-up of loans. I find evidence that loan take-up rate is significantly higher when the choice-set becomes more flexible with additional provision of a second loan type. Further evidence shows that in a setting where moral hazard and free-riding can be eliminated, JL type is more popular among borrowers when both loans are available in the choice-set; this indicates that when borrowers can make sure that partners would not be able to cheat, then JL type could excel in take-up rate. On controlling for risk and selfishness, results suggest that highly risk-averse borrowers mostly stay away from any loan type and prefer safer and unprofitable outside income options. Less selfish borrowers show signs of higher inclination in taking up JL loan, compared to others. Investigating the interaction between discount rate and selfishness, I find that JL is either desirable by those who are selfish yet patient enough to reap the long run benefits of JL loan through its dynamic incentives that reduces the risk of repayment, or by those who are impatient but are less selfish. The results collectively imply that microloan types need to be customized according to the heterogeneous preferences of the borrowers; also, there needs to be enough flexibility in the offered choice-set for better self-selection.
O21|Financial mechanism to invest in knowledge from natural resource revenues: Experiences from Bolivia, Chile, Colombia and Peru|In resource-rich emerging countries, management of revenues from natural resources (NR) plays a critical role in transforming their economies. In this paper, a conceptual framework is constructed for an institution to promote the economic diversification through investing in knowledge, based on the literature from management of natural resources, industrial policy and public management. Existing financial mechanisms in Bolivia, Chile, Colombia and Peru, where NR revenues are invested in knowledge to enhance productivity (natural resources for knowledge, or NR4K funds), are examined applying the framework. The analysis identified that NR4K in these countries currently fall short of achieving their intended purpose of transitioning their economies toward increased diversification. These require complementary public policies to enhance capabilities, coordinate between stakeholders and initiate experimental investments.
O21|Gambling Tourism and Economic Development: Some lessons from Macao|This article aims to explore and document the relationship between forms of alternative tourism and economic development. More specifically, the subject of our investigation will be whether a small national economy is able to rely wholly or largely on tourist flows as a source of income and even to invest in a single type of tourism. Alternative forms of tourism, gaming tourism as well as the features of territorially limited countries and how they are linked to the case of Macau will also be objects of study and annotation. With the process of text production through scientific articles, statistical data and reliable data bases, we will attempt to 'cover' the investigated relationship as well as the stemming questions.
O21|Институты Догоняющего Развития<BR>[Institutions of Catching-up Development]|"It is shown that the institutional trajectories of catching-up development in successful countries contained similar interim institutions; this similarity is explained by common technological, institutional and cultural constraints that should be taken into account and to overcome. Corporatism, indicative planning, the presence of the ""main"" development agencies with broad powers, maintaining an undervalued exchange rate - due to these and a number of other mechanisms, countries of economic miracle were able to initiate and maintain rapid growth, despite low level of human capital, underdevelopment of civic culture, and market failures. Institutes of catching-up development contributed to the formation of collaborative relationships between the government, business and society. They softened the existed constraints, and they itself were gradually modified to ensure the transition to modern democracy with effective market economy. The analysis allows to outline а plan of institutional reform , taking into account the institutional particularities of Russia. The principles of the administrative reform are considered. The problem of the formation of a hybrid national planning system is formulated, which includes indicative planning and program budgeting. To finance the planned projects, it is offered a mix of public-private partnership and project financing. It is proposed to use the Japanese experience of stimulating temporary association of companies for the development of modernization projects. The principles of reforming of the state property governance, as well as education and science sectors are discussed."
O21|Model Perancangan Sistem Informasi Dalam Mendukung Ketahanan Pangan<BR>[Design of Information Systems to Support Food Security]|Rapid technological advances that increasingly requires the application of technological advances stretcher. One model of information technology development by building a system of information in this case the expert system that can diagnose diseases of rice plants. By using an expert system is expected to assist in providing a facility that supports to provide information and diagnose symptoms rice plants which arise along with the cause, especially that caused by pathogens to farmers in real time, and can be an alternative to meet the shortfall of field educator staff field which provides information on the prevention and control of pests and diseases of rice plants to farmers.
O21|A Global Voice for Survival: An Ecosystemic Approach for the Environment and the Quality of Life|In view of the overwhelming pressures on the global environment and the need to disrupt the systems that drive them, an ecosystemic theoretical and practical framework is posited for the evaluation and planning of public policies, research and teaching programmes, encompassing four dimensions of being-in-the-world (intimate, interactive, social and biophysical), as they combine, as donors and recipients, to induce the events (deficits/assets), cope with consequences (desired/undesired) and contribute for change (potential outputs). The focus should not be on the “bubbles” of the surface (consequences, fragmented issues), but on the configurations deep inside the boiling pot where the problems emerge. New paradigms of development, growth, power, wealth, work and freedom, embedded at institutional level, include heterogeneous attributes, behaviours and interactions and the dynamics of the systems (institutions, populations, political, economic, cultural and ecological background). Instead of dealing with the bubbles (segmented, reduced issues) and trying to solve isolated and localized problems without addressing the general phenomenon, the proposal emphasizes the definition of the problems deep inside the “boiling pot”, where the problems emerge, encompassing the current “world-system” with its boundaries, structures, techno-economic paradigms, support groups, rules of legitimation, and coherence. In the socio-cultural learning niches, heuristic-hermeneutic experiences generate awareness, interpretation and understanding beyond established stereotypes, from a thematic (“what”), an epistemic(“how”) and a strategic (policies) point of view. The proposal relates to how taken for granted worldviews, values and perceptions affect environmental problems and quality of life.
O21|A Global Voice for Survival: An Ecosystemic Approach for the Environment and the Quality of Life|In view of the overwhelming pressures on the global environment and the need to disrupt the systems that drive them, an ecosystemic theoretical and practical framework is posited for the evaluation and planning of public policies, research and teaching programmes, encompassing four dimensions of being-in-the-world (intimate, interactive, social and biophysical), as they combine, as donors and recipients, to induce the events (deficits/assets), cope with consequences (desired/undesired) and contribute for change (potential outputs). The focus should not be on the “bubbles” of the surface (consequences, fragmented issues), but on the configurations deep inside the boiling pot where the problems emerge. New paradigms of development, growth, power, wealth, work and freedom, embedded at institutional level, include heterogeneous attributes, behaviours and interactions and the dynamics of the systems (institutions, populations, political, economic, cultural and ecological background). Instead of dealing with the bubbles (segmented, reduced issues) and trying to solve isolated and localized problems without addressing the general phenomenon, the proposal emphasizes the definition of the problems deep inside the “boiling pot”, where the problems emerge, encompassing the current “world-system” with its boundaries, structures, techno-economic paradigms, support groups, rules of legitimation, and coherence. In the socio-cultural learning niches, heuristic-hermeneutic experiences generate awareness, interpretation and understanding beyond established stereotypes, both from a thematic (“what”) and an epistemic point of view (“how”).
O21|Национальный Форсайт - Проект Сельского Хозяйства Казахстана: Научно-Техническая Стратегия, Ресурсы, Приоритеты Развития, Конкурентоспособность<BR>[National foresight project of agriculture in Kazakhstan: scientific and technical strategy, resources, development priorities, competitiveness]|: Innovation has become a key factor in global economic development and remain at the forefront of technological breakthrough. Developed countries pay considerable attention to conducting R&D in the segments that in the coming decades will determine megatrends of technological and social development. At the same time, a great emphasis is placed on the development of interdisciplinary scientific directions and the convergence of technologies. Foresight helps to increase effectiveness of the decision-making process, ensuring a high level of transparency, through the involvement of all stakeholders. In addition, foresight increases awareness of participants about possible scenarios and risks of the future, as well as opportunities that should not be missed.
O21|The spectrum of Azerbaijan’s increasing economy|This paper aims to underline the key measures that Azerbaijan took during the past 20 years in regards to sustainable development. Although the country broke up from the Soviet Union in the 1990s, there has been a particular and precise preoccupation regarding its evolution as a nation. It is important to underline the fact that, in present time, Azerbaijan is an important country in the South Caucasus, which has economic relations with other parties such as the European Union, Turkey, Russia, and others. These relationships are based, mostly, on the fact that Azerbaijan is a reach resource country that supplies many countries with oil and gas.
O21|Stakeholder-Based Evaluation of Tourism Policy Priorities: The Case of the South Bohemian Region|This paper deals with a set of problems related to tourism policy implementation. It emphasises the importance of stakeholder involvement in implementation of tourism policy in tourism destinations. The research is focused on evaluation of tourism policy strategic priorities from the point of view of destination stakeholders in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. Its objective is to identify key regional stakeholders in the tourism sector and describe their attitudes to co-operation with the South Bohemian Tourism Authority (SBTA) on implementation of the priorities which are described in the tourism development plan. The research uses three-step stakeholder analysis that is based on a three-attribute methodology, and a mix of qualitative and quantitative data gathering techniques. The findings are transformed into a comprehensive graphical output designated for the SBTA and a resulting set of managerial recommendations for better stakeholder involvement in the process of tourism development in the South Bohemian Region. The recommendations point both at involvement of various stakeholder groups by building the relationships between them and the SBTA based on more intensive communication and exchange of information and experience, and engagement of primary stakeholders as intermediaries in a newly established stakeholder network.
O21|Sylos Labini, la programmazione economica e la riforma urbanistica (1962-1967) (Sylos Labini, economic planning and urban reform, 1962-1967)|"The article describes the attempts at economic planning in Italy in 1962-1964, which tried to strike a balance between economic development and control of the urban growth processes. Text of the speech given at the conference ""Paolo Sylos Labini e la politica delle riforme"", held at Sapienza University of Rome on 04 December 2015, organized by the Accademia dei Lincei and Economia civile."
O21|Robotics: Breakthrough Technologies, Innovation, Intellectual Property|Robotics technology and the increasing sophistication of artificial intelligence are breakthrough innovations with significant growth prospects. They have the potential to disrupt existing socio-economic facets of everyday life. Yet few studies have analysed the development of robotics innovation. This paper closes this gap by analysing current developments in innovation in robotics; how it is diffused, and what role is played by intellectual property (IP). The paper argues that robotics clusters are mainly located in the US and Europe, despite a growing presence in South Korea and China. The robotics innovation ecosystem builds on cooperative networks of actors, including individuals, research institutions, and firms. Governments play a significant role in supporting robotics innovation through funding, military demand, and national robotics strategies. Robotics competitions and prizes provide for an important incentive to innovation. Patents are used to exclude third parties to secure freedom of operation, license technologies, and avoid litigation. The countries with the highest number of patent claims are Japan, China, South Korea, and the US. The growing stock of patents owned by universities and PROs, particularly in China, is noteworthy too. Automotive and electronics companies are still the largest patent filers, but medical technologies and the Internet are emerging as new actors in the field. Secrecy is often used as a tool to appropriate innovation. Copyright protection is relevant to robotics also, mainly for its role in protecting software. Finally, open-source robotics platforms are increasingly used in the early stages of the innovation process as they allow new actors in the robotics field to optimize their initial spending on innovation.
O21|Robotics: Breakthrough Technologies, Innovation, Intellectual Property|Robotics technology and the increasing sophistication of artifi cial intelligence are breakthrough innovations with signifi cant growth prospects. Th ey have the potential to disrupt existing socio-economic facets of everyday life. Yet few studies have analysed the development of robotics innovation. Th is paper closes this gap by analysing current developments in innovation in robotics; how it is diff used, and what role is played by intellectual property (IP). Th e paper argues that robotics clusters are mainly located in the US and Europe, despite a growing presence in South Korea and China. Th e robotics innovation ecosystem builds on cooperative networks of actors, including individuals, research institutions, and fi rms. Governments play a signifi cant role in supporting robotics innovation through funding, military demand, and national robotics strategies. Robotics competitions and prizes provide an important incentive for innovation. Patents are used to exclude third parties to secure freedom of operation, license technologies, and avoid litigation. Th e countries with the highest number of patent claims are Japan, China, South Korea, and the US. Th e growing stock of patents owned by universities and PROs, particularly in China, is noteworthy too. Automotive and electronics companies are still the largest patent fi lers, but medical technologies and the Internet are emerging as new actors in the fi eld. Secrecy is oft en used as a tool to appropriate innovation. Copyright protection is relevant to robotics also, mainly for its role in protecting soft ware. Finally, open-source robotics platforms are increasingly used in the early stages of the innovation process as they allow new actors in the robotics fi eld to optimize their initial spending on innovation.
O21|Evolutionary targeting for inclusive development|Abstract Many studies articulate a theoretical conceptual change—that is, a change from neo-classical economics and “Picking Winners” policy frameworks to a systemic-evolutionary targeting framework. Within such an intellectual context, this paper attempts to expand the evolutionary targeting framework to facilitate the process of inclusive industrial development. We present a unitary industrial development trajectory which is used as a narrative to articulate the evolutionary paths of Taiwan and Malaysia in making their respective sectoral changes (from informal to formal, and then to high technology sectors) endogenous. Building on both cases, we elucidate how the organization of subsistence farming contributes to development, and hence paves the way for new industrial takeoff. In this regard, the targeting programs that focus on the Schumpeterian segment are improved upon to offer support for (re)organization of the informal sector. This study, therefore, proposes a new analytical grid theorizing the current observations in inclusive development studies. It thus explicitly acknowledges the importance of transforming the informal sector to achieve inclusive development.
O21|A Spatial Decomposition of Income Inequality in Chile| P aredes , D., I turra , V. and L ufin , M. A spatial decomposition of income inequality in Chile, Regional Studies . Previous literature identifies the high and persistent income inequality of Chile, but the geographic heterogeneity of the inequality is still unexplored. This lack of discussion encourages spatially blind policy that ignores the interaction between individual and spatial inequality. To evaluate its magnitude, a spatial decomposition at the regional, provincial and county levels is proposed. The decomposition indicates that between 1992 and 2009, 21% of the total inequality is attributable to geographical scale. The results show that spatial inequality is a relevant magnitude to be considered by policy-makers.
O21|On the optimum timing of the global carbon-transition under conditions of extreme weather-related damages: further green paradoxical results|An optimal growth model is constructed in a context of irreversible investment in different concurrent production technologies in order to study the optimum timing of the various stages that can be identified in the transition from a carbon-based economy to a carbon-free economy. Such a transition is necessary to avoid runaway global warming. The model is based on the AK-model by Rebelo (1991) and uses multi-stage optimal control methods to illustrate the importance of the notion of capital goods as a produced means of production and as the physical carriers/manifestations of different technologies for the timing and intensity of the use of carbon-based and carbon-free technologies during a just-in-time transition. The transition needs to happen within a given cumulative emissions constraint in order to avoid runaway global warming and corresponding runaway welfare losses. It is shown that the expectation of extreme weather-related damages in such a setting may induce a welfare maximizing central planner to step-up carbon-based production rather than reducing such activity, for similar reasons as the green paradox arises. A further paradoxical result is that increases in the productivity of carbon-free technologies relative to carbon-based technologies do not necessarily imply an earlier phasing in of those carbon-free technologies, but rather allow for a more gradual (and more prolonged) transition towards a carbon-free future. Finally, it is shown that having a productive carbon-based production system facilitates the transition towards a carbon-free system, i.e. investment in carbon intensive technologies may be an effective instrument in securing a carbon-free future.
O21|Millennium Development Goals (MDGs): Did they change social reality?|"The aim of the paper is to investigate whether the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) changed social realities of people around the world or not. By answering this question, we contribute to the longstanding debate on whether social improvement in the lives of people is MDG-precipitated or it is incidental to the introduction of MDGs. We make use of interrupted time series analysis and show that although there has been improvement in social realities of people around the world between 1990 and 2013, the two dominant opposing views on the role of MDGs in this process are uncandid. Although the genesis of the improvement was in the early 1990s (before the introduction of MDGs), there is no way of stating without question that the improvement in social realities would have been sustained after 2001 in the absence of MDGs. We conclude that given the above, the question should not be ""whether the MDGs have improved social realities or not"". Instead, we recommend that in order to effectively assess the usefulness of the MDGs, one needs to conduct a tedious and complex task of ""tracing-the-change"" by following through the chain of policy changes triggered by the MDGs."
O21|Infrastructure, Incentives, and Institutions|Expensive infrastructure is ineffective if it doesn't travel the last mile. In nineteenth-century New York and modern Africa, disease has spread when urbanites chose not to use newly built sanitation infrastructure to save money. Either subsidies or Pigouvian fines can internalize the externalities that occur when people don't use sanitation infrastructure, but with weak institutions subsidies generate waste and fines lead to extortion. Our model illustrates the complementarity between infrastructure and institutions and shows how institutional weaknesses determine whether fines, subsidies, both or neither are optimal. Contrary to Becker (1968), the optimal fine is often mild to reduce extortion.
O21|Some Aspects of Local Real Estate Taxes as an Instrument of Land Use Management|Economic and financial instruments are a very important group of tools for supporting local entrepreneurship. The broadest group among them are local taxes. Real estate taxes are considered by local governments, on the one hand, as a tool for promoting the effective development of real estate, and on the other, as a reliable source of income to the local budget.
O21|Providing Policy Makers with Timely Advice: The Timeliness-Rigor Trade-off|Policy makers bemoan the lack of research findings to guide urgent decisions, whereas researchers' professional code puts rigor first. This article argues that provisional assessments, produced early in the research cycle, can bridge the gap. Numerous case studies point to the importance of early interaction with policy makers and the delivery of brief, policy-focused papers; but preliminary analyses may be flawed and so increase the chances of a wrong decision. This article demonstrates analytically that a preliminary assessment, supported by the offer of more refined research, provides an option that is superior, on average, to the current practice of submitting a final report at the end of the research cycle. Where practical implementation is concerned, it calls for donor-funded subsidies to promote the use of provisional assessments and for a rapid, independent, professional review process to ensure their quality. While the research-policy exchange in developing countries is a complex, context-specific phenomenon, the proposal offered here holds out some promise of improving decisions in the public sphere under a wide range of circumstances.
O21|Social Costs of the Inefficient Management of the EU Funds for Bulgaria|The study identifies and defines the social costs of the inefficient management of EU funds for Bulgaria. It is analyzed the last due programme period (2007-2015) and its prolongation. As methodology of the research the V4 BM model of Al-Debei and Avison (2010) which has not been used for analysis of EU funds management for cohesion policy in the public sector, is applied. In this way its potential for application in this field is tested. The concept of the study could be successfully used for analysis of the social costs of inefficient management of EU funds in other member-states.
O21|The Criticality of Connecting People to Financial Results ? an ROI Calculation Model for Romanian FSOs|Organisational culture and employee engagement have been the focus of recent broad-based research efforts. Adding this concern to the revealed importance of performance indicators on human capital, and that their use is getting momentum, in order to attach financial values to knowledge management assets, it becomes more and more critical to measure human capital value. Key for Romanian FSO’s managers becomes to consider that both human and financial values have a focus on adding value in every process and function in the organisation, and to perpetuate organisational profitability by the corporate culture, on the one hand, where culture is a powerful factor that helps a company to engage, on the other hand, talented people. There is a substantial concern on using ROI on Learning and Development programmes, but whilst this is still declared, Romanian FSOs do not yet have a consistent method to measure it. This study is showing the criticality of connecting people to financial results and data analysis suggests that ROI calculation has a positive impact on creating and fostering a powerful organisational culture and that employees’ awareness of ROI values within their organisation has a powerful effect on their sense of engagement. Our findings have a more practical implication for the analysed industry by shaping a formal ROI measurement mechanisms blueprint, an ROI calculation model for the Romanian FSOs, in the form of a mechanism that could be employed when considering the design of an ROI Methodology for Romanian FSOs.
O21|Place Branding – Geographical Approach. Case Study: Waterloo|This study represents an exploratory analysis of the evolution of the place branding concept, with an important focus on the geographical perspective. How has this notion, a newcomer into the geographers' analysis, changed over time and what role does it have in the decision making process of intervening into the way a certain place is organised or as an instrument of economic revival and territorial development? At least from the perspective of Romanian geographical literature, the originality and novelty of this study is obvious. An element of the originality of this research is the attempt of redefining the concept of place branding so that it is more meaningful from the perspective of spatial analyses. The reason for which Waterloo was chosen as a case study is multi-dimensional: the case studies so far have mainly focused on large cities (urban branding instead of place branding) and this site has all the theoretical elements to create a stand-alone brand.
O21|Implementación de un método para alcanzar un paisaje resiliente mediante la ubicación apropiada de edificaciones rurales| [ES] Planificar idóneamente la ubicación edificaciones rurales es un proceso complejo que requiere armonización con el entorno. Este trabajo describe una metodología de análisis de decisión espacial multi-criterio mediante SIG. Se evalúa la idoneidad del área de estudio para albergar construcciones turísticas armonizadas en su entorno rural. Para establecer ponderaciones de criterios se emplea información de trabajos científicos, políticas regionales, directrices de la Unión Europea y opiniones de expertos. Los resultados muestran que el área más apropiada no responde a un única solución, y explican la fortaleza que supone la flexibilidad de ponderaciones en la toma de decisiones. [EN] Suitable location planning of rural buildings is a complex process to be in harmony with landscapes. This paper presents a multi-criteria spatial decision analysis approach using GIS techniques. The research aim is to evaluate the study area suitability to sustainably site tourism rural commercial buildings with landscapes. The criteria weights were decided by the authors with relevant literatures, regional polices and European Union (EU) directives and experts’ discussion. The results reveal the most suitable areas for siting them, not to find a single suitable solution. They explain the weighting flexibility strengths of the application in the decision making process.
O21|Insider-Outsider Labor Markets, Hysteresis and Monetary Policy|I develop a version of the New Keynesian model with insider-outsider labor markets and hysteresis that can account for the high persistence of European unemployment. I study the implications of that environment for the design of monetary policy. The optimal policy calls for strong emphasis on unemployment stabilization which a standard interest rate rule fails to deliver, with the gap between the two increasing in the degree of hysteresis. A simple interest rule that includes the unemployment rate is shown to approximate well the optimal policy.
O21|Trends and Patterns of Growth, Development, Achievements of China and India: A Comparative Analysis|Even before the onset of the 2008 global financial crisis and ongoing European debt crisis, much attention has been given to the re-emergence of the Asian giants, the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and India. Both countries have attained unprecedented growth and economic development—PRC and India became the second and fourth largest economies of the world, respectively. Moreover, these countries remarkably improved their per capita income as PRC increased its per capita GDP by 13-fold from US$341 in 1990 to US$4,421 in 2010 whereas India posted a four times growth from US$384 in 1990 to US$1,342 in 2010. This has resulted in a remarkable poverty reduction in the last two to three decades in the two economies. PRC and India share several common characteristics, prospects and challenges. However, their approaches to growth and development as well as growth models have been different. The major objective of this paper is to compare the policies, institutions, strategies, reforms and market conditions that contributed to the rapid growth and development of the PRC and India which can provide lessons to the developing world, particularly emerging economies, that are also struggling to improve their economic development and quality of life amidst economic growth. This paper attempts to examine the differences between PRC and India in terms of trends and patterns of growth and development, economic models, sources and drivers of growth; achievements, policies and institutions since last three decades.
O21|The Mixed Bentham-Rawls Intertemporal Choice Criterion and Rawls’ Just Savings Principle|This paper provides general theorems about the control that maximizes the mixed Bentham-Rawls (MBR) criterion for intergenerational justice, which was introduced in Alvarez-Cuadrado and Long (2009). We establish sufficient concavity conditions for a candidate trajectory to be optimal and unique. We show that the state variable is monotonic under rather weak conditions. We also prove that inequality among generations, captured by the gap between the poorest and the richest generations, is lower when optimization is performed under the MBR criterion rather than under the discounted utilitarian criterion. A quadratic example is also used to perform comparative static exercices: it turns out, in particular, that the larger the weight attributed to the maximin part of the MBR criterion, the better-off the less fortunate generations. All those properties are discussed and compared with those of the discounted utilitarian (DU, Koopmans 1960) and the rank-discounted utilitarian (RDU, Zuber and Asheim, 2012) criterions. We contend they are in line with some aspects of the rawlsian just savings principle.
O21|Restructuring Companies Under Crisis|Nobody is planning to fail, but many companies are failing because of lack of planning. Real business experience showed during the years that crisis can be prevented, avoided or limited. If detected in time, the risks associated with the crisis can be mitigated and the effects can be diminished, with the condition that the actions required are done fast, in a sharp and accurate manner. When it comes, a crisis brings an intense level of pressure and under these conditions there is no time or room for mistakes. Delays, losing focus and lack of planning will bring a company one step away from failure. The right way to deal with crisis, if required measures are not done in time, is to minimize the losses and reposition in the best way possible. Analysing the success stories of some of the biggest and strongest companies in the world, led to an important conclusion: the majority of these companies were in the situation to face huge crises which threatened their ability to survive in certain moments, on their way to success. With the right planning and by setting a proper organisational structure, the negative aspects of the crisis can be turned into benefits and opportunities for the company. The most critical challenge for management is to assess the level of exposure to risk of the company and identify the key points to focus on in order to overcome the crisis and create value. In order to set up a strong plan in dealing with crisis, a business organisation needs reliable, efficient and effective tools and this is what this article is all about.
O21|El capital social y la planificación adaptativa en una comunidad industrial innovadora del Perú|El presente estudio vincula el capital social y la planificación adaptativa con la innovación y el desarrollo empresarial de una comunidad de productores vitivinícolas en el Perú. Dado lo anterior, se considera que tanto el capital social como la planificación adaptativa impactan en el aprendizaje productivo y el desarrollo de valores empresariales en ciertos escenarios donde predomina un extendido conocimiento tácito tradicional y colectivo –perdurable a través de siglos– y que se transforma en innovación. La metodología utilizada para la validación empírica fue el análisis factorial exploratorio, a través del cual se confirmó la propuesta teórica.
O21|Desarrollo económico y espacial desigual: panorama teórico y aproximaciones al caso colombiano|Este artículo presenta una revisión de la literatura sobre las teorías del desarrollo y crecimiento económico desigual y del desarrollo espacial desigual, destacando la conexión con el proceso de globalización mundial y los cambios en la relación Nación-región. Así mismo presenta una recopilación de las investigaciones que en este tema se han hecho sobre el caso colombiano desde la economía, la geografía económica y la historia económica y también, aunque en menor medida, desde la historia y la geografía. El panorama teórico señala una transición desde análisis en donde el espacio económico y el espacio geográfico son abordados independientemente, hacia análisis que reconocen sus relaciones intrínsecas. No obstante, aún no existe un marco teórico que genere fuertes consensos, al tiempo que la globalización actual desarticula relaciones sistemáticas entre la Nación y la región. La revisión de literatura aplicada a Colombia indica la concentración de estudios realizados por economistas sobre la convergencia en ingreso neoclásica durante las décadas de 1990 y 2000. Una vez agotado este análisis tradicional aparecerán algunos estudios sobre geografía económica, convergencia social e historia económica. Según estos estudios en Colombia las disparidades regionales y la polarización de Bogotá frente al resto del país han aumentado desde, al menos, 1990. Precisamente esta persistencia del crecimiento y el desarrollo desigual en el país reclama mayor investigación y discusión pública sobre las estrategias adecuadas de desarrollo económico de largo plazo de cara al siglo XXI.
O21|China: la reconstrucción de una potencia|Se indaga por las razones culturales del pasado que han facilitado el ascenso pacífico de China al rango de una potencia de primer nivel en los planos económico, político y militar en los comienzos del siglo XXI. Se destaca tanto la velocidad como la originalidad de su proceso económico y se advierten por su estilo de desarrollo, desbalances críticos en la brecha de ingresos, con aumentos en su endeudamiento y en las desigualdades económicas y sociales con severa afectación del medio ambiente por contaminación (del aire, del agua y del suelo) de un remanente de plantas de producción tecnológicamente obsoletas. En China coexisten y se potencian tecnologías de la primera y segunda revolución industrial (siglos XVIII y XIX) con las de la tercera revolución tecnológica (finales del siglo XX y comienzos del XXI).
O21|Zwischen Gebäude und Gesamtstadt: das Quartier als Handlungsraum in der lokalen Wärmewende|This paper explores the city quarter as a new action space in the transition of the urban heat sector. By adopting a multilevel perspective it shows potential advantages the spatial level of the city quarter has for coordinating action of different public and private stakeholders in comparison to the spatial level of the single building and the entire city respectively. Furthermore weaknesses in the current practice of city quarter energy concepts in the light of ambitious GHG reduction goals till 2050 are shown. On the ground of an empirical study the papers shows the range of stakeholders affected by the transition of the urban heat sector and their roles as well as a typology of four process models that have been adopted in the formulation of the city quarter energy concepts. Der Beitrag charakterisiert das Quartier als neuen Handlungsraum für die lokale Wärmewende. Unter Anwendung einer Mehrebenenanalyse wird herausgearbeitet, welche potenziellen Vorteile es bei der Abstimmung von Strategien und Maßnahmen städtischer Akteure gegenüber den Handlungsebenen Gebäude beziehungsweise Gesamtstadt hat, aber auch welche strategischen Defizite in der derzeitigen Praxis energetischer Quartierskonzepte im Kontext ambitionierter Klimaschutzziele auf Bundesebene, aber zunehmend auch auf kommunaler Ebene bestehen. Auf Basis einer empirischen Untersuchung werden die wesentlichen Akteure der lokalen Wärmewende und deren Rollen sowie vier Prozessmodelle bei der Erarbeitung energetischer Quartierskonzepte identifiziert.
O21|Technology Platforms as an Efficient Tool to Modernize Russia’s Economy|There is an urgent need to consider the dynamic development of the global economy from the point of view of its positive impact on competitiveness improvement in national manufacturing industries, and the best ways to modernize the country economy. The purpose of the paper is to provide with perspectives for development of instruments related to technology platforms (TP) within the framework of innovation management and adapted to the conditions of Russia’s economic reality. The major method in studying this issue is mathematical economic modeling which has made it possible to facilitate expediency in determining a TP as an effective innovation control instrument. The paper considers European and Russian experience in deploying TP, and identifies national features characteristic to the performance of the innovation management instrument. A mathematical economic model is used for justifying the efficiency of introducing TP into Russian institutional innovation system. The practical significance of results and conclusions is in its ability to improve the mechanisms of developing and implementing federal and regional innovation development programs, development of the innovation infrastructure, stimulation of the innovation activity, use of a set of TP instruments by public authorities.
O21|The Impact of Privatization on Economic Growth: The Case of Uzbekistan|This paper clarifies the macroeconomic gains from privatization during the transition period in Uzbekistan. The choice of this country is due to its stable macroeconomics performance beginning from 1996 onwards, and author’s related work experience at The State Committee of the Republic of Uzbekistan for Privatization. Based on the macroeconomic empirical literature on growth, we supplement the standard model of gross domestic product growth with other transition-specific variables to investigate the impact of privatization on economic growth. In so doing, we found that economic growth was significantly influenced by investment (more importantly investment to the education), and employment growth. Several other institutional components specific to the transition process, particularly the private sector and capital market development, and small-scale privatization were also found to be significant determinants of economic development in Uzbekistan.
O21|Emissions reduction scenarios in the Argentinean Energy Sector|In this paper the LEAP, TIAM-ECN, and GCAM models were applied to evaluate the impact of a variety of climate change control policies (including carbon pricing and emission constraints relative to a base year) on primary energy consumption, final energy consumption, electricity sector development, and CO2 emission savings of the energy sector in Argentina over the 2010–2050 period. The LEAP model results indicate that if Argentina fully implements the most feasible mitigation measures currently under consideration by official bodies and key academic institutions on energy supply and demand, such as the ProBiomass program, a cumulative incremental economic cost of 22.8 billion US$(2005) to 2050 is expected, resulting in a 16% reduction in GHG emissions compared to a business-as-usual scenario. These measures also bring economic co-benefits, such as a reduction of energy imports improving the balance of trade. A Low CO2 price scenario in LEAP results in the replacement of coal by nuclear and wind energy in electricity expansion. A High CO2 price leverages additional investments in hydropower. By way of cross-model comparison with the TIAM-ECN and GCAM global integrated assessment models, significant variation in projected emissions reductions in the carbon price scenarios was observed, which illustrates the inherent uncertainties associated with such long-term projections. These models predict approximately 37% and 94% reductions under the High CO2 price scenario, respectively. By comparison, the LEAP model, using an approach based on the assessment of a limited set of mitigation options, predicts an 11.3% reduction. The main reasons for this difference include varying assumptions about technology cost and availability, CO2 storage capacity, and the ability to import bioenergy. An emission cap scenario (2050 emissions 20% lower than 2010 emissions) is feasible by including such measures as CCS and Bio CCS, but at a significant cost. In terms of technology pathways, the models agree that fossil fuels, in particular natural gas, will remain an important part of the electricity mix in the core baseline scenario. According to the models there is agreement that the introduction of a carbon price will lead to a decline in absolute and relative shares of aggregate fossil fuel generation. However, predictions vary as to the extent to which coal, nuclear and renewable energy play a role.
O21|A model for effective planning of SME support services|This paper presents a model for effective planning of support services for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). The idea is to scrutinize and measure the suitability of support services in order to give recommendations for the improvement of a support planning process. We examined the applied support services and matched them with the problems and needs of SMEs, based on the survey conducted in 2013 on a sample of 336 SMEs in Serbia. We defined and analysed the five research questions that refer to support services, their consistency with the SMEs’ problems and needs, and the relation between the given support and SMEs’ success. The survey results have shown a statistically significant connection between them. Based on this result, we proposed an eight-phase model as a method for the improvement of support service planning for SMEs. This model helps SMEs to plan better their requirements in terms of support; government and administration bodies at all levels and organizations that provide support services to understand better SMEs’ problems and needs for support.
O21|Optimal tax mix with income tax non-compliance|Although developing countries face high levels of income inequality, they rely more on consumption taxes, which tend to be linear and are less effective for redistribution than a non-linear income tax. One explanation for this pattern is that the consumption taxes are generally more enforceable in these economies. This paper studies the optimal combination of a linear consumption tax with a non-linear income tax for redistributive purposes. In our model, households might not comply with the income tax code by reporting income levels that differ from their true income. However, the consumption tax is fully enforceable. We derive a formula for the optimal income tax schedule as a function of the consumption tax rate, the recoverable elasticities, and the moments of the taxable income distribution. Our equation differs from those of Mirrlees (1971) and Saez (2001) because households face a consumption tax and they respond to income tax not only through labor supply but also through mis-reporting their incomes. Both aspects are empirically relevant to our calibration of the optimal top rate in the Russian economy. We then characterize the optimal mix between a linear consumption tax rate and a non-linear income tax schedule. Finally, we find that the optimal consumption tax rate is non-increasing in the redistributive motives of the social planner.
O21|Managing the cost overrun risks of hydroelectric dams: An application of reference class forecasting techniques|Hydropower investments have been subject to intense criticism over environmental issues and the common experience with cost uncertainty. In this study we address the issue of uncertainty in cost projections by applying reference class forecasting (RCF) in order to improve the reliability of costs used for making decisions under uncertainty. This technique makes it possible to closely link contingency estimates to the likely incidence of uncertainty of construction costs for hydroelectric dams. A case study, the Bujagali dam in Uganda, is used to demonstrate how investment appraisal can be enhanced to better account for the risk of cost overruns. While this project has suffered from cost overruns, the net benefits of the dam are still expected to be substantial. We conclude that if historical information from the major financiers of dams is accessible, learning from the past can help to reduce the cost of uncertainty in power planning worldwide.
O21|Economic analysis of flat-plate solar collectors (FPSCs): A solution to the unemployment problem in the city of Eskisehir|This study performs a regional economic analysis of solar energy systems in Eskisehir, Turkey that focuses on production and utilization of FPSCs. The data is obtained from a locally conducted survey and used for practical estimations. Both, the survey findings and the theoretical predictions give close results and they sustain each other. Under the condition of free market considering profit maximization, to produce 30 FPSCs per day in optimum conditions, 30 workers would be employed per shift. If a company can meet the market demand, 450,000,000 Turkish Liras (TL) (1$=2.85TL with current prices) of revenue will be earned from the production of 300,000 FPSCs in 30 years are displayed. On the other hand, this renewable energy system has some costs. However, once it has been set up, the system will produce many ecological advantages that more than offset its costs. These effects benefit both the local region in which the system is established and the environment on a global scale. In addition, the process of collecting and utilizing solar energy can be used together with recycling systems to generate advantages for a local economy and can also benefit the global economy by solving unemployment problems by creating employment opportunities.
O21|Assessing the potential of bus rapid transit-led network restructuring for enhancing affordable access to employment – The case of Johannesburg's Corridors of Freedom|Bus rapid transit (BRT) systems are often implemented as a means toward achieving regulatory reform in the transport sector. This often involves simultaneous formalisation of informal paratransit operators, and restructuring of public transport networks into centrally planned trunk-feeder systems. Such interventions might radically affect passenger access and social inclusion in ways that are as yet poorly understood. The paper uses a new accessibility metric called access envelopes to examine the potential impacts of various restructuring options on passengers' wage earning potential at job opportunities across space. The Corridors of Freedom initiative of the City of Johannesburg is used as a case study of a BRT-led restructuring exercise with land use and transport components. The study finds that it is hard to improve on the accessibility provided by the current near-ubiquitous informal minibus-taxi network. The only way that BRT implementation can improve access and affordability in the short run is by offering a fully integrated trunk with feeder services. Should such feeder services be supplied via a hybrid formal-informal approach, an integrated and progressive fare policy is critical to maintaining affordable access for poor passengers. A laissez-fare approach where taxis are allowed to provide ad hoc feeder services without any fare integration, is likely to decrease affordable access.
O21|Patrones de co-localización espacial de la industria aeroespacial en México|Mexico's aerospace industry (IA) is considered strategic due to the possibilities offered to national business to be inserted into supply chain; by its productive characteristics involves the development of suppliers by externalities, which requires business co-location. This document applies the Co-location Quotient (CLQ) statistic in five Mexican entities in order to detect spatial co-location patterns in clusters related to the IA. The results indicate its spatial attraction to aerospace business, as well as electronics, machinery and equipment. Additionally, it can be identified differences in regards co-location patters with respect to the productive capacities by entity; this suggests inputs for the design of industrial policy.
O21|A Strategic Place Marketing Model for the Development of Local Territorial Systems (ltss)|Place marketing may be a major lever of territorial development. In many cases, however, place marketing strategies result in mere promotional initiatives, which are rarely driven by structured strategic planning approaches. This study addresses this issue and uses a strategic marketing model termed Strategic Thrust Analysis (sta) to devise effective development strategies for four Local Territorial Systems, or ltss (i.e. groups of municipalities sharing social, economic, and spatial features) located in a Southern Italian province. A standard procedure to implement the sta is proposed in the article, and marketing implications useful for policymakers are drawn from the results. The limitations of the study and indications for future research are also discussed.
O21|How Narrowly Should Anti-poverty Programs Be Targeted? Simulation Evidence from Bolivia and Indonesia|A key question in the design of anti-poverty programs is to what extent they should be targeted. Empirical evaluations of targeted transfer schemes and simulation exercises often point to further gains that can be had from targeted transfers vis-à-vis universal transfers or from more narrow targeting. Theoretical work, on the other hand, has identified hidden costs associated with targeting - including politico-economic constraints on budgets - but these are frequently ignored in empirical work. In this paper we first argue that common targeting measures can be interpreted as preferences that attach specific weights to true and false positive rates. Based on data from Bolivia and Indonesia, we show that targeting based on an imperfect poverty classifier based on proxy means tests results in very distinct 'optimal' beneficiary shares when these measures are used as a decision criterion. Implications from poverty simulations are sensitive to assumptions about the political economy relationship between the beneficiary share and the available budget. In fact, in many situations, optimizing targeting measures will be misleading when the actual goal is to maximize the effect on poverty.
O21|Internationalization of Product-Service Systems: Global, Regional or National Strategy?|Highly dynamic market environment, knowledge creation, and technology advancement demands that producers/providers be more efficient and effective in meeting existing and future consumer needs and expectations. In this regard, companies strive as far as possible to diversify a range of proposed products as well as commercialization strategies. Using the case of the music industry, this paper explores the validity of national, regional or global strategies in the provision of a product service system. The authors surveyed over 70,000 respondents from 15 geographically spread countries which account for more than 85% of the industry’s global revenues. The analysis of the survey results identified a homogeneous group of so-called ‘Out of Touch’ consumers characterized by a shared attitude: they are interested in and have the money to purchase music, but no longer do so. The authors attempt to ascertain if and how re-engaging the group in music purchase would achieve a significant sales increase. The analysis explores how potential consumers might respond to, or are able to be influenced by, value offerings in 15 different countries. The findings suggest that firms may employ global strategies for supplying products and services, but regional strategies are required to define the appropriate bundles to re-engage ‘Out of Touch’ consumers.
O21|Quadruple Innovation Helix and Smart Specialization: Knowledge Production and National Competitiveness|Investing more in research, innovation and entrepreneurship is at the heart of Europe 2020 and the only way to achieve smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth. Smart specialization emerges as a key element for place-based innovation policies. The paper explains the linkage between knowledge creation, innovation output and enhancing regional and national competitiveness. We present the six major steps that every nation/region should follow to establish a smart specialization strategy based on the basic principles as described in the EU Research and Innovation Strategies for Smart Specialization (RIS3), accompanied by some examples of excellence from the Nordic countries. Special emphasis is paid to issues of applying the Quadruple Helix approach in the context of RIS3. This concept extends the triple helix paradigm by presuming that society is a key actor in innovation processes along with academia, industry, and government. The society is frequently the end user of innovation and thus has a strong influence on the generation of knowledge and technologies via its demand and user function. Our analysis allows us to conclude that a quadruple helix approach is suitable for developing smart specialization strategies despite the greater efforts this entails. There is an urgent need to reconsider measures to keep the momentum generated in the original initiative and demonstrate the value of this exercise. Furthermore, there is a growing need to measure the impact and quantify the value of smart specialization.
O21|Public Sector Supply Chain Management: A Triple Helix Approach to Aligning Innovative Environmental Initiatives|This paper argues that in order to deliver greater levels of sustainable performance, environmental strategy should be addressed at the supply chain level and not just at the level of the individual organisation. It demonstrates the similarities between the environmental statements of companies in both the private and public sectors and proposes that public sector organisations, by virtue of their considerable spend with private sector organisations, are in a powerful position to encourage and support environmental initiatives throughout their supply chains. Drawing upon Triple Helix Theory the paper discusses the importance of unifying the efforts of government, industry and academia in order to identify and operationalise innovative thinking in economies. It explores the roles of public and private sector organisations along with universities in developing environmental strategies and practices within supply chains. Environmental Management Systems (EMS) are discussed and the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) is identified as a potential mechanism for structuring and reporting the collaborative environmental improvement performance of supply chains.
O21|Catalog Of Cooperatives Units Its Formation In Quintana Roo, Mexico, Creacion Del Padron De Entidades Cooperativas Del Estado De Quintana Roo, Mexico|The organization of the current economy is represented by the model of modern enterprise that allows large volumes of production and profits for the owners, but deteriorating working conditions for people who only contribute their work. In this model, other forms of organization are trying to alternate and compete within the same market system, through free workers called an association. The most recognized practice in Mexico and Quintana Roo, are cooperatives which are the research object in this study. Despite being backed by an international movement, he left to encourage their training at national and State levels, reflected in aspects such as lack of information and activity log. So, the purpose is to present a database of cooperative units from the analysis of basic Information on National Statistical Directory of economic units 2015 and the Ministry of the Economy, supported by documentary research and interviews with key players. This creation served to encourage, facilitate and enable future study of these entities that could impact development of the State. The main contribution is a register of entities that is functional and legal and which the Constitution defines as cooperatives
O21|Evaluation Of Rural Tourism Potential, As A Line Of Action For Regional Sustainable Development At San Isidro And La Purísima Oasis, Baja California Sur, Mexico, Evaluacion Del Potencial Turistico Rural Como Linea De Accion Para El Desarrollo Regional Sustentable En Los Oasis De San Isidro Y La Purisima, Baja California Sur Mexico|"This research project is the results of Trade Research workshop, Customs and Business Observatory (Taller de Investigación Comercial, Aduanera y Observatorio de Negocios (TICAO) of Universidad Autónoma de Baja California Sur which was based on the project ""productive options to sustainable use of water for rural communities at the main oasis areas in the 5 municipalities of Baja California Sur"". This project began in 2011 as part of the Strategic Sustainable Development Project: “Oasis in Baja California Sur”, promoted by the State Government of Baja California Sur. In this study, from a group of over 171 oasis (Breceda, et Al 2010.), we analyze two Oasis, La Purisima y Oasis San Isidro in Baja California Sur. The study is divided in two parts. In the first part, we conducted an analysis of natural endogenous variables. In the second part, we use a model similar to the Model WEF to analyze exogenous variables"
O21|Development Of A Methodology For Determining The Potential Of Rural Tourism In Baja California Sur Oasis Of Mexico, Desarrollo De Una Metodología Para Determinar El Potencial Del Turísmo Rural En Oasis Sudcalifornianos De México|This research project analyzes comparative and competitive advantages of settlements “Oasis” located in in Baja California Sur Mexico. We use a comparative methodology to position the Oasis y to compare thei Oasis against each other. We conduct a Strength, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats analysis for each Oasis position. We use this analysis to determine each Oasis comparative and competitive advantages. With this information, we propose strategies for the development of rural tourism activities for the Oasis of Baja California Sur
O21|Determining the context of an international development project|One of the most difficult aspects of international development project planning is determining what the context of a project is. This paper presents the Circles of Sustainability (Situated and Differentiated Project), or CoS (SDP) framework to assist development practitioners to more clearly identify and reflect on the essential socially driven context considerations of a community development project. This paper contends that the role of the NGO is often overlooked as a significant and critical project context factor. Therefore the concept of ‘the NGO Construct’ is explored as the basis for the framework presented. The final model presented is a sphere that is divided into two halves – the ‘situated context’ on one side and the ‘differentiated context’ on the other, the whole of which identifies eight major social domains that allow for the vibrancy and multifarious nature of communities to be more fully appreciated. This sphere depicts the eight domains as intricate and interrelating to one another. Rather than separate externalities, the domains are coherent analytical categories informing the larger holistic social entity. It is argued that only when the two halves of the context – the ‘situated and differentiated’ are established, can a project context be more comprehensively appraised. The model arises from utilizing RMIT Global Cities Research Institute’s original Circles of Sustainability framework as one half of the framework, as it clearly presents four local ‘situated’ context domains (Economics, Ecology, Politics and Culture). The other half of the framework consists of four ‘differentiated’ domains drawn from the NGO Construct, namely Presiding Conventions, Institutional (NGO), Project Operations and Personal (Project Staff). These four differentiated domains are further broken down and discussed to identify seven essential perspectives. By undertaking this detailed analysis of context factors, it is hoped that project planning will be more strategic and sustainable and will highlight that all the dynamics outlined in the framework occur at any one time. The model is designed to inspire debate and become a collaborative process tool for development practitioners to engage further reflection, discussion and creative project analysis. The final model is a visually stimulating heuristic representation of the array of complex, yet accessible macro and micro factors that intersect to create each unique project environment.
O21|Donatella Strangio & Giuseppe Sancetta (Eds.), Italy in a European Context: Research in Business, Economics, and the Environment|“Italy in a European context” moved from a current research project of the EuroSapienza Research Center’s. The book adopts a multidisciplinary standpoint. Each single chapter investigates the role of Italy in pursuing the EU five targets by 2020 that are: the increase both of employment level and of R&D/ innovation expenditures, the energetic measures of climate change, the reduction of school drop-out rate and the counter actions against poverty and social exclusion. This work is divided into nine chapters and two sections. The first section is based on four chapters whose objective is to investigate EU economic policies and aspects that concern political and social inequality. The second section is based on five chapters whose objective is to investigate EU economic policies and aspects concerning business and environment.
O21|Spatial Interaction Regional Model for the Mexican Economy (SIRMME): A Special Case for Mexico City Metropolitan Area|"This paper analyzes empirically a macro model and a regional model to explain Mexico and Mexico City economies respectively. Typically, regional economic modeling considers either a top-down or bottom-up approach to model regional difference in economic growth. This paper shows results that explain regional difference in Mexico from the bottom-up through a special case that focuses on the spatial interaction between Mexico City -the main economic engine of Mexico- and the rest of the country during the period 2000-2010. Our results indicate that variables associated with human capital, internal migration, ""creative class"", micro-firms and spatial interaction among micro-regions were conditioning the differential growth between Mexico City and the whole country during the period 2000-2010. Likewise, we present econometric results of a typical macro model that explains economic growth in Mexico by different income effects on components of aggregate demand during the period 1993-2010. The purpose of both exercises is to motivate future research for the Mexican case to link macro components (such as export driven forces, Mexico´s dependency to the USA´s business cycle, loss of government spending, etc.) with their local counterparts such as agglomeration economies, human and creative capital stock, regional spillovers, natural resources, dynamic population, etc. to explain regional differential growth."
O21|African Successes, Volume III: Modernization and Development|No abstract is available for this item.
O21|Program-target planning: Yesterday, today… Tomorrow?|The paper considers the program-target method of planning implementation challenges in the current Russian situation. Reasons for its not so high efficacy are revealed, and recommendations for enhancing its deployment’s efficiency in budget planning are formulated.
O21|Hicks’s thread (out of the equilibrium labyrinth)|The work of John Hicks is an unending source of inspiration for many economists and an unsolved dilemma for historians of economic thought. This article highlights the fact that Hicks’s peculiar perspective on the economic agent constitutes the sub-structure underlying his research path, and the common premise to his theories of markets, liquidity, capital, and risk. Hicks’s theory of the agent was intended to address the factual role of non-measurable risk (i.e. learning management) and was primarily concerned with the price and wealth effects that the transaction costs (costs of learning and moving) entail for learning-induced behaviours.
O21|El potencial dinamizador de los grandes equipamientos comerciales en espacios metropolitanos. Un análisis comparado en tres realidades españolas|La distribución comercial en grandes equipamientos posee carácter estratégico para la cohesión social y territorial, revistiendo elevada importancia la consideración, en planeamiento territorial y urbanístico, de la evaluación de efectos inducidos por dicha forma de comercio así como su capacidad de prevalencia sobre criterios de ordenación preestablecidos. Esta investigación se plantea la comparación de dinámicas de desarrollo de la actividad en entornos metropolitanos representativos españoles evidenciando su inherente potencial transformador urbano así como las estrategias de emplazamiento seguidas. Los resultados muestran la desviación entre el escenario real de localizaciones y el preconizado por modelos territoriales emanados de la planificación pública.
O21|Development in Southeast Asia's lagging regions|This paper focuses on the three lagging Southeast Asia's regions, namely the three Southern border provinces of Thailand, Mindanao in the Philippines and Papua in Indonesia. It aims to analyze and identify successful national and regional policies in these lagging regions. In particular, it will assess and compare the effectiveness of implementing higher fiscal transfers, local empowerment policies as well as regional autonomy strategies in these regions. The general conclusion of this paper is that providing a large amount of development funding and granting autonomous authority for these lagging regions is most likely required to enable these regions keep up with the development of other areas in their countries. Appropriate affirmative action policies are then needed to help solve the more detailed problems, such as urban-rural development and the gaps between the local and immigrant communities.
O21|Trevor Swan and Indian planning: The lessons of 1958/59|Trevor Swan is commonly considered to be Australia’s most distinguished economist. As part of a visiting professorship at MIT during 1958-59 he spent nine months in India to assist in the formulation of India’s third five year plan and to contribute to the development of India’s premier research institutions. This paper provides an account of his work in New Delhi. Swan’s closest associates were Pitambar Pant from the Indian Planning Commission and Ian Little who was visiting from Oxford. Swan was of the view that India’s economic problems should be clearly understood and the best policy measures to address these should be devised. This varied considerably from the practice of central planning and state control being practiced in India at that time. Swan was unable to influence the direction of economic policy in India but the economy’s subsequent performance would vindicate Swan’s views on how economic development policy should have been conducted.
O21|Individual Social Responsibility – Theorethical And Some Empirical Approach| Today we can hear a lot about companies’ social responsibility with regard to both theory and practice, however, the responsibility of other actors is rarely put in the centre. The purpose of the study is to show based on theoretical and empirical research how the individual social responsibility can be interpreted. To be able to take responsibility for social affairs, first we must trust in ourselves, others and in our institutions; so the study draws the attention for its importance. In the second part of the study I introduce a national questionnaire survey (carried out with Márta Nárai Phd) conducted among citizens to find out in which forms social responsibility manifests itself in everyday life, and how people see this question. I introduce this along two dimensions: on the one hand I analyse how aware the respondents are regarding environment, and on the other hand to what extent the local government involve them in local decision-making. --------------------------------------------------------- Napjaikban sokat hallani mind elméleti, mind gyakorlati vonatkozásban a vállalatok társadalmi felelősségéről, más szereplők felelőssége viszont kevésbé került eddig középpontba. A tanulmány célja, hogy bemutassa egyrészt elméleti, másrészt empirikus kutatásra alapozva, hogyan lehet értelmezni az állampolgárok társadalmi felelősségvállalását. Ahhoz, hogy képesek legyünk felelősséget vállalni társadalmi ügyekért, elsősorban bíznunk kell magunkban, egymásban és intézményeinkben, a tanulmány ennek fontosságára is felhívja a figyelmet. A cikk második felében egy, az állampolgárok körében folytatott országos kérdőíves kutatásban (a kutatást Dr. Nárai Mártával készítettem) arra kerestem a választ, hogy a társadalmi felelősségvállalás milyen formákban nyilvánul meg a mindennapokban, az emberek hogyan vélekednek erről a kérdésről. Ezt két dimenzió mentén mutatom be: egyrészt vizsgálom, hogy a megkérdezettek mennyire tudatosan környezeti ügyekben, másrészt hogy az önkormányzat milyen mértékben vonta be őket a helyi döntéshozatalba.
O21|El Plan de Estabilización español de 1959: Juan Sardá Dexeus y la economía social de mercado|The Spanish Stabilization Plan of 1959, contained in the Law of July 21, has been widely studied by prominent Spanish economists, although there are few studies that analyze in depth its ideological roots. To explore this question, this article examines the figure of Juan Sardá Dexeus, chief architect of the implementation of the plan, and the influence he received from the Social Market Economy —whose ideas were used to design both the German Economic Plan of 1948 in Europe, as well as that of the French in 1958—, focusing on the role of monetary policy to achieve price stability in the Spanish plan reforms. After comparing both economic reform plans, we conclude by noting the strong similarities between them. KEY Classification-JEL: B29. B31. E65. O21
O21|Capital formation and economic growth under central planning and transition: A theoretical and empirical analysis, ca. 1920–2008|According to the consensus view, it was primarily physical capital accumulation that drove economic growth during the early years of state socialism. Growth models incorporating both human and physical capital accumulation led to the conclusion that a high physical/human capital ratio can cause a lower economic growth in the long run, hence offering an explanation for the failure of socialist economies. In this paper, we show theoretically and empirically that according to the logic of the socialist planner, it was optimal to achieve a higher physical to human capital ratio in socialist countries than in the West. Using a VAR analysis, we find empirical confirmation that within the Material Product System of national accounting, the relative dominance of investment in physical capital accumulation relative to human capital was indeed more efficient than under the system of national accounts.
O21|Quality-related regional differences in entrepreneurship based on the GEDI methodology: The case of Hungary|This paper presents a regional application of the Global Entrepreneurship and Development Index (GEDI) methodology of Acs et al. (2013) to examine the level of entrepreneurship across Hungary’s seven NUTS-2 level regions between 2006 and 2012. The Regional Entrepreneurship and Development Index (REDI) has been constructed for capturing the individual efforts, and their contextual features, of entrepreneurship across regions. The REDI method builds on a Systems of Entrepreneurship Theory and provides a way to profile Regional Systems of Entrepreneurship. Important aspects of the REDI method include the Penalty for Bottleneck analysis, which helps in identifying constraining factors in Regional Systems of Entrepreneurship, and Policy Portfolio Optimisation analysis, which helps policymakers consider trade-offs between alternative policy scenarios and associated allocations of policy resources. The paper describes the entrepreneurial disparities amongst Hungarian regions and provides public policy suggestions to improve the level of entrepreneurship and to optimise resource allocation over the 14 pillars of entrepreneurship in the seven Hungarian regions.
O21|How the New International Goal for Child Mortality Is Unfair to Africa (Again) - Working Paper 407|Despite unprecedented progress towards lower under-five mortality in high-mortality countries in recent years, a large fraction of these countries will not attain the numerical target under Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 4, a reduction of the mortality rate by two-thirds compared to levels in 1990. Nevertheless, many stakeholders have argued that the post-2015 agenda should contain a level-end goal for under-five mortality and recent accelerations in the rate of reduction in under-five mortality have been cited as a cause for optimism. We argue in this paper that one key fact about relative changes in mortality rates is a lack of persistence. We find robust evidence for substantial mean reversion in the data. Hence, recent accelerations observed for countries in Sub-Saharan Africa are an overly optimistic estimate of future reductions. At the same time, progress as required by the old MDG4 coincides very much with our projections for Sub-Saharan Africa and other regions. Thus, while MDG4 has been rightly criticized as overly ambitious and unfair to Africa for the 1990-2015 period, such a goal seems more appropriate for the 2005-2030 period. We also offer a discussion of likely drivers of future reductions in child deaths.
O21|Geography, Cultural Remoteness and Economic Development: A Regional Analysis of the Economic Consequences of Insularity|"We study the relationship between economic development, geography and ""cultural remoteness"" (i.e. distance from the technological frontier(s) driving economic development) at a regional level focusing on the role of ""insularity"". The analysis covers all island regions worldwide and documents the presence of economic costs (measured in GDP per capita), due to insularity, in addition to those generally attributed to 'geographical remoteness'. Cultural remoteness, either measured in terms of linguistic or ethnic distance, is not the only cause that explains these costs."
O21|Cuba: cambios institucionales para la actualización de su modelo económico|El gobierno cubano, luego de varias décadas de vivir bajo un estricto régimen económico socialista, ha asumido en la última década el reto de actualizar su modelo Estado-económico. En el VI Congreso del Partido Comunista de Cuba realizado en 2011 se propuso un ambicioso programa económico de 313 reformas que consideran es necesario realizar para construir un sistema económico sostenible. El artículo tiene como objetivo analizar la dinámica económica cubana reciente y señalar los retos para realizar los cambios institucionales que tendrá en el futuro próximo. Para lograrlo, se describe la situación económica reciente de la isla; se presenta la agenda de reformas propuestas por el VI Congreso y algunas ejecuciones realizadas desde 2011; y se identifican los principales retos que debe asumir la sociedad cubana relacionados con los cambios institucionales que hace en la cultura económica.
O21|Ciencia y tecnología en el plan nacional de desarrollo 2014-2018: “Todos por un nuevo país”|En este documento se analiza la estrategia de ciencia, tecnología e innovación tal como es presentada en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo del segundo gobierno del Presidente Juan Manuel Santos para el periodo 2014 – 2018. Se muestra que es continuación de la estrategia de crecimiento económico de los últimos gobiernos de Colombia, pero que se mantiene solo en el nivel del discurso porque en la práctica no ha habido más inversión en ciencia y tecnología ni se ha generado más innovación en las empresas del país. ****** In this document the strategy for science, technology and innovation is analyzed as it is presented in the National Development Plan of the second government of President Juan Manuel Santos for the period 2014 - 2018. It is showed that the strategy is no more than the same economic growth strategy presented by recent governments of Colombia and that it remains only in the level of discourse, because in practice there has not been more investment in science and technology and it has not generated more innovation in firms.
O21|El ciclo de dependencia centro- periferia en Argentina: revisión del producto bruto geográfico, el empleo formal y las políticas fiscales entre 1990 y 2010|Dos factores son claves para medir la desigualdad de oportunidades entre los ciudadanos de las distintas regiones del país, en función de rediscutir el modelo de desarrollo y, por ende, replantear sus políticas públicas financieras y fiscales: el producto bruto geográfico nacional y el empleo formal. En un ámbito estatal signado por un cambio de paradigma político-económico e institucional, posterior a la crisis del 2001, el análisis de estos componentes en dos decenios tan diferentes como los años noventa y su próximo inmediato posterior constituye un factor esencial para verificar si exite continuidad o profundización respecto a la dinámica desigualadora neoliberal de los años noventa hasta nuestros días.******There are two key factors in the measurement of unequal opportunities among the population in the country’s different regions, in order to rediscuss the development model and, therefore, reformulate its financial and tax public policies: the gross national product and formal employment. In a State environment marked by changes in political-economic and institutional paradigms after the 2001 crisis, the analysis of these components in such different decades as the 1990s and the following decade, constitutes an essential factor to verify whether continuity or consoldation exist with respect to the uneven neoliberal dynamic which has prevailed since the 1990s.
O21|Linguistic Distances and their Use in Economics|The paper offers an overview of the various approaches to compute linguistic distances (the lexicostatistic method, Levenshtein distances, distances based on language trees, phonetic distances, the ASJP project and distances based on learning scores) as well as distances between groups. It also briefly describes how distances directly affect economic outcomes such as international trade, migrations, language acquisition and earnings, translations. Finally, one can construct indices that take account (or not) of distances and how these indices are used by economists to measure their impact outcomes such as redistribution, the provision of public goods, growth, or corruption.
O21|Türkiye’de Planlý Kalkýnma Döneminde Ýktisadi Büyüme ile Nüfus Artýþý Ýliþkisinin Ekonometrik Analizi|Türkiye’de uygulanan nüfus politikalarý incelendiðinde “1960 yýlý öncesi” ve “1960 yýlý sonrasý” olmak üzere iki döneme ayrýldýðý görülmektedir. Bu ayrýmýn temelinde 1960’lý yýllardan itibaren hýzlý nüfus artýþýnýn iktisadi büyümenin önünde engel teþkil ettiðinin ileri sürülmesi ve neticesinde nüfus artýþ hýzýný yavaþlatmaya yönelik politikalarýn uygulanmasý yer almaktadýr. Günümüzde, 1960’lý yýllardan itibaren uygulanan bu nüfus politikalarý sonucunda Türkiye’de yaþlý nüfusun payýnda hýzlý bir artýþ ve doðumlarýn azalmasý ile birlikte çocuk nüfusun payýnda hýzlý bir azalýþ gözlemlenmiþtir. Yaþanan bu dönüþüm sonucunda gelecek dönemler açýsýndan nüfusun yaþlanmasý ve nüfusun azalmasý gibi farklý sorunlarla karþý karþýya kalýnmýþtýr. Bu çalýþmada, 1960’lý yýllardan itibaren nüfus politikalarýndaki deðiþikliðinin temel nedeni olarak gösterilen iki deðiþken; kiþi baþýna düþen Gayri Safi Yurtiçi Hasýla (GSYÝH) ile nüfus artýþý (N) arasýndaki iliþki Türkiye için 1961-2012 döneminde yýllýk veriler kullanýlarak analiz edilmiþtir. Bu amaçla, Kwiatkowski-PhillipsSchmidt-Shin (KPSS) duraðanlýk testi, gecikmesi daðýtýlmýþ otoregresif sýnýr testi yaklaþýmý ve Granger nedensellik testi kullanýlmýþtýr. Uygulanan analizler neticesinde, her iki serinin birinci mertebeden duraðan olduðu ve aralarýnda uzun dönem iliþkisinin bulunmadýðý sonucuna ulaþýlmýþtýr. Yapýlan Granger nedensellik testi sonrasýnda ise iki seri arasýnda bir nedensellik iliþkisi saptanmamýþtýr.
O21|Identification of Key Productive Sectors in the Mexican Economy|"The aim of this research is to analyze macroeconomic performance and discuss transition indicators in Azerbaijan economy for 1991-2012. After regaining independence in 1991, Azerbaijan implemented economic transition process toward market economy. In the first years of independence, serious economic recession was observed. However, after 1995, the restructuring of the economy started. In this sense, signing the ""Contract of the Century"" was a turning point toward oil based high speed economic growth or oil boom period. Thus, by opening ""Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan"" pipeline in 2005, Azerbaijan's macroeconomic indicators experienced considerable growth for the following years. On the other hand, Azerbaijan officially declared the end of economic transition process in its economy in 2009. In this paper, the authors discuss the political-economic and economic process in the whole period as well as analyze the macroeconomic performance with and without oil & gas contribution. In addition, the authors question what would happen if economic transition period ended in Azerbaijan's economy. It is concluded that oil & gas production has a serious impact over macroeconomic indicators and transition indicators, and for Azerbaijan it implies only a partly end of economic transition, though not completely."
O21|Comparing energy scenarios by means of ternary diagrams|The use of ternary diagrams is here proposed as a straightforward means to show the relation between the electricity generating mixes and relevant scenario parameters, such as system carbon emissions (gCO2/kWh) and generation costs (c€/kWh). The effectiveness of the representation is improved by plotting contour lines inside the diagram to help the reader to identify the generation mixes that meet specific economic and environmental requirements. Along with the description of the potentiality of the ternary diagrams in the energy scenario field, an explanatory application is also reported. It demonstrates the helpfulness of the graph in performing preliminary assessments of specific energy policies. The levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) of a future (2030) Italian electricity generation system largely based on renewables - providing 50% of the demand - is plotted in a ternary diagram as function of the combination of different renewable electricity generation shares. The graph clearly shows that the cheapest electricity can be achieved by an electricity generation mix that covers 20-30% of the electricity demand with wind power, 0-20% with photovoltaic (PV) and 10-30% with the other renewables. Further assessments demonstrate that the PV capacity should be limited so as to reduce the installation of expensive energy storage capacity while wind power along with electricity from biomass could effectively contribute in reducing the system LCOE.
O21|Leading, lagging, and left behind: identifying metropolitan leaders and labor market outcomes|"From 1990 to 2010, the United States underwent significant changes in the makeup of the population and its educational attainment. During the period, bachelor's degree or higher attainment proportions rose significantly—7.9 percentage points—from 20.3 percent in 1990 to 28.2 percent in 2010. This growth happened unevenly, though. Of 283 metropolitan areas, only 78 were above the 7.9 percentage point increase, suggesting much more concentrated growth than would be expected if growth were experienced evenly. This paper documents the concentration of growth and examines four labor market outcomes in the 78 ""leader metros."" Unexpectedly, labor market outcomes are not even or common across these metros, suggesting that growth in the proportion of the population holding a BA or higher degree will have different effects depending on local conditions. It also suggests that increasing BA+ attainment at the population level is not a solution to all labor market challenges equally. The analysis suggests that considering local products and their related demands for labor are important steps in developing human capital–based economic development strategies."
O21|Will talent attraction and retention improve metropolitan labor markets?|Since the early 1990s, metropolitan entities and local governments have targeted incentives, policies, and investments with the goal of highly educated and skilled workers to locate in their communities. These efforts focus on attracting workers who hold a bachelor’s degree or higher and have had a profound effect on the form and management of metropolitan areas, but there is not clear evidence that growth in bachelor’s or higher degree attainment improves metropolitan labor market outcomes. I use an outcomes-based cluster-discriminant analysis to test whether or not metropolitan areas with growth in bachelor’s or higher degree (BA+) attainment from 1990 to 2010 that is above the national average experienced improvements in the local labor market. Increased BA+ attainment leads to two distinct set of local labor market outcomes: one in which earnings per job increases but inequality, unemployment, and poverty rates rise, and the other in which income inequality growth is low and unemployment and poverty rates decline but earnings per job are stagnant or negative. I find evidence that “educational segregation,” restrictive land-use policies, crime, and changes in military employment all predict outcomes.
O21|MGNREGA policies and deterrence of development in rural India: An analytical approach|The paper offers two new insights in the context of the Mahatma Gandhi national rural employment guarantee act (MGNREGA) in India: first, we establish that migration of the skilled workers can occur under the MGNREGA scheme due to the low wage rate while the quality of work degrades as skilled workers migrate. As a result, we argue, only subsidies can offer a helpline in this regard. Secondly, this paper also argues that the political economy assumes critical importance for any welfare intervention like MGNREGA. We hence model the political economy of rural sector to explain why MGNREGA policies can fail. We show that, in situations where political parties and politicians can sequentially commit first to de facto (local) tax rates, and then levels and distribution of local public goods such as institutions and infrastructure, the political equilibrium is an underprovision equilibrium. In the underprovision equilibrium, the local government at the grass-root level of democracy chooses low tax rates (de facto) and offers inadequate local public goods, which can thus be an equilibrium outcome, which will in turn deter rural development through MGNREGA policies to eradicate rural poverty.
O21|Accuracy and Poverty Impacts of Proxy Means-Tested Transfers: An Empirical Assessment for Bolivia|In the absence of reliable and exhaustive income data, Proxy Means Tests (PMTs) are frequently employed as a cost-effective way to identify income-poor beneficiaries of targeted anti-poverty programs. However, their usefulness depends on whether proxies accurately identify the income poor. Based on Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC)-analysis, we find that PMTs perform poorly in terms of identifying poor households in Bolivian data when transfers are targeted narrowly to the poor but that the true positive rate is highly responsive to increases in the proportion of beneficiaries. Using non-parametric regression-techniques, we show that the resulting leakage can largely be confined to the non-poor close to the poverty line. However, simulating the impact on poverty measures of a uniform transfer to beneficiaries across inclusion rates suggests that the largest poverty impact is attained with very narrow targeting. Hence, the link between targeting accuracy and poverty impact is weak.
O21|Targeting Performance and Poverty Effects of Proxy Means-Tested Transfers: Trade-offs and Challenges|In the absence of reliable and exhaustive income data, Proxy Means Tests (PMTs) are frequently employed as a cost-e ective way to identify income-poor bene ciaries of targeted anti-poverty programs. However, their usefulness depends on whether proxies accurately identify the income poor. Based on Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC)-analysis, we nd that PMTs perform poorly in terms of identifying poor households in Bolivian data when transfers are targeted narrowly to the poor but that the true positive rate is highly responsive to increases in the proportion of bene ciaries. Using non-parametric regression- techniques, we show that the resulting leakage can largely be con ned to the non-poor close to the poverty line. However, simulating the e ect on poverty measures of a uniform transfer to bene ciaries across inclusion rates suggests that the largest poverty e ect is attained with very narrow targeting. Hence, we nd a trade-o between targeting accuracy and poverty e ect.
O21|Inverted-U relationship between innovation and survival: Evidence from firm-level UK data|Theoretical and empirical work on innovation and firm survival has produced varied and often conflicting findings. In this paper, we draw on Schumpeterian models of competition and innovation and stochastic models of firm dynamics to demonstrate that the conflicting findings may be due to linear specifications of the innovation-survival relationship. We demonstrate that a quadratic specification is appropriate theoretically and fits the data well. Our findings from an unbalanced panel of 39,705 UK firms from 1997-2012 indicate that an inverted-U relationship holds for different types of R&D expenditures and sources of funding. We also report that R&D intensity is more likely to increase survival when firms are in more concentrated industries and in Pavitt technology classes consisting of specialized suppliers of technology and scale-intensive industries. Finally, we report that the effects of firm and industry characteristics as well as macroeconomic environment indicators are all consistent with prior findings. The results are robust to step-wise modeling, controlling for left truncation and use of lagged values to address potential simultaneity bias.
O21|UK and EU subsidies and private R&D investment: Is there input additionality?|This paper investigates the effects of UK and EU subsidies on privately-funded R&D intensity of a sample of 39,730 UK firms. The sample consists of R&D-active firms surveyed in at least one year from 1998-2012. The results are obtained from 4 different estimators, with different degrees of control for selection and time-constant fixed effects: (i) pooled OLS without selection correction; (ii) fixed-effect (within-group) estimation without selection correction; (iii) pooled OLS with selection correction; and (iv) fixed-effect estimation with selection correction. We report that UK subsidies are not associated with additionality in privately -funded R&D intensity in the full sample, and the additionality effect in manufacturing is too small to be conomically significant. In contrast, EU subsidy is associated with an additionality effect of 2% in both samples. Ordered-Heckman estimations of leverage indicate that an increase in UK subsidy intensity (subsidy/total R&D) is not likely to make a difference to private R&D effort in any of the subsidy intensity classes demarcated by 4 quartiles of the intensity distribution. However, an increase in EU subsidy intensity is associated with leverage in subsidy intensity class 3, which corresponds to subsidy intensity values within the 3rd quartile of the distribution.
O21|From Research Project to Research Portfolio: Meeting Scale and Complexity|The article considers how the past and present tendency to focus on selecting the best projects based on the sole criterion of meritorious science may result in a sub-optimal portfolio. The authors argue that scientists need to proactively engage in the discussion over the need to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of societal investments to ensure that the next generation of the management and decision-making process for our science, technology and innovation system is rooted in sound principles. The classic peer review process tends to provide unintended overlap and allows for an ill fit between some of the pieces and unwanted gaps to occur. Areas of high risk and high return can be missed due to their controversial nature and split decisions typically resulting in negative funding decisions. In general, high risk and a high frequency of split decisions tend to be replaced with lower risk initiatives. The authors propose herein supplementing peer review with research portfolio evaluation approaches and decision-making tools that can better assess research uncertainties and other special features of the transformation of the resulting knowledge into improved social well-being. A coupling of research quality review by peers with more systematic portfolio meta-analysis of recommended projects is both possible and essential.
O21|Foresight for Science and Technology Priority Setting in Korea|The main purpose of Technology Foresight (TF) in Korea is to predict the development of S&T and use the results in developing S&T policies. However, informing the public about what the future holds based on the development of S&T is an equally important role of TF. Since the introduction of the first TF in 1994, Korea has conducted four such studies. TF in Korea has become a key process in setting S&T policy, such as the Science and Technology Basic Plan (S&T Basic Plan). The S&T Basic Plan determines the national strategic technologies by reflecting on future technology. The S&T Basic Plan is a mandatory legal planning process established every five years by the Korean government. It is the top-level policy document affecting S&T-related policy making in Korea. TF in Korea primarily utilizes the Delphi method. The third and fourth TFs have strengthened the links between S&T and society by determining future technologies capable of solving future needs. The fourth TF presented scenarios and special illustrations to show members of the public the future technologies and their implications for society. Additionally, the fourth round of TF analyzed the potential negative impacts of future technologies.
O21|Priorities Setting with Foresight in South Africa|South Africa has only irregularly undertaken exercises to identify priority technology areas, despite government recognition of their importance. Moreover this activity has no institutional frameworks. This article reviews past efforts in this field in South Africa. In the end of 1990s, the Department of Arts Culture, Science and Technology announced the results of the National Research and Technology Foresight. One of the key implications of these results was that, in contrast to the rest of the world, South African stakeholders fail to recognize the importance of emerging technologies such as nanotechnology, micro-production as well as simulation technologies as cost-effective components of new product and process development. These results appear to have permeated through the STI policy and as a result, the country appears to be lagging in terms of research in emerging technologies. The main focus of the authors is on the findings of the most recent effort supported by the Department of Trade and Industry to identify changes in industrialists’ opinions related to technology priorities. The recent results indicate that the country is integrating into the global economy, as national priorities are converging with priorities elsewhere.
O21|The Epistemological Foundations of Music Piracy in the Digital Marketplace|This paper examines the fundamental epistemological gap between the consumers and producers of digitally based products. Using the music industry and the significance of digital products in this arena as a case study of evolving relationships between buyers and sellers, we evaluate the nature of ‘piracy’ from multiple perspectives: creators, intermediaries, distributors, and end consumers. Our study centres on the epistemological boundaries of these agents and actors, using existing evidence and qualitative research to examine the nature and limits of the epistemological reach of agents and actors in this digital marketplace. Our theoretical model is an adapted and applied version of Domain-Generality and Domain-Specificity in Personal Epistemology. We find a series of epistemological dissonances, driven by differing levels of understanding about (and access to) the underlying technological, legal, and social structures of an evolving marketplace. As a result of instability, these structures inevitably create various epistemological boundaries. Using the analytical framework developed, the case study of music piracy illustrates how identifying epistemological dissonance helps sellers develop strategies that could minimize the impact of piracy on their revenue streams.
O21|Aspects Regarding The Romanian Rural Area Development After The Accession To The European Union|Romania became a member state of the European Union on January 1, 2007, and this involved compliance with the EU norms and standards, as well as the need to include certain national priorities subscribed to the national needs, given the significant economic development deficit compared to the Western and Central European countries. The Romanian rural residents, perhaps even more than those in urban areas, have put much hope in the European integration, especially after the “Agriculture and Rural Development” chapter was intensely debated in the pre-accession period. However, after seven years, the Romanian rural areas seem as developed or underdeveloped. The national agricultural policies were often inconsistent, the European funds have been poor, and rural development can be seen only here and there on the large farms or under the form of small and timid initiatives. This research aims to present the results of a rural area diagnosis conducted in the period 2007 - 2013, given a series of economic and social indicators, which reflect the development level of the Romanian countryside. The main source of information is the National Institute of Statistics of Romania for the data to be processed, and the national and international literature for the fundamental research. As research methods, we used bibliographic syntheses, statistical and mathematical processing and evaluation of quantitative and qualitative phenomena. The development / underdevelopment of the Romanian rural area after joining the European Union will be presented in the 2007-2013 timeframe, taking into account indicators such as: rural area and its distribution by agricultural and non-agricultural utilization categories; rural population in terms of structure, employment, educational level, life expectancy and so on; revenues and expenditures of the rural population; GDP / capita.
O21|Public Policies And Business Incubators In Mexico: Longitudinal Study 1994-2013 Politicas Publicas E Incubadoras De Empresas En Mexico: Estudio Longitudinal 1994-2013|This paper presents the development of federal public policy on business incubators in Mexico during the period of 1994-2013. We focus in particular on financial aid that has been given under the public administration and the political scheme established by every presidential term. This study uses qualitative research and analysis of longitudinal documents of three concluded presidential administrations, the most recent starting in December 2012. The result of this research show different public policies implemented by administrations and determining the type of support and guidance that regulated its management. Progressive advancement in supporting entrepreneurial projects, in which the incubators is used as a strategy to promote the development of competitive enterprises that generate jobs.
O21|Proposal Of A Connection Model For A University Based On The Triple Helix, Propuesta De Un Modelo De Vinculacion Para Una Universidad Basada En La Triple Helice|This work shows a connection proposal based on the triple helix model. This effort was born as a result of a strategic planning exercise at Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon (UANL). To make this proposal we investigated different models of connections of universities of the country, as well as universities in South America and Europe. We generate a proposal where the University supports the development of the region through a strategic collaboration between the Government, industry and the University itself. The results show different modalities to achieve the integration of these three elements for the benefit of the society that contains them
O21|Incentivos económicos en la decisión de individuos y empresas para operar en el sector formal o informal: seguro popular y eficiencia recaudatoria|Las empresas e individuos se enfrentan a incentivos económicos que influyen en la decisión de operación entre los sectores formal e informal. El Seguro Popular en México actúa como incentivo a favor de la informalidad, ya que al ser de origen gratuito, reduce el costo de enfermarse y permite un nivel de consumo mayor; esto revierte el sesgo formado naturalmente por las prestaciones laborales ofrecidas en la formalidad. Por otro lado, la eficiencia recaudatoria baja reduce el costo de las empresas por operar en la informalidad, creando un incentivo para este sector. Asimismo, las empresas formales demandarán mano de obra informal, derivado de la amenaza no creíble de castigo. El objetivo del documento es modelar el mercado laboral considerando estos incentivos económicos. Se encuentra que es necesario revisar los programas sociales que sustituyen las prestaciones formales como el Seguro Popular, al tiempo que se mejora la eficiencia recaudatoria para salir de equilibrios no óptimos en términos de empleo y crecimiento económico./ Firms and individuals face economic incentives that affect their decision about to operate either formal or informal sector. In Mexico, the Seguro Popular acts as incentive towards informality because, its free origin, reduces the cost of illnesses and allows a greater consumption level; this reverts the natural bias of the labor remuneration offered in the formal sector. On the other hand, low tax collection efficiency reduces cost that firms have to deal for operating at the informal sector, establishing an incentive for this sector. Also, formal firms will demand informal labor force, since the no credible menace for punishment. The aim of the paper is to model the labor market regarding these economic incentives. It is found that it is necessary to re-view social programs that substitutes formal remunerations, such as Seguro Popular, while improving tax collection efficiency in order to go out of not optimal equilibrium in terms of labor and economic growth.
O21|Forecasting model for vehicular demand: an alternative methodology in the context of developing countries|Two most challenging problems facing transportation planners and policymakers in many developing countries are rapid urban traffic growth and lack of financial and technical resources to conduct major planning studies, especially for assessing the impacts of new sites and land-uses. The conventional urban transportation planning process, which is data and time intensive, has been of little value due to many transportation related obstacles (inadequate database, lack of funds, inadequate technical expertise, etc.). Advances in computer technology, especially in the areas of Geographic Information Systems (GIS), offer new ways of dealing with the aforementioned problems. This paper presents a new methodology for conducting transportation planning studies in developing countries. Integrating TransCAD, well-known GIS software for transportation applications, and Excel, spreadsheet software, the new model starts by estimating an Origin-Destination (O-D) table from traffic counts at the base year. Then, a modified O-D table is obtained from a simple procedure before determining the new traffic assignment, taking into consideration the new sites and land uses. The model was developed and applied for conducting regional transportation planning in the Gaza Strip, Palestine. A flexible, yet vigorous transportation planning mechanism was needed to assist planners in their efforts to plan for transportation in that highly populated area with a poor and old highway network. The results of the verification work conducted after each step during the development of the model have been acceptable. Moreover, transportation experts who live and work in the area have conducted complete validation of the results.
O21|Is China’s economic growth sustainable? A general equilibrium analysis|Despite China’s remarkable economic growth over the last three decades have been well acknowledged, there seems no consensus being reached on how this growth is created and whether it can be sustained in the future. While some economists (e.g., Holz, 2008) argue that “China’s potential for economic growth from relatively low labor costs will continue to exist for another 30 years”, others (e.g., Hofman and Kuijs, 2008, Prasad, 2009, Whalley and Xin, 2010) have questioned its sustainability. Based on a brief literature review and with the help of a well-known CGE model (the GTAP model), this paper attempts to identify the most significant factors that have contributed to the miraculous economic growth in China, namely international trade, FDI, and migrant labor, and to explore how some other economic potentials such as the removal of the household registration system and engaging free trade with its major trade partners could be further exploited. The GTAP is a multi-region, multi-sector CGE model that has been used widely to tackle many economic and trade policy issues in developing countries. The latest version of the dataset which is based on 2007 actual data is used for running two sets of eight counter-factual simulations. According to the results of the simulations, it is concluded that the export-orientation development strategy, effective use of FDI, and exploitation of comparative advantage of its migrant workers are the most significant factors that have contributed to the remarkable economic growth in China. While the opening effect accounts for roughly 40% of GDP growth, the effective use of the migrant workers contributes to about 50%, leaving the remaining 10% or less as the contribution of TFP. Although not all of these factors will persist in the future, several alternative reform measures including the removal of the household registration system and further liberalising international trade through forming FTAs with its major trade partners would keep contributing to sustain China’s economic growth. The policy implication is that China should continue its opening and reform policies toward developing a more liberalised domestic factor market and engaging more FTAs with its major trading partners. When these economic potentials are further exploited, China’s rapid economic growth can be sustained further for at least another decade.
O21|Green economy planning in tourism destinations: An integrated, multi-method decision support aid|Currently, tourism is estimated to contribute around 5% to the world’s total anthropogenic GHG emissions and estimates show that tourism’s GHG emissions could grow by 161% by 2035 in a ‘business as usual’ scenario. The term ‘green economy’ refers to the realization of material wealth without major, consequent environmental and social problems. Many tourism destinations are currently pursuing green economy strategies but development of appropriate policies is complex and, consequently, decision support technologies can be used to advantage here. The design of one such decision support system is described in this paper. The research approach is based on the notion that the development (and use) of an information system can be considered a legitimate research activity in its own right and, in particular, a parallel is drawn with case study research: specifically, that systems may evolve through a series of prototypes with results of each stage informing requirements for the next and subsequent iterations. Innovative features of the system are that its design is underpinned both by a need to effectively manage the inherent complexity of the analysis domain and to allow iterative development with minimum impact on previous versions (i.e. to minimize ongoing maintenance costs). An additional important feature is that, while various subsystems may be developed using whatever software platform is deemed most appropriate, an abstracted conceptual schema facilitates effective integration of all components. To date, the DSS has been used in the field at two locations, Sharm El Sheik in Egypt and Bali, Indonesia. The Bali experience is overviewed and a specific information-sharing example is presented. The example is concerned with visitor goodwill and this concept’s link with the strategy objective of improving the environment through the establishment of more open space (especially forest land). Part of a system dynamics (SD) stock-flow application used to support scenario generation and testing, related to this objective, is presented and the importance of sharing data beyond this individual application was highlighted: specifically, expert system rules (from another application) utilizing this data are specified. Potentially, outputs from the expert system analysis could usefully be fed back into the original SD application.
O21|Development theory and poverty. A review|This review article presents the evolution of development theory during the XX century, the measurement of poverty, the concept and the indices of multidimensional poverty. A special focus concerns the complex linkages between income inequality, poverty and institutions during the growth process of developing countries.
O21|Using Scientific Publications to Evaluate Government R&D Spending: The Case of Energy|The mix of public and private research funding investments in alternative energy presents a challenge for isolating the effect of government R&D funding. Factors such as energy prices and environmental policy influence both private and public R&D decisions. Moreover, because government R&D is further upstream from the final commercialized product, it may take several years for its effect on technology to be realized. Combining data on scientific publications for alternative energy technologies with data on government R&D support for these technologies, we address these challenges. First, we ask how long it takes for energy R&D to provide successful research outcomes. We both provide information on the lags between research funding and new publication and link these articles to citations in U.S. energy patents. One million dollars in additional government R&D funding leads to 1-2 additional publications, but with lags as long as ten years between initial funding and publication. Second, we ask whether adjustment costs associated with large increases in research funding result in diminishing returns to government R&D. There is no evidence of diminishing returns on the level of publication output, but some evidence that additional funding leads to lower quality publications, using citations as a measure of publication quality.
O21|On the Formation of National Planning System in Russia|"We propose to distinguish between two ""ideal"" types of national planning: the universal and the program planning. The first is aimed at accelerating the balanced development of industries and regions through large-scale investment projects; it requires a hierarchy of specialized planning institutions. The second uses a relatively small number of programs aimed at addressing key economic problems. These programs are worked out by the ministries and agencies, which are also engaged in the current management. In developing countries, national planning tends to be the first type, and in the developed ones, it tends to be the second. In Russia, elements of both types of systems have spontaneously arisen. From them, it is necessary to form a mixed system that would be adequate to the Russian level of development. Its contours are discussed in the paper."
O21|The Cluster Policy Organizational Structures|The article reveals the concepts and the specific characteristics of the cluster policy, describes its generic problems inherent in the transition economies, including Russia. Authors describe possible directions of cluster policy realization in Russia. It is shown that many vital issues of the cluster policies implementation lie in its organization. Based on the example of the Scandinavian countries, that recognize the importance of the cluster approach, authors describe the organizational aspects of the implemented cluster programs. Authors define three types of cluster policy organizational structure and reveal the central role of the specialized agencies, whose analogues in Russia can be the regional centers of cluster development. Authors propose a typology of cluster policy organizational structures that differ in the number of involved ministries and specialized agencies, the types of relationship and object of regulation, functions and status of the authorized agencies. This typology is used to categorize the experience of cluster policy implementation in different countries. It is shown that under similar conditions the organization of cluster policy can take many forms and vary with time.
O21|Re-industrialization of the Russian Economy and the Development of Military-industrial Complex|The article analyzes the effectiveness of the budget spending on the development of military-industrial complex in Russia. The authors assess the impact of re-industrialization policy on the competitiveness of the Russian economy. The research methodology is in the frames of the structural analysis. The Russian defense industry is investigated, basing on the statistics of the federal budget expenditures on national defense, as well as the expertise of government weapons programs. The authors conclude that the implementation of re-industrialization policy will support inefficient industries and sectors instead of eliminating the effect of factors that hinder economic development.
O21|O planejamento local é mais eficiente? Uma análise de 14 municípios sergipanos de pequeno porte [Is local planning more efficient? An analysis of 14 small municipalities from Sergipe]|This study aims to investigate the framework of local planning in municipalities located in Sergipe having up to 20 thousand inhabitants. Such municipalities represent 70% of the Brazilian and Sergipian municipalities. They face tasks arising from autonomy vested by the new institutional / legal demands as well as the shift of the planning focus from the national to the local sphere. In the first section, the reasons for such a shift are examined. This section also discusses planning at the local level, considering theoretical reasons which presume more efficiency in local expenditures. The second section describes the methodological features of the paper. The findings from this study are based on field research and a cluster analysis conducted by the authors. The third section presents and discusses these results, which confirm our hypothesis of poor planning of most of these subspaces.
O21|The Development And Diversification Of Services In The Cultural-Religious Domain By Types Of Education|Lately, a sustainable development has been more and more discussed and, implicitly, the service sustainability in the context of globalization. This is why, with this approach, the role of the human and, naturally, of the society was observed in carrying out educational, religious and cultural activities. By analogy with a new product’s development steps, the phases necessary for the development of a new service concept were advanced. By means of qualitative and quantitative researches, the ideas necessary for the development of a new service were generated. From the great number of propositions, the most important ones were selected through qualitative researches. These were used in creating the new service. The cultural-religious educational service is the result of these activities, being a concept of the lateral marketing, but also a concern for a sustainable development. This service merged three distinct concepts (education, culture and religion), taking into account that information and knowledge are central for the progress and sustainability of a society's development. This service is a new concept by means of which one shall target how we may achieve the prevention of certain tendencies of school drop-out, new didactical methods and forms being tested this way, having as main purpose a better teacher-child, child-teacher, child-child, teacher-teacher communication.
O21|Support For Renewable Energy In Germany As An Example Of Effective Public Policy|"This article aims to analyze the process of energy transformation in Germany and renewable energy state support as an example of a strategic and effective policy. Energy transition in Germany, which leads to replacement of conventional energy with renewable sources and increase of energy efficiency is a long-term project requiring a strong state intervention. This project is supported with European Union green energy policy giving favorable legal and institutional framework for green technologies development. The process of energy transformation in Germany started more than two decades ago and nowadays this economy benefits from growing number of new jobs and export of high-tech products. The article analyzes the concept of ""green growth"" in the EU, which is both determinant and the effect of energy transformation in Germany. It discusses support mechanisms and instruments for German green energy sector, transformation goals in that area, financing sources and the most important economic effects."
O21|Tackling Myanmar's Corruption Challenge|Corruption is widespread in Myanmar, and this has significant negative effects on the country’s economic development. In response, President U Thein Sein has made fighting corruption a priority. However, despite Myanmar’s gradual improvement in corruption perceptions’ rankings, it still ranks as one of the most corrupt ASEAN countries. Although progress in combating corruption has been made in some areas, there is much still to be done. This piece identifies the key corruption issues still facing Myanmar, and lays out recommendations to strengthen the efforts to tackle them. These include stricter oversight of bureaucrats’ discretionary powers and the removal of restrictive economic measures such as price controls in order to discourage black market activity. Finally, improving basic education about corruption can help raise awareness and serve to dislodge deeply embedded notions that corruption, gift giving etc. are just a normal part of getting things done in Myanmar.
O21|О Формировании Системы Национального Планирования В России<BR>[On the Formation of National Planning System in Russia]|We propose to distinguish between two “ideal” types of national planning: the universal and the program planning. The first is aimed at accelerating the balanced development of industries and regions through large-scale investment projects; it requires a hierarchy of specialized planning institutions. The second uses a relatively small number of programs aimed at addressing key economic problems. These programs are worked out by the ministries and agencies, which are also engaged in the current management. In developing countries, national planning tends to be the first type, and in the developed ones, it tends to be the second. In Russia, elements of both types of systems have spontaneously arisen. From them, it is necessary to form a mixed system that would be adequate to the Russian level of development. Its contours are discussed in the paper.
O21|Economic Implications of Historically Evolved Self-Efficacy: Agent-Based Modeling and Empirical Evidence from Rural Ghana|We argue that self-efficacy is important for economic performance. Self-efficacy is at the psychological core of agency and entrepreneurship. It enables people to learn, and change and act to better their livelihood. In an agent-based model we show how different levels of individual self-efficacy can evolve as a reaction to environmental demands and rewards to human intervention. The basic idea is that people learn how to best survive in their specific environment and teach this knowledge to their children. Because this cultural heritage only adapts very slowly to the current environment, people might have self-efficacy levels that better fit to the context of their ancestors than to their own. With empirical data from Ghana, we defind that different-levels of self-efficacy have developed from different historic environmental conditions and directly influence today´s household incomes, controlling for observable incentives and constraints. Specifically, the historic returns on agricultural investments are found to have shaped the cultural evolution of self-efficacy. In contrast, current returns on investment explain far less variation in self-efficacy. We find that this cultural trait significantly affects income levels through shaping the farmers’ investment behavior. Regarding the measurement of self-efficacy, we find self-efficacy to be a process- rather than a goal-oriented belief and it is mainly culturally transmitted.
O21|Subjective inclusive development in developing countries: An analysis of contributing factors|The inclusive development has been a challenge for the developing world specially those countries having below poverty demographics. There have been various factors affecting and effecting the developmental aspirations of the developing countries. This paper reads, reviews and analyses the underlying factors which are deemed worth to considered while formulating developmental programmes by the developing nations.
O21|Donor’s double talk undermines African agency : Comparative study of civic agency in Burkina Faso and Togo|Despite a long-standing controversy about aid-effectiveness in general and the impact of aid-dependency on governance in particular, little is known on the effect of donors policies on civic agency for democratization in aid dependent autocratic regimes. In this study it is argued that the long-term effects of double-talk of donors, who openly promote democracy and freedom but covertly follow overriding hidden interest, are a neglected source of failure of civic protest and democratic revolutions in autocratic regimes. The differing outcome of 'democratic revolutions' in Togo and Burkina Faso – both 'aid darlings' for decades-serves to substantiate this thesis. A systematic and holistic consideration is necessary for an unbiased evaluation of the hidden adverse impact of aid on collective action at the grassroots. Therefore, a rethinking of temporal and disciplinary 'fault lines' in development politics as well as in development studies is essential.
O21|A Search for Backward Blocks in Burdwan District, West Bengal: An Application of Composite Development Index|Backward area is identified in terms of development outcomes comparing to rest of the defined administrative area. The measurement of backwardness is an important issue which is the urgent need of the development planners for targeted development. This paper attempts to answer it and prepares the block level backwardness index using available data of Burdwan district. Paper identifies the backward blocks in Burdwan district. Top 3 most backward blocks are Purbasthali-II, Memari-I, and Ketugram-I, and the least backward block is Sultanpur, 2nd least backward block is Andal in district of Burdwan. This block level backwardness index is useful for district planning officers for preparing their priority of development policy agenda.
O21|Multiple criteria analysis of policy alternatives to improve energy efficiency in industry in Russia|Russia set an ambitious energy efficiency goal requiring involvement of all sectors of the economy. It requires specific and efficient public policies at all levels of governance. However, decision making in the energy sector in Russia is complex and characterized by multiple policy objectives, conflicting interest groups and a lack of available quantitative data. This study investigates the decision problem of energy efficiency improvements in the industrial sector – a policy proposed by the Moscow City Government. Multiple criteria analysis (MCA) is tendered as an appropriate evaluation tool. As limited studies exist of the application of MCA in Russia, none – for regional energy systems development, this paper provides a novel solution for regional public management. We adapted the MCA PROMETHEE method and undertook an expert survey to evaluate the policy proposal and develop recommendations. This paper describes the adjustment of the evaluation tool to the existing institutional structure and decision making procedures in Russia. It provides a discussion about the participation of stakeholder groups and determination of policy objectives, options and criteria. The analysis leads to a ranking of preferred policy alternatives to assist policy selection and energy efficiency program development. From this, we recommend partial subsidization of the costs of industrial organisations to implement contracts with energy service companies as the best performing option. More importantly we demonstrate the applicability and usefulness of MCA as a decision support tool for Russian public decision-making. Its wide application is expected to improve public management at both regional and federal levels.
O21|UK and EU subsidies and private R&D investment: Is there input additionality?|Business research and development (R&D) expenditures in the UK is low by international standards. To encourage investment, the UK government has been providing both direct and indirect support. The aim of this paper is to address four inter-related and policy-relevant questions: (i) what do we know about the UK regime for direct grant schemes? (ii) is the UK subsidy complementary or substitute for privately-funded R&D? (iii) does the UK funding regime differ from the EU regime in terms of selection and effect? (iv) does the scope for complementarity/additionality differ between different rates of funding? We address these questions using a rich dataset for more than 44 thousand UK firms from 1998-2012; and a range of treatment-effect estimators with and without control for selection. We report that the EU selection regime is more likely to support firms with long-term R&D plans. In addition, the UK subsidy is not associated with additionality, but the EU subsidy is. Finally, leverage estimations indicate that targeting a particular rate of subsidy is not likely to make a difference to private R&D effort in the UK subsidy case; but an increase in EU subsidy intensity does create leverage among firms that fall between the median and 75th percentile of the subsidy intensity distribution.
O21|Inverted-U relationship between innovation and survival: Evidence from firm-level UK data|Theoretical and empirical work on innovation and firm survival has produced varied and often conflicting findings. In this paper, we draw on Schumpeterian models of competition and innovation and stochastic models of firm dynamics to demonstrate that the conflicting findings may be due to linear specifications of the innovation-survival relationship. We demonstrate that a quadratic specification is appropriate theoretically and fits the data well. Our findings from an unbalanced panel of 39,705 UK firms from 1997-2012 indicate that an inverted-U relationship holds for different types of R&D expenditures and sources of funding. We also report that R&D intensity is more likely to increase survival when firms are in more concentrated industries and in Pavitt technology classes consisting of specialized suppliers of technology and scale-intensive industries. Finally, we report that the effects of firm and industry characteristics as well as macroeconomic environment indicators are all consistent with prior findings. The results are robust to step-wise modeling, controlling for left truncation and use of lagged values to address potential simultaneity bias.
O21|A strategic agenda for the Sino-South America relationship under China’s “new normal”|"This article analyzes from a strategic approach the relationship between South America and China, focusing on the current reform process in the largest Asian economy and its possible impacts on South American countries. It discusses the many changes that the Chinese economy has gone through in recent decades and also its most recent trends, characterized by a new era of slower growth, the so-called Chinese ""new normal"". Based on this perspective, the article studies China´s evolving relationship with Latin America, especially South America, and focuses on a closer examination of the Sino-Brazilian relationship as a case study to derive proposals for a strategic agenda for the coming years. After a brief introduction, the evolution of the economic and trade relations between China and South America in the first decade of the XXI century is analyzed. Another section discusses the current structural changes that the Chinese economy is facing under its reform process and its impacts on South America. The fourth part specifically studies the relationship between Brazil and China in the last years, as a case study to better understand the growing importance of China for South American countries. Finally, section five presents the concluding remarks."
O21|Towards active community participation in implementing Climate Change Adaptation Policy (CCAP) in Cambodia|This paper explores main opportunities and key challenges for community participation in implementing climate change adaptation policy (CCAP) in Cambodia. It also determines potential priorities that can help promote community to actively involve in CCAP implementation. This study reveals that communities remain passively participate in implementing CCAP because key challenges seems to outweigh the opportunities. To promote community to actively join in the process of CCAP implementation, relevant policy legislations that established to fully empower local communities to effectively manage their livelihood resources need to be strictly enforced. Also, the exclusive livelihoods improvement programs and infrastructure projects, which help sustain incomes of vulnerable communities, upgrade their capacity, and promote their security, should be increased.
O21|Участието На България В Политиката На Ес За Развитие<BR>[Bulgaria’s Participation in the EU Development Policy]|The policy for cooperation with developing countries is new to Bulgaria as in the course of the transition over the past two decades assistance to these countries could not be a foreign policy priority for obvious reasons. On the other hand, relations between Bulgaria and many of these countries in the decades before left a lasting mark in many of them, contributing to their economic development. The implementation of Bulgaria's transition from the status of a recipient of international aid into a donor makes it necessary a special attention to be paid to the many issues in this regard because of the specific commitments arising from the country’s new status especially regarding its participation in the EU development policy. The study presents briefly the main features of international development cooperation and then discusses the development policy of the EU. The main focus is on Bulgaria's participation in it as liabilities, results achieved and opportunities.
O21|Multi Actor-Based Approach To Planning Decisions For Cultural Industries In New Economy|Along with the new economy, the competitive advantage of cities is now derived from management of their cultural productions. However, pottery making as cultural industry including ceramic and other earthenware products, currently suffers from many difficulties as inefficient role of government, environmental problems, and the lack of promotion and marketing strategies and falls behind the recent urban development trends. Menemen-Izmir/Turkey has been selected as case area, where the pottery making inherited for five generations. The aim of this study is to suggest a model to tackle with the current difficulties of and also to develop cultural production. The data have been collected via questionnaire and interviews with the pottery masters and Pottery Makers Association. The research proposes the multi actor-based approach through statistically analyses and maps to manage cultural industries and integrate various actors related to the cultural production into the decision making process of urban planning.
O21|Role of investments in industrialization process for sustained economic growth: A comparative analysis of MENA region with world economies|In this research we investigate the potential benefits of investments in industrialization process for sustained growth on fifty six countries with special focus on Middle East and North African Region (MENA). This study applies the varying coefficient production frontier approach, a recently evolving technique that isolates catching up to the frontier (technical efficiency improvement) from shifts in the frontier (technical progress), to analyze the economic performance of developing countries of MENA. The results suggest that total factor productivity (TFP) contributes a minimal amount to the output growth in this region and the frontier estimations results also suggest that these countries do not achieve much progress compared to the rest of the world. However, some of the MENA countries seem to show a better growth performance than that of the averages in each sub period with respect to the rest of MENA.
O21|Impact of Dynamic Capabilities on Firm Performance: Moderating Role of Organizational Competencies|This study observes the phenomenon of organizational performance with the lens of dynamic capabilities. This study investigates the impact of dynamic capabilities on organizational performance, taking organizational competencies as moderating variable, focusing on a paper industry at Lahore, Pakistan. The measurement of dynamic capabilities is based on the multi-dimensional construct underlying the four main factors which include i.e. Sensing, Learning, strong coordination, and competitive response to the rivals. This will lead to explore relationship of dynamic capabilities with organizational performance. Empirical research posits that dynamic capabilities have a direct impact on the organizational performance of the firm. It also proves that organizational competencies have positive moderating role in relationship of organizational performance and dynamic capabilities. This suggests that the direct relationship between dynamic capabilities and performance is insignificant.
O21|Good Democratic Governance Based on a New Model|The paper contains an analysis of good and democratic governance within the central and local administration of Romania. The analysis of the results contributed to the identification of key pillars of good governance. Based on these main elements a model of good governance was set-up. The final part of the paper contains several strategic recommendations needed to improve good governance within the Romanian public administration.
O21|Development Theory, Regional Politics and the Unfolding of the â€˜Roadscapeâ€™ in Ladakh, North India|The idea that â€˜more roads mean more developmentâ€™ is part of conventional wisdom and is firmly entrenched in the development discourse and practice. However, what this stability and pervasiveness should not conceal is that arguments in favour of roads have evolved over time, shaping the expansion of the â€˜roadscapeâ€™, that is, the part of the landscape made up by roads. I illustrate this point at three levels: global development theories, road construction in India and in Ladakh. First I demonstrate how arguments for road construction have evolved in the literature and adapted to criticisms, backing the firmly entrenched idea that roads are conducive to development. Second, I show that the expansion of the road network in India is determined by changing national priorities and policies. Finally, I attempt to account for the factors that explain the late and sudden development of the roadscape in Ladakh, namely, the role of the state and geopolitics. Together, the three levels illustrate the adaptive character of roads, as they survive successive shifts in theories and state priorities.
O21|Vet: A Strategic Approach For Economic, Organisational And Personal Development In Eu Countries|Vocational Education and Training (VET) is a continuous long-term process of economic, organisational and personal development. It envisions the construction of dynamic skills to improve performance, productivity and organisational, personal and social development. This article focuses on generating skills. It frames training as a process of work-linked training and as a primary source for generating skills whilst seeking to boost creativity. It sheds light upon the discussion pertaining to learning transfer as a necessary condition to structure performance and competitiveness. It highlights the Learning Transfer System Inventory (LTSI), because it allows to measure the effectiveness of training and it identifies the organisations' weaknesses. The data used were collected from the Eurostat Database.
