O23|Convergence, Financial Development, and Policy Analysis|We study the relationship among inflation, economic growth, and financial development in a Schumpeterian overlapping-generations model with credit constraints. In the baseline case money is super-neutral. When the financial development exceeds some critical level, the economy catches up and then converges to the growth rate of the world technology frontier. Otherwise, the economy converges to a poverty trap with a growth rate lower than the frontier and with inflation decreasing with the level of financial development. We then study efficient allocation and identify the sources of inefficiency in a market equilibrium. We show that a particular combination of monetary and fiscal policies can make a market equilibrium attain the efficient allocation.
O23|Multinational Expansion in Time and Space|This paper studies the expansion patterns of the multinational enterprise (MNE) in time and space. Using a long panel of US MNEs, we document that: MNE affiliates grow by exporting to new markets; the activities of MNE affiliates persist during the affiliate's life, usually starting with sales to their host market and eventually expanding to export markets; and MNE affiliates' entry into new locations does not depend on the location of preexisting affiliates. Informed by these facts, we develop a multi-country quantitative dynamic model of the MNE that features heterogeneity in firm-level productivity, persistent aggregate shocks, and a rich structure of costs that affect MNE expansion. Importantly, MNE affiliates can decouple their locations of production and sales, and endogenously choose to enter or exit the host and the export markets. We introduce a compound option formulation that allows us to capture in a tractable way the rich heterogeneity that is observed in the data and that is necessary for quantitative analysis. Using the calibrated model, our quantitative application to Brexit reveals that export platforms are important for understanding the reallocation of MNE activity in time and space, and that the nature of the frictions to MNE activities matters for aggregate firm dynamics.
O23|Ideologically-charged terminology: austerity, fiscal consolidation, and sustainable governance|Scholars have been active in investigating causes and consequences of austerity policies. We examine how economists use the term “austerity” in scientific studies and measure austerity in empirical analyses. The sample includes around 3,500 journal articles published in the top 400 journals (RePEc ranking) over the period 1990-2018. The results show that the term austerity is often used in heterodox journals. Papers published in mainstream journals use the term “fiscal consolidation” instead. The term austerity is ambiguous: scholars use manifold definitions of austerity and the empirical measures identify different country-year observations as periods of austerity. We employ panel data for 34 OECD countries over the period 1960-2014 and examine how austerity is associated with economic growth. The results show that depending on how austerity is measured, inferences change. Strategic selection of austerity measures allows scholars to arrive at any desired results about the economic effects of austerity periods.
O23|A tale of two taxes: State-dependency of tax policy|Previous literature provided mixed evidence regarding the effects of two major tax instruments, namely, labor income taxes and corporate taxes on economic growth. We hypothesize that the mixed evidence may be due to state-dependency of labor taxes. While corporate taxes retard economic growth by discouraging entrepreneurship in a linear fashion, the negative effect of labor taxes on growth may depend on the state of the economy, and may, thus, be non-linear. We provide a simple theoretical model which supports the latter hypothesis, and empirically test our predictions by using both statutory and average tax rates for a sample of 19 OECD countries over the 1981–2005 period. We also contribute to the literature by employing a newly developed Panel Smooth Transition (PSTR) model that controls for non-linearities in the tax structure-economic growth relationship. Our empirical findings suggest that while taxes on corporate income are distortionary for growth in both high- and low-growth regimes, taxes on labor income are harmful only during the high-growth regime.
O23|Fiscal multipliers in advanced and developing countries: evidence from military spending|Using novel data on military spending for 129 countries in the period 1988–2013, this paper provides new evidence on the effects of government spending on output in advanced and developing countries. Identifying government-spending shocks with an exogenous variation in military spending, we estimate one-year fiscal multipliers in the range 0.75-0.85. The cumulative multipliers remain significantly different from zero within three years after the shock. We find substantial heterogeneity in the multipliers across groups of countries. We then explore three potential sources leading to heterogeneous effects of fiscal policy: the state of the economy, openness to trade, and the exchange-rate regime. We find that the multipliers are especially large in recessions, in closed economies, and under a fixed exchange rate. We also discuss other potential reasons for heterogeneous effects of fiscal policy, such as its implementation and coordination with the monetary authority. This paper is a significantly revised and extended version of Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Working Papers No. 15-9, circulated under the title “Output Response to Government Spending: Evidence from New International Military Spending Data.”
O23|What Explains the Volatility of India's Catch-up Growth?|Indian post reform growth rates have been higher but more volatile compared to transition periods forother comparable countries. The reasons are aggravation of shocks due to unaddressed criticalbottlenecks together with pro-cyclical macroeconomic policy that compressed aggregate demand.Reform is required to relieve constraints, but traditional reforms may be neither appropriate norachievable. Feasible reforms are discussed. Since diversity and resilience has increased and someconstraints have eased, the paper argues sustained high growth is reachable with the relevant policy support.
O23|Tax Administration vs. Tax Rates: Evidence from Corporate Taxation in Indonesia|Developing countries collect a far lower share of GDP in taxes than richer countries. This paper asks whether changes in tax administration and tax rates can nevertheless raise substantial additional revenue – and if so, which approach is most effective. We study corporate taxation in Indonesia, where the government implemented two reforms that differentially affected firms. First, we show that increasing tax administration intensity by moving the top firms in each region into “Medium-Sized Taxpayer Offices,” with much higher staff-to-taxpayer ratios, more than doubled tax revenue from affected firms over six years, with increasing impacts over time. Second, using non-linear changes to the corporate income tax schedule, we estimate an elasticity of taxable income of 0.59, which implies that the revenue-maximizing rate is almost double the current rate. The increased revenue from improvements in tax administration is equivalent to raising the marginal corporate tax rate on affected firms by about 23 percentage points. We suggest one reason improved tax administration was so effective was that it flattened the relationship between firm size and enforcement, removing the additional “enforcement tax” on large firms. On net, our results suggest that improving tax administration can have significant returns for developing country governments.
O23|Cash and the Economy: Evidence from India's Demonetization|"We analyze a unique episode in the history of monetary economics, the 2016 Indian ""demonetization."" This policy made 86% of cash in circulation illegal tender overnight, with new notes gradually introduced over the next several months. We present a model of demonetization where agents hold cash both to satisfy a cash-in-advance constraint and for tax evasion purposes. We test the predictions of the model in the cross-section of Indian districts using several novel data sets including: the geographic distribution of demonetized and new notes for causal inference; nightlight activity and employment surveys to measure economic activity including in the informal sector; debit/credit cards and e-wallet transactions data; and banking data on deposit and credit growth. Districts experiencing more severe demonetization had relative reductions in economic activity, faster adoption of alternative payment technologies, and lower bank credit growth. The cross-sectional responses cumulate to a contraction in employment and nightlights-based output due to demonetization of 2 p.p. and of bank credit of 2 p.p. in 2016Q4 relative to their counterfactual paths, effects which dissipate over the next few months. These cumulated effects provide a lower bound for the aggregate effects of demonetization. Our analysis rejects money non-neutrality using a large scale natural experiment, something that is yet rare in the vast literature on the effects of monetary policy."
O23|LDC Graduation: Challenges and Opportunities for Vanuatu|"Vanuatu will graduate from the least developed country (LDC) category on 4 December 2020. This will be a momentous occasion, heralding a new era in the nation’s development journey. However, it will be essential to carefully manage the transition leading up to, and following graduation. A smooth transition will be dependent on improving institutional and productive capacity; providing the stimulus for the private sector to flourish; ensuring inclusive, culturally sensitive development; and working to mitigate the country’s deep-seated vulnerabilities. Transition strategies should be led by, and continue to inform, the implementation of Vanuatu 2030 | The People’s Plan - the national sustainable development plan - and be integrated into sector strategies and action plans. Overcoming the challenges and maximizing the opportunities associated with graduation will require collaborative partnerships between government, community leaders, businesses, civil society, and the country’s development and trading partners. Working together, these partnerships should honour the global commitments made by the international community and serve to deliver the development aspirations articulated by the people through Vanuatu 2030. This background paper is intended to build awareness and increase understanding of the key issues associated with Vanuatu’s graduation to help inform national consultations, and the formulation of strategies that guide the smooth transition. It is based on a synthesis of the existing knowledge base, analysis and shared learning that exists on the topic, and has benefited from an initial round of consultations with key stakeholders. While it concludes with a series of recommendations in support of the formulation of appropriate transition strategies, this paper is not presented as a final strategy document. Rather, it is envisaged that it will provoke the necessary further thinking, discussion, research and analysis that will be guided by the National Coordinating Committee for LDC graduation in the lead up to December 2020."
O23|Preparing to graduate: Issues, challenges and strategies for Kiribati’s LDC graduation|This paper outlines the recent development trajectory of Kiribati in relation to the least developed country (LDC) categorisation and the prospect of Kiribati’s graduation out of LDC status. In particular, the paper discusses the economic vulnerability of Kiribati’s economic and fiscal position due to recent increases in fishing license revenue, and presents a framework for policies moving forward. The framework aims to mitigate the fishery revenue as a source of risk by (1) making the most of current resources (through public financial management reform and prudent fiscal management), (2) ensure the sustainability of the key resource (protect fish stocks), and (3) create an environment for new opportunities through establishing the precursors to tourism-orientated development (through deregulation and investment in public infrastructure). More broadly, the paper advocates for a risk-averse approach to policymaking in Kiribati through broad-based improvements in public financial architecture and investment rather than targeting higher-level interventions.
O23|Optimal capital and labor income taxation in small and developing countries|This paper argues that smaller and poorer countries have lower optimal tax rates on capital and labor income than their larger and richer counterparts. It further provides an alternative explanation for such empirically observed differences in tax rates. The model focuses on a closed economy, but is extended by introducing mobile capital. The difference in tax rates here is efficient and not due to tax competition. For the result, less than perfect competition is necessary. The intuition is that monopolistic markups distort markets in a similar way as taxes. Hence, optimal tax rates are inversely related to markups and I show theoretically that smaller and poorer countries have larger markups. Therefore, these countries have lower optimal tax rates. Since smaller and poorer countries face larger competition distortions, there is less space for tax distortions. Hence, a smaller tax rate itself is insufficient to conclude a country is engaging in tax competition. Empirical analysis of the banking industry also shows that smaller and poorer countries have larger markups.
O23|Public expenditure management in Indonesia: Islamic economic review on state budget 2017|This paper discusses the management of public expenditures in Indonesia in State Budget 2017. The data collected from fiscal policy documents, especially about government spending plans in 2017, and then be reviewed by policy analysis, the theory of public expenditures, and the theory of public goods, and compared with the theory of public expenditure in Islamic economics. Public expenditure management in Indonesia has implemented a distribution system that divided public expenditure for central government expenditures, transfers to the regions, and the village fund. In terms of fiscal policy, public expenditure priorities to support the achievement of sustainable economic growth, job creation, poverty reduction, and the reduction of gaps in the welfare of the whole community. In Islamic economics, public expenditure is used to meet the needs of the community based on the principles of general interest derived from the shari'a. Public expenditure on Indonesia's government as an effective tool to divert economic resources and increase the income of society as a whole, and focused on the embodiment of the people's welfare
O23|Does Public Capital Influence Output Growth? Further Evidence from Nigeria|This study investigates the nexus between public capital and growth. The study made use of the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) which is a multi-equation framework to capture all plausible effects of public capital on output growth (measured by growth rate of real GDP) in Nigeria between 1980 and 2015. The results of the econometric estimations revealed that there exist a long run relationship between output growth, public capital, private capital, public consumption and labour. Although public capital was found to have the expected positive sign, it was insignificantly related to growth. This suggests a positive correlation between public capital and output growth. The results also indicate that private capital positively impact on output growth while public consumption negatively affects output growth in Nigeria. Furthermore, the results showed the presence of crowding-out effect, suggesting that public capital has not impacted meaningfully on private investment in Nigeria. The study therefore recommends that government should embark on public capital expenditure in sectors that would smoothen the function of the market to promote growth and development in a country.
O23|The “New Fiscal Plan for Puerto Rico” (April 19, 2018): An Unrealistic and Misleading Path to Nowhere|The New Fiscal Plan for Puerto Rico, issued by the Fiscal Oversight and Management Board on April 19, 2018, is deeply flawed. It is based on two incompatible goals: establishing a foundation for growth of the Puerto Rican economy and assuring that the Puerto Rican government will move quickly toward meeting its debt obligations. As result of this incompatibility, the Plan is deeply flawed and should be abandoned. The Plan imposes an austerity program, which will undermine possibilities for growth, harm the well-being of the populace, and likely undermine the government’s ability to meet debt obligations. Also, the plan makes unrealistically optimistic assumptions about positive impacts of the structural reforms it imposes on economic relations in Puerto Rico. This paper: (1) explains the austerity nature of the Plan and its negative impacts; and (2) discusses the Plan’s proposed structure reforms—labor reforms, tax reforms, education and human capital reforms, and government regulations and the organization of government agencies.
O23|Structural reforms and firms’ productivity: Evidence from developing countries|This paper assesses the effects of selected structural reforms on labor productivity growth for 37 developing countries over the 2006–14 period. It combines newly constructed reform indexes using the IMF Monitoring of Fund Arrangements dataset and firm-level productivity from the World Bank Enterprise Surveys. The paper highlights the following results. Structural reforms under consideration in this study, i.e., financial, fiscal, real sector, and trade reforms, significantly improve productivity at the firm level. Interestingly, real sector reforms have the most sizeable effects on firms’ productivity. The relationship between reforms and productivity is nonlinear and shaped by certain firms’ characteristics, including financial access, a distortionary environment, and firms’ size. The pace of reforms matters since being a “strong reformer” is associated with a clear productivity dividend for firms. Finally, except for financial and trade reforms, all macroeconomic reforms considered are bilaterally complementary in improving firms’ productivity. The findings are robust to several sensitivity checks including alternatives measure of productivity, and a counterfactual experiment based on unsuccessful reforms.
O23|Fortalecimiento institucional y expansión del crédito mediante el uso de TICs en Entidades Financieras Comunales en Bolivia|Este documento analiza la implementación de un sistema financiero (software) para las Entidades Financieras Comunales (EFC) que se realizó entre los años 2011 y 2012, el cual fue un conjunto de módulos financieros que facilitaban la administración de información y prácticas operativas en cada una de estas entidades. La utilización del sistema pretendía mejorar su institucionalidad, además de expandir sus créditos e incrementar los ingresos de sus prestatarios. Empleando métodos cualitativos (entrevistas) y datos cuantitativos (Data Mart), se pudo concluir que el sistema tuvo beneficios dentro del manejo operativo de las instituciones financieras, pero no se pudo demostrar un impacto evidente en el incremento de los créditos y tampoco sobre los ingresos de los prestatarios.
O23|Tax Competition in Developed, Emerging and Developing Regions - Same Same but Different?|This paper analyzes tax competition between countries which differ in their country-specific risk. We show that the outcome of asymmetric tax competition crucially depends on the ability of multinational firms to shift profits. With high costs of profit shifting, higher-risk countries set lower tax rates than lower-risk countries whereas the opposite is true if the costs of profit shifting are low. The results provide an explanation for the patterns observed in the corporate income tax policies across countries and regions differing in their level of development. Moreover, for intermediate costs of profit shifting, we show that also a country’s absolute risk level affects countries’ tax rate setting. These results carry important implication for the empirical tax competition literature.
O23|The Economic and Fiscal Effects of Granting Refugees Formal Labor Market Access|There are over 25 million refugees in the world today and most of them—especially those in developing countries—do not have formal labor market access (LMA). That is, they do not have the right to work or own businesses. In this paper, we argue that granting refugees formal LMA has the potential to create substantial benefits for refugees and their hosts, including reduced vulnerability and higher incomes for refugees, improved labor market outcomes and higher incomes for natives, and positive fiscal effects for the host governments. Overall, even short of formal LMA according to our definition—wherein refugees’ access to the labor market is unrestricted by the government in law and in practice—greater rights around work and business ownership enable greater benefits. Moreover, the fewer barriers there are to realizing these rights in practice—whether related to government policy or otherwise—the greater the benefits. But there may also be costs associated with granting formal LMA for certain groups in the host population and the full range of benefits is not guaranteed. The existence and magnitude of these benefits and costs is determined by key contextual factors, including the current extent of informal LMA for refugees, characteristics of the labor market, the skill and demographic profiles of refugees, the geographic location and concentration of refugees, and, crucially, policy choices and the political context. By creating and implementing policies that support vulnerable people regardless of status, help natives adjust to and benefit from changes, facilitate refugee labor market integration, and grant refugees the complementary rights that will help them succeed (such as freedom of movement), policymakers can amplify the benefits of formalization and mitigate the costs—making formal LMA a critical lever for generating positive outcomes from the presence of refugees.
O23|Money and Monetary Stability in Europe, 1300-1914|This paper investigates the determinants of monetary stability in Europe from the late medieval era until World War I. Through this period, the nominal anchor for monetary policy was the silver/gold equivalent of the monetary unit. States, however, frequently abandoned this anchor, some depreciating their monetary units against silver/gold less than 10 times and others more than 10,000 times between 1500 and 1914. To document patterns of monetary stability and put alternative theories of stability to test, we compile a new data set of silver/gold equivalents of monetary units for all major European states. We find strong support for political and fiscal theories arguing that states with weak executive constraints and intermediate levels of fiscal capacity had less stable monetary units. In contrast, the empirical support for monetary theories emphasizing the mechanics of the monetary system is weak. These findings support the primacy of political and fiscal factors over mechanical factors for monetary stability.
O23|Can rationing increase welfare? Theory and an application to India's ration shop system| Ration shop systems allow households to purchase limited quantities of some commodities at a fi xed subsidized price and are in widespread use throughout the developing world. I construct a model of piece-wise increasing commodity taxation to consider whether the use of ration shops can be rationalized by the characteristics of developing countries: limited government capacity to observe household incomes and high commodity price risk. I find that an efficiency-maximizing government will never use ration shops but a welfare-maximizing one might, to redistribute and provide insurance. Welfare gains from introducing ration shops are highest for necessity goods with high price risk. Calibration results for India suggest that ration shops are welfare improving relative to a universal transfer scheme for three of the four goods sold through the system today. Welfare gains are wiped out however once more than 6% of the funds allocated to ration shops are lost to corruption or administrative costs.
O23|Korean Unification: Economic Adjustments under German Assumptions|This paper explores the impact of unification on North and South Korea under the hypothetical scenario that German‐type reunification occurs in the Korean peninsula. Simulation results using a global dynamic general equilibrium model show that with comprehensive market‐oriented reform and opening, the North Korean economy could capitalize on its growth potentials. Unification can reduce the growth rate in South Korea for a certain period following the unification shock due to the transfer of resources out of the South into the North and an increase in risk on the Korea peninsula. Due to the relative sizes in population and per capita gross domestic product of the two Koreas, unification can be more disruptive on North and South Korea, compared to the experience of Germany. The critical factors determining the economic effects of unification are the nature of wage‐adjustment, the size of resource transfers from the South to North, and exchange rate policy.
O23|When do developing countries negotiate away their corporate tax base?|Developing countries have concluded thousands of bilateral tax treaties, which restrict their ‘taxing rights’ over international investment. Qualitative case studies of these negotiation outcomes emphasize power politics, knowledge asymmetries and negotiating capability in the eventual distribution of taxing rights between signatories, yet such insights are absent from cross‐country quantitative work. This paper bridges the gap by replicating two quantitative studies, introducing new data on countries' ability to mobilize tax revenue and the outcomes of tax treaty negotiations. It provides statistical support for the insights from qualitative research. The size of a government's revenue base, and its reliance on corporate tax, might affect the salience of the revenue sacrifice in policy makers' minds. These variables influence the likelihood of signing a tax treaty and the particular concessions made. Power asymmetries between signatories lead to more unequal distributions of taxing rights away from developing countries, in contrast to the findings of earlier studies. Developing countries also become better negotiators as they gain experience.
O23|Does federal contracting spur development? Federal contracts, income, output, and jobs in US cities|Firms and governments alike frequently court federal government contracts to generate more jobs and trigger economic growth. However, the employment and output impact of government contracts remains controversial. We use georeferenced data on United States (US) federal contracts, distinguishing between the location of the recipient and the location of the activity, for the years 2005–2014 in order to assess the employment and output impacts of federal contracting in metropolitan areas of the US. We resort to a shift-share instrument and precise location-specific fixed effects to estimate the causal impact of spending. Cities that receive more contract expenditure witness an expansion in output – with contracts generating $1.4 per dollar spent – but experience only modest increases in employment. The impact is also constrained geographically and short-lived. The results suggest that, on average, the effects of federal contracting on local economies are modest, meaning that attracting federal contracts may not be an effective urban development strategy.
O23|Can Rationing Increase Welfare? Theory and An Application to India's Ration Shop System|Ration shop systems allow households to purchase limited quantities of some commodities at a fixed subsidized price and are in widespread use throughout the developing world. I construct a model of piece-wise increasing commodity taxation to consider whether the use of ration shops can be rationalized by the characteristics of developing countries: limited government capacity to observe household incomes and high commodity price risk. I find that an efficiency-maximizing government will never use ration shops but a welfare-maximizing one might, to redistribute and provide insurance. Welfare gains from introducing ration shops are highest for necessity goods with high price risk. Calibration results for India suggest that ration shops are welfare-improving relative to a universal transfer scheme for three of the four goods sold through the system today. Welfare gains are wiped out however once more than 6% of the funds allocated to ration shops are lost to corruption or administrative costs.
O23|Cabo Verde Transition Finance Country Pilot|A transition finance country pilot was initiated by the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) in partnership with the government of Cabo Verde. The study aims to capture the challenges facing Cabo Verde following graduation from Least Developed Country (LDC) to Lower Middle Income Category (LMIC), including the shifting financing for sustainable development landscape, the mounting risk of debt distress and the economic and environmental vulnerabilities as a Small Island Developing States (SIDS). In line with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda (AAAA), the pilot study proposes a new “ABC” approach targeted to assess all available sources of financing (ODA, OOF, private investment, domestic resources, and remittances), identify emerging SDG financing gaps and promote better alignment of resources with national financing for sustainable development strategies.
O23|Dodging the Taxman: Firm Misreporting and Limits to Tax Enforcement|Reducing tax evasion is a priority for many governments. A growing literature argues that verifying taxpayer reports against third-party information is critical for tax collection. However, effectiveness can be limited when tax authorities face constraints to credible enforcement and taxpayers make offsetting adjustments on other margins. We exploit a policy intervention in which Ecuadorian firms were notified about detected revenue discrepancies. Most firms simply failed to respond. Firms that responded increased reported revenue, matching the discrepancy amount when provided. However, they also increased reported costs by 96 cents per dollar of revenue adjustment, resulting in minor increases in tax collection.
O23|Determinants Of Weanling Thoroughbred Auction Prices| Determinants of prices of 1,302 weanling Thoroughbreds sold at the 2010 November Breeding Stock Sale at the Keeneland Association, Inc. are investigated. Weanlings, who are less than one-year-old, are of unknown breeding and racing quality; still, prices at auctions display high variability. A hedonic price analysis is utilized to identify the determinants of weanling sales prices, and the corresponding marginal values of those determinants are estimated. Prices were highly responsive to variables related to pedigree quality, including the sire’s stud fee, whether the sire was relatively new in his breeding career or not, and whether the dam or the dam’s progeny had earned black type. In addition, prices were influenced by individual characteristics such as gender, age, state of birth. The weanling’s placement in the sale and pinhooked weanlings also influenced price. Results can be used as a decision tool by both buyers and sellers.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O23|Monetary Policy Shifts and Central Bank Independence|Why does low central bank independence generate high macroeconomic instability? A government may periodically appoint a subservient central bank chairman to exploit the inflation-output trade-off, which may generate instability. In a New Keynesian framework, time-varying monetary policy is connected with a “chairman effect.” To identify departures from full independence, I classify chairmen based on tenure (premature exits), and the type of successor (whether the replacement is a government ally). Bayesian estimation using cross-country data confirms the relationship between policy shifts and central bank independence, explaining approximately 25 (15) percent of inflation volatility in developing (advanced) economies. Theoretical analyses reveal a novel propagation mechanism of the policy shock.
O23|Fiscal policy uncertainty and the business cycle: time series evidence from Italy|Economic uncertainty is an important factor behind macroeconomic fluctuations: in an uncertain environment, firms reduce hiring and investment, financial intermediaries are more reluctant to lend and households increase their propensity to save. In the present paper, we study the effects of the uncertainty which arises from fiscal policy decisions. We propose a new measure of fiscal policy uncertainty (FPU). In particular, we estimate a fiscal reaction function, allowing the volatility of the shocks to be time-varying. The time series of this volatility is our proxy for FPU. Looking at Italian data over the period 1981-2014, we find that an unexpected increase in our FPU measure has a negative impact on the economy. One implication of this result is that the same change in the government budget can have different effects depending on whether it is associated with a reduction or an increase in FPU. Therefore, the neglect of FPU may partly explain why the size (and sign) of fiscal multipliers differs so much across existing empirical studies.
O23|The Consequences of the Value-Added Tax on Inequality|This paper examines the impact of the introduction of the value-added tax on inequality and government revenues using newly released macro data. We present both conventional county fixed effect regressions and instrumental variable analyses, where VAT adoption is instrumented using the previous values of neighbouring countries VAT systems as an instrument. The results reveal – in contrast to earlier work – that the revenue consequences of the VAT have not been positive. The results indicate that income-based inequality has increased due to the VAT adoption, whereas consumption inequality has remained unaffected.
O23|The Dutch Disease in Reverse: Iceland's Natural Experiment|Abundant natural resources brought Iceland a systemically overvalued currency, with adverse effects on the secondary tradable sector. During 2003-08 another national treasure the sovereign's AAA rating, was used to attract foreign capital, elevating the real exchange rate even further. The financial collapse in 2008 left the country with a large foreign debt without the possibility of rollovers in international capital markets. This offset some of the effect of the natural resources on the real exchange rate; in effect, this was the Dutch disease in reverse as witnessed, in particular, by a massive increase in the number of tourists in recent years.
O23|Acuerdo de paz: reforma rural, cultivos ilícitos, comunidades y costo fiscal|En este estudio se analizan los puntos del Acuerdo de Paz de la Habana referentes a la Reforma Rural Integral (Punto 1) y a la Solución al Problema de las Drogas Ilícitas (Punto 4), con el fin de identificar los principales desafíos que éstos plantean en materia de políticas públicas y proponer recomendaciones para su implementación. En el análisis se da atención especial al carácter participativo del Acuerdo y en particular al papel de las comunidades. Adicionalmente, el estudio presenta un cálculo indicativo del costo fiscal asociado a los compromisos derivados de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo para los próximos 15 años. El presente informe está dividido en seis capítulos más un resumen ejecutivo que incluye la introducción y principales recomendaciones del estudio. El primer capítulo trata el tema de la tierra, punto neural del Acuerdo. El segundo capítulo se dedica al punto 4 del Acuerdo que trata sobre la sustitución de los cultivos de uso ilícito. En el tercer capítulo se analiza lo relacionado con los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial. El capítulo cuarto revisa los Planes Nacionales a los que se refiere el Punto 1 del Acuerdo. En el capitulo quinto se ahonda en el concepto de participación comunitaria y su papel en el desarrollo de los territorios rurales. En el sexto y último capítulo se presentan algunas reflexiones sobre el financiamiento de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo y los resultados del ejercicio de costeo. Entre las recomendaciones del estudio se destacan las siguientes: i) en el tema de tierras, se plantean propuestas relacionadas con el catastro, impuestos prediales, uso y tenencia de la tierra, creación de Zonas de Reserva Campesina y se sugiere adelantar un estudio que permita determinar la necesidad de compra de tierras para cumplir con las metas establecidas en el Acuerdo; ii) en lo referente a los cultivos de uso ilícito, se recomienda privilegiar la erradicación voluntaria pero sin descartar la erradicación forzosa, incluida la aspersión aérea. Asimismo, se sugiere llevar los programas de desarrollo alternativo a todas las zonas afectadas por estos cultivos y a todas las comunidades presentes en esos territorios; iii) con respecto a los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial PDET, se recomienda el fortalecimiento de las capacidades técnica, económica, financiera y administrativa de los entes regionales y locales, así como también la creación de instancias de coordinación entre los diferentes niveles de gobierno y entre los sectores público, privado y la sociedad civil; iv) sobre los Planes Nacionales, se propone la creación de una comisión intersectorial para el desarrollo rural para asegurar la adecuada coordinación en la ejecución de estos planes; v) en el tema de participación comunitaria, se señala su carácter flexible y la necesidad de que el gobierno haga una lectura adecuada de cada contexto para establecer cómo se puede dar esta participación; vi) por último, en lo referente al costo de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo, se estima que tendría un impacto fiscal neto anual de 0,49 por ciento del PIB durante los próximos 15 años.
O23|Acuerdo de paz: reforma rural, cultivos ilícitos, comunidades y costo fiscal|En este estudio se analizan los puntos del Acuerdo de Paz de la Habana referentes a la Reforma Rural Integral (Punto 1) y a la Solución al Problema de las Drogas Ilícitas (Punto 4), con el fin de identificar los principales desafíos que éstos plantean en materia de políticas públicas y proponer recomendaciones para su implementación. En el análisis se da atención especial al carácter participativo del Acuerdo y en particular al papel de las comunidades. Adicionalmente, el estudio presenta un cálculo indicativo del costo fiscal asociado a los compromisos derivados de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo para los próximos 15 años. El presente informe está dividido en seis capítulos más un resumen ejecutivo que incluye la introducción y principales recomendaciones del estudio. El primer capítulo trata el tema de la tierra, punto neural del Acuerdo. El segundo capítulo se dedica al punto 4 del Acuerdo que trata sobre la sustitución de los cultivos de uso ilícito. En el tercer capítulo se analiza lo relacionado con los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial. El capítulo cuarto revisa los Planes Nacionales a los que se refiere el Punto 1 del Acuerdo. En el capitulo quinto se ahonda en el concepto de participación comunitaria y su papel en el desarrollo de los territorios rurales. En el sexto y último capítulo se presentan algunas reflexiones sobre el financiamiento de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo y los resultados del ejercicio de costeo. Entre las recomendaciones del estudio se destacan las siguientes: i) en el tema de tierras, se plantean propuestas relacionadas con el catastro, impuestos prediales, uso y tenencia de la tierra, creación de Zonas de Reserva Campesina y se sugiere adelantar un estudio que permita determinar la necesidad de compra de tierras para cumplir con las metas establecidas en el Acuerdo; ii) en lo referente a los cultivos de uso ilícito, se recomienda privilegiar la erradicación voluntaria pero sin descartar la erradicación forzosa, incluida la aspersión aérea. Asimismo, se sugiere llevar los programas de desarrollo alternativo a todas las zonas afectadas por estos cultivos y a todas las comunidades presentes en esos territorios; iii) con respecto a los planes de desarrollo con enfoque territorial PDET, se recomienda el fortalecimiento de las capacidades técnica, económica, financiera y administrativa de los entes regionales y locales, así como también la creación de instancias de coordinación entre los diferentes niveles de gobierno y entre los sectores público, privado y la sociedad civil; iv) sobre los Planes Nacionales, se propone la creación de una comisión intersectorial para el desarrollo rural para asegurar la adecuada coordinación en la ejecución de estos planes; v) en el tema de participación comunitaria, se señala su carácter flexible y la necesidad de que el gobierno haga una lectura adecuada de cada contexto para establecer cómo se puede dar esta participación; vi) por último, en lo referente al costo de los puntos 1 y 4 del Acuerdo, se estima que tendría un impacto fiscal neto anual de 0,49 por ciento del PIB durante los próximos 15 años.
O23|(Re)discutir el federalismo fiscal como instrumento de desarrollo social en la República Argentina|Transcurridos más de veinte años desde la reforma constitucional argentina, sin que se haya dado cumplimiento a la cláusula transitoria sexta, que establecía la realización de una nueva ley de coparticipación federal, y pese a los importantes logros en la disminución de la pobreza, el rompimiento de la pobreza estructural y la consolidación de la clase media desde 2001 hasta 2015, importantes desequilibrios se mantienen en Argentina respecto a la igualdad de oportunidades entre los ciudadanos por región individualmente nconsiderada, lo cual constituye un desafío y una prioridad de agenda para el Estado. El federalismo fiscal, como fenómeno e instrumento en pos del desarrollo social, debe atender a la igualación de oportunidades como objetivo central, en función del cual se podrá repensar toda la estructura vertical de competencias, capacidades y responsabilidades gubernamentales. Un desafío importante es dar mayor implicancia al proceso bottom-up en la configuración o reconfiguración de políticas públicas, actualmente signadas por la discrecionalidad y el direccionamiento, para buscar políticas consensuadas y cercanas a los ciudadanos en todos los rincones del país.******After more than 20 years since the constitutional reform, not having complied with the sixth provisional clause, and despite the progress made in reducing poverty and strengthening the middle class since 2001 to date, significant imbalances remain in Argentina with regard to the equality of opportunities among citizens from different regions of the country, which is both a challenge and a priority in the State’s agenda. Fiscal Federalism as a phenomenon and instrument for social development must attend to the equalization of opportunities as a central objective, according to which it will be possible to rethink the entire vertical structure of governmental competencies, capacities and responsibilities. A major challenge is to give greater impetus to the bottom-up process in the configuration or reconfiguration of public policies, currently marked by discretion and direction, to seek consensus policies and close to citizens in all corners of the country.******Após mais de 20 anos da reforma constitucional argentina, sem que tenha sido cumprida a cláusula transitória sexta, que estabelecia a realização de uma nova lei de coparticipação federal, e, embora os importantes progressos na diminuição da pobreza, o rompimento da pobreza estrutural e consolidação da classe média desde 2001 até 2015, importantes desiquilíbrios se mantêm na Argentina quanto à desigualdade de oportunidades entre os cidadãos por região individualmente considerada, o que constitui um desafio e uma prioridade de agenda para o Estado. O federalismo fiscal, como fenômeno e instrumento em prol do desenvolvimento social, deve atender à igualação de oportunidades como objetivo central, em função do qual poderá ser repensada toda a estrutura vertical de competências, capacidades e responsabilidades governamentais. Um desafio importante é dar maior implicância ao processo bottom-up na configuração ou reconfiguração de políticas públicas, atualmente marcadas pela discricionariedade e pelo direcionamento para buscar políticas consensuais e próximas dos cidadãos em todos os lugares do país.
O23|Investissements publics nécessaires – Le rôle potentiel des banques publiques|The role of public banks in financing necessary investment should be discussed with reference to a causal system linking public and private expenditure in sequential time. The text starts by presenting a simple variant of such a model and uses it to interpret the causes of the recent financial crisis. The evidence shows that the latter was not caused by public debt but by the fast accumulation of private debt. The facts observed can be interpreted within a simple causality structure where public expenditure plays a causal role in driving economic activity. The model is then used to discuss the role of public banks, introducing the distinction between the creation of primary incomes, or new wealth, and the recycling of past savings, or circulation of wealth already accumulated. The role of public banks is generally discussed only with reference to the circuit of primary incomes, in which banks play only a non-monetary financial intermediary role. The text illustrates a proposal showing that public banks could be used also in their monetary financial intermediary role to create new wealth at European level. Alternatively, one can look at the role of public banks in recycling existing savings for public policy purposes, on which some references are given to the recent literature. The case of investment for climate change mitigation is taken as an example to show that, in the absence of other incentives, the level of environmental investment will be limited to that portion of the necessary investment that the market considers profitable, i.e. it would not be sufficient to reduce the climate change risk. If the necessary investment in environment is to be realized without reducing other necessary public investments, public banks should engage also in monetary financial intermediary’s activities aimed at creating new wealth. The text concludes by examining briefly the main logical consequences of the analysis developed.
O23|An impact evaluation of investment in infrastructure: The case of a railway connection in Uzbekistan|The Tashguzar–Baysun–Kumkurgan (TBK) railway connection, completed in 2007 in southern Uzbekistan, provided a domestic through line to link rail stretches formerly connected only via neighboring Turkmenistan. We hypothesize that a better integrated domestic rail system would yield economic spillovers beyond the regions actually traversed by the new connector to generate higher growth for neighboring regions and even for the far terminal reaches of the system. We test for this using a difference in difference approach that assesses the impact of the rail connector on economic performance for each of three regional groupings relative to a control group of unaffected regions. We further distinguish effects for the short term (2008), medium term (2009–10), and long term (2011–12). We find statistically significant increases in GDP growth for all three regional groupings at medium or long term horizons with magnitudes of increase up to 2.6 percentage points per year.
O23|What explains the speed of recovery from banking crises?|While a large body of research has explored the causes and effects of banking crises, less is known about what determines recovery from banking crises, despite large variations in post-crisis performances across countries. In order to identify local and global factors that determine the length of recovery (i.e. the time it takes until countries reach their pre-crisis level of per capita GDP), this exploratory paper employs event–history analysis on 138 incidents of banking crises between 1970 and 2012. Regarding domestic factors, the simultaneous occurrence of currency crises, large financial sectors, overvalued currencies and large primary deficits are associated with later recovery, whereas higher debt-to-GDP ratios or inflation levels do not exhibit a negative effect on post-crisis performances. Regarding external factors, a low growth of world trade as well as indicators of uncertainty in financial markets are correlated with later recovery. Global interest rate shocks are particularly harmful for the speed of recovery among middle-income countries with a strong reliance on external capital. The results are similar when using the length of recessions as an alternative indicator of post-crisis performances.
O23|Contained crisis and socialized risk|In the 1880s, Japan experienced its first stock investment boom, which was highly leveraged by the banking sector. In 1890, its first financial crisis occurred and triggered a de-leveraging process. With a high lower bound of the conventional interest rate intervention under the fixed exchange rate regime, the Bank of Japan decided to implement a massive securities purchases first time among major industrial economies and continued this unconventional policy until the early 1900s. We examine how the unconventional intervention for a decade affected the stock prices and the trade volumes, and show that the upward distortion in market pricing was considerable and that the equity-risk premium accordingly dropped, which meant socialization of the risk associated with the industrial investment.
O23|Modeling the Economic Impacts of Korean Unification|This paper explores the economic impacts of Korean unification on North and South Korea. It presents a new consistent database on macroeconomic, sectoral and trade data, and an input–output table for the North Korean economy, and then incorporates it in a global intertemporal multi‐sector general equilibrium model. Assuming hypothetical scenarios such as North Korea's reform and gradual convergence, its sudden collapse and immediate unification, and chaos and crises in both Koreas, we quantify the consequences of Korean unification on economic activity, trade and capital flows in the two Koreas. The results highlight the importance of the unification processes and of alternative policy responses in both Koreas to the economic impacts of unification.
O23|Monetary Policy and Economic Performance in Resource Dependent Economies|There is ample consensus that monetary policy plays a key role in fostering economic growth and avoiding the costs of chronic inflation. Prudential and transparent monetary policies –in conjunction with budget-balanced fiscal policies—are universally recommended as a sound macroeconomic stance. While these recommendations may have general validity for non-resource based economies, their applicability to resource-rich economies is unclear. Resource-rich countries will not be disciplined by these constraints. On one hand, government financing is hardly a limitation when resources are abundant and countercyclical fiscal policy is often unavailable. On the other hand, because resource-based economies are quite sensitive to fluctuations in commodity prices, exchange rate and monetary policy often fail to stabilize the economy when needed. This paper explores and quantifies the role of monetary policy on economic performance in resource-based economies, with a particular focus on Middle East economies. We consider two dimensions of performance: long-run economic growth and price instability (inflation). A crucial component in our study is to assess the role of exchange rate regimes and their interplay with monetary and fiscal policies. To our knowledge, economic research has largely neglected the impact of the choice of exchange rate regimes and the conduct of monetary policy on economic performance in resource based economies.
O23|The Federal Reserve's Portfolio and its Effect on Interest Rates|We explore the historical composition of the Federal Reserve's Treasury portfolio and its effect on Treasury yields. Using data from 1985 to 2016, we show that the divergence of the composition of the Federal Reserve's portfolio from overall Treasury securities outstanding is associated with a statistically significant effect on interest rates. In aggregate, when the Federal Reserve's portfolio has shorter maturity than overall Treasury debt outstanding, measures of the term premium are higher at all horizons; likewise, when the Federal Reserve's portfolio has longer maturity, term premiums are lower. In addition, at the individual security level, differences in Federal Reserve holdings from overall Treasury debt outstanding are correlated with measures of pricing errors and liquidity premiums. We discuss the mechanism for this effect, which could include elements of preferred-habitat theory as well as the fiscal theory of the price level.
O23|Tax Structure and Economic Growth: Do Differences in Income Level and Government Effectiveness Matter?|We empirically examine the effects of both overall tax rate and changes in tax structure on growth by using data for more than 100 high, middle and lower income countries by employing the GMM estimation methods. We classify the countries by their income and their government effectiveness levels. We investigate whether the government effectiveness is important in affecting the nature of the relationship for non-OECD countries. Although there are some exceptions, our results don’t support the idea that overall tax rate or changes in tax structure have a significant effect on growth rate. We find that a shift from income to consumption and property taxes leads to a positive and significant effect on growth rate while holding overall tax burden constant. Our results also suggest that a shift from consumption and property taxes to income taxes has a positive effect on growth rate for low-income countries.
O23|Mexican 2014 Strategy That Promotes Business Formality, Employment Generation, Financing, Growth And Competitiveness , Reforma Fiscal Mexicana 2014 Estrategia Que Fomenta La Formalidad Empresarial, Generacion De Empleo, Financiamiento, Crecimiento Y Competitividad|This research addresses the issue of Fiscal reform in 2014. We examine an administrative strategy adopted by the Executive federal power to foster business formation, generation of employment, access to financing, growth and business competitiveness. For several decades in Mexico, millions of small business owners have conducted economic activities in an irregular way. The operate without registering to the fiscal register or expressing, revenues, costs, home, workers. They have generally not paid taxes. In response to this situation, the Mexican Government from the year 2014 unveiled a fiscal reform. This reform encourages these merchants to sign up voluntarily to the fiscal register, which gives them a reduction of taxes and administrative facilities. We considered 300 small businesses in Mexicali, Baja California. Research was carried out in laws, decrees, journals and articles by specialists. In addition, we designed and a questionnaire and applied it to merchants. We wished to know if they consider tax reform strategy, which has fostered formality, employment, funding, growth and competitiveness. The information was processed using descriptive statistics, the results allowed to identify effect of the tax reform and make the relevant recommendations
O23|Building resilience to natural disasters: An application to small developing states|We present a dynamic small open economy model to explore the macroeconomic impact of a major natural disaster. In addition to permanent damages to public and private capital, the disaster causes temporary losses of productivity, inefficiencies during the reconstruction process, and damages to the sovereign's creditworthiness. We use the model to study the debt sustainability concerns that arise from the need to fully rebuild public infrastructure over the medium term and analyze the feasibility of ex ante policies, such as building adaptation infrastructure and fiscal buffers, and contrast these policies with the post-disaster support provided by donors. Investing in resilient infrastructure may prove useful, in particular if it is viewed as complementary to standard infrastructure, because it raises the marginal product of private capital, crowding in private investment, while helping withstand the impact of the natural disaster. In an application to Vanuatu, we find that donors should provide an additional 50% of pre-cyclone GDP in grants to be spent over the following 15 years to ensure public debt remains sustainable following Cyclone Pam. Helping the government build resilience on the other hand, reduces the risk of debt distress and at lower cost for donors.
O23|Investing in Social Care Infrastructure and Employment Generation: A Distributional Analysis of the Care Economy in Turkey|This paper examines the aggregate and gender employment impact of expanding the early childhood care and preschool education (ECCPE) sector in Turkey and compares it to the expansion of the construction sector. The authors' methodology combines input-output analysis with a statistical microsimulation approach. Their findings suggest that the expansion of the ECCPE sector creates more jobs and does so in a more gender-equitable way than an expansion of the construction sector. In particular, it narrows the gender employment and earnings gaps, generates more decent jobs, and achieves greater short-run fiscal sustainability.
O23|Long-term macroeconomic processes and conditions for economic growth in Russia|The article examines long-term macroeconomic processes that have resulted in the stagnation of the Russian economy. Such processes include the reduction of the marginal efficiency of labor and capital in a number of major activities, the distortion of motivation of investors due to multiple undervaluation of the ruble, the decline in the share of savings in the income of non-financial corporations, cyclical fluctuations in consumer behavior. The author connects possible long-term or cyclic substitution of private sources of investment for resources of the general government with controlling the dynamics of the monetary base, which is considered in the article as the endogenous, dependent variable, not the one that is exogenously set by the monetary authorities.
O23|Semi-Autonomous Revenue Authorities in Sub-Saharan Africa: Silver Bullet or White Elephant|Semi-autonomous revenue authorities (SARAs) have been at the centre of tax administration reform in Sub-Saharan Africa for the last 30 years. Nevertheless, the revenue effect of this reform remains highly debated (Ahlerup et al., 2015; Ebeke et al., 2016; Fjeldstad and Moore, 2009; Sarr, 2016; Von Haldenwang et al., 2014). This paper adds to the debate by controlling for the dynamics in tax revenue, which otherwise confound the effect of SARAs on tax revenue. Using a panel dataset of 46 countries over the period 1980-2012 and accounting for revenue dynamics, we show that, in contrast to previous findings, there is no robust evidence that SARAs have increased revenue performance in Sub-Saharan Africa. These findings are supported by an instrumental variable estimation which relies on donor influence. When broadening our scope, we fail to find any effect from SARAs on tax effort, revenue volatility and corruption. We, thus, conclude that there is little statistical support for a systematic relationship between semi-autonomous revenue authorities and tax capacity in Sub-Saharan-Africa.
O23|Fiscal Options for Absorbing a Windfall of Natural Resource Revenues – A CGE Model of Oil Discovery in Uganda|The current debate about the optimal management of foreign exchange windfalls is highly relevant to low income countries such as Uganda, having recently discovered vast hydrocarbon reserves. Using a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model for Uganda this paper analyses three broad policy options for the use of oil revenues, increasing i) private consumption, ii) private investment, and iii) public infrastructure investment. The model allows for learning-by-doing in tradables, increasing returns to public infrastructure and the use of an Oil Fund held abroad. The fund allows government to smooth expenditure programs over the medium-term. When public infrastructure is biased towards tradables, a smooth expenditure profile yields higher economic growth than high expenditure skewed to the present. The government’s discount rate plays a key role in determining the optimal use and management of oil revenues. More impatient governments will be inclined to increase current expenditure at the cost of future generations’ welfare and negative distributional implications for poor households. Lower discount rates align the political incentives with respect to inter-temporal welfare and the long-run growth path of the economy.
O23|Manajemen pengeluaran publik di Indonesia: Tinjauan ekonomi Islam pada APBN 2017<BR>[Public expenditure management in Indonesia: Islamic economic review on state budget 2017]|This paper discusses the management of public expenditures in Indonesia in State Budget 2017. The data collected from fiscal policy documents, especially about government spending plans in 2017, and then be reviewed by policy analysis, the theory of public expenditures, and the theory of public goods, and compared with the theory of public expenditure in Islamic economics. Public expenditure management in Indonesia has implemented a distribution system that divided public expenditure for central government expenditures, transfers to the regions, and the village fund. In terms of fiscal policy, public expenditure priorities to support the achievement of sustainable economic growth, job creation, poverty reduction, and the reduction of gaps in the welfare of the whole community. In Islamic economics, public expenditure is used to meet the needs of the community based on the principles of general interest (al-maslahat al-'ammah) derived from the shari'a. Public expenditure on Indonesia's government as an effective tool to divert economic resources and increase the income of society as a whole, and focused on the embodiment of the people's welfare.
O23|Efeitos da desoneração tributária sobre a difusão da banda larga no Brasil: Enfoque na incidência do FISTEL sobre o terminal de acesso individual por satélite<BR>[Effects of tax relief on broadband diffusion in Brazil: Focus on the incidence of FISTEL over the individual satellite access terminal]|This study analyzes the economic and tax effects of an eventual equalization of the satellite based access terminals and mobile cellular broadband, for the purpose of charging the Telecommunications Inspection Fund (FISTEL). Estimates of demand were elaborated with the aid of empirical instruments to gauge the price elasticity and projections of demand for broadband service. Results indicate that the eventual equalization of taxes incidence induces growth of the band penetration in Brazil, as well as generates positive effects on the aggregate of the tax revenue from satellite broadband providers.
O23|Forecasting inflation in Latin America with core measures|We explore the ability of core inflation to predict headline CPI annual inflation for a sample of eight developing economies in Latin America over the period January 1995–May 2017. Our in-sample and out-of-sample results are roughly consistent in providing robust evidence of predictability in four of the countries in our sample. Mixed evidence is found for the other four countries. The bulk of the out-of-sample evidence of predictability concentrates on the short horizons of one and six months. In contrast, at the longest horizon of 24 months, we only find out-of-sample evidence of predictability for two countries: Chile and Colombia, with robust results only for the latter. This is both important and challenging, given that the monetary authorities in our sample of developing countries are currently implementing or are taking steps toward the future implementation of inflation targeting regimes, which are based heavily on long-run inflation forecasts.
O23|Assessing the impact of tax administration reforms in Sub-Saharan Africa|This proposal investigates the impact of adopting tax reforms such as the Value Added Tax (VAT), the Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU), and the Semi-Autonomous Revenue Agency (SARA) on tax revenue performance revenues in Sub-Saharan Africa. Despite the increasing adoption of these reforms, the literature on tax reforms effectiveness in Sub-Saharan is controversial. This proposal adds to the debate by using an Ordinary Least Square Fixed effect model controlling for countries and years fixed effects as well as a set of relevant covariates. We use a panel dataset of 46 countries from 1980 to 2013 and show that, in contrast to existing findings, there is no robust evidence that the three tax reforms increased tax collection performance in Sub-Saharan Africa. We find that controlling for time fixed effects and relevant covariates removes the statistical significance of all the tax reforms. Therefore, we conclude that there is little statistical robustness to support a significance of these reforms on tax collection in Sub-Saharan Africa.
O23|Fiscal Deficit and Economic Growth in Bangladesh|The economy of Bangladesh is currently going through a period of continuous budget deficit. The present data suggest that the government budget deficit, on average, is nearly 5% of the countryâ€™s GDP. This has been true since the early 2000s. To finance this deficit, governments have been borrowing largely from domestic and foreign sources resulting in inflationary pressure on one hand, and crowding out of private investments on the other. During the same period, although the economy has grown steadily at a rate of more than 6%, this growth is less than the potential. This article presents an econometric study of the impact of government budget deficits on the economic growth of Bangladesh. We conduct a time-series analysis using ordinary least squares estimation, vector error correction model, and granger causality test. The findings suggest that the government budget deficit has statistically significant negative impact on economic growth in Bangladesh. Policy implications of our findings include reestablishing the rule of law, political stability in the country, restructuring tax structure, closing tax loopholes, and harmonizing fiscal policy with monetary policy to attract additional domestic and foreign investment.
O23|Taxpayer’s dilemma: how can ‘fiscal contracts’ work in developing countries?|The theoretical literature around effective tax systems, which are a preconditionof an effective state and therefore of development, has coalesced around the idea of a‘fiscal social contract’, in which beneficial expenditures are delivered to taxpayers in returnfor their tax payments, rather than a coercive relationship existing between them and thegovernment. However, these ideas about governance have with few exceptions not beenincorporated into empirical analyses of tax yield and how to increase it. In this paper, weattempt to fill this gap. Our starting-point is the model of the (fundamentally) democratic social contract proposedby Rousseau 250 years ago, which suggests that increased democracy will be good for manystate-building functions including fiscal mobilisation. We develop this idea by means of aprisoner’s dilemma model, which shows that a ‘fiscal contract’ between taxpayers and thegovernment (in the sense of a top left-hand corner, ‘win-win’ solution of the prisoner’sdilemma) will be most likely to emerge not only as a result of greater democraticaccountability, but also if taxpayers feel that they are getting good value from, and are wellinformed about, government expenditures in exchange for their tax payments. This modelis then estimated empirically against a sample of 62 developing countries between 1980-2008 (with the share of human capital expenditures in public expenditure used as anindicator of the value which taxpayers derive from that expenditure), backed by two casestudies of Ghana and Zambia. Our results, both from econometric analysis and the casestudies, suggest that increasing levels of democratic accountability and the quality of publicexpenditure are correlated, and causally connected, with increasing tax/GDP ratios, and thatin countries where competitiveness is blunted by high levels of rent-seeking, the tax ratiowill be less buoyant. Also, the process by which fiscal contracts are constructed isimportant. The government needs to send the taxpayer an effective signal, or bona-fide,illustrating the benefits to be derived from paying their tax bills. Illustrations of effectivebona-fides are provided.
O23|Institutions et ordre politique dans le modèle économique algérien|Notre étude sur longue période de l’économie politique algérienne, prend appui sur l’approche régulationniste inspirée du cadre d’analyse néoréaliste de Bruno Amable et Stefano Palombarini (2009) et des concepts néo institutionnalistes de Mushtaq Khan (2000, 2009) : elle considère que le développement économique de l’Algérie s’opère dans un contexte donné de distribution du pouvoir et d’institutions variées formelles et informelles, qui structurent des accords ou équilibres politiques sur la base de groupes sociaux soutenant la coalition au pouvoir et captant en retour des rentes distribuées. La confluence ou divergence d’intérêts politiques et économiques conditionne la réussite ou l’échec de politiques économiques et industrielles favorables à la croissance et au développement. Les institutions joueraient dans le processus de développement un rôle fondamental.
O23|Funders-of-Last-Resort: Legal Issues Involved in Using Central Bank Balance Sheets to Bolster Economic Growth|What role does unconventional monetary policy – and particularly unconventional policies like private asset purchases under a quantitative easing or lender of last resort scheme – play in influencing economic growth directly? Emerging and developing countries’ central banks could contribute to GDP growth by following the example of jurisdiction like the US, UK and EU, by buying private sector and specific obligation public sector assets. Such a scheme would like most benefit jurisdictions like Greece, Bulgaria, Ukraine and others. Unsurprisingly, we find a weak relationship between these purchases and investment world-wide for the last 10 years. We also find the existence of a “sloth effect” – a pattern in the data whereby more central bank asset purchases actually coincides with lower investment. We estimate the gains to increasing central bank balance sheet sizes with these assets. We also show how statutory mandate for nominal GDP targeting set the best legal foundations for such asset purchases. We finally describe an internal audit engagement which would collect the specific data needed to verify the results in this study.
O23|The wrong impact of Fiscal Imbalance on economic growth and Monetary Policy consequences (A case of Pakistan)|This study is to investigate the wrong impact of fiscal imbalance on economic growth of country through contiguous monetary policy made by central bank of Pakistan. The purpose of the empirical study is to determine the solution of monetary policy which emulated fiscal deficit that cause to imbalance in money supply and diverges interest rate on bank borrowings. To keeping view of literatures, reveals the monetary policy and fiscal imbalance relationship which creates the view of fiscal challenges in economy. Data has been collected from prior research studies and literatures. In this study correlation and regression analysis are being used to measure the relationship between monetary and fiscal variables. For this analysis, these statistical measurements evaluated the fiscal imbalance and monetary policy. Besides, the ANOVA and Multicollinearity also were used. The research study is limited to economic statistics from 1980 to 2013 that possibly collected from Pakistan bureau of statistics. The conclusive point of this study that fiscal imbalance could be improvised by adopting monetary policy appropriately implemented in economy that could make sustainable growth in country. By this change, inflation indicates integral part of fiscal deficit and monetary stances. For this study, Correlation and regression analysis showed that predictive approaches of fiscal imbalance with inflation and monetary policy which is not adequately adjusted with economic growth.
O23|Fiscal Policy in Indonesia: Analysis of State Budget 2017 in Islamic Economic Perspective|This study ananlyze the State Budget (APBN) 2017 of Indonesia in Islamic economic perspective. The state budget is prepared using the rules of public economics consisting of state revenues, state expenditures, and budget financing has the posture of the budget, the issues of fiscal policy, and the role of the government in carrying out its functions. With the analysis of Islamic economics, fiscal policy in the State Budget 2017 is the duty of the government to implement the budget for the public welfare with indicators on aspects of religion (religious life), life (justice and security), intellect (education), descent (health and social security family), and treasure (income distribution and access to employment).
O23|Social Sector Expenditure and Human Development of Indian States|The Study tries to explore the effect Social Sector Expenditure (SSE) on Human Development Index (HDI) of Indian States. It is found that SSE has a positive impact on HDI.
O23|Impact of Infrastructure Investment on Tax: Estimating Spillover Effects of the Kyushu High-Speed Rail Line in Japan on Regional Tax Revenue|This paper analyzes the impact of infrastructure investment on tax revenues and on the regional economy by studying the effect of the Kyushu high-speed rail line (shinkansen train) in Japan. The effects of the Kyushu high-speed rail line on the economy has often been debated. We estimated its impact in the Kyushu region by using the difference-in-difference method, and compared the tax revenues of regions along the railway line with other regions that were not affected by it. Our findings show a positive impact on the region’s tax revenue following the connection of the Kyushu rapid train with large cities such as Hiroshima and Osaka. Tax revenue in the region significantly increased during the construction in 1991–2003, and dropped after the start of operations in 2004–2010. The rapid train’s impact on the neighboring prefectures of Kyushu is positive. The difference-in-difference coefficient methods reveal that corporate tax revenue was lower than personal income tax revenue during construction. However, the difference in corporate tax revenues rose after connectivity with large cities was completed. The railway’s connectivity to large cities has a significant economic impact not only in the case of Japan but also in other cases such as Uzbekistan.
O23|Finance for Micro, Small, and Medium-Sized Enterprises in India: Sources and Challenges|Finance for micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) has been a concern for all stakeholders including entrepreneurs, financial institutions, and government organizations. The key objective of the study was to identify various challenges faced by MSMEs in sourcing of finance during different stages of their life cycle. This study is a first-of-its-kind attempt to focus on these aspects. The study further explores whether the financial awareness of MSME entrepreneurs is a major limitation in the identification and utilization of sources of finance. Data was collected through personal interviews using a structured questionnaire from a sample of 85 MSMEs. The survey was conducted mainly in the city of Bangalore covering a wide spectrum of sectors like precision tools, weavers, jewelers, food retailers, metal works, textiles, and book shops. The results reinforce the findings of other studies that utilization of formal sources like banks is significantly small compared with informal sources like personal and family wealth. The study found that the main challenges faced in underutilization of formal sources were inadequacy of collateral assets and lack of financial awareness of entrepreneurs. Based on the conclusion that requirement of finance differs with the life-cycle stage of the MSME, recommendations have been proposed for entrepreneurs, financial institutions, and policy makers.
O23|Research Trends on Zakāh in Western Literature|This study explores research trends in Western literature about Zakāh, which is considered to be an equivalent, to a certain degree, to a charity in the Christian tradition. The study is based on a sample of considerable studies in English and French, collected over a period of eighty one years (1934-2015). The preliminary results highlight three important implications. These are: (1) the multiplicity and the diversity of the conceptualization of Zakāh beyond the purely moral, juristic, discursive and literalistic approaches which seem to be dominating research trends in the Arab-Muslim world; (2) the predominance of theoretical studies over applied ones. (3) Zakāh as a valuable resource is perceived; according to some treatises as an instrument of power from the geo-economics view-point.
O23|Role of government spending on economic growth: an endogenous potential model for Bolivia|The purpose of this paper is to contribute with an endogenous potential growth model (EPGM) for Bolivia from 1993 to 2012. The empirical evidence suggests that government consumption is the main exogenous determinant on potential growth (EPGM) with differentiated time effects: it accelerates contemporaneously economic growth but it affects negative and dynamically on long-term growth rate. Public and private investments have significant and dynamical degree of substitution (crowding out effect). As complementary analysis, effects of public spending on real effective growth are evaluated.
O23|Institutional Reforms and Economic Policy of the Cabinets of the Weimar Republic in the 1919–1924s<BR>[Институциональные Реформы И Экономическая Политика Кабинетов Веймарской Республики В 1919–1924 Годы]|The article analyzes the economic policies of the first cabinets of the Weimar Republic during the overcoming of the post-war crisis and the transition towards stabilization. The authors describe the variants of the economic transformation programs and investigate the process of preparation and implementation of institutional reforms. It is shown that the adequacy of practices and policies of the first Weimar cabinets corresponded with the “current challenges” and concrete needs of German society. The main attention is focused on building a strong foundation of a social-oriented state as well as on solving the problem of reparations.
O23|Optimal Monetary Policy in the Presence of Sizable Informal Sector and Firm Level Credit Constraint|Optimality of pro-cyclical monetary policy in the presence of informal sector and firm level constraint is analysed. The findings suggest that in case of export demand shock pro-cyclical monetary policy suits only when shock is severe and domestic firms have high leverage ratio. However, the conventional monetary policy helps cushioning the loss in output when the size of informal sector is significantly large. Furthermore, fixing exchange rate is better policy option if objective is to keep domestic employment or consumption from falling (when negative shock hits the economy). Any disproportionate impact of monetary policy on informal sector is not found. This may be due to static nature of the model and it might be possible that dynamics of responses of the two sectors to shocks differ significantly.
O23|Fiscal Decentralization, Economic Freedom, and Political and Civil Liberties in the Americas|This paper analyzes the impact of fiscal decentralization on economic freedom and political and civil liberties in the Americas. Regarding the latter and with the full sample of countries, the findings suggest that decentralization initially worsens but eventually improves political and civil liberties, underlining the importance of fiscal decentralization as a driver for achieving basic liberties. When Canada and the US are excluded, the evidence shows that decentralization may eventually be a detriment for political and civil liberties. With respect to the impact of fiscal decentralization on economic freedom, decentralization first hinders but eventually increases freedom when all countries are included, emphasizing the point that a decentralization regime takes time to develop and function properly. When Canada and the US are excluded, decentralization initially increases but ultimately hampers freedom, demonstrating that if the decentralization regime does not address important matters like fiscal discipline, wealth inequality, and political accountability, economic freedom - like political and civil liberties - will also deteriorate.
O23|Government Spending Multipliers in Natural Resource-Rich Developing Countries|This paper estimates government spending multiplier for natural resource-rich low-income countries (LICs). Our estimates suggest an absence of natural resource curse in government spending multiplier. In the short-run, the government spending multiplier is around 0.7 for natural resource-rich LICs and 0.43 for all LICs. The government spending has a permanent impact on the real economic activity in resource-rich countries while having a transitory long-run impact in other countries.
O23|The affordability of the Sustainable Development Goals: A myth or reality?|Global governance in various forms has emerged as a salient means of setting and driving common development goals that are of interest to the world's functioning at large. However, literature is divided on the attribution of achievements to the global social governance efforts. The experience of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) showed the importance of setting indicators at an early stage to support a sound monitoring system. If the world is to start implementing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2016, we cannot afford a lag of several years before putting monitoring tools in place and measuring progress towards achieving these goals. To answer the question on the level of resources required to fulfil the SDGs target by country and income category, five low and lower middle income countries were selected from Asia, Africa, and Latin America based on availability of data and their classification as low and lower-middle income countries: Cambodia, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Indonesia, and Senegal. The required data for the assessment is sourced from the World Bank Development Indicators Databank (WDID). The estimation of the resource requirement to adhere to the poverty, health and education targets of the SDGs involves computing three indices for each dimension. For the income gap index, two poverty lines underlie the composite resource gap as percentage of the GDP to meet the SDGs targets on poverty. The education gap is constructed by normalising seven indices that either directly capture or proxy the governance and outcome targets on education in the SDGs. Thirdly, this research employed a three-step approach in estimating the normative public health expenditure gap; the staff expenditure gap; and the resource allocation expenditure gap. To conclude, the viability of closing the cumulative resource gap is assessed in light of a country's tax revenue.
O23|What Explains the Speed of Recovery from Banking Crises?|While much research has been done on causes and effects of banking crises, little is known about what determines recovery from banking crises, despite of large variations in post-crises performances across countries. In order to identify local and global factors that determine the length of recovery (i.e. the time it takes until countries reach their pre-crisis level of per capita GDP), this paper employs event history analysis on 138 incidents of banking crises between 1970 and 2013. Cox proportional hazards show that crises characteristics, specific country conditions as well as external factors affect the duration of recovery. Regarding domestic factors, simultaneous currency crises, large financial sectors and overvalued currencies are associated with later recovery. Regarding external factors, a low growth of world trade has a negative effect on recovery, and so does uncertainty in financial markets as reflected in high gold prices. Moreover, contractionary monetary policy of the US Fed as Central Bank of the international key currency has a negative effect on the length of recovery in middle-income countries. In general, the dominance of global variables as well as variables related to the exchange-rate underline that the speed of recovery is particularly constrained by countries’ positions within the global economy.
O23|Remittances and public finances: Evidence from oil-price shocks|We study the effect of inflowing remittances – a major source of capital for many countries – on tax revenues and tax policy. Instrumenting remittances with changes in the oil-price interacted with a country's distance to oil-producing countries, we find that remittances have a large positive effect on VAT revenues, but no effect on income-tax revenues. This suggests that remittances often escape the income tax but can be taxed via consumption. We further show that tax policy is responsive to shocks in incoming remittances; they lead to a decrease in VAT-rates and increase the likelihood for a VAT introduction. We find no evidence for effects of remittances on income-tax rates.
O23|The Effects of Gaps and Disparities on Economic Growth. A Study of 10 Former Socialist Countries from the CEE, Members of the EU|The goal of this research paper is to empirically assess the potential effects of macroeconomic determinants of economic growth and to determine the impact of income inequality on economic growth in the long-run in ten former socialist countries from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) which are members of the European Union (EU) during the period 2006-2014, using the System Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) as the research method. In order to achieve all the desired research objectives the following explanatory variables were used: income inequality (Gini Index), foreign direct investments (FDI), education, research and development expenditure, exports, population growth, labour productivity, tax rate, inflation rate and the Corruption Perception Index (CPI). The dependent variable employed in the empirical analysis, a proxy for the economic growth, is GDP per capita growth (annual %). The main finding of this paper’s investigations is that income inequality has a positive and statistically significant impact on economic growth and a 1% increase in the Gini coefficient enhances the GDP by 0.68% in the ten former socialist Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries which are members of the European Union (EU) during the period 2006-2014.
O23|Implications of Monetary Policy for Credit and Investment in Sub-Saharan African Countries|This paper investigates the implications of monetary policy for domestic investment through its effects on bank lending to the private sector and interest rates in sub-Saharan African countries. The study argues that the pursuit of inflation control through contractionary monetary policy carries high costs in terms of reduced investment and ultimately slower economic growth. The econometric evidence based on a sample of 37 sub-Saharan African countries over 1980-2012 shows that contractionary monetary policy affects domestic investment negatively both indirectly through the bank lending or quantity channel as well as directly through the interest rate or cost of capital channel. The results suggest that policies that maintain a low interest rate regime would stimulate bank lending to the private sector, which in turn would boost domestic investment. The results have important policy implications for African countries in their efforts to achieve and sustain high growth rates as a means of reaching their national development goals notably employment creation and poverty reduction.
O23|On the Number of Social Reforms in MENA Economies|By constructing a novel measure on the frequency of changes in social protection policies, we provide preliminary, yet new evidence on the determinants of social security reforms in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries. This fills a gap in literature where analyses of MENA social policies have been lacking due to limited data. Using panel data for seventeen countries from 1961 to 2015, we estimate RE Poisson regression models. Our results indicate that growth in national income and the frequency of social reform in MENA countries are related, first positively for low growth rates, then negatively for high growth rates. This finding is completed by the negative effects of oil production and of the population size on the number of social reforms. Among the avenues of interpretation we examined - investment model, social objectives pursued by the government, and socio-political equilibrium - this is the first one which seems to be better able to fit our results, accompanied by political disturbances.
O23|Informalité et productivité des très petites et petites entreprises au Cameroun|The objective of this paper is to analyze the effect of informal operation on the productivity of Cameroonian micro and small enterprises. The estimated model is based on an econometric specification in terms of instrumental variables and uses a micro and small enterprises database of the second National Survey on Employment and the Informal Sector. The sample covers 3524 firms and the surveys were conducted in 2010 by the National Statistics Institute (INS). Our results show that the registration probability (formal operation) of micro and small enterprises weakens when enterprises do not have sites subject to control and entrepreneurs see no advantage in registering their businesses, which adversely affects productivity. This impact is subject to the effects of other important factors relating to the characteristics of the human and social capital of micro and small enterprises. JEL Codes: J24, O17, O23
O23|The Power to Tax in Sub-Saharan Africa: LTUs, VATs, and SARAs|In the context of achieving the new Sustainable Development Goals, revenue mobilization is a high priority in developing countries and in Sub-Saharan Africa, where governments' ability to tax remains limited. Using a unique revenue dataset spanning the period 1980-2010, we analyze three important tax reforms: the Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU), the Value Added Tax (VAT), and the Semi-Autonomous Revenue Agency (SARA). We propose an ex-post impact assessment of these tax reforms in SSA countries based on propensity-score matching methodology (PSM) and synthetic control method (SCM). VAT and SARA are found to have an unambiguously large and positive effect on non-resource taxes, while the impact of LTU is insignificant—LTU seems however an important precondition for the adoption of the first two reforms. We conclude also that VAT and SARA display some synergy, and their positive effects strengthen several years after their adoption.
O23|Fiscal multipliers in Emerging Market Economies: Can we learn something from Advanced Economies?|It is a well-established fact that Emerging Market Economies (EMEs) have smaller fiscal multipliers than Advanced Economies (AEs). We confirm this difference for our sample using Panel VAR and Interactive Panel VAR (Saborowski and Weber, 2013) models. Then we analyze the impact of some macroeconomic factors on multiplier effects for EMEs and AEs separately. We argue that the development degree can modify the effect of the traditional determinants of fiscal multipliers. A Panel Conditionally Homogeneous VAR (Georgiadis, 2012) is used to test this statement. First of all, we find that the tested determinants (imports, public debt, savings, unemployment and financial development) act in the same way both in EMEs and in AEs. Secondly, public spending efficiency is relatively more sensitive to each tested determinant in EMEs than in AEs. Thirdly, the most important factor for improving fiscal policy efficiency in EMEs (public debt), differs from the one in AEs (openness to trade). Last but not least, we show that improving the tested determinants individually is not sufficient to achieve the same public spending efficiency in EMEs.
O23|Fiscal multipliers in Emerging Market Economies: Can we learn something from Advanced Economies?|It is a well-established fact that Emerging Market Economies (EMEs) have smaller fiscal multipliers than Advanced Economies (AEs). We confirm this difference for our sample using Panel VAR and Interactive Panel VAR (Saborowski and Weber, 2013) models. Then we analyze the impact of some macroeconomic factors on multiplier effects for EMEs and AEs separately. We argue that the development degree can modify the effect of the traditional determinants of fiscal multipliers. A Panel Conditionally Homogeneous VAR (Georgiadis, 2012) is used to test this statement. First of all, we find that the tested determinants (imports, public debt, savings, unemployment and financial development) act in the same way both in EMEs and in AEs. Secondly, public spending efficiency is relatively more sensitive to each tested determinant in EMEs than in AEs. Thirdly, the most important factor for improving fiscal policy efficiency in EMEs (public debt), differs from the one in AEs (openness to trade). Last but not least, we show that improving the tested determinants individually is not sufficient to achieve the same public spending efficiency in EMEs.
O23|Food prices and inflation targeting in emerging economies|The two episodes of food price surges in 2007 and 2011 followed by a drop in 2014 have been particularly challenging for developing and emerging economies’ central banks and have raised the question of how monetary authorities should react to such external relative price shocks. We investigate the optimal monetary policy that manages food price shocks. To this end, we develop a new-Keynesian small open-economy model that incorporates world food price shocks. We show that the optimal monetary policy depends on country income level. In low and medium income countries, overall consumer price targeting is optimal, while in high-income countries non-food inflation targeting is the best option. This result holds not only because food represents a significant share in total consumption in low and medium income countries, but also because of food good composition. Indeed, the poorer the country, the higher the share of purely domestic food in consumption and the more detrimental lack of attention to the evolution in food prices.
O23|Food Prices and Inflation Targeting in Emerging Economies|The two episodes of food price surges in 2007 and 2011 followed by a drop in 2014 have been particularly challenging for developing and emerging economies’ central banks and have raised the question of how monetary authorities should react to such external relative price shocks. We investigate the optimal monetary policy that manages food price shocks. To this end, we develop a new-Keynesian small open-economy model that incorporates world food price shocks. We show that the optimal monetary policy depends on country income level. In low and medium income countries, overall consumer price targeting is optimal, while in high-income countries non-food inflation targeting is the best option. This result holds not only because food represents a significant share in total consumption in low and medium income countries, but also because of food good composition. Indeed, the poorer the country, the higher the share of purely domestic food in consumption and the more detrimental lack of attention to the evolution in food prices.
O23|Endogenous Borrowing Constraints And Wealth Inequality|This paper studies the evolution of wealth inequality in an economy with endogenousborrowing constraints. In the model economy, agents need to borrow to finance humancapital investments but cannot commit to repaying their loans. Creditors can punishdefaulters by banishing them permanently from the credit market. In equilibrium, loandefault is prevented by imposing a borrowing limit tied to the borrower's inheritance.The heterogeneity in inheritances translates into heterogeneity in the borrowing limits:endogenously, some young borrowers face a zero borrowing limit, some are partlyconstrained, while others are unconstrained. Depending on the initial distribution ofinheritances, it is possible all lineages are attracted to either the zero-borrowing-limitsteady state or to the unconstrained-borrowing steady state â€” long-run equality. It isalso possible some lineages end up at one steady state and the rest at the other â€” completepolarization. Interestingly, the wealth dynamics in the model closely resemblethat in the seminal work of Galor and Zeira (1993).<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O23|Further Causality Evidence on Arms Race, Inflation and Economic Growth|This paper examines the effects of expanding the ratio of defense spending on long-run inflation and economic growth by constructing an endogenous growth model and employing empirical approaches for China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan over the period between 1955 and 2010. By analyzing cointegration test results, it is found that: (1) the increase of the ratio of defense spending leads to a lower long-run inflation rate in China and Japan, but higher inflation rate in Taiwan; (2) the increase of the ratio of defense spending leads to a higher long-run economic growth, supporting the famously Benoit Hypothesis for China, Japan and Taiwan; (3) The results of bidirectional Granger causality test suggests that an arms race exists among the cross-country pairs of China and Japan, China and Taiwan, and the last pair, Japan and South Korea. Based on (1) to (3), as the ratio of defense spending increases, an arms race, higher economic growth and lower inflation coexist in China and Japan. These findings may also be an explanation of why, in view of economic performance, those arms race and disarmament issues have been advocated in recent years.
O23|Brazil: self-inflicted pain|The Brazilian economy grew 7.5% in 2010, when Mr. Lula finished his second mandate as president with a popularity rate of 85%. Six years later, his successor, Ms. Rousseff, is suspended from the presidency under an impeachment trial, while the economy endures a recession of 3.8% of the GDP for the second consecutive year. In this article I argue that the current economic crisis is the result of ill-advised economic policies. Ms. Rousseff’s government altered each one of the tripod of policies implemented by Mr. Cardoso in the 1990s, which had been successful in maintaining macroeconomic stability (namely, the inflation targeting regime, the floating exchange rate and the fiscal austerity). Also, Ms. Rousseff’s government greatly expanded the improperly designed industrial policies that were reintroduced in Brazil during the second mandate of Mr. Lula, which created distortions in the economy and a large fiscal burden for the government. The acting president, Mr. Temer faces great difficulties to put the economy back in order, since unpopular measures are required that are very hard to be implemented in the midst of the current political turmoil.
O23|To educate or not to educate: Impact of public policies in developing countries|It is well-known in the empirical literature that present-oriented individuals are less likely to go to college as compared to forward looking individuals. There is compelling evidence of a high percentage of dropouts from high schools in poor countries. The endogenous sorting of homogeneous workers into skilled and unskilled types might be the outcome of exposure to income risk and an individual's aversion to risk. We obtain the critical risk aversion associated with income levels above which no individual chooses education. Broad-based economic policies may have perverse impact on educational attainments of individuals. We argue that such an analysis has been largely neglected in related studies. This outcome may also be undesirable from the perspective of a social planner. To address this, we suggest a sector-specific tax-subsidy scheme as a corrective instrument of public policy.
O23|Tax reform, fiscal decentralization, and regional economic growth: New evidence from China|This paper is the first to examine heterogeneous responses to changes in fiscal decentralization policy associated with the 1994 tax reform in China and the nonlinearity of these responses. Using panel data for 29 Chinese provinces over the period 1990–2012, the paper shows that the effects of revenue and expenditure decentralization on economic growth vary across the three main sectors, with the largest impact on the secondary sector. The results also suggest there is an inverted U-shaped relationship between the degree of revenue (expenditure) decentralization and the growth of the secondary sector. In addition, slow-growing and fast-growing provinces respond differently to changes in both revenue and expenditure decentralization with greater responses from fast-growing provinces. The responses from fast-growing provinces appear to be nonlinear, indicating that fast-growing provinces benefit from appropriate revenue (expenditure) decentralization, but the effect turns negative as the degree of decentralization becomes excessively high. The study provides a way to reconcile the contradicting evidence found in the literature. In addition, the finding on heterogeneous responses to fiscal decentralization has important policy implications.
O23|Fuelling political fiscal cycles by opportunistic privatization in transition economies: The case of Albania|This paper provides insight into the widely studied phenomenon of political business cycles by analyzing the impact of elections on the privatization of public assets in transition economies. The hypothesis of this article is that incumbents opportunistically schedule privatizations to take place close to the next elections in order to finance higher public expenditures, aiming to please voters and increase the chances of being re-elected, particularly when their ability to borrow is constrained by high public debt. We consider the case of Albania, which is a transition and small open economy with a relatively high public debt. We find significant increases of income from privatization before elections. Despite often being trumpeted in the context of structural reforms, the intentional privatization of public assets in times of election is most likely a sub-optimal choice for the public interest. Studying the impact of elections on the privatization of public assets could be of interest to other transition economies facing fiscal constraints.
O23|Bank market power, ownership, regional presence and revenue diversification: Evidence from Africa|We provide the first evidence that African banks with greater market power in lending and deposit markets earn more from non-traditional activities. This is consistent with dominant banks' ability to identify better non-traditional opportunities and utilize their greater bargaining capacity in contract creation. Non-African-owned banks are found to exploit non-traditional banking and earn higher non-interest income. In contrast, African banks in other African countries focus more on traditional financial intermediation. Our findings are important to other emerging markets because their banks are traditionally focused on financial intermediation and regulations and supervision in relation to non-traditional activities are relatively less developed.
O23|Democracy and policy stability|We explain stable growth performance in democracies by characterizing political systems in terms of the distribution of political power across groups, and show when the qualities of policy alternatives are uncertain, greater democracy (decentralization of authority) leads to more stable policy choices. We empirically test this mechanism by creating measures of the inter-temporal variability in fiscal and trade policies. In an array of specifications (cross-sectional, panel with fixed-effects, matching models, instrumental variables, difference-in-difference), we show that policy choices are significantly more stable over time in democracies. This mechanism explains a large part of the negative link between democracy and output volatility.
O23|Measuring tax treaty negotiation outcomes: the Actionaid tax treaties dataset|This paper introduces a new dataset that codes the content of 519 tax treaties signed by low- and lower-middle-income countries in Africa and Asia. Often called Double Taxation Agreements, bilateral tax treaties divide up the right to tax cross-border economic activity between their two signatories. When one of the signatories is a developing country that is predominantly a recipient of foreign investment, the effect of the tax treaty is to impose constraints on its ability to tax inward investors, ostensibly to encourage more investment. The merits of tax treaties for developing countries have been challenged in critical legal literature for decades, and studies of whether or not they attract new investment into developing countries give contradictory and inconclusive results. These studies have rarely disaggregated the elements of tax treaties to determine which may be most pertinent to any investment-promoting effect. Meanwhile, as developing countries continue to negotiate, renegotiate, review and terminate tax treaties, comparative data on negotiating histories and outcomes is not easily obtained. The new dataset fills both these gaps. Using it, this paper demonstrates how tax treaties are changing over time. The restrictions they impose on the rate of withholding tax developing countries can levy on cross-border payments have intensified since 1970. In contrast, the permanent establishment threshold, which specifies when a foreign company’s profits become taxable in a developing country, has been falling, giving developing countries more opportunity to tax foreign investors. The picture with respect to capital gains tax and other provisions is mixed. As a group, OECD countries appear to be moving towards treaties with developing countries that impose more restrictions on the latter’s taxing rights, while non-OECD countries appear to be allowing developing countries to retain more taxing rights than in the past. These overall trends, however, mask some surprising differences between the positions of individual industrialised and emerging economies. These findings pose more questions than they answer, and it is hoped that this paper and the dataset it accompanies will stimulate new research on tax treaties.
O23|Optimal Monetary Policy in the Presence of Sizable Informal Sector and Firm Level Credit Constraint|We analyze optimality of pro-cyclical monetary policy in the presence of informal sector and firm level constraint. Our findings suggest that in case of export demand shock pro-cyclical monetary policy suits only when shock is severe and domestic firms have high leverage ratio. However, the conventional monetary policy helps cushioning the loss in output when the size of informal sector is significantly large. Furthermore, fixing exchange rate is better policy option if objective is to keep domestic employment or consumption from falling (when negative shock hits the economy). We cannot find any disproportionate impact of monetary policy on informal sector. This may be due to static nature of the model and it might be possible that dynamics of responses of the two sectors to shocks differ significantly.
O23|Gasto público, crecimiento económico y bienestar social bajo el efecto moderador del ahorro externo: la experiencia Mexicana|The aim of this paper is to evaluate the public spending effects on economic growth and social welfare in Mexico by means of a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. It is used two alternative closure rules for foreign saving: 1) foreign saving is exogenous and restricted: saving determines investment, and 2) foreign saving is endogenous and unrestricted, investment determines saving. The results suggest that behavior of foreign saving (by two alternative closure rules) moderates the relationship between public spending and economic growth and social welfare with different effects (asymmetric) for various instruments of public spending. An increase in public spending –with unrestricted foreign saving--generates higher economic growth and greater social welfare, although fiscal balance and current account deficit become worse (postkeynesian approach). In absence of variations of foreign savings, government spending affects neither economic growth nor social welfare, only there is an imbalance fiscal stance (neoclassical stance).
O23|The Power to Tax in Sub-Saharan Africa: LTUs, VATs, and SARAs|In the context of achieving the new Sustainable Development Goals, revenue mobilization is a high priority in developing countries and in Sub-Saharan Africa, where governments’ ability to tax remains limited. Using a unique revenue dataset spanning the period 1980-2010, we analyze three important tax reforms: the Large Taxpayers Unit (LTU), the Value Added Tax (VAT), and the Semi-Autonomous Revenue Agency (SARA). We propose an ex-post impact assessment of these tax reforms in SSA countries based on propensity-score matching methodology (PSM) and synthetic control method (SCM). VAT and SARA are found to have an unambiguously large and positive effect on non-resource taxes, while the impact of LTU is insignificant—LTU seems however an important precondition for the adoption of the first two reforms. We conclude also that VAT and SARA display some synergy, and their positive effects strengthen several years after their adoption.Keywords: tax reforms; Africa; revenue mobilization; causality.
O23|On the Number of Social Reforms in MENA Economies|By constructing a novel measure on the frequency of changes in social protection policies, we provide preliminary, yet new evidence on the determinants of social security reforms in Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries. This fills a gap in literature where analyses of MENA social policies have been lacking due to limited data. Using panel data for seventeen countries from 1961 to 2015, we estimate RE Poisson regression models. Our results indicate that growth in national income and the frequency of social reform in MENA countries are related, first positively for low growth rates, then negatively for high growth rates. This finding is completed by the negative effects of oil production and of the population size on the number of social reforms. Among the avenues of interpretation we examined - investment model, social objectives pursued by the government, and socio-political equilibrium - this is the first one which seems to be better able to fit our results, accompanied by political disturbances.
O23|Aid and Taxation in Ethiopia| The relation between aid and taxation is largely contested in the literature. On the one hand, aid may act as a substitute for tax revenue and thus have a crowding-out effect. It can also have a detrimental effect on domestic tax institutions. On the other hand, it can promote and support tax mobilisation through policy advice, technical assistance, and conditionality, in addition to more indirect channels. The case of Ethiopia supports the existence of a positive relation between aid and tax, which occurs mainly through policy advice and technical assistance rather than conditionality. This finding is grounded in both quantitative and qualitative analysis.
O23|Economic and Geopolitical Considerations regarding International Crude Oil Market Developments in the First Half of 2016. Short Term Outlook|"World oil industry waited with hope the end of 2015 - maybe the worst year for oil producers since the crisis of 2008-2009 - though it was unclear whether 2016 will prove to be better. The sharp slide in prices since the first month of the year, to a â€œbottomâ€ of $ 25 / barrel not seen since 2003 did not seem encouraging for the ""oilmen"". But since March 2016 prices started a recovery process, at first slowly and then increasingly stronger, so to the end of May, they approached the threshold of $ 50/barrel, and then exceeded it on 8 June for the first time since July 2015. The massive production cuts due to force majeure and geopolitical factors and dollar depreciation have secured the support of this â€œrevivalâ€ which gave hope to a more sustainable recovery of crude oil market and prices, but Brexit's effects could considerably temper recent optimism of crude oil price forecasts."
O23|What's different about monetary policy transmission in remittance-dependent countries?|Despite welfare and poverty-reducing benefits for recipient households, remittance inflows have been shown to entail macroeconomic challenges; producing Dutch Disease-type effects, reducing the quality of institutions, delaying fiscal adjustment, and having an indeterminate effect on long-run growth. This paper explores an additional challenge, for monetary policy. Although remittances expand bank balance sheets, providing a stable flow of interest-insensitive funding, they tend to increase banks' holdings of liquid assets. This both reduces the need for an interbank market and severs the link between policy rate and banks’ marginal cost of funds, thus shutting down a major transmission channel. We develop a stylized model based on asymmetric information and a lack of transparent borrowers and undertake econometric analysis providing evidence that increased remittance inflows are associated with weaker transmission. As independent monetary policy becomes impaired, this result is consistent with earlier findings that recipient countries tend to favor fixed exchange rate regimes.
O23|Eight Strategies for Development in Comparison|The article provides a broad-based overview on competing development strategies and the economic performance of developing countries, mainly since the year 2000. Four traditional mainstream development strategies are discussed (Washington Consensus, neo-liberalism, “good governance” and MDGs) and three long-debated key strategic issues are reconsidered (inward or outward development with export-led growth, industrialisation or growth with predominant primary goods exports, foreign-aid-based development). A heterodox approach to development with a focus on macroeconomic policies and structural change is added and discussed in more detail. Implicitly, this lays the groundwork for a macroeconomic theory of development. The rough empirical comparison finds that countries and areas with strong emphasis on macroeconomic policies, mainly in Asia, have performed unambiguously better than the mainstream approaches since 1980. From successful Asian countries, it can be learnt that a long-run continuous growth and development performance with more resilience against adverse shocks is key. Almost all larger middle-income countries have embarked on industrialisation; strategies based upon primary commodities or high current account deficits are unlikely to be successful in the long run. A stronger role of a package of six macroeconomic policies is advised, particularly for the larger economies. Size matters in this respect. Smaller countries depend stronger on market niches and idiosyncratic strategies. The global economic order, due to liberalisation of trade and finance, including the prevailing global currency system, sets harsh constraints for policy space towards implementing national strategies.
O23|Threshold Effects of Fiscal Policy on Economic Activity in Developing Countries|The aim of this paper is to investigate the relationship between fiscal policy and economic growth for a panel of 40 developing countries for the period 1990 â€“ 2012 with a focus on a comparative analysis between Morocco and the panel. The variables used are real GDP, budget deficit, current government spending, national saving, inflation rate, total investment, public debt and current account balance. The main findings are: First, there is evidence of a double threshold effect of the fiscal balance. When exceeding a budget deficit level of 4.8% of GDP or a fiscal surplus level of 3.2% of GDP, economic growth is negatively affected. Second, the sign of the relationship between budget deficit and economic growth is conditioned by the level of total investment. For values of total investment higher than 23%, it follows that there is a positive relationship. However, it becomes negative, when investment falls below this threshold. Third, from Moroccoâ€™s perspective, analysis of threshold effects suggested that above 4.8% of budget deficit, average growth rate falls by 2.1%, while median growth falls by 1.5%.
O23|The interaction between fiscal and monetary policy in Hungary over the past decade and a half|After the introduction of inflation targeting in 2001, fiscal and monetary policy were out of sync for 12 years, which wreaked havoc on the Hungarian economy due to the close relationship and interaction between the two. After 2013, on the back of the fiscal reforms of the previous two to three years, and the subsequent monetary policy reforms restored the desired harmony, which contributed to achieving the objectives of the two parties, including price stability, financial stability and sustainable fiscal policy, while also laying the groundwork for long-term growth. This paper investigates which mix of fiscal and monetary policy has shaped the past 15 years and the channels through which fiscal and monetary economic policy of different activity or dominance impacted each other, and the degree of success of their (co)operation. The model devised by Eric Leeper provided the conceptual and theoretical framework for our study, while the actual data and experiences are drawn from Hungary’s economic history of the past 15 years. This paper also takes a closer look at the causes, objectives, main elements and impact of the turnaround in fiscal policy that took place between 2010 and 2013 and in monetary policy after 2013.
O23|Budget reform in China: Progress and prospects in the Xi Jinping era|Fiscal reforms were central to the comprehensive programme of reforms announced at the Third Plenum of the 18th Party Congress in November 2013, during the first year of the Xi Jinping administration. One of the significant reforms on focus is public financial management (PFM). The urgency of PFM reform can be traced, paradoxically, to the extraordinary growth experienced by the Chinese economy during the first decade of this century, when easy money and weak accountability gave rise to unprecedented waste, corruption, and a mountain of local government debt.
O23|Development in Southeast Asia's lagging regions|This paper focuses on the three lagging Southeast Asia's regions, namely the three Southern border provinces of Thailand, Mindanao in the Philippines and Papua in Indonesia. It aims to analyze and identify successful national and regional policies in these lagging regions. In particular, it will assess and compare the effectiveness of implementing higher fiscal transfers, local empowerment policies as well as regional autonomy strategies in these regions. The general conclusion of this paper is that providing a large amount of development funding and granting autonomous authority for these lagging regions is most likely required to enable these regions keep up with the development of other areas in their countries. Appropriate affirmative action policies are then needed to help solve the more detailed problems, such as urban-rural development and the gaps between the local and immigrant communities.
O23|Financing poverty eradication|This paper provides a review of various sources of finance for poverty reduction. Some salient findings are: declining significance of aid, especially for middle-income countries; aid remains a major source of finance for LDCs; improved government revenue efforts in most developing countries. The paper also highlights revenue losses through trade liberalization, corporate tax concessions and through illicit flows of funds, and provides empirical evidence to debunk negative views about counter-cyclical macroeconomic policies. Some key recommendations are: countries should examine the costs and benefits of corporate tax concessions and the equity impact of indirect taxations, such as value added tax; strengthen tax administration; enhance tax progressivity; international and regional tax cooperation; fulfilling aid commitment and ensuring additionality of aid while dealing with humanitarian crises and climate change.
O23|Comprehensive Tax Reform in the Philippines: Principles, History and Recommendations|The new Duterte administration is planning to undertake a reform of the country’s tax system. This paper provides a background to options available to the government moving forward, starting with basic principles of taxation, criteria for evaluation, tax instruments and mix of instruments. The background is complemented by a review of the history of past tax reforms in the Philippines, from the end of the Marcos regime to the Aquino administration. The historical and episodic assessment ends with a list of lessons learned from the past. Finally, recommendations are made for both tax policy and tax administration.
O23|How Is Tax Policy Conducted over the Business Cycle?|It is well known by now that government spending has typically been procyclical in developing economies but acyclical or countercyclical in industrial countries. Little, if any, is known, however, about the cyclical behavior of tax rates (as opposed to tax revenues, which are endogenous to the business cycle and, hence, cannot shed light on the cyclicality of tax policy). We build a novel dataset on tax rates for 62 countries for the period 1960-2013 that comprises corporate income, personal income, and value-added tax rates. We find that tax policy is acyclical in industrial countries but mostly pro cyclical in developing countries. (JEL E32, E64, H24, H25, O11, O23)
O23|Political Decentralization|I provide a critical overview of the literature on political decentralization. After reviewing first- and second-generation theories of federalism, I describe recent empirical studies focusing mainly on determinants of capture and local government accountability emphasized by second-generation theories. The article concludes by describing emerging new issues that deserve more attention in future research: a wider range of political distortions beyond capture and corruption; effects of decentralization on intercommunity allocations, learning, and experimentation, and on democracy itself; a comparison of decentralization with other organizational alternatives; and issues pertaining to design and implementation raised by first-generation federalism theories, such as interjurisdictional spillovers, vertical fiscal relations, the range of devolution, and the political economy of implementation.
O23|From a model of growth to a global crisis|"The paper analyses the unprecedented coordinated actions to suppress the ""free fall"" of the United States and world economy. It then shows the role of monetary and fiscal policy of governments. The article reveals are the fundamental similarities and differences between the Great Depression of the 30-ies of the last century and the current Great Recession. It indicates the controversial results of the policies in the United States and the European Union and the emerging trend towards deflation."
O23|Public Debt Sustainability in Africa: Building Resilience and Challenges Ahead|" type=""main"" xml:id=""dpr12126-abs-0001""> The increased access of African countries to international capital markets has put public debt sustainability at the forefront of the continent's policy agenda. Utilising the ‘stabilising primary-balance’ approach, this article finds that the actual primary balances exceeded those required to keep public debt at the 2007 level in about half the countries studied, and in several cases, those needed to reduce public debt-to-GDP to sustainable thresholds. The interest rate-growth differential (IRGD) drove sustainability, underscoring the importance of growth and borrowing for growth-enhancing outlays. As the IRGDs are likely to narrow over the longer term, fiscal policies will need to play a greater role."
O23|Sunk Costs, Extensive R&D Subsidies and Permanent Inducement Effects|" type=""main""> Using firm-level data on Spanish manufacturing firms we estimate a model of the firm's optimal R&D decisions (whether to perform R&D and how much to invest). We quantify the fixed (proper fixed costs plus firms' outside option) and sunk costs of R&D and find the former to be substantially higher than the latter. While sunk costs act as a barrier to entry into R&D for some firms, fixed costs are the binding obstacle for many more firms. Simulation based on the estimated model reveals that one-shot trigger subsidies cause a substantial increase in both the share of R&D firms and average R&D expenditures. This effect shows persistence over time, but totally fades away after seven years as firms are gradually hit by negative R&D profitability shocks."
O23|Global Finance Brief: Do Loan-to-Value Ratio Regulation Changes Affect Canada Mortgage Credit?|Analyzing the Canadian housing market to understand LTV ratio regulation changes
O23|Ethnic Diversity and the Efficiency of Public Spending in Developing Countries|This paper examines the effect of ethnic diversity on the efficiency of public spending in a set of developing countries. For this purpose, we use Data Envelopment Analysis to assess the efficiency of public spending in the sectors of health, education and infrastructure in 77 developing countries over the period 1996-2012. Further, we investigate the effect of ethnic diversity on the cross country variation in efficiency. Two main findings emerge. First, barely 12% of the sample of countries under study makes an efficient use of public expenditure. Second, no matters the level of aggregation, ethnic polarization is positively associated with higher efficiency. In contrast, ethnic fractionalization does have a negative or at the best no effect on efficiency, especially at the finest level of disaggregation.
O23|Mögliche Auswirkungen der Transatlantischen Handels- und Investitionspartnerschaft (TTIP) auf Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer|TTIP wird, aufgrund der schieren Größe der transatlantischen Volkswirtschaft, Auswirkungen auf Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer haben. Einerseits sollten höhere Einkommen in der EU und den USA die Nachfrage nach Gütern und Dienstleistungen der Drittstaaten steigern, was letzteren zu Guten kommt. Anderseits ist damit zu rechnen, dass das Abkommen Handelsströme der TTIP Partner von den Drittstaaten weglenkt, was ihnen schadet. Per Saldo wird es unter den Entwicklungsländern Gewinner, aber auch Verlierer geben. Für beide Gruppen sind die Effekte allerdings klein. Und es existieren zahlreiche Stellschrauben, um die Gruppe der Gewinner möglichst groß werden zu lassen. In dieser Studie untersucht das ifo Institut München gemeinsam mit dem IAW Tübingen, wie Gefahren für Entwicklungsländer minimiert und Chancen maximiert werden können, so dass das Abkommens zum Keim eines neuen und fairen Welthandelssystems werden kann.
O23|TTIP und die Entwicklungsländer: Gefahren, Potenziale und Politikoptionen|Das Freihandelsabkommen zwischen der EU und den USA, TTIP, wird aufgrund seiner Größe auch Schwellen- und Entwicklungsländer betreffen. Diese profitieren zwar, wenn zusätzliches Wachstum in den TTIP-Ländern die Auslandsnachfrage nach ihren Waren erhöht, aber zugleich müssen sie um ihre preisliche Wettbewerbsfähigkeit in der EU und den USA fürchten, weil die TTIP-Partner in diesen Ländern dank des Abkommens billiger anbieten können. In einer neuen Studie für das Bundesministerium für wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit und Entwicklung hat sich das ifo Institut gemeinsam mit dem Institut für Angewandte Wirtschaftsforschung (IAW) in Tübingen mit der Frage beschäftigt, wie sich diese beiden gegenläufigen Effekte saldieren. Die Ergebnisse sind: (i) pauschale Aussagen sind unmöglich, denn manche Drittstaaten werden wahrscheinlich gewinnen, andere verlieren; (ii) die Verluste sind gemäß mehreren Modellsimulationen nicht bedrohlich; (iii) es gibt eine Reihe von realistischen Möglichkeiten, die TTIP entwicklungsländerfreundlich zu gestalten.
O23|Política cambiaria, monetaria y fiscal: ¿ha aprendido Colombia a mitigar los efectos de las crisis?|El presente documento realiza una revisión y análisis de los procesos de transformación de políticas procíclicas en políticas contracíclicas que han logrado llevar a cabo las autoridades económicas en los tres frentes descritos durante las dos últimas décadas, para lo cual hace énfasis especial en la comparación del manejo que tuvo la crisis de fines del siglo XX (1998-2001), durante la cual dominaron las políticas procíclicas, y el manejo contracíclico que pudo hacerse en 2008-2009, durante la recesión mundial posterior a la crisis de Lehman Brothers.
O23|El acompañamiento institucional en el desarrollo del sector cafetero colombiano|RESUMEN En este artículo se hace una revisión del origen, la evolución, la consolidación y la pérdida de dinamismo del sector cafetero en Colombia. En cada uno de estos procesos se presentó un importante acompañamiento institucional, representado básicamente por la Federación Nacional de Cafeteros, que surge como un acuerdo de voluntades entre las dos zonas cafeteras por excelencia del país: la oriental, integrada por Norte de Santander, Santander, Cundinamarca y el oriente del Tolima; y la occidental, conformada por el sur de Antioquia, el Viejo Caldas y el occidente del Tolima. Este trabajo busca revisar y entender los inicios del café en estas zonas —regiones donde se inició la expansión cafetera del país— y las diferencias que se presentan entre ellas. También se intenta determinar la importancia de la Federación en el desarrollo cafetero, así como su papel a lo largo del siglo XX (después de 1930), periodo en que el café colombiano tuvo sus avances más significativos.******This article examines the origin, evolution, consolidation and loss of buoyancy in Colombia’s coffee sector. Each of these stages saw institutional accompaniment, basically in the form of the National Federation of Coffee Growers (Federación Nacional de Cafeteros), which emerged as an agreement between the two finest coffee producing areas in the country: the east, comprising Norte de Santander, Santander, Cundinamarca and eastern Tolima; and the west, made up of southern Antioquia, Viejo Caldas, and western Tolima. This study seeks to review and understand the beginnings of coffee production in these areas —the regions where coffee expansion started in Colombia— and the differences between them. It also attempts to determine the importance of the Federation in the development of this sector, as well as its role throughout the 20th century (after 1930), the period in which Colombian coffee made its most important advances.
O23|Fiscal Policies and Subnational Economic Growth in Mexico|This study investigates the effects of taxes and public investment on economic growth of Mexican states. The subnational government finance data were drawn from 32 states during the period of 1993 to 2011. Correcting for long-term trends and isolating cointegration effects between economic growth and public finance, the empirical results indicate that taxes have negative effect on growth and the effect can be seen in both transitory and permanent manners. As predicted by growth theory, the effects of public investment on subnational growth are statistically significant and positive in both short and long-runs. On the other hand, we find that educational accomplishment negatively relates to growth. Foreign direct investment does not have any significant effect on subnational economic growth. In general, the results imply that an appropriate fiscal policy (equilibrium between public investment and taxes) is required to boost economic growth in this country.
O23|Fiscal Deficits and Economic Growth in Nigeria: A Chow Test Approach|The recent criticism of poor fiscal performance levelled against the democratic regimes in Nigeria has resulted in questions being asked as to the soundness of the acclaim which heralded its advent. Such questions generally focus on the growth impacts of the deficits incurring during this regimes. In view of this, this study examined the relative impact of fiscal deficits (FSD) on economic growth in Nigeria during the military and democratic regimes. The study employed Chow endogenous break test, unit root and cointegration tests. The results derived from the Chow test analysis reveal that there is a difference between the growth-impact of FSD in the two regimes. In particular, the study found that FSDs had a significant growthimpact during the military regime, while it has not had a significant impact on economic growth during the democratic regime. On the other hand, the study’s results indicated that the interest rate did not have a significant growth-impact during both regimes, while the gross fixed capital formation had a significant growth impact during both regimes in view of the findings, the study recommended the strengthening of the country’s budgetary institutions so as to ensure the de-politicization of the budgetary process. Furthermore, the study recommended the reduction in the current lending rate so as to ensure increased access to investment funds by domestic entrepreneurs.
O23|Good-Bye financial crash, hello financial eclecticism: Latin American responses to the 2008–09 global financial crisis|1985 saw the publication of Carlos Díaz-Alejandro's classic article, “Good-Bye Financial Repression, Hello Financial Crash” (1985). Writing in the wake of drastic financial blowups in the Southern Cone, Díaz-Alejandro nonetheless argued that “a believable alternative system could be designed, avoiding many of the inefficiencies of financial repression … and blending both public and private financial agents” (18). Nearly three decades after the publication of this prescient work, there are credible signs that such an arrangement is now emerging within some Latin American emerging economies (EEs). Just as Díaz-Alejandro studied how the 1982 debt shocks both exacerbated and shed light on financial sector policies and institutions in the Southern Cone countries, we use the 2008–09 global financial crisis (GFC) as a lens through which to examine the policymaking capabilities of six Latin American countries. We find that several of the countries successfully weathered the 2008–09 financial shocks and argue that this is due to: institutional modernization that facilitated policy learning and a more business-friendly climate; and, to sustainable improvements in income distribution that may have facilitated consensus-building. These factors, we suggest, gave policymakers both the expertise and the political space to employ more nuanced fiscal and financial policies.
O23|Fiscal decentralization and China's regional infant mortality|Regional Chinese infant mortality rates (IMRs) are examined using a stochastic frontier method for the first time. The composite error term method yields estimates of large underreporting of IMRs over time and provinces in China during the past 30 years. China does not follow the standard growth paradigm of more growth leading to lower IMRs. Fiscal decentralization has not alleviated the problem of high IMRs. Both IMRs and the sex ratio at birth suggest reported data constitute a floor or minimal level of demographic distress across provinces with millions of missing females not fully included in the data. China's one-child policy leads to not only underreporting by families but also reporting abuse by local officials who want to be promoted. The hukou system and unbalanced government development policies exacerbate the issue.
O23|Financial flows and per capita income in developing countries|Using country level panel data over the period 1970–2011, this paper evaluates the direct as well as indirect impact of three types of financial flows (foreign direct investment, remittances and official development aid) on the per capita income of a group of low and middle income countries. The empirical results suggest that the direct effect of official development aid in developing countries is mostly negative. This conclusion also holds when the sample is divided into different regions. All three estimation techniques used (i.e., Ordinary Least Squares, panel fixed effects and system Generalised Method of Moments) yield broadly similar results. We find that official development aid and government spending are complementary and hence, depending on the level of effectiveness of government spending programs, official development aid can have an indirect positive impact on income per capita. On the other hand, both remittances and foreign direct investment appear to have a direct positive and statistically significant effect on per capita income.
O23|Tracking Clean Energy Progress in ASEAN Member States and Analysis of Implementation Deficits|The extreme prevalence of energy poverty in several Member States of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) calls for urgent action. This paper shows how clean energy development can be made inclusive by involving low-income households as producers, employees, and business owners. From this perspective, it also analyses how ASEAN economies are stepping up clean energy ambitions and the implementation deficits. One imperative is (i) clean energy with positive externalities that are not factored in either the production or purchasing decisions of consumers. (ii) If non-clean energy companies or products generate negative externalities but no tax or disincentive is levied, then governments may either tax these firms or give incentives to clean energy producers. It concludes that ASEAN Member States need to link the clean energy paradigm and inclusive development policies as part of the Environmental Fiscal Reform to strengthen the foundations for the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community.
O23|Rol del gasto público en el crecimiento económico: un modelo endógeno potencial para Bolivia|El propósito de este trabajo es contribuir con un modelo de crecimiento endógeno potencial (MCEP) para Bolivia con información desde 1993 al 2012. La evidencia empírica sugiere que el consumo del gobierno es el principal determinante exógeno sobre el crecimiento potencial (EPGM) con efectos diferenciados en el tiempo: acelera contemporáneamente el crecimiento económico y afecta de forma negativa en mecanismo dinámico sobre la tasa de crecimiento a largo plazo. La inversión pública y privada tienen un grado significativo de sustitución dinámica (efecto crowding-out). Como análisis complementario, se evalúan los efectos del gasto público sobre el crecimiento real efectivo.
O23|Ethnic Diversity and the Efficiency of Public Spending in Developing Countries|This paper examines the effect of ethnic diversity on the efficiency of public spending in a set of developing countries. For this purpose, we use Data Envelopment Analysis to assess the efficiency of public spending in the sectors of health, education and infrastructure in 77 developing countries over the period 1996-2012. Further, we investigate the effect of ethnic diversity on the cross country variation in efficiency. Two main findings emerge. First, barely 12% of the sample of countries under study makes an efficient use of public expenditure. Second, no matters the level of aggregation, ethnic polarization is positively associated with higher efficiency. In contrast, ethnic fractionalization does have a negative or at the best no effect on efficiency, especially at the finest level of disaggregation.
O23|Government spending effects in low-income countries|Despite the voluminous literature on fiscal policy, very few papers focus on low-income countries (LICs). This paper develops a New Keynesian small open economy model to show, analytically and numerically, that several prevalent features of LICs—dependence on external financing, public investment inefficiency, and a low degree of home bias in public investment—play important roles in government spending effects. External financing increases the resource envelope, mitigating the crowding out effects, but it tends to appreciate the real exchange rate, lowering traded output. Although capital scarcity in LICs implies high returns to public capital, low marginal investment efficiency can substantially dampen the output multiplier. Also, public investment may not be effective in stimulating output in the short run, as LICs often rely on imports to a large extent to carry out public investment projects, weakening its role as a short-run demand stimulus.
O23|Social expenditure and economic growth: Evidence from Australia and New Zealand using cointegration and causality tests|Developed nations, especially Nordic countries such as Iceland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland allocate a sizeable portion of their budget for social welfare. On the contrary, developing counties’ allocation for social welfare has been negligible. The question is: can state intervention through social welfare provisions ensure sustained economic growth? In other words, do social expenditures promote economic growth? This study seeks to answer this question by establishing links between social expenditures and economic growth in Australia and New Zealand, and draw lessons for fast developing ASEAN economies as they aspire to be developed nations soon. Using annual data from 1980 to 2012, we deploy cointegration and error correction methods for establishing long-run relationship between social expenditures and economic growth. We conduct Granger causality tests for testing short-term direction of causality among the variables. For Australia, economic growth is found to have three main determinants- education, health and social expenditures. For New Zealand, health and social expenditures have been found as the main determinants of growth. However, no long-run relationship could be established among the variables when we included budget deficit in our model. The Granger causality tests indicate that one way causality running from economic growth to health expenditure, and social expenditure to economic growth in Australia. In case of New Zealand, on the other hand, one-way causality runs from education expenditure to economic growth, health expenditure to education expenditure, economic growth to health expenditure, and education expenditure to budget deficit. Social welfare expenditures also Granger cause economic growth. Our findings suggest that social expenditures promoted growth in Australia and New Zealand. The fast developing economies such as Singapore and Malaysia, which aim to achieve the developed country status by 2020 and usually do not allocate sizeable portion of their budget for social welfare, should adopt more ‘generous’ social policies for the sake of a balanced development.
O23|Will The Eu`S Boat Float In Murky Post-Crisis Waters? An Assessment Of Eu`S Economic And Financial Agenda|The EU multilevel governance is a theoretical standpoint that allows us to measure the costs of nowadays European integration. This article addresses current issues of the EU institutional Agenda regarding the logic beyond the changing nature of the economic climate. Our contribution aims to analyze the impact of economic and financial reforms upon the institutional framework of the European Union. In this article we will explore how the post crisis economic agenda is being forged and which are the consequences of following different integration paths. It is also important to determine if a working scenario build around the Community method will address pressing issues in a successful manner or will the intergovernmental standpoint prevail? Is this crisis close to a positive response, is the EU economic governance an endangered construction, or can it be the rise of a great opportunity for the European integration process, a new boost each member state seeks and might nurture?
O23|Commitment to local autonomy in non-democracies: Russia and China compared|The aim of this paper is to investigate under which conditions non-democratic political regimes are capable of making credible commitments to maintain a certain level of local autonomy and to incentivize local bureaucrats. For this purpose, we compare two big non-democratic countries—Russia and China. While China has managed to establish a relatively stable system, with substantial decision-making rights resting with sub-national governments, in Russia relations between the center and the regions have been highly unstable and driven primarily by the extent to which central elites consolidated their power. We argue that China has been able to make credible commitments because its non-democratic rule is based on competition between vertical elite networks that span regional and central political arenas, and because the country has limited access to natural resources: these two characteristics explain the difference between the two cases we investigate. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
O23|The Impact of Monetary policy on Consumption and Investment in Jordan during (1989-2013)|Monetary policy is one of the important monetary subjects that can evaluate the performance of the policy and its tools, recent development in financial markets in the past years led to changes in the behavior of countries monetary policies, concentrated to achieve stability in the price level by creating new ideas of how monetary policy affects the economy and its components through linking macroeconomic activities (private spending components) with nominal interest rate. This study aims to analyze and evaluate the impact of Jordanian monetary policy on consumption and investment spending during the period (1989-2013) to predict the impact of monetary policy and its instruments on real economic activities and inflation. The study finds that lending rate affects investment negatively but it does not affect consumption and real GDP in the short run. However, in the long run investment is affected by the co-movements occurred in consumption lending rate and lagged investment. Also, the study finds that real GDP is affected by the co- movements that occurred in real GDP and lending rate. Furthermore, domestic credit is affected by the co-movements that happened in domestic credit and lending rate.
O23|The Impact of the Macroeconomic Environment on Pakistan’s Manufacturing Sector|This paper analyzes the impact of the macroeconomic environment on Pakistan’s manufacturing sector, emphasizing in particular the role of fiscal and monetary policies in shaping incentives for industrial investment. Arguably, Pakistan’s macroeconomic fundamentals in the last two decades have remained fragile, resulting in severe macroeconomic imbalances that have contributed to macroeconomic instability and hampered private investment in aggregate as well as in the manufacturing sector. Furthermore, macroeconomic stabilization policies have often failed to produce the desired results owing to the lack of coordination between monetary and fiscal policies. Pakistan’s economy has thus lived on borrowed money and time and on rent-seeking behavior. Although some recent macroeconomic indicators have improved slightly, fundamental weaknesses remain. In particular, the recent improvement in the current account deficit was driven largely by the high inflow of remittances, coupled with financial engineering such as loan payments from the International Monetary Fund, “friendly” money, European Union bonds, and Islamic sukuk. It is imperative to think about the consequences of a leveraged reliance on remittances in the aftermath of falling oil prices and global deflation. Prudent macroeconomic management aimed at consolidating public finances and controlling inflationary pressures is essential to boost industrial investment and yield sustainable growth.
O23|Macroeconomic Reconciliation?|"(On the book by I. Ananiashvili and V. Papava ""Laffer-Keynesian Synthesis and Macroeconomic Equilibrium"") The authors of the book reviewed here suggest the model of the macroeconomic equilibrium that unifies Keynesian and Laffer’s approaches to analyzing the effects of taxation on the output and tax revenues. The authors demonstrated the limitations of the simple Laffer model and developed a more realistic extension of this model that captures the influence of taxes on economic growth and provided estimates for various countries."
O23|Is Quantitative Easing An Appropriate Way For The Success Of Monetary Policy In A Post-Crisis Period?|Quantitative easing is an unorthodox monetary policy focused on buying large quantities of bonds, mainly government bonds, by central bank in order to increase the reserves of commercial banks and thus to support private bank lending. It first started in Japan 14 year ago and this country experienced 3 rounds of QE with limited success. ,After that it spread in USA and UK with a certain degree of success and finally it was adopted by ECB in March 2015. Although huge amounts of money were injected in the banks it is difficult to assess to what extent liquidity trap was overcome and economic recovery after the recent crisis was helped. The opinions of different financial analysts and technocrats are divided and their arguments are not based on serious analyses using reliable statistical data and clear scientific evidence.
O23|The New Architecture Of Economic Governance In The European Union|The economic crisis that began in 2007-2008 has highlighted the need for a stronger economic coordination at EU level, to ensure financial stability. The new architecture of economic governance in the European Union is based on Fiscal Pact, on Macroeconomic Imbalances Identification Mechanism, on European Stability Mechanism and on Banking Union. Since the banking system is the most significant component of the financial system, we will give more importance to the analysis of Banking Union, which is based on three pillars: The Single Supervisory Mechanism, The Single Resolution Mechanism and The Deposit Guarantee Schemes.
O23|Various Approaches to Economic Development and Fiscal Policy for the European Union Member Countries|Taking decisions on the establishment of new taxes or the modification of existing ones take into account various aspects of the needs of the State, the level of development, but in many countries, increasing coordination of decisions in the sphere of taxation and adapting national tax systems to social needs changing goals remain. Each country is characterized by specific stages of economic development, with different evolutions of budgetary revenue and expenditure systems, and a variety of tax systems. In this work are summarized different approaches to economic development, tax system, tax policy, etc., and various reforms undertaken within them.
O23|The relationship between Foreign Currency trading and Economic Development: A case Study of Pakistan|In order to determine the relationship between few factors whom not calculated or evaluated by central bank is a tough job. The researcher tried to accumulate such secondary factors which are directly combined together and form very important primary factors. The researchers have reviewed many international researches in order to enhance the accuracy and focus of the research data and their variables. These researches has provided many new variables which are not very commonly used in our monetary research paradigm. This is a descriptive research where the researchers identified some new dimensions of usage of secondary variables into the formation of primary variables. There are many limitations researchers have during the course of the research. The most important and notable is the unavailability of the statistical data regarding many important statistical aspects of the economy. In the conclusion the researchers have found that the inflation, interest rate and exchange rates are highly correlated with currency trading. By manipulating such factors, inflation and exchange rates are exert influenced by central banks and varies impact currency and inflation. The valuation of foreign currency trading needs high attention from capital formation, determinants of inflation rate and proper utilization of supply of money in economy. The growth rate of GDP is essential factor for both economic development and foreign currency trading.
O23|Japanese Foreign Aid, Development Expenditures and Taxation in Thailand 1960-2012:Econometric Results from a Bounded Rationality Model of Fiscal Behavior|How does Japanese aid influence the allocation of government expenditures and the raising of government revenues? Using a non-linear model with an asymmetric loss function the case of Japanese aid to Thailand is examined at the macroeconomic level with a large time-series data set for 1960-2012. It turns out that Japanese aid led to proportionately more development expenditures than did other aid. It also might have been positively related to an increased effort by the Thai government to raise taxes. Economic explanations based on a set of bounded rationality model are advanced. Econometric and institutional explanations are also offered. The three sets of explanations can be seen as overlapping and complementary in this case.
O23|Реальные Деньги И Экономический Рост<BR>[Real Money and Economic Growth]|People recognized the important role played by money a long time ago. But it was only approximately 50 years ago that Milton Friedman convincingly proved that change in the quantity of money in the economy may have a very serious effect on the GDP. This paper reveals a most intimate non-linear linkage between growth of real GDP and growth of real money supply using the example of a number of countries and unions (Russia, Japan, Brazil, Eurozone). It is shown that exponential growth of real money supply corresponds to linear growth of real GDP. Two hypotheses are advanced which explain such a nature of the inter-linkage as well as practical recommendations are given which pertain, first of all, to monetary policy.
O23|Real Money and Economic Growth|People recognized the important role played by money in the economy a long time ago. However, it was only approximately 50 years ago that Milton Friedman convincingly proved that change in the quantity of money in the economy might have a very serious effect on the GDP. This paper reveals a most intimate non-linear linkage between growth of real GDP and growth of real money supply using the example of a number of countries and unions (Russia, Japan, Brazil and Eurozone). It is shown that exponential growth of real money supply corresponds to linear growth of real GDP. Hypotheses are advanced which explain such a nature of the inter-linkage. A number of practical recommendations are given which pertain, first of all, to monetary policy.
O23|Участието На България В Политиката На Ес За Развитие<BR>[Bulgaria’s Participation in the EU Development Policy]|The policy for cooperation with developing countries is new to Bulgaria as in the course of the transition over the past two decades assistance to these countries could not be a foreign policy priority for obvious reasons. On the other hand, relations between Bulgaria and many of these countries in the decades before left a lasting mark in many of them, contributing to their economic development. The implementation of Bulgaria's transition from the status of a recipient of international aid into a donor makes it necessary a special attention to be paid to the many issues in this regard because of the specific commitments arising from the country’s new status especially regarding its participation in the EU development policy. The study presents briefly the main features of international development cooperation and then discusses the development policy of the EU. The main focus is on Bulgaria's participation in it as liabilities, results achieved and opportunities.
O23|A Financial General Equilibrium Model for Assessment of Financial Sector Policies in Developing Countries|This paper introduces a real-financial CGE (computable general equilibrium) model for economic policy analysis. It is a multi-investor, multi-asset, and multi-sector model appropriate for what-if policy analysis in a single-country open-economy framework. The financial side includes a central bank, commercial banks, deposits, loans, equities, bonds, and foreign currency. We also consider markets for loanable funds. The model assumes small open economy, imperfect capital mobility, imperfect Armington substitution between imported and domestic commodity, nested CES (constant elasticity of substitution) structure in production, nested CES structure in consumption, and heterogeneity of domestic products in one commodity category. We consider the transport margin, wholesale margin, import tariffs, import subsidy, production tax, value added tax, goods and services tax, and other transfer payments. We calibrate the model based on the 1999 Social Accounting Matrix of Iran. This matrix includes 47 production activities and 112 commodity categories detailed on hydrocarbon resources.
O23|The dynamics of public investment under persistent electoral advantage|This paper studies the effects of asymmetries in re-election probabilities across parties on public policy and their subsequent propagation to the economy. The struggle between groups that disagree on targeted public spending (e.g., pork) results in governments being endogenously short-sighted: Systematic underinvestment in infrastructure and overspending on targeted goods arise, above and beyond what is observed in symmetric environments. Because the party enjoying an electoral advantage is less short-sighted, it devotes a larger proportion of revenues to productive investment. Hence, political turnover induces economic fluctuations in an otherwise deterministic environment. I characterize analytically the long-run distribution of allocations and show that output increases with electoral advantage, despite the fact that governments expand. Volatility is non-monotonic in electoral advantage and is an additional source of inefficiency. Using panel data from US states I confirm these findings. (Copyright: Elsevier)
O23|Fiscal Management in Myanmar|Past governments in Myanmar presided over a system generally characterized by weak fiscal management, but this has recently changed with the present government restoring a measure of fiscal discipline, reorienting fiscal priorities, and establishing a clear set of fiscal objectives in the Framework for Economic and Social Reforms (FESR), which was finalized in June 2013. The Government of Myanmar now has to prioritize how best to implement these fiscal objectives while strengthening long-run fiscal discipline. This paper provides a broad range of recommendations on how this can be achieved, using analysis of Myanmar's present and past fiscal situation alongside insights provided by the experience of other countries.
O23|Understanding High Inflation Trend in India|Stylized Indian facts and structural features are consistent with an elastic aggregate supply, subject to cost push. A variety of time series tests support this against an alternative hypothesis of inelastic supply. Mechanisms that propagate relative price changes into the price level include sector bottlenecks and governance failures. The first best policy response to a temporary supply shock is to shift down the supply curve by neutralizing mechanisms that propagate supply shocks, while avoiding too large a demand contraction. A standard monetary tightening to anchor inflation expectations requires a large growth sacrifice. Backward-looking price setting in some Indian firms reduces the required intensity of tightening.JEL Classification: E31, E52, E62, O23
O23|Проблемы прогнозирования налоговых бюджетных поступлений в России. Problems of tax budget revenue forecasting in Russia|"Работа посвящена обзору методов и изучению проблемпрогнозирования налоговых бюджетных доходов с учетом особенностей российской ситуации. Особое внимание уделяется использованию техники временных рядов, обсуждению вопросов, связанных сбенчмаркингом, «краевыми эффектами», необходимостью выделения структурной и конъюнктурной составляющих налоговых поступлений. Делается вывод, что объективным ограничением построения корректных и надежных долгосрочных предсказаний налоговых поступлений, является отсутствие достаточно длинных временных рядов сопоставимых данных. Горизонт прогнозирования должен соответствовать периоду, на котором выявляются тенденции и делаются оценки параметров динамики. В этой связи использование разработанныхтрадиционных эконометрических методов анализа оказывается невозможным при перспективном налоговом планировании. Для краткосрочных же прогнозов имеется необходимая информация, и они могут быть полезными в практической плановой работе государственных органов. The paperc onsider the methodological problems of forecasting of tax budget revenues in Russia. The particular attention is paid to the usage of time series analysis and to the discussion of issues related to benchmarking, ""edge effects"", structural and cycle components of tax revenue. It is concluded that the objective limitation for the correct and reliable long-term forecasting is the lack of sufficiently long time series of comparable data. Forecasting time horizon should correspond to the period for which trends are identified and parameters of the dynamics are estimated. Short-term forecasts have the necessary information, and they can be used in the practical work of public authorities."
O23|Dynamic Scoring in a Romer-Style Economy|This article analyzes how changes in tax rates affect government revenue in a Romer-style endogenous growth model. Lower tax rates on financial income (returns to physical capital and intellectual property) are partially self-financing primarily because lower financial income taxes stimulate innovation and enhance labor productivity in the long run. In the baseline calibration, about half of a tax cut is self-financing in the long run, substantially more than in the Ramsey model. The dynamics of the economy's response to a tax cut are very sluggish and, for some variables, nonmonotonic.
O23|Credit Rating Framework for Financing of SMEs in India and role of central bank|Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are playing more and more important role in world economic development. Indian SMEs have been on the forefront of the development path. However, Indian SMEs face a host of obstacles when they try to access credit market for their financing needs. Banks do not feel confident to extend loans to the business units whose track records are not apparently known to them, nor are they easily verifiable by the banks. On one side the government assigns a target of minimum threshold level of SME financing for banks and on the other side banks are reluctant to finance because of perception of higher probabilities of credit default. A specialized and effective enterprise credit rating mechanism is extremely important for these enterprises. In this paper we examine the major issues in the financing of SMEs in an Indian context and evaluate the flip side of the current rating mechanism. We also suggest a framework of financing these enterprises for respective sources of capital with comments on the role of the central bank in this regard.
O23|Information Technology as a Tool for Management: Analysis of Trends (Technologia informacyjna jako narzedzie wspomagania systemu zarzadzania – analiza trendow)|The article is an analysis of the period of the last 35 years. The 1980–1984 period is the time when the Faculty of Management studies program changed as regards the application of informatics in management. In the 1980s, the computing center was also established. It was also a period of transformation of the management system and development of science. The development of systems and information technology is quite correlated with changes in management methods and organizational structures. This article attempts to answer the questions: What changes occurred in the system, which had to adapt to the increasingly widespread use of project management and management globalization? What changes occurred in information technology over that period?
O23|Understanding the diversity of cooperation on innovation across countries: multilevel evidence from Europe| Much has been written about innovation cooperation, but little research has been done to explain the national differences thereof. Using macro and micro evidence from the fourth Community Innovation Survey, we econometrically investigate the extent to which national framework conditions account for the propensity of firms to cooperate on innovation at home and abroad. The results indicate strong differences across countries in the latter. Firms operating in countries with less developed research infrastructure are shown to be more likely to cooperate with foreign partners, supporting the thesis that in this context the foreign linkages tend to be diasporic. The size and openness of the economy matters too. But the characteristics of firms that explain cooperation are not found to differ much across country. The results furthermore draw attention to the limitations of the existing micro data sets on innovation cooperation.
O23|Eight strategies for development in comparison|"The article provides a broad-based overview on competing development strategies and the economic performance of developing countries, mainly since the year 2000. Four traditional mainstream development strategies are discussed (Washington Consensus, neo-liberalism, ""good governance"" and MDGs) and three long-debated key strategic issues are reconsidered (inward or outward development with export-led growth, industrialisation or growth with predominant primary goods exports, foreign-aid-based development). A heterodox approach to development with a focus on macroeconomic policies and structural change is added and discussed in more detail. Implicitly, this lays the groundwork for a macroeconomic theory of development. The rough empirical comparison finds that countries and areas with strong emphasis on macroeconomic policies, mainly in Asia, have performed unambiguously better than the mainstream approaches since 1980. From successful Asian countries, it can be learnt that a long-run continuous growth and development performance with more resilience against adverse shocks is key. Almost all larger middle-income countries have embarked on industrialisation, thereby strategies based upon primary commodities or high current account deficits are unlikely to be successful in the long run. A stronger role of a package of six macroeconomic policies is advised, particularly for the larger economies. Size matters in this respect. Smaller countries depend stronger on market niches and idiosyncratic strategies. The global economic order, due to liberalisation of trade and finance, including the prevailing global currency system, sets harsh constraints for policy space towards implementing national strategies."
O23|Policy Constraints and the Recovery from Banking Crises|While much research has been done on causes and effects of banking crises, little is know about what determines recovery from banking crises, despite of large variations in post-crises performances across countries. In order to identify factors that determine the length of recovery (e.g. the time it takes until countries reach their pre-crisis level of per capita GDP), this paper employs event history analysis on 138 incidents of banking crises between 1970 and 2013. Cox Proportional Hazards show that both domestic and external constraints play a key role for recovering from banking crises. In particular, countries that suffered from simultaneous currency crises as well as those with overvalued currencies tended to recover later. Regarding external factors, a low growth of world trade has a negative effect on recovery, and so does uncertainty in financial markets as reflected in high gold prices. Moreover, contractionary monetary policy of the US Fed as Central Bank of the international key currency has a negative effect on the length of recovery in emerging markets and developing countries with open capital accounts. The latter empirical relationship reflects the vulnerability of developing countries and emerging markets to policies in the global financial centers and points to the necessity of understanding crises policies as embedded within monetary asymmetries that significantly limit the policy space of countries at the lower ends of the global currency hierarchy.
O23|دور رأس المال الفكري في تنمية المشروعات الصغيرة والمتوسطة في الدول الخليجية<BR>[The role of intellectual capital in developing SME`S in GCC countries]|This study aims to study the role of intellectual capital in developing SME`S in GCC countries. Intellectual capital is being viewed as the real representative concerning the ability of any company to compete or to make success especially after the gradual economic change to the economy based on knowledge. So Intellectual capital becomes the new basis and the most modern production’s factor which regard it as the essential resource to the erection of fortune even more important than the traditional factor of production such as : work, capital and raw materials. Intellectual capital plays important role to support sustained competitive advantage and developing SME`S in GCC countries.
O23|المسؤولية الاجتماعية للقطاع الخاص ودورها في التنمية المستدامة للمملكة العربية السعودية<BR>[Social responsibility of the private sector and its role in sustainable development of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia]|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the possibilities and problems for establishment of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) in Saudi Arabia. The paper explores the nature and concept of CSR, particularly in Saudi Arabia. As well as studying the activation of the corporate social responsibility role in the economic and social development of Saudi Arabia.
O23|Agricultural subsidy policies fail to deal with child labour under agricultural dualism: What could be the alternative policies?|We provide a theoretical explanation why agricultural subsidy policies are likely to fail to ensure simultaneous eradication of the incidence of child labour and improvement in the well-being of the poor working families in terms of a three-sector general equilibrium model with child labour and agricultural dualism. We identify both demand and supply side effects of any policy intervention on child labour. We also suggest two alternative policies, a scheme of direct cash transfer to poor people and economic growth through foreign direct investment (FDI), both of which would be effective in achieving these twin objectives of a welfare government.
O23|KEUANGAN PUBLIK ISLAM:Refleksi APBN dan Politik Anggaran di Indonesia<BR>[ISLAM PUBLIC FINANCES:Reflections on the APBN and the Budget Politics in Indonesia]|The development policy in Indonesia to implement the human development paradigm should be able to put people as actors and regional economic development as a vehicle for the public welfare. However, the government's policy as outlined in the budget form precisely the opposite direction to a strategic role in the public welfare. The phenomenon of budget politics in the management of media budget to fulfill the political needs for the few and the political community. Management of the state budget in favor of a handful of people in the political-economic sphere and not pro-poor budgeting. A qualitative approach in analyzing the facts of budget management in Indonesia, this book concludes that the management of APBN using performance-based budget structure has not shown good governance performance by indicators: effectiveness, efficiency, transparency and accountability in the management of the budget.
O23|Об Управлении Экономическим Ростом И Развитием<BR>[On the management of economic growth and development]|The purpose of social-economic development is defined by the country leaders accurately and clearly: by 2020 Russia must be included in a set of the most developed countries. Naturally, with the present rates of economic growth and lots of crisis problems of economy it can't be reached, and the cause is not suddenly burst world crisis. The authors, investigating this matter, reveal the essence of the difficulties and omissions.
O23|Mothers and Daughters: Heterogeneity of German Direct Investments in the Czech Republic|Much has been written on the distinction between vertical and horizontal foreign direct investment. However, most of the empirical literature relies on indirect and aggregated measures only. The aim of this paper is to help fill this gap by examining the differences between German affiliates in the Czech Republic and their mother companies in Germany on the basis of direct evidence on factor requirements. Using a cluster analysis on fi rm-level data from the unique ReLOC survey, we identify four main groups of firms that partition the sample by broad sectoral lines and by technological, educational and skill intensity of their operations within each of them. More detailed analysis of the clustering reveals that the vertical model dominates in manufacturing, while the horizontal model of investment prevails in the service sector.
O23|The effects of tax policy and labour market institutions on income inequality|The purpose of this research is to investigate how labor market institutions and regulations and tax policies effect income inequality across the European member countries. The sample contains the fifteen core European Union (EU) members as well as thirteen Central and Eastern European (CEE) economies which have recently joined. Using fixed and random effect panel models over the sample period 2000–2011 we test the influence of three major tax forms (labor, capital and consumption), social security contributions, and labor market institutions. We demonstrate that the overall social contributions and labor taxes lead to statistically significant improvements in income inequality among EU member states. We conclude that tax policy, specifically the choice of taxes implemented, and labor market institutions, union membership in particular, reduce income inequality in the EU-28 in the observed period.
O23|Macroeconomic Policy: Implications for Inclusive Growth|This article addresses the issue of past and future types of monetary-fiscal coordination that can deliver inclusive growth and low inflation in the Indian context. After Indiaâ€™s Independence, monetary policy was subordinated to planned development and, therefore, implicitly directed at inclusion. But large areas of the economy were still not monetised, and the modern sector was small. So inclusion was about expanding the sphere of the modern economy. Once a populous emerging market (EM) crosses a critical threshold and high catch-up growth is established, higher labour mobility blurs the distinction between the formal and informal sectors. A macroeconomics of the aggregate economy becomes both necessary and feasible. Since monetary policy affects a larger part of the economy, it can directly affect inclusion by affecting the pace of job creation. But bottlenecks that raise costs, pushing up the price at which any level of output is available, can force monetary tightening. If fiscal policies are redesigned for active inclusion that expands human capacity, makes more productive labour available, and reduces wasteful distortions, monetary policy can better support the objective of inclusive growth. The change in the type and efficacy of government policies designed for inclusion required has become politically and technologically feasible.JEL Classification: E63, E31, O11, O23
O23|REDD, Climate Change and the Rights of Tribal Communities in India|Reducing Emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) is the global endeavour to create incentive for developing countries to protect, better manage and save their forest resources, thus contributing to the global fight against climate change. REDD plus goes beyond merely checking deforestation and forest degradation, it includes incentives for positive elements of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks. Countries that reduce emissions and undertake sustainable management of forests will be entitled to receive funds and resources as incentives. REDD became part of the Bali action plan, which was supposed to culminate in a new climate protection treaty in Copenhagen in December 2009. The Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change has also stressed the importance of REDD+ in the context of international climate co-operation. Furthermore with the exception of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU- ETs) all existing and most proposed domestic or regional trading schemes include or aim to include sustainable land practices and forestry as a class of eligible offsets. While moving forward towards the implementation of REDD+, participation of local communities with compulsory representation of women would be the central theme. Government of India is committed to ensure that full and adequate incentives from REDD+ go to the local communities as and when these became available. India’s context, the forest will not be managed for “carbon services” alone but for all the ecosystem services that are flowing to the local community from the forests. Incentives for carbon services will be an addition to the benefits that the local communities are already receiving from the forest eco systems.
O23|Real exchange rate and manufacturing growth in Latin America|The manufacturing sectors in Latin America have been more affected by the currency over/undervaluation than their counterpart in industrialized economies. From a panel data set covering 39 countries and 22 manufacturing sectors (2-digit) within 1995–2008, we formally test the hypothesis that there exists a Latin American effect and then investigate the possible reasons for this distinguished pattern. The use of a disaggregated data is an important feature of our empirical strategy: the undervaluation index (main covariate) is less likely to be determined by the growth rate of a specific manufacturing sector, partially addressing the specification problem that plagues standard cross-country regressions. We then explore the within sector–country variation to study the relationship between currency over/undervaluation and manufacturing sectors growth. We find that the import content of exports might be an important driver of this result at a sectoral level. At a macro-level, the openness and the income per capita of a country are important factors. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
O23|Trends in the regional allocation of public investment in the post-bubble Japanese economy|With reference to the assumptions presented by Yamano and Ohkawara (J Reg Sci 40:205–229, 2000 ) on the specification of a production function with region-specific individual effects on public capital, this paper introduces a new benchmark index in order to analyze the Japanese government’s investment allocation policy across subnational regions, with an emphasis on efficiency, equity, and/or redistribution under trade-off restrictions. This index, termed the equity–growth allocation share of public investment herein, is derived from a conventional Solow growth accounting approach. Specifically, it is defined as a region’s share of the periodic change in the nation’s public capital, where its growth contribution with its interregional spillover effects to overall output growth is the same across subnational regions. We apply this index to the post-bubble Japanese economy, which was beset by efficiency–equity trade-offs between Tokyo’s unipolar development and balanced growth given a prolonged recession. We find a shift from a pro-efficiency to a non-pro-efficiency allocation policy in the mid-1990s. This finding therefore rules out the inference that the government chose an inverse policy direction thereafter and instead implies that it rather attempted to balance efficiency and redistribution. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
O23|Learning from the Doers: Developing Country Lessons for Advanced Economy Growth|From 1980 to 1992, emerging and developing countries grew by 3.4 percent per year. Their annual rate of growth increased to 5.4 percent between 1993 and 2012. No such increase occurred for advanced nations, whose average growth from 1980 to 2012 was roughly constant (excluding the impact of the 2008–2009 Recession). Developing nations turned themselves around by embracing discipline-sustained commitment to a pragmatic and flexible growth strategy. Three illustrations of discipline through the lens of trade, fiscal, and debt reforms in the developing world offer relevant, practical lessons for recovery in advanced economies and continued catch-up growth in developing nations.
O23|How Vulnerable are Arab Countries to Global Food Price Shocks?| We estimate pass-through effects of international food price movements into domestic food prices for 18 countries in the Middle East and North Africa, using threshold regressions. International price movements transmit to various degrees into domestic prices. Transmission is mostly asymmetric, pushing domestic price levels up as increases in international food prices are typically passed through, but declines are rarely transmitted. This situation is indicative of policy and market distortions, notably the presence of food subsidies in the context of fiscal constraints. Hence, both international prices and their volatility matter for domestic inflation, yet domestic factors also play a role.
O23|The Causal Links between Aid and Government Expenditures|The most recent literature on aid effectiveness finds a positive effect of aid on growth. To the extent that aid goes through the budget, this either reflects an aid-financed increase in government expenditures (quantity effect) or an improvement in the use of government resources as a result of donor involvement and lower taxes (quality effect). This study investigates the causal link between on-budget aid and government expenditures using a large cross-country panel data set for 53 countries and recent methodology to test Granger causality in heterogeneous panels. I find that in most countries donors do not change aid in response to changes in the level of government expenditures and that recipient governments react to aid by changing the way they use their own resources rather than by increasing spending. Contrary to conventional wisdom, there is little support for a quantity effect: aid Granger causes government expenditures in only eight countries. This suggests that aid substitutes for domestic government revenue and that aid is effective largely through the quality effect.
O23|An Empirical Examination of the Procyclicality of R&D Investment and Innovation|The Schumpeterian opportunity cost hypothesis predicts that firms concentrate innovative activities in recessions. However, empirical evidence suggests that innovative activities are procyclical. Theory proposes that firms shift R&D investments and innovation from recessions to booms to maximize returns by capturing high-demand periods before imitators compete away rents. This paper provides the first empirical test of these predictions. Results indicate that R&D spending is more procyclical in industries with faster obsolescence, where matching invention to demand is more valuable, and innovation is more procyclical in industries with weaker IP protection, where imitation poses a greater threat. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
O23|Decentralization and Spatial Allocation Policy of Public Investment in Indonesia and Japan|Public investment is a fundamental response of government to the existing imbalances between subnational regions. Especially, the question concerning the allocation policy of public investment more receives a great deal of public attentions along with the decentralization process, because economic growth is inevitably uneven in its subnational impacts and decentralization has effects on the change in the allocations across the subnational governments and regions. This study explores the public investment allocation policy that either emphasizes efficiency, equity, or redistribution or strives to strike a balance between these three policy directions under the trade-off restrictions. We employ a new benchmark index, “equity–growth allocation share,” defining regional public investment allocation, given equal public capital growth across regions. We apply this method to Indonesia’s and Japan’s pre- and post-decentralization eras, beset by efficiency–equity trade-offs between uneven regional development and balanced growth policy. We found two major observations that contrast between two countries. First, as excessive economic activity regions in two countries, the capital region in Japan mostly shows the highest returns on public capital where the Java-Bali region does not. Second, Indonesia shows a structural change investment concentration in the Java-Bali region before and after decartelization regime while the Japan’s government pursues the pro-efficiency allocation policy under the decentralization process.
O23|Nominal Convergence Criteria And Europe 2020 Strategy: Convergent Or Divergent Objectives?|Sustainable development is a major subject of discussions worldwide and especially in the European Union. A lot of studies, papers, reports had analyzed the subject of sustainable development and many of the indicators of sustainable development have been transposed in public policies objectives. The Europe 2020 Strategy is such of programmatic document, which contains some of the sustainable development indicators. Though is recognised that supporting economic growth, environmental protection and employment are important, in Europe and whole around the world, fiscal disequilibria and monetary issues seem to come first, as is the case with nominal convergence criteria for the countries in acceding process to the euro area. Thus, this article tries to analyse to what extent Nominal Convergence Criteria affects the sustainable development indicators and especially Europe 2020 targets and what can be done to mitigate the possible conflict between their objectives.
O23|Domestic public debt in low-income countries: trends and structure|This paper introduces a new dataset on the stock and structure of domestic debt in 36 Low-Income Countries over the period 1971-2011. We characterize the recent trends regarding LICs domestic public debt and explore the relevance of different arguments put forward on the benefits and costs of government borrowing in local public debt markets. The main stylized fact emerging from the data is the increase in domestic government debt since 1996. We also observe that poor countries have been able to increase the share of long-term instruments over time and that the maturity lengthening went together with a decrease in borrowing costs. However, the concentration of the investor base, mainly dominated by commercial banks and the Central Bank, may crowd out lending to the private sector.
O23|Wage Rigidity and Disinflation in Emerging Countries|We present evidence on the frequency of nominal wage adjustment using SIPP data adjusted for measurement error. The SIPP is a representative sample of the US population. Our main results are: (i) The average quarterly probability of a nominal wage change is between 21.1 and 26.6 percent, depending on the assumptions used. (ii) Wage changes are much more likely when workers change jobs. (iii) The frequency of wage adjustment does not display significant seasonal patterns. (iv) The hazard of a nominal wage change first increases and then decreases, with a peak at 12 months.
O23|Government Spending Multipliers in Developing Countries: Evidence from Lending by Official Creditors|I use a novel loan-level dataset covering lending by official creditors to developing country governments to construct an instrument for government spending. Loans from official creditors typically finance multiyear public spending projects, with disbursements linked to the stages of project implementation. The identification strategy exploits the long lags between approval and eventual disbursement of these loans to isolate a predetermined component of public spending associated with past loan approval decisions taken before the realization of contemporaneous shocks. In a large sample of 102 developing countries over the period 1970-2010, the one-year spending multiplier is reasonably-precisely estimated to be around 0.4.
O23|Why Do Developing Countries Tax So Little?|Low-income countries typically collect taxes of between 10 to 20 percent of GDP while the average for high-income countries is more like 40 percent. In order to understand taxation, economic development, and the relationships between them, we need to think about the forces that drive the development process. Poor countries are poor for certain reasons, and these reasons can also help to explain their weakness in raising tax revenue. We begin by laying out some basic relationships regarding how tax revenue as a share of GDP varies with per capita income and with the breadth of a country's tax base. We sketch a baseline model of what determines a country's tax revenue as a share of GDP. We then turn to our primary focus: why do developing countries tax so little? We begin with factors related to the economic structure of these economies. But we argue that there is also an important role for political factors, such as weak institutions, fragmented polities, and a lack of transparency due to weak news media. Moreover, sociological and cultural factors- such as a weak sense of national identity and a poor norm for compliance- may stifle the collection of tax revenue. In each case, we suggest the need for a dynamic approach that encompasses the two-way interactions between these political, social, and cultural factors and the economy.
O23|Factors Influencing Adoption of VSH Queens in the Honey Bee Breeding Industry| The Varroa mite is a threat to honey bees and beekeepers across the U.S. and is suspected to be one contributor to colony collapse disorder (CCD). In 2006, Varroa Sensitive Hygiene (VSH) bees were developed in response to this problem in the beekeeping industry. The hygienic behavior of VSH bees helps reduce susceptibility of colonies to Varroa mites, results in stronger colonies and decrease susceptibility to CCD. The objective of this paper is to identify factors that significantly influence the adoption of VSH technology. A probit model is used to identify factors these factors. Results indicate risk aversion, education and income significantly influence adoption decision.
O23|A new view into political business cycles: Household behaviour in Albania|Over the last decades, there has been plenty of research and publications on Political Business Cycles (PBC), aimed at analysing and explaining the use of fiscal and monetary instruments to stimulate economic growth before elections, with the intention of impressing potential voters. Previous research on PBC in Albania reveals clear evidence of fiscal expansion before elections, but no significant changes in GDP and inflation as theory predicts. One possible explanation of this result could be economic agents’ expectations, which is the subject of this paper. We analyse consumers’ expectations before elections, the main factors underlying expectations, and the way in which these expectations influence their behaviour toward spending, and consequently the macroeconomic outcomes, deploying standard econometric methods widely applied in PBC related research. According to our research results, households’ consumption spending decreases before elections because of the higher uncertainty about their future economic situation due to the highly politicised public employment.
O23|Developmental perspectives on Europe|The crisis of 2008–2009 has ended, stockmarkets skyrocketed in 2012–2013, while growth of the real sector remained sluggish in Europe. This article attempts to explain the latter puzzle. Analyzing long term factors, the costs of short-termism in crisis management become obvious. The limitations of EU as a growth engine are highlighted.
O23|More Than You Can Handle: Decentralization and Spending Ability of Peruvian Municipalities|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecpo12026-abs-0001""> This article builds on a comprehensive dataset for Peru that merges municipal fiscal accounts with information about municipalities’ characteristics such as population, poverty, education, and local politics to analyze the leading factors affecting the ability of municipalities to execute the allocated budget. According to the existing literature and the Peruvian context, we divide these factors into four categories: the budget size and allocation process; local capacity; local needs; and political economy constraints. While we do find that all four factors affect decentralization, the largest determinant of spending ability is the adequacy of the budget with respect to local capacity. The results confirm the need for decentralization to be implemented gradually over time in parallel with strong capacity building efforts."
O23|Escenarios de vulnerabilidad fiscal para la economía colombiana|"""El presente documento está compuesto por cuatro capítulos, excluyendo esta introducción, en donde se cuantifican esas sensibilidades y se estiman las necesidades de recursos tributarios que pueden surgir en consecuencia, para lo cual se utiliza el Modelo de Equilibrio General Computable de Fedesarrollo. Específicamente, el primer capítulo expone la trayectoria de las cuentas fiscales de la economía colombiana, según lo propuesto por el gobierno en el MFMP, describiendo los supuestos macroeconómicos y las sendas proyectadas de ingresos, gastos y balance fiscal. El Capítulo 2 analiza la posibilidad de choques internacionales en el comportamiento de las economías emergentes, en el precio de los productos básicos y en las condiciones de financiamiento internacional. El capítulo 3 examina las razones por las cuales habrá probablemente un incremento sustancial en el nivel de inversión pública con respecto a lo que actualmente se proyecta en el MFMP. El capítulo 4 se explican las otras tres fuentes de probable incremento del gasto asociadas a prioridades de política, en particular el sistema pensional, la salud, y los nuevos gastos que se espera realizar en los sectores agropecuario y rural, considerando allí el papel que podría cumplir un escenario de postconflicto."""
O23|La politique monétaire des pays émergents : les cinq dernières et les cinq prochaines années|Before the crisis emerging countries experienced substantial economic growth and their central banks made considerable progress in adopting modern and theoretically sound frameworks, which further reinforced the benign environment. That period of global growth now appears to have given way to a period where incremental growth looks more like a zero-sum game. As a result, later vintages of the capital stock in the emerging market export sector are likely to generate very low returns. We thus consider that their growth model is broken and that resource misallocation must be stopped. As highlighted during the last post crisis period, monetary policy is ill-equipped to reallocate resources to new sectors and regions. A better tool would be a modern industrial policy that must become the cornerstone of emerging countries policies. Classification JEL: E58, G01, O23, O25.
O23|How Much Will Health Coverage Cost? Future Health Spending Scenarios in Brazil, Chile, and Mexico - Working Paper 382|As Latin American countries seek to expand the coverage and benefits provided by their health systems under a global drive for universal health coverage (UHC), decisions taken today – whether by government or individuals – will have an impact tomorrow on public spending requirements. To understand the implications of these decisions and define needed policy reforms, this paper calculates long-term projections for public spending on health in three countries, analyzing different scenarios related to population, risk factors, labor market participation, and technological growth. In addition, the paper simulates the effects of different policy options and their potential knock-on effects on health expenditure. Without reforms aimed at expanding policies and programs to prevent disease and enhancing the efficiency of health systems, we find that health spending will likely grow considerably in the not-distant future. These projected increases in health spending may not be a critical situation if revenues and productivity of other areas of the economy maintain their historical trends. However, if revenues do not continue to grow, keeping the share of GDP spent on health constant despite growing demand will certainly affect the quality of and access to health services. Long-term fiscal projections are an essential component of planning for sustainable expansions of health coverage in Latin America.
O23|Assessment of the global financial crisis effects on energy consumption and economic growth in Malaysia: An input–output analysis|During the last three decades, dependence on foreign trade has increased sharply in Malaysia, causing the Malaysian economy to become increasingly export-oriented. The global financial crisis (GFC) affected Malaysia?s economic growth tremendously in the fourth quarter of 2008, and policy makers subsequently adopted effective measures to avoid future crises. The government unveiled two stimulus packages; the first—totalling RM7 billion (US$1.9 billion), accounting for 1.04% of the GDP—was launched in November 2008 while the second—totalling RM60 billion (US$16.2 billion), or 9% of the GDP—was launched in March 2009. The objectives of this paper are to (1) discuss the influence of the GFC on Malaysia?s trade and energy consumption and (2) analyse the effect of the Malaysian government?s stimulus plans for economic revival using an input–output model. The results indicate that the drop in exports caused by the GFC led to a 13% decrease in GDP and a 16% reduction in energy consumption. The stimulus packages led to 1.83% and 4.64% increases in economic growth and energy consumption, respectively.
O23|Escenarios de vulnerabilidad fiscal para la economia colombiana|Para medir la sostenibilidad fiscal de un pais, es importante pensar en prospectiva y evaluar si las proyecciones fiscales de mediano plazo son consistentes con la disponibilidad de recursos y la consistencia entre aquellos programas que implican gasto publico y la disposicion a generar los recursos tributarios o de otro tipo que se requieren para cumplirlos. A partir de la aprobacion de la Ley de la Regla Fiscal en 2011, la posibilidad de financiar gastos en forma deficitaria, mediante endeudamiento o venta de activos, quedo limitada en forma importante. En esta regla, introducida por la Ley 1473 de 2011, se plantean metas puntuales de deficit fiscal estructural para el Gobierno Nacional de Colombia, de tal manera que los planes de gasto de cualquier Gobierno deberan financiarse con ingresos corrientes, esto es, fundamentalmente con tributacion o con utilidades de las empresas publicas. La mayor parte de los gastos que se realizan en un periodo de gobierno corresponden a decisiones tomadas a traves de muchos anos por administraciones anteriores. Los planes de gasto publico de una economia no se inician a partir de cero y por ello resulta tan importante realizar proyecciones realistas acerca de los recursos que se encuentran comprometidos y sobre los cuales hay un bajo grado de discrecionalidad. Lo mismo sucede con los ingresos, que en alto grado responden a decisiones de tributacion adoptadas en el pasado y a fenomenos que no estan bajo control de los Gobiernos, tal como sucede, en el caso de Colombia, con el precio del petroleo. Desde el ano 2004 el Ministerio de Hacienda publica anualmente el Marco Fiscal de Mediano Plazo (MFMP), en el cual no solo se presentan las proyecciones oficiales sobre ingresos y gastos del Gobierno central para los siguientes 10 anos, sino que se estiman las principales contingencias que tiene el pais en este frente. Con esta publicacion, Colombia cuenta con un importante instrumento que facilita enormemente el debate sobre las perspectivas economicas del pais y sobre la eventual necesidad de buscar recursos tributarios adicionales a los que pueden proyectarse con las reglas y tarifas vigentes. Por supuesto, las proyecciones del MFMP estan sujetas a altos grados de incertidumbre, pero el analisis de sus principales vulnerabilidades y de escenarios alternativos permite plantear las disyuntivas que probablemente enfrente la siguiente administracion. El proposito de este trabajo es precisamente analizar el escenario propuesto por el gobierno en el MFMP evaluando la sensibilidad de estas proyecciones a choques exogenos provenientes del ambito internacional y a incrementos potenciales del gasto publico en el mediano plazo provenientes de intervenciones necesarias de politica publica. El presente documento esta compuesto por cuatro capitulos, excluyendo esta introduccion, en donde se cuantifican esas sensibilidades y se estiman las necesidades de recursos tributarios que pueden surgir en consecuencia, para lo cual se utiliza el Modelo de Equilibrio General Computable de Fedesarrollo. Especificamente, el primer capitulo expone la trayectoria de las cuentas fiscales de la economia colombiana, segun lo propuesto por el Gobierno en el MFMP, describiendo los supuestos macroeconomicos y las sendas proyectadas de ingresos, gastos y balance fiscal. El capitulo 2 analiza la posibilidad de choques internacionales en el comportamiento de las economias emergentes, en el precio de los productos basicos y en las condiciones de financiamiento internacional. El capitulo 3 examina las razones por las cuales habra probablemente un incremento sustancial en el nivel de inversion publica.
O23|Regalías directas por hidrocarburos y esfuerzo fiscal municipal en Colombia|Este paper analiza los efectos de las regalías por hidrocarburos sobre el esfuerzo fiscal de los municipios, definido como los ingresos por impuesto predial per cápita para los años 2004-2011. A través de métodos de estimación de panel con efectos fijos y de panel dinámico se busca esclarecer la elasticidad de corto y largo plazo del esfuerzo fiscal con respecto a los ingresos provenientes de las regalías directas, como proporción de los ingresos municipales totales. Los resultados muestran que en el corto plazo la elasticidad del esfuerzo fiscal con respecto a la dependencia fiscal en los recursos de regalías es de -0,65. En el largo plazo, esta elasticidad se reduce a -0,30.
O23|Pollution, Mortality and Optimal Environmental Policy|We study an overlapping generations economy in which environmental degradation results from economic activity and affects agents' uncertain lifetimes. Life expectancy depends positively on economic activity and negatively on the stock of pollution. This can make the growth-survival relationship convex over some region and lead to two non-trivial steady states, with one is a poverty trap. Uniform abatement taxes can cause the poverty trap to widen while increasing incomes at the high steady state. We also show that the optimal second-best abatement tax is non-homogeneous and increasing in the capital stock, and exhibits a variety of dynamic possibilities: non-existence of a steady state equilibrium, multiplicity of steady state equilibria and optimal policy cycles around some steady states.
O23|Redistribution via Taxation: The Limited Role of the Personal Income Tax in Developing Countries|In developed countries, the income tax, especially the personal income tax, has long been viewed as the primary instrument for redistributing income and wealth. This article examines whether it makes sense for developing countries to rely on the income tax for redistributive purposes. We put forth three propositions. First, the personal income tax has done little to reduce inequality in many developing countries. This failure is not surprising given that in many countries personal income taxes are neither comprehensive nor very progressive - they often amount to little more than withholding taxes on labor income in the formal sector. Moreover, the personal income tax plays such a small role in the tax systems of developing countries that it would be unrealistic to believe that this tax could have a meaningful impact on distribution. Second, it is not costless to pretend to have a progressive personal income tax system. Tax systems generate real administrative, compliance, economic efficiency and political costs. The costs associated with badly designed and badly administered personal income tax systems likely exceed the costs associated with other taxes. There are opportunity costs as well. Third, given the ineffectiveness of the personal income tax, if countries want to use the fiscal system to reduce poverty or reduce inequality, alternative approaches merit consideration. Countries need to make better use of their expenditure programs in targeting resources to the poor. Given the dominance of taxes on consumption in the tax structure of developing countries, the distributional consequences of consumption taxes are of far greater importance than those of the personal income tax. Countries can also make greater use of benefit taxation and in particular fiscal decentralization may allow for better matching of those who benefit and those who pay for government activity. Finally, countries can consider alternatives to taxing income other than the current comprehensive income approach.
O23|Growth Maximizing Tax Rate for Uzbekistan|Over the past two decades of transition from centrally planned economy to market economy Uzbekistan has experienced major structural changes. During this period the objectives of the tax policy were directed towards modernizing the tax system, increasing efficiency and reducing the tax burden on the economy. As a result, the tax revenue-to-GDP ratio decreased from 32.3 percent in 1992 to 22 percent in 2011. While in the early years of independence economic growth was negative, considerable economic expansion has been observed since 2000. In this paper, we investigate the relationship of economic growth and tax revenues in Uzbekistan using quarterly data from 1996 to 2011. The results suggest that the Uzbek government has reached growth maximizing tax rate by reducing tax burden on the economy and further tax cuts will be counterproductive. Moreover, tax policy reform should be directed to address intrinsic issues of the tax system as well as raising direct taxes and lowering indirect taxes.
O23|Shared accountability and partial decentralization in local public good provision|Recent decentralization reforms in developing countries have often lead to the coexistence of multiple tiers of government in given policy areas, triggering new accountability issues. This paper provides a novel theoretical treatment of the efficiency consequences of such ‘partial expenditure decentralization.’ It develops a political agency model in which two levels of government are involved in the provision of a local public good, with voters imperfectly informed about each government's contribution to the public good. A central result of the model is that partial decentralization is desirable only if the benefits of vertical complementarity in public good provision outweigh the costs of reduced accountability, which result from detrimental vertical strategic interactions operating through the electoral process. Through variants of the model, the interplay between decentralization and democratization is analyzed. From a positive point of view, the model predicts a relationship between electoral incentives and equilibrium decentralization.
O23|Public debt and the limits of fiscal policy to increase economic growth|This study proposes a theoretical model of endogenous growth that demonstrates that the level of the public debt-to-gross domestic product (GDP) ratio should negatively impact the effect of fiscal policy on growth. This effect occurs because government indebtedness extracts a portion of young people's savings to pay interest on the debts. Therefore, the payment of debt interest requires an allocation exchange system across generations that is similar to a pay-as-you-go pension system, which results in changes in the savings rate of the economy. The major conclusions of the theoretical model were verified using an econometric model that provides evidence of the validity of this conclusion. Our empirical analysis controls for time-invariant, country-specific heterogeneity in growth rates. We also address endogeneity issues and allow for heterogeneity across countries in the model parameters and for cross-sectional dependence.
O23|Fiscal policy, growth, income distribution and sociopolitical instability|This paper identifies the fiscal instruments that governments can use to promote economic growth when sociopolitical instability (SPI) is present. We show that fiscal policy that takes into account income distribution and SPI transforms a neoclassical growth model into one with both endogenous growth and a poverty trap. Under these circumstances, the growth rate of the economy depends upon SPI, fiscal policy and income distribution. The baseline level of SPI determines an economy's ability to grow. If SPI is high, the economy remains in a poverty trap even if fiscal policy instruments are set appropriately.
O23|Taxation and Democratization|Anecdotal evidence from pre-modern Europe and North America suggests that rulers are forced to become more democratic once they impose a significant fiscal burden on their citizens. One difficulty in testing this “taxation causes democratization” hypothesis empirically is the endogeneity of public revenues. I use introductions of value added taxes and autonomous revenue authorities as sources of quasi-exogenous variation to identify the causal effect of the fiscal burden borne by citizens on democracy. The instrumental variables regressions with a panel of 122 countries over the period 1981–2008 suggest that revenues have on average a mild positive effect on democracy.
O23|Three Decades of Human Development across Indian States: Inclusive Growth or Perpetual Disparity?|The importance of strengthening the human development (HD) achievements in a country to augment its growth potential is well known in development literature. Several initiatives to enhance the HD level have been introduced in India in recent past. However, the HD achievements still vary significantly across Indian States. The current paper attempts to observe the HD achievements for 28 Indian States over the last three decades and analyze their influence on growth patterns. The methodology adopted in the National Human Development Report 2001 has been applied for constructing the Human Development Index (HDI) in the current analysis, and the indices for rural and urban areas within each State are calculated separately. The results indicate importance of State-specific HD path and also the presence of high rural-urban disparity.
O23|From Volatility to Stabilization: Cyclicality of Fiscal Policy in Latin America over the Last Decades|Latin American countries experienced important changes over the last decade. The implementation of fiscal reforms, public debt reduction and the high level of accumulated reserves gave them more policy space than in the past. As a result, Latin American countries were able to implement countercyclical policies to face the negative economic and social consequences associated with the recent macroeconomic shock. Some countries performed better than others. In particular, Social Democratic and Centrist governments enjoyed more fiscal space; they had realized larger budget surpluses over the good years and were able to cope with the crisis without impairing their fiscal conditions.
O23|Growth in public finances as tool for control: Norwegian development 1850-1950|By drawing on information from public accounts from the nineteenth and twentieth century the present paper aims at mapping the development of key financial indicators for the Norwegian central government sector. It concludes that growth in the size of this sector often, but clearly not always, reflects political economy regimes. The paper concludes that persistant growth in public finances as tool for control over the economy did not take place before the introduction of the social-democratic regime in 1935.
O23|Decentralization in Colombia: searching for social equity in a bumpy economic geography|La descentralización en Colombia fue concebida para mejorar el acceso de la población a los servicios sociales, reducir la pobreza y proveer bienestar en todo el territorio. Sin embargo, después de más de 20 años persiste una gran brecha social entre los municipios. Este trabajo examina los factores determinantes de la pobreza multidimensional a nivel municipal. En particular, se analiza el impacto de un proceso de descentralización basado en la delegación de la prestación de servicios sociales, junto con el aumento de transferencias subnacionales desde el Gobierno Central, sobre el logro de mininos sociales descritos por la tasa de pobreza y la brecha de pobreza multidimensional. Utilizamos un enfoque de variables instrumentales para tener en cuenta la endogeneidad que surge al evaluar el impacto de la descentralización fiscal sobre la privación multidimensional; al mismo tiempo se tiene en cuenta la interdependencia espacial de la privación entre los municipios mediante la implementación de un modelo espacial autorregresivo con perturbación espacial autorregresiva. Encontramos resultados estadísticamente significativos en todas las especificaciones probadas que confirman: primero, la existencia de spillovers espaciales de la privación entre municipios que deben tenerse en cuenta al diseñar intervenciones de política pública. Segundo, efectos causales de la descentralización sobre la brecha y la tasa de pobreza multidimensional. Escenarios contrafactuales de políticas de descentralización espacialmente diferenciadas muestran ser más eficaces que aquellas que ignoran el rol de los factores geográficos.
O23|¿Hacia dónde va el Banco del Sur? Revisando la experiencia del bndes en Brasil|Los objetivos de este artículo son dos: 1) revisar la experiencia del Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Económico e Social (bndes) en su contribución al crecimiento económico de Brasil en dos periodos capitalistas, el keynesiano y el neoliberal; y 2) obtener algunas lecciones de esta revisión que puedan ser útiles para el futuro del Banco del Sur. La metodología usada en este trabajo es histórica-descriptiva y teórica-lógica. La primera sirve para revisar la historia económica de Brasil y la contribución que el bndes tuvo al crecimiento económico; y la segunda, se utiliza cuando se examina el papel del dinero en la acumulación de capital desde una perspectiva marxista./ Objectives of this paper are twofold: 1) to review the experience of the bndes (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social) in its contribution to economic growth in Brazil in two capitalist-historical periods, the Keynesian and the Neoliberal, and 2) to obtain some lessons, based on this experience, which can be useful for policy-makers. The methodology that we use in this article is both historical-descriptive and theoretical-logical. The first one is used to review the Brazilian economic history and bndes’ contribution to economic growth, and the second is used in examining the role of money in capital accumulation with a Marxian approach.
O23|El BNDES y la industrialización en Brasil. Evidencia histórica y econométrica|Este artículo tiene como objetivo mostrar que los bancos de desarrollo tienen un efecto positivo para el crecimiento económico. Se muestra específicamente el caso de Brasil, con su Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social (BNDES) fundado en 1952. Para cumplir nuestro objetivo utilizamos tanto herramientas históricas como de estadísticas. Nuestros resultados indican que: a) los desembolsos del BNDES tuvieron una importante contribución a la industrialización desde 1952 hasta 1970, y b) pruebas estadísticas señalan que la formación bruta de capital fijo antecede (o causa) los desembolsos realizados por el BNDES./ This article aims to show that development banks positively affect economic growth and generate employment, with the Brazilian development BNDES, founded in 1952, as an example. Using statistical as well as historical tools, we found that a) BNDES’ disbursements had an important contribution to industrialization from 1952 until the 1970s, and b) BNDES’ disbursements are highly correlated to investments in machinery and equipment.
O23|Government size, composition of public expenditure, and economic development|This paper analyzes the effects of government size and of the composition of public expenditure on economic development. Using the system-GMM estimator for linear dynamic panel data models, on a sample covering up to 156 countries and 5-year periods from 1980 to 2010, we find that government size as a percentage of GDP has a quadratic (inverted U-shaped) effect on the growth rate of the Human Development Index (HDI). This effect is especially pronounced in developed and high-income countries. We also find that the composition of public expenditure affects development, with the share of five subcomponents exhibiting nonlinear relationships with HDI growth. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
O23|Monetary policy analysis in an inflation targeting framework in emerging economies: The case of India|Monetary policy in India has moved towards an increasingly flexible exchange rate regime without any explicit framework for an alternative nominal anchor. The failure of monetary policy to anchor inflationary expectations of agents, coupled with negative supply shocks has kept inflation above the acceptable range of 5-5.5 percent for last five years in India. In this paper we present a model for policy analysis for India that provides insights in the setting of an inflation targeting framework to anchor inflationary expectations. The model offers an understanding of the extent to which various shocks, including the post-global crisis fiscal stimulus, accommodative monetary policy and ensuing decline in global demand, explain growth and inflation in India.
O23|Three Decades of Human Development across Indian States: Inclusive Growth or Perpetual Disparity?|The importance of strengthening the human development (HD) achievements in a country to augment its growth potential is well known in development literature. Several initiatives to enhance the HD level have been introduced in India in recent past. However, the HD achievements still vary significantly across Indian States. The current paper attempts to observe the HD achievements for 28 Indian States over the last three decades and analyze their influence on growth patterns. The methodology adopted in the National Human Development Report 2001 has been applied for constructing the Human Development Index (HDI) in the current analysis, and the indices for rural and urban areas within each State are calculated separately. The results indicate importance of State-specific HD path and also the presence of high ruralâ€“urban disparity.
O23|Incentivizing Net Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions in Rice Production: The Case of Arkansas Rice| U.S. rice industry producers face pressure from consumers, suppliers, and the government to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with rice (Oryza sativa L.) production. Arkansas rice cultivar-specific net GHG emissions information allows models of paddy rice emissions. Baseline levels of profit, yield variance, and GHG emissions are established using extension data. Varietal selection is then optimized to maximize profits and minimize GHG emissions, both constrained and unconstrained by baseline yield variance. Carbon abatement functions are estimated to examine the effects of hypothetical carbon prices on varietal selection.
O23|Impact of Income and Different Generation Cohorts on Nursery Products and Landscaping Project Spending| Socioeconomic factors influencing consumer demand for nursery products and landscape projects were investigated using consumer survey data collected from North Carolina in 2008. Tobit models were estimated for censored dependent variables, budget expenditure shares on nursery products, and landscape spending. The most significant factors influencing the share of income spent on nursery products were age and household income. The elderly and baby boomers tend to spend less on bedding plants, perennials, and outdoor hardscapes than Generations X and Y. The income elasticities suggest that the amount spent on outdoor living projects is sensitive to changes in household income, whereas spending in vegetable plants and chemicals is less responsive to income.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O23|Impact of Income and Different Generation Cohorts on Nursery Products and Landscaping Project Spending| Socioeconomic factors influencing consumer demand for nursery products and landscape projects were investigated using consumer survey data collected from North Carolina in 2008. Tobit models were estimated for censored dependent variables, budget expenditure shares on nursery products, and landscape spending. The most significant factors influencing the share of income spent on nursery products were age and household income. The elderly and baby boomers tend to spend less on bedding plants, perennials, and outdoor hardscapes than Generations X and Y. The income elasticities suggest that the amount spent on outdoor living projects is sensitive to changes in household income, whereas spending in vegetable plants and chemicals is less responsive to income.
O23|Taxation or regulation in preventing systemic risk? The political distortion|Free riding leads to excess risk production. This problem may be solved, at least partially, either by financial regulation or by taxation. From a normative viewpoint, taxation is superior in many respects. However, reality shows that financial regulation is adopted more frequently. If the majority chooses regulation, the level is likely to be too harsh. If it chooses taxation, then the level is likely to be too low. Due to regressive effects, a tax on financial transactions receives low support from a majority of low polluting portfolio owners.The same kind of majority may strategically choose regulation in order to burden the minority with a larger share of the cost of reducing systemic risk
