O29|Conference Presentations and Academic Publishing|This paper aims to quantify the contribution of conferences to publication success of more than 4,000 papers presented at three leading economics conferences over the 2006- 2012 period. The results show a positive link between conference presentation and the publishing probability in high-quality journals. Participating in major conferences is also associated with improved metrics for other measures of academic success such as the number of citations or abstract views. We document that, while the results are broadly similar across fields, annual meetings of the American Economic Association are particularly valuable in these dimensions.
O29|Transition Finance: Introducing a new concept|In answer to the call expressed within the Addis Ababa Action Agenda to mobilise all available resources – domestic and foreign, public and private – in support of the Sustainable Development Goals, the Development Co-operation Directorate develops a new work stream on transition finance to explore the evolution and interaction of public (official development assistance and other official flows) and private (foreign direct investments and remittances) sources of finance across the development continuum – studying multiple stages of development: low income countries, middle income countries, fragile contexts, and different regions of the world. Its ultimate objective is to advise the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) in preparing countries for transition (outlining the optimal financial mix and offering policy recommendations) and in building resilience.This paper introduces the concept of transition finance and initiates research to advise the DAC on its role as a major provider of development assistance among other public and private providers of financing for the 2030 Agenda.
O29|The Impact of Natural Gas Consumption on Industry Value Added in the Mediterranean Region|The current paper assesses the link between natural gas consumption (NGC) and macroeconomic variables for the period between 1980 and 2018 in the Mediterranean region. Analyses accounts for assessing the significance of the natural gas consumption on the industry value added (IVA) using fixed-effects panel data regression. In addition to that, this contribution evaluates the causal link between the variables cited above. Empirical findings indicate that there is a significant relationship between IVA and NGC. Furthermore, these two latter variables showcase a mutual causality in a sense that an increase in each of these variables will lead to the increase of the other one. Results also indicate that GDP causes the increase in natural gas consumption
O29|Capital, Non-Capital and Transformative Politics in Contemporary India|Kalyal Sanayal’s work on postcolonial capitalism has been influential in many strands of critical social theory. In this brief note, I investigate three key components of his argument and find them wanting. In particular, I show that the evolution of land ownership in India does not support the claim that the primitive accumulation of capital is one of the important processes in operation in contemporary India. On the contrary, the evidence suggests that the process of primitive accumulation has been arrested or significantly slowed down. In addition to the critical comments on Sanyal (2007), I indicate towards an alternative framework that is better able to explain the key features of contemporary India.
O29|Public Policy As A Tool For Floriculture Development In The Municipality Of Tepetlixpa Mexico State, Politica Publica Como Herramienta De Desarrollo Para La Floricultura Del Municipio De Tepetlixpa Estado De Mexico|One problem facing the flower industry in Mexico, is a low linkage between government sectors responsible for supporting resources to producers. There are shortcomings in the management, dissemination and application of various types of programs that provide financial resources. These programs include national, state and municipal development at the federal level, the public body responsible for implementation is the Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural development, Fisheries and Food (SAGARPA). Such support programs must be permeated by t federal, state and municipal government with the intention of promoting the development of the region. This paper examines these government programs
O29|Are There Common Structural Determinants of Potential Output Growth in Europe?: An empirical exercise for 11 EMU countries|GDP growth in the Eurozone during the last twenty years continuously decreased. In addition, the global financial crisis and subsequent events seem to have, on average, shifted the trajectory of the Eurozone’s potential output downward. A key question is whether this trend is a permanent result of “secular stagnation” or if economic policies might improve the situation. In this paper, we intend to test the impact of several structural determinants of potential output growth using a dynamic panel data methodology for 11 main EMU members for the period 1996-2014. We also take into account the role of fiscal policy stance and debt dynamics to assess whether European fiscal rules, especially in the aftermath of the financial and sovereign debt crises, contributed to the slowdown of potential growth. Estimated results suggest that population, tertiary education, research and development expenditure, trade and financial openness, and institutional quality contributed significantly to potential output growth in the EMU during the period under examination. By estimating a quadratic relation between debt and potential growth, we find that negative effects dominate for values above 132%; however, the impact of public debt is statistically uncertain even for levels slightly below 100%. Once debt dynamics are taken into account, we find that excessive and prolonged consolidation, measured using the cyclically adjusted primary balance, might have, at best, no effect on potential growth when debt levels do not exceed the threshold level.
O29|Разработка стратегий социально-экономического развития: наука vs идеология<BR>[Designing the Strategies for Socio-Economic Development: Science vs. Ideology]|"Strategies for socio-economic development in ""catching-up"" countries are designed on the basis of ideologies dominated in the society and, as a rule, fail. Until recently, economic science could not offer an alternative basis for designing strategies, but over the past twenty years the situation has changed. Nevertheless, scientific results are still weakly demanded by society. In this paper, the conflict between economics and dominant ideology is explored. On the one hand, ideology restrains the development of scientific research, and on the other hand it is changing under their influence. However, these changes are very slow for a number of reasons, analyzed in the paper. Ideology is inevitably connected with the interests of economic agents. The old elite prevents the emergence of a new ideology, since new concepts reveal the mistakes of past projects. In addition, the implementation of new ideas may require institutional changes that weaken the power of existing high-ranking officials. Meanwhile, in modern societies there are no regular mechanisms providing such transformations, and the probability of rational volitional decisions, which confront the dominant ideology, is small."
O29|What matters for the quality of education in South Asia: An empirical examination with a QEI|Globally, there has been a significant focus regarding the educational attainment up until now, yet when we move our concentration towards educational quality, we see quite the contrary. The perceptible dearth of existing literature, particularly on developing nations and South Asia, leads us to attempt to investigate this South Asian void in the education sector. With the assistance of data from World Bank and Penn World Table, this paper endeavours to construct a Quality of Education Index (QEI) for 139 countries for 25 years and discover the determinants affecting quality. In this regard, the paper has employed OLS, Random-effects GLS and Fixed-effects techniques to identify the dominant factors in a panel regression over 16 years, and has found public expenditure on education and infrastructural quality as two key driving forces for quality, while other factors, such as control of corruption, likewise have a part to play. In addition to providing a descriptive comparison between South Asia and Southeast Asia based on the QEI, policy prescriptions and potential avenues for further widening the scope of the QEI in the future are also mentioned.
O29|Are there common structural determinants of potential output growth in Europe? An empirical exercise for 11 EMU countries|GDP growth in the Eurozone during the last twenty years continuously decreased. In addition, the global financial crisis and subsequent events seem to have, on average, shifted the trajectory of the Eurozone’s potential output downward. A key question is whether this trend is a permanent result of “secular stagnation” or if economic policies might improve the situation. In this paper, we test the impact of several structural determinants of potential output growth using a dynamic panel data methodology for 11 main EMU members for the period 1996-2014. We also take into account the role of fiscal policy stance and debt dynamics to assess whether European fiscal rules, especially in the aftermath of the financial and sovereign debt crises, contributed to the slowdown of potential growth. Estimated results suggest that population, tertiary education, research and development expenditure, trade and financial openness, and institutional quality contributed significantly to potential output growth in the EMU during the period under examination. We further find that debt accumulation affects positively and significantly potential growth for debt values up to 90% of GDP.
O29|Participatory Approach In Project Management And Developement In Developing Countries|Community development and management in most developing countries especially in Africa has been retarded because the main participants which are the local people have been left out or neglected in the implementation of developmental projects by either governments or some developmental agencies Whereas, participatory approach is a method of conceiving projects in which all the stake holders have a say in decision making which has greatly been the canker-worm of developing countries. They are various types of participatory approaches which may include Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA), Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) and Participatory Assessment Monitoring and Evaluation (PAME) which could be analyzed as appropriate approach in realizing Community?s effort in developing countries and stresses the need for integration, participation and empowerment. With the application of these principles, the integration of various stake holders will enhances cross ?sectoral? harmonization of developmental objectives as well as increased coordination between agencies involved in the developmental process. Participation on its part gives the opportunity for consultation with those most directly affected which most at times are rural dwellers in developing countries; hence increasing the level of involvement of local people in the development process (Storey, 1999) and gives community members to take part in identifying priority areas, decision making and vulnerable groups to participate effectively in community development. By Awa Julius A.
O29|The need to customise innovation indicators in developing countries|Innovation is becoming more and more important as a driver of economic growth. In developed countries, a diverse set of innovation indicators has been developed to monitor innovation performance and the impact of innovation policies. Developing countries have been late to jump on this bandwagon and are now faced with a set of well-established innovation indicators that might not be that well suited to measure innovation in their economies. Existing innovation indicators can be broadly classified into three different types: Science & Technology (S&T) indicators, Innovation survey indicators, and Composite innovation indicators combining different indicators, including S&T and Innovation survey data, into one indicator. All of these have their own particular strengths and weaknesses, and they score above or below average on a wide range of attributes considered to be favourable, if not downright necessary, for innovation indicators. This paper argues that, for innovation indicators, and for innovation survey indicators in particular, data collection has to be customised to the different socio-economic structures of developing countries. For this, the definition of innovation has to become more inclusive by recognising the multitude of innovation actors and processes in developing countries. Developing countries also need to build competence regarding innovation indicators, not only within their statistical systems but also among their policy makers.
O29|Global and domestic inequalities and the political economy of the midde-income trap|Some middle-income economies, many of which Latin American, have not achieved to make the transition into high-income status for long years and are allegedly trapped in middle-income status. While there is considerable consensus on the proximate causes of this phenomenon, we present a global political economy perspective to the discussion, arguing that global and domestic inequalities, both political and economic, are key to understand the issue. We subject our argument to empirical scrutiny, using fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) on data spanning the years 1976-2009. Both domestic economic equality and political independence from the influence of an external power turn out to be robust characteristics supporting growth convergence of middle-income countries.
O29|Vidékfejlesztési Jó Gyakorlatok Adaptálásának Lehetősége Hernádkércsen| A tanulmány Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén megye egyik hátrányos helyzetű aprótelepüléséről szól, amely Magyarország többi hasonló helyzetben lévő településével együtt a fennmaradásáért küzd. Vizsgálatunkhoz a környező sikeres vidékfejlesztési programot megvalósító települések felkeresése adta az alapot, ahol Hernádkércs település számára is használható, vagy részeiben átültethető programokról gyűjthettünk információkat. A vizsgálat alapjául olyan települések szolgáltak, amelyek megközelítőleg hasonló helyzetükből sikeresen tudnak előre lépni, fejlődni. A minél jobb összehasonlíthatóság miatt közeli településeket választottunk, ahol a környezeti feltételek is közel azonosak, így Hernádszentandrás és Halmaj településekről vettük a mintát. A települések bemutatását követően a sikeresség alapvető feltételeit rögzítettük. A primer kutatási módszerek közül a települések vezetőivel interjút készítettünk, illetve a céltelepülésen élőkkel kérdőíves felmérést. Hernádkércsről komplex helyzetfeltárás készült, a település általános jellemzőin túl megvizsgáltuk a rendelkezésre álló természeti erőforrásokat, valamint a társadalmi és gazdasági struktúrát. A kutatási eredmények alapján összehasonlítottuk a vizsgált településeket és javaslatokat fogalmaztunk meg Hernádkércs számára a közeljövő fejlesztési lépéseinek meghatározásával. ---------------------------------------------The study is linked to a small village in disadvantageous situation located in Borsod- Abaúj-Zemplén County. This village is struggling for subsistence together with many other small villages in a similar position in Hungary. To achieve our goals we visited neighbouring villages which realized successful rural development programs. These villages can be useful examples for Hernádkércs. We collected information and experiences about wholly or partly transplantable programs. The study was based on villages which were approximately similar position and situation such as Hernádkércs and successfully stepped forward and developed. In favour of better comparability we had chosen villages in the neighbourhood, where the environmental conditions are almost the same. Accordingly to these expectation Hernádszentandrás and Halmaj served as a model. After the comprehensive presentation of the villages we verified the fundamental conditions of successfulness. In the course of our survey we applied primer research methods. We interviewed the mayors of the three villages and made a questionnaire survey in Hernádkércs. On the basis of statistical data we examined the social and economic structure of the settlement and evaluated the available natural resources. According to the research results we compared the studied villages, drew the conclusions and drafted proposals to development Hernádkércs.
O29|Tourism Industry Development In The Emerging Economies Of Central And Eastern Europe (Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania)|Emerging Economies from Central and Eastern Europe take steps to ensure growth through tourism. Although they do not have the cultural, historical and artistic potential of the most famous tourist destinations, these economies promote forms of tourism for which they have suitable conditions. For example, Hungary is famous for health tourism, Bulgaria has made progress in terms of coastal tourism and Romania tries to make known the rural area although it has all conditions for practicing a wide diversified range of tourism forms. In this paper we present statistics showing how the tourism industry looks for three Central and Eastern European countries and we do a brief comparative analysis.
O29|Arborización y crimen urbano en Bogotá|La relación entre vegetación y criminalidad ha sido motivo de investigación reciente entre estudiosos del entorno urbano. Se argumenta que si bien la vegetación puede tener efectos positivos sobre la salud humana, por otro lado podría relacionarse con una mayor propensión a determinadas actividades criminales La literatura existente sobre el tema se concentra en estudios de caso en países desarrollados. Este estudio es el primer esfuerzo por cuantificar dicha relación en un país emergente. Utilizando datos censales y georreferenciados de árboles en Bogotá (Colombia) se logra establecer que el proceso de arborización tiene un efecto positivo sobre la criminalidad de la ciudad. Específicamente, mediante modelos econométricos espaciales se encuentra que el acto de plantar árboles tiene efectos estadísticos y económicos negativos sobre el hurto a personas.
O29|"Still the queens of social sciences? (Post-)Crisis power balances of ""public economists"" in Germany"|"In spite of the manifold critique about the state of economics in the aftermath of the financial crisis, an even increasing presence of economists and economic experts can be observed in the public sphere during the last years. On the one hand this reflects the still dominant position of economics in the social sciences as well as the sometimes ignorant attitude of economists towards findings of other social sciences. On the other hand this paper shows that the public debate on politicoeconomic issues among economists is dominated by a specific subgroup of economists, tightly connected to an institutional network of ""German neoliberalism"". This group of ""public economists"" (i) is dominant in public debates even after the financial crisis, (ii) reproduces the formative German economic imaginary of the Social Market Economy in a German neoliberal interpretation and (iii) has a good access to German economic policymaking, rooted in a long history of economic policy advice."
O29|Broken windows and crime in development challenged urban areas: Evidence from Jackson, Mississippi USA|As crime is potentially harmful for the economic development and growth of cities, insights into the causal factors of crime can inform policy interventions that could catalyze urban economic growth and development. This paper adds to the empirical literature on the Broken Windows hypothesis by examining the possibly causal effects that housing stock quality associated with disorder has on crime at the urban neighborhood level. Crime is fundamentally spatial in nature in the sense that it takes place in particular spaces such as neighborhoods. Crime may also correspond to particular environmental characteristics of neighborhoods if individual criminal activity reflects optimizing behavior based upon signals that convey tolerance for crime in a particular environment. The Broken Window Hypothesis posits that criminals optimize conditional on the characteristics of a neighborhood that the criminal perceives to be measures of the extent to which a particular neighborhood cares about or tolerates criminal activity. If criminals engage in rational inference, they can percieve that a neighborhood’s housing characeristics are correlated with a neighborhood’s tolerance for criminal activity and disorder, and the housing characteristic become an input into a crime decision problem. The individual decision to commit a crime can be viewed as a game in which there are neighborhoods among a continuum of types that signal the extent to which crime is tolerated in a neighborhood. With data on police reported crime across census blocks and neighborhoods in the city of Jackson Mississippi, we estimate the parameters of Poisson specifications of the optimal decision to commit a crime conditional on a neighborhood’s housing stock quality and characteristics. We find that overall crime increases with a neighborhood’s level of vacant housing, housing stock age, and housing occupancy turnover as parameter estimates show that consistent with the Broken Windows hypothesis, total neighborhood crime increases with respect to changes in housing stock quality that indicate neighborhood degradation. Our results suggest that there is significant scope for urban housing policy interventions to improve public safety, which could catalyze urban economic growth in development challenged urban areas. In general, our findings support housing policy interventions that improve an urban neighborhood’s housing stock quality, as it reduces individual incentives to engage in criminaly activity and the crime rate. Such interventions could catalyze urban economic growth, as crime rates are inversely related to economic growth and mitigate and/or eliminate the development challenges of adverse race-based economic and social outcomes associated with individuals located in urban and city geographies in the United States.
O29|Horizontal Objectives Of Eu Programmes And The Socio-Cultural Context For Eap Members|As the Eastern Partnership (EaP) was founded in 2009, between European Union (EU) and six countries from Eastern Europe, its main goal was to create adequate conditions for economic integration, social and regional development of the EaP country members. Based on the same principles as the EU was built, international law and fundamental values (e.g. human rights, freedom, democracy, rule of law), sustainable development and also good governance, the EaP was regularly analysed and renewed (once every two years) in order to better respond to the needs of Eastern European countries. Even so, while the economic context was especially considered, there are still some actions to be undertaken with regards to socio-cultural factors. Therefore the aim of the paper is toanalyse the socio-cultural context of the six Eastern European EaP members (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine) in order to make recommendations regarding their absorption capacity when integrating the horizontal EU objectives into the funding neighbourhood instruments. Our main research question is: what is the right approach for developing operational funding programmes (individual/bilateral or partnership/multilateral participations) for EaP members: is it by maintaining the EU horizontal objective orby adapting these objectives from the beginning considering the socio-cultural context?
O29|Typology of diaspora entrepreneurship: Case studies in Uzbekistan|Abstract The characteristics and importance of transnational diasporans as entrepreneurs for the economy and international business of emerging countries have remained underexplored. This paper addresses types of diaspora entrepreneurship (DE) theoretically and empirically in the context of Uzbekistan. Diaspora entrepreneurship is often seen as necessity-driven and less opportunity-driven. So far, emerging Central-Asian countries are considered countries of origin (COOs) of diasporans, but not yet as countries wherein diasporans want to invest and work, that is, countries of residence (CORs). Uzbekistan is also a post-Soviet economy with limited tradition on private entrepreneurship. Thus, the paper asks what makes people become entrepreneurs in emerging countries such as Uzbekistan when they have alternative opportunities in developed countries. It explores key drivers and socio-cultural reasons for the entry and establishment decision and introduces a typology of DE. This multiple case study presents implications and findings on culturally different entrepreneurs who have decided to enter Uzbek business elucidating their motivations and role in transition economies.
O29|Transformation Without Paternalism| Human development is meant to be transformational in that it aims to improve people's lives by enhancing their capabilities. But who does it target: people as they are or the people they will become? This paper argues that the human development approach relies on an understanding of personal identity as dynamic rather than as static collections of preferences, and that this distinguishes human development from conventional approaches to development. Nevertheless, this dynamic understanding of personal identity is presently poorly conceptualized and this has implications for development practice. We identify a danger of paternalism and propose institutionalizing two procedural principles as side constraints on development policies and projects: the principle of free prior informed consent and the principle of democratic development.
O29|Communicating progress in national and global adaptation to climate change|The Paris Agreement, adopted by the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), reinforces the international framework for adaptation action by establishing a global adaptation goal. Under the Paris Agreement, countries have also agreed to an enhanced transparency framework for action, which includes adaptation. The Agreement also requests each Party to submit and update an “adaptation communication” as appropriate. This paper explores what elements of countries’ adaptation responses and progress could be reported under the Paris Agreement so as to better communicate efforts towards enhanced adaptation and resilience. The paper also highlights the potential benefits both at a national and an international level from identifying and collating adaptation-related information. Finally the paper outlines a possible structure of an adaptation communication, and identifies options and associated information needs for the adaptation-related components of the global stocktake agreed to in the Paris Agreement. Communiquer sur les progrès accomplis au plan national et international en matière d'adaptation au changement climatique L'Accord de Paris, adopté par les Parties à la Convention-cadre des Nations Unies sur le changement climatique (CCNUCC), renforce le cadre international des efforts d'adaptation en établissant un objectif mondial d'adaptation. Au sein de l’Accord, les pays sont également convenus d'un cadre de transparence renforcé pour l'action, qui comprend l'adaptation. Aux termes de l'Accord, chaque Partie devrait aussi, selon qu'il convient, présenter et actualiser une « communication relative à l'adaptation ». Le présent rapport passe en revue les éléments des mesures d'adaptation et des progrès accomplis par les pays qui pourraient être notifiés au titre de l'Accord de Paris, afin d’améliorer la communication sur les efforts déployés en faveur de l'adaptation et de la résilience. Ce rapport montre les retombées positives que pourraient avoir l’identification et le rassemblement des informations sur l'adaptation au plan tant national qu’international. Il propose enfin une structure pour une communication relative à l'adaptation, et recense les options envisageables pour la composante adaptation du bilan mondial prévu dans l'Accord de Paris, ainsi que les besoins d'information correspondants.
O29|The Pillars of Potential Growth and the Role of Policy: A Panel Data Approach|Potential output growth generally decelerated after the global financial crisis during 2008–2009. This paper examines the possible determinants of potential output growth using Bayesian Model Averaging and assesses how the determinants can be used to increase the growth of potential output. It finds that the long-term growth of working-age population, the tertiary level gross enrollment ratio, the technology gap with the United States (US), labor market rigidity, trade openness, financial integration and the quality of institutions robustly affect potential output growth. Using Harrod’s definition of potential output growth as the sum of the long-run growth rates of the labor force and labor productivity, we find that the trend growth rate of working-age population is a good proxy variable for long-run labor force growth. Under this definition, the other determinants affect potential output growth through their impact on the growth of labor productivity. The paper finds support for the hypotheses that tertiary enrollment and trade openness affects potential output growth nonlinearly. It also finds that trade openness and tertiary enrollment have nonlinear effects on potential output growth, and that the technology gap with the US and financial integration have statistically significant interaction effects on potential output growth. Results suggest that reforms aimed at reducing the technology gap with the US and increasing the extent of financial integration have lower impact on countries with high-quality institutions.
O29|Increasing Support and Job Satisfaction for Program Administrators at the Postgraduate Medical Education Off|Background: Realizing Program Administrators (PAs) are crucial to the success of the postgraduate medical education (PGME) program, the postgraduate medical education office at the University of Ottawa conducted a needs analysis to; (a) identify training opportunities PAs felt would support them in being effective at meeting role expectations including supporting Program Directors (PDs); and (b) gather information from PAs to guide the PGME office in taking positive action toward increasing satisfaction with services and resources. Methods: A mixed methods approach, involved collecting and analyzing data from online surveys and follow-up qualitative interviews. The constructs of the W(e)Learn framework (content, media (delivery), service, structure and outcomes) guided the data analysis. Results: PAs identified the following professional development topics they said would benefit them: Human Resources; Communication and Conflict Management Courses; Career Development; Evaluation, Policy, Multigenerational Workforces; and Best Technological Practices of Relevance to PAs. The PAs also identified several recommendations for how the PGME office could facilitate them effectively carrying out their roles and responsibilities. Conclusions: An effective form of support is offering convenient, relevant professional development to help employees meet role expectations. A well-designed professional development program should begin with a needs analysis to determine stakeholder needs with regard to relevant content, preferred delivery methods, service issues and course structure, in order to ensure desired learner outcomes.
O29|Still the queen of the social sciences? (Post-)Crisis power balances of 'public economists' in Germany|As an immediate reaction to the recent financial crisis, it has been criticized that many economists are still acting as economic advisers for Ministries or the bureaucracy, although they have not been able to foresee the crisis . Academic economists still hold central positions in policy making; they influence decisions in economic expert panels or research departments in national and supranational organizations. Beside their role as policy advisors, economists also engage in public debates in a more narrow sense as technical economic experts as well as in a broader sense as 'public intellectuals' in the process of the transmission of economic knowledge in public (economic) policy discourses. In spite of the manifold critique about the state of economics in the aftermath of the crisis, an even increasing presence of economists and economic experts can be observed in the pu blic sphere during the last years . On the one hand this reflects the still dominant position of economics in the social sciences as well as the sometimes ignorant attitude of economists towards findings of other social sciences. On the other hand this pape r shows that the public debate on politico - economic issues among economists is dominated by a specific sub group of economists, tightly connected to an institutional network of 'German neoliberalism'. This group of 'public economists' (i) is dominant in pub lic debates even after the financial crisis, (ii) reproduces the formative German economic imaginary of the Social Market Economy in a German neoliberal interpretation and (iii) has a good access to German economic policymaking, rooted in a long history of economic policy advice.
O29|Zöldenergia És A Vidékfejlesztés Kapcsolódásai| Tanulmányunkban arra kívánunk rámutatni, hogy a megújuló energiaforrások hasznosítása milyen formában és milyen mértékben járulhat hozzá a vidéki térségek gazdasági-társadalmi problémáinak megoldásához, népességmegtartó erejük növekedéséhez. Az utóbbi években, évtizedekben a különböző megújuló energia ágazatok a regionális támogatáspolitika egyik fontos célterületévé váltak, amivel párhuzamosan a potenciális befektetők érdeklődését is felkeltették. A vidéki térségek alacsony népsűrűségükkel és a természeti erőforrásokban való viszonylagos gazdagságukkal sok esetben igen kedvező feltételeket nyújtanak ahhoz, hogy ezeknek a beruházásoknak a helyszínéül szolgáljanak. A helyi gazdaságfejlesztés szempontjai alapján pozitívnak nevezhetjük, hogy ez által a térséghez kötött, belső erőforrások hasznosítására kerül sor. A gyakorlatban azonban fontos kérdéseket vet fel a beruházásokkal kapcsolatban, hogy azok milyen mértékben támaszkodhatnak helyben elérhető pénzügyi forrásokra, szakértelemre, megfelelő számú fogyasztóra. Magyarországi és nemzetközi példák alapján arra vonatkozóan kerestünk és vizsgáltunk meg jó gyakorlatokat, hogy az energiapolitikai és környezetvédelmi célok megvalósításán túl a zöldenergia beruházások hogyan segíthetik új jövedelemforrások, új munkahelyek, olcsón elérhető energia, innovációk megteremtését és a közösség építését a vidéki térségekben. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Our study was made to show that the utilization of renewable energy resources in what form and how can contribute to solve the economic and social problems of rural regions and increase the population retaining force. In the last years or decades the different renewable energy sectors became an important objective of regional policy. In parallel with these changes the renewable energy sources aroused the interest of potential investors. The low population density and relative richness of natural resources in rural areas provide favourable conditions for location of these investments. On the base of local economic development aspects was designated as positive effects that the investments utilize the internal resources of these regions. However in practice it raises different significant questions. What is the role of local financial resources, professional skills and sufficient number of customers in renewable energy investments? This research was made to search and examine good practices among green energy investments which realized not only targets of energy policy and environmental protection. It was recognized how create these investments new source of income, new workplaces, affordable energy, innovations and build communities in rural areas.
O29|Circular Economy In Romania Within European Context|In the present paper we have approached some conceptual and coordinated marks of the societal reality connected to the circular economy. Generated by „the limits of certainty” regarding the future of the world business, the operationalization of the circular economy has become a part of the EU strategies and started the various stages of implementation as an active process in all countries. We have highlighted the opportunities and the risks related to the circular economy, the European dimension and, in particular, the Romanian one of this process, the role of the triad: consumer-company-natural environment, while implementing the circular economy. Circular economy is both a new approach of the societal life, based on changing the mentalities of the individuals having the role of decision makers at the company level and public administration and the decision makers – consumers, as well as a policy meant to be made operational across all entities: governmental, entrepreneurial, individually – human.
O29|Geography, Writing System and History of Ancient Civilizations|We find an undiscovered effect of geography on the choices of writing system in ancient civilizations that in turn drive their courses of historical evolution. The history of the ancient civilizations was driven by the causation spirals generated by the writing system chosen by their ancient ancestors. Understanding the mechanism can enlighten our present political choices that in turn determine the future course of humankind evolution. It can also inspire us about the clue to build an inclusive global society that can integrate the cumulative knowledge, ideas and technology of the diverse speech-communities in the world for a better quality of living for all.
O29|Governos Geisel e Dilma: o poder das finanças|O objetivo principal é identificar a origem do poder das finanças nos dois últimos governos da ditadura militar, sobretudo no governo Geisel (1974-1978), entendido como definitivo para a compreensão da história política e econômica do Brasil nas últimas décadas. Ao final, sugerimos aproximações entre o governo Geisel e os governos do Partido dos Trabalhadores (PT), possíveis na medida em que ambos praticaram políticas favoráveis ao setor produtivo, sem enfrentamento dos interesses financeiros, afora o breve momento em que o governo Dilma tentou baixar os juros bancários. ***** El objetivo principal del artículo es identificar el origen del poder de las finanzas en los dos últimos gobiernos de la dictadura militar, especialmente el gobierno Geisel (1974-1978), entendido como decisivo para la comprensión de la historia política y económica del Brasil en las últimas décadas. Al final se sugieren similitudes entre el Gobierno Geisel y los gobiernos del Partido de los Trabajadores (PT), posibles ya que los últimos también adoptaran políticas favorables al sector productivo, sin enfrentamiento de los intereses financieros, aparte del breve tiempo en el que el Gobierno de Dilma intenta bajar los intereses bancarios.
O29|Does Financial Development Promote Innovation in Developing Economies? An Empirical Analysis|Using firm-level data from 2006 to 2013 for a set of developing countries, we examine the effects of financial development on innovation. Financial development boosts innovation by improving resource allocation and investment toward strategic sectors as well as facilitating technology to promote growth. Using binary response models as well as instrumental variable techniques to correct for endogeneity, we find robust but puzzling results. Contrary to most existing literature, financial development has a negative effect on the probability of a firm to innovate. The effect is conditional on firm size, and only larger firms are the ones that benefit from financial development. These results are robust to different measures of financial development. We argue that this is a result of the design of the financial system in regards to the lack of capital and the institutional system. Consequently, developing countries should first generate appropiate insitutional conditions if they want financial development to spur growth through innovation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O29|Financialisation of built environments:A literature review|This paper provides a review of research into financialisation of built environments, especially in relation to urban politics, social geographies and sustainability. Focus is limited here to the theoretical and conceptual substance of selected literature. Financialisation is conceptualised as a profoundly spatial process, forging social relations that form conditions for urban governance, social geographic change and urban sustainability. The paper frames financialisation of built environments as a process enmeshed with related processes of commodification, privatisation, neoliberalisation, and accumulation by dispossession, associated with the creation and appropriation of rent gaps. Land rent and rent gaps are highlighted as central to understanding financialisation of built environments. We then review research into relations between financialisation of built environments and urban governance, i.e. how financialisation impacts upon, while being facilitated or deterred by, urban politics. This sets the stage for reviewing research into relations between financialisation of built environments and observed patterns of change in the social geographies of cities, and research into the sustainability implications of financialisation of built environments. Conclusions reconsider the nature of the relationship between financialisation and urbanisation, and the challenges of bringing financial systems into the service of achieving social and natural sustainability.
O29|Financialisation of the built environment in Stockholm and Copenhagen|This paper investigates financialisation of built environments in Stockholm and Copenhagen, especially within the sphere of housing. It presents empirical analyses of processes of financialisation of built environments in the two cities, and how these processes relate to urban politics and governance. The case studies include analyses of how financialisation of built environments and associated shifts in urban politics have impacted on the social geographies of these two capital cities. The Stockholm and Copenhagen cases are presented as individual case studies. A comparative analysis including broader conclusions from these studies and a related case study (of Ankara, in a separate working paper) will be the subject of a sequel working paper.
O29|Does Access to Better Water and Sanitation Infrastructure Improve Child Outcomes? Evidence from Latin America and the Caribbean|I review the evidence on access to water and sanitation infrastructure and child outcomes In Latin America. I show that there are large differences in access across countries and, within countries, between households living in urban and rural areas. Many papers in the public health literature show associationsbetween access to clean water sources or improved sanitation, on the one hand, and child outcomes like the incidence of diarrhea or child development, on the other. These papers provide only weak evidence of causality. Stronger evidence comes from a handful of papers that exploit historical accidents in the extension of coverage of water and sanitation infrastructure, although the evidence is limited to child mortality, rather than morbidity, nutritional status, and development. Also, it has generally not been possible to separately estimate the effects of changes in quantity and quality of water because piped water frequently improves both. Given the paucity of the evidence to date, there would be large returns to evaluations that had credibly exogenous sources of variation in access to piped water or sanitation, and traced out the benefits to children, including surviving children, over time.
O29|Development of a Multidimensional Sustainable Livelihoods Model for Rural Bangladesh|This paper offers a multidimensional livelihoods asset model customized to local priorities in rural Bangladesh, and so advances the DFID’s livelihoods model. The model enables measurement of relative livelihoods asset achievements of poor men and women living in ameliorating poverty. The study is based on primary data collected from 30 villages in Bangladesh. It has been observed that women have better record in achieving social capital (such as vote casting, decision making at jobs, etc.) whereas, men are better off in gaining financial capital (such as higher savings). Significantly less achievement in the indicators of human capital (such as more sick days, and high morbidity) in the rural areas is alarming.
O29|The competitiveness and development strategies of provinces in China: a data envelopment analysis approach|This paper explores the development strategies of Chinese provinces by synthesizing the dimensions of a competitiveness index and the Data Envelopment Analysis model. After documenting the close relationship between real GDP per capita and competitiveness, we introduce a production approach to study competitiveness and develop various possible strategies facing a province. In particular, while coastal provinces should consider innovating new technologies and institutions to improve competitiveness, western provinces may adopt a proportional development strategy that simultaneously enhances every aspect of its competitiveness. Further, the proportional development strategy for competitiveness is found to reduce regional disparity. The policy implications from our framework could not have been achieved had the analysis been solely based on the conventional methods of studying the competitiveness index. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
O29|Agenda Change in Western Development Organizations: From Hard Production to Soft, Timeless, Placeless Policy|This is a talk about the dramatic change in the understanding of what constitutes “development” that occurred in the West and in much of the developing world after the mid 1980s. Before that time it was widely understood that development meant rising overall “prosperity” and that heavy investment in infrastructure and in industry were key drivers. After the mid 1980s the content of development came to be “extreme poverty reduction”, “humanitarian assistance”, “primary school education”, “primary health care”, “anti-corruption”. Why this change? I argue that it was due to several factors: (1) the end of the Cold War, and the resulting change in the geopolitical strategy of Western states led by the US; (2) the increasing strength of “post-materialist” values in developed countries and their translation into the content of Western development thinking (eg World Bank, USAID, DfID); (3) business interests in the West; and (4) continued Western control of inter-state organizations that are meant to be organizations for the world (eg World Bank). There are now small signs of change in favor of investment in production and infrastructure, thanks partly to the recent emergence of inter-state “by- pass” organizations not controlled by Western states (such as the New Development Bank, the Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank).
O29|Banda larga, cultura e desenvolvimento [Broadband, culture and development]|In 2010, Brazil defined its National Broadband Plan (known as PNBL - Plano Nacional de Banda Larga). Broadband connection has been acquiring primal importance to the organization of productive processes, commodities, money circulation and cultural organization. The internet speed connection that allows us real-time transmission of data, audio and video is an essential factor for most economic and social processes. Universal access, considered an important element in the consolidation of a digital culture, is a typical issue for developing countries due to high costs and economic conditions of the low-income stratum. Thisstratum, without real public policies, are expected to remain excluded from this process, thus, the old dilemmas of developmentalism return. In this paper we defend the view that the universalization of broadband connection needs to be at the core of a wider public political discussion related to cultural democratization.
O29|The Effects Of Regional Policies In Romania|If we were to consider that Romania was formed by the unification of provinces that experienced a strong unity through culture, language, religion, as well as through the intense trade relations existing between them over time, we may say that our country has an important historical experience regarding regionalisation. After 1989, Romania underwent a radical change of economic and political organisation (from a centralised economy to a free, market economy) and the approximation to the Western economic structures, the European Union (EU). Under these conditions the national authorities had to take into account the principles and the organisation and functioning of the European capitalist economies. During the communist period, Romania had an administrative-territorial and economic organisation that favoured centralised decision making. In the case of market economies, organisation allows and encourages the decentralisation of decision making. In the mid '90s, the economic and social realities of Romania lead to the achieving of the regionalisation of the national territory in accordance with the subsidiarity principle of the EU. Regionalisation sought to identify the most appropriate spatial and territorial framework for guiding the economic development processes, by facilitating the use of tools and resources provided by the European Union. The regional development policy is a continuation of the policies of national economic growth and development, both aiming at improving the economic and social life of the national communities. The final aim of this paper is to identify the economic and social situation of the development regions in Romania. The study provides insight into Romania's relations with the European Union, with regard to the access and use of the pre-accession European funds. Furthermore, the paper achieves a qualitative analysis, through a positive approach, but also a quantitative one of the economic and social situation of each development region in Romania, taking into account the final aim of the regional development policy. The time period considered for the analysis starts in the year when negotiations for EU membership officially began and goes on for as long as possible, depending on the availability of official statistics. A heuristic presentation of the evolution of regional development in Romania is targeted through the analysis of certain economic indicators representative for the situation of the human communities in each development region.
O29|Public Governance and Political Corruption: A Framework for Anticorruption Policy|In this paper we propose a framework of policies against political corruption. Though we have frameworks explaining the causes of corruption – mainly based on agency theory – and though many authors have considered the role of good governance in fighting corruption or the effectiveness of different anticorruption policies, we see that these branches of literature have yet not entered in dialogue to construct a framework for curbing political corruption. The framework is based on the contributions of agency theory to the field of corruption over the past decades. After all, if discretion, information asymmetries and non-coincidence of interests are the elements of agency contributing to corruption they must also be the fundamentals targeted by anticorruption policies. Based on an extensive literature survey we gather a large array of good governance policies shown to be effective against political corruption and consider how they fit in the framework. This framework may help decision makers, policy advisors, and civil society stakeholders understand and visualize their options, contributing to the construction of more comprehensive strategies.
O29|Does Indonesian National Health Insurance serve a potential for improving health equity in favour of workers in informal economy?|This study examines whether Indonesian national health insurance system promotes health equity in favour of informal economy workers. It first lays out the theoretical justification on the need of social protection, particularly health protection for informal workers. The paper argues that the absence of health protection for vulnerable informal workers in Indonesia has reinforced health inequity between formal and informal workers, thus provides a justification on extending health protection to this segment. It then boils down its analysis on existing BPJS Health scheme, a government-run national health insurance, and to what extent this scheme serves the needs of informal workers in Indonesia. The finding suggests that several factors (contributory premium, access to healthcare services and politicisation of national healthcare) are responsible for adversely incorporating informal workers; hence fail to promote health equity in favour of vulnerable workers in informal economy.
O29|Elements of Performance Management and Audit in Public Organizations|The concept of performance is a new one, having in mind the fact that, in order to achieve functional progress, public organizations are themselves determined to measure the results of their activity over a definite period of time. Nevertheless, a new characteristic regarding the implementation of this concept refers to the approach used by managers for putting it into practice that is the identification of the answers to the question: „What should be measured/monitored in order to have a better control over activities and which will determine their improvement?” The current article presents notions and elements specific to performance management at the level of public organizations, with a brief emphasis on the indicators and standards related to this domain.
O29|Sustainable Tourism Development Planning in Klong-Blab village, Surat Thani Province Thailand|Sustainable Tourism Development Planning. In which the research shown that in the area particularly, Klong-Blab village is full of natural resources . And Guide for Potential-Based Doi Sathit Herbal Learning Center development this research has 3 main objectives, they are: to study the involvement of community management, to evaluate the potential of the tourism community, and to determine the potential for tourism development. The 400 questionnaires were completed by three sample groups: 100 locals, 20 academics, 280 tourists. The questionnaire was created to examine readiness of Doi Sathit area for tourism development and to examine weaknesses, strengths, opportunities and obstacles, of which to the development of Klong-Blab village as a tourist attraction, in order to guide the tourism development in the Klong-Blab village. Results found that the way to the development of tourist attraction of Klong-Blab village are: Tourism Resource Development, Tourism Marketing Development, and Tourism Readiness Development. For evaluation the potential of Doi Sathit to become a part of tourist attraction sights of Klong-Blab village, by interview locals and inside observation. In addition to that there are 5 community groups meeting for the share of responsibilities which the interpretation given to the 5 areas: The center of the sufficiency economy; Non-toxic orchard; The center of a ?Lhoom? pig farm and mushroom farm; Community of learning center; and Doi Sathit Herbal Learning Center. In conclusion, these 5 areas were then a single local tourist attractions, now they become Klong-Blab community tourist attraction.
O29|Issues of Sociolinguistics: the principles of language policy in Kazakhstan|Language policy is a protection of each language rights and a presence of aspirations of the people, who want to save their roots. The legal basis of a language policy as a main condition of a language construction helps to save a proportion between an official language and others. There is a possibility to regulate major communication areas with a real situation in the global world. We have two sides of this decision: firstly, it is necessary to emphasize on national identity and, secondly, you have to be a member of global society. You might match these two aspects of modern existence with the help of some rules, which are subjects of a justice system.For example, as we know, the main significant document in Kazakhstan is Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Article 7 mentioned: «The state language of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be the Kazak language» (Constitution 1995). Also, the language policy of Kazakhstan is regulated by «Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Languages». This document was prepared in 1997 and noticed that «The state language of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be the Kazakh language. The state language shall be the language for state management, legislation, legal proceedings and office work, functioning in all spheres of social relations in the entire territory of the state. The duty of each citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be mastering of the state language, being the major factor in consolidating the people of Kazakhstan» (Law 1997). Kazakhstan also has the special state program for developing languages named «The State Program for developing and function the languages in The Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010 ? 2020 years». It includes the ten years of realization. It focuses on quality analysis and processes of deep immersion, like the special periods of realization, involving quality indicators.Sociolinguistics creates the general aspects of the deep connection between society, language and justice. More specifically, it includes the problems of language rights, equal opportunity and language use in different countries with different advocated systems. The legal basis of the language construction based on the social and political evidence with national priority, and, of course, ideological mechanism. In a world of deep connections, it is important to search all opportunities and realities of each language. Moreover, we need to observe the probability of interactions in language relationships.
O29|An Integration of Sustainable Design Strategies and Environmental Stewardship to Landscape Development Plan for the Faculty of Sustainable Agriculture|Faculty of Sustainable Agriculture (FSA) is gearing towards the ?Eco Campus? movement which is in line with the university focus to foster sustainable practices in the campus. The lack of landscape elements and facilities in the newly established campus has inspired a landscape development plan equipped with sustainable strategies initiatives for multifunctional uses. Located in the city of Sandakan, the campus was established in 2011 and currently undergoing intensive infrastructure development for teaching and learning purposes. The strategies correspond to the challenges faced by the campus in terms of its rough microclimate and the deterioration of soil condition which could severely affect future landscape implementation if meticulous planning is overlooked. The strategies acknowledge the importance of engaging the stakeholders of the campus; especially the students and staff to create a multifunctional, adaptive, and resilient landscape plan. This is important to encourage more outdoor spaces utilisation and social interaction among community members. The future landscape-related development projects are envisioned to implement the strategies to reflect Universiti Malaysia Sabah ?EcoCampus? aspiration.
O29|Reconnection Strategies of Physical Landscape: A Case Study in the Faculty of Sustainable Agriculture|The Landscape Development Plan of the Faculty of Sustainable Agriculture (FSA) aims to adopt the sustainable design strategies and environmental stewardship which can initiate reconnection with nature as well as to improve the well-being of its community. A pilot study was conducted at the faculty?s farm administration building to evaluate the foundation towards the formulation of a landscape design featuring reconnection of the major systems of physical landscape; air, water and land. Application of sustainable landscape design strategies were pre-tested on the campus ground which include soil amelioration, rainwater harvesting and selection of drought-tolerant plants. The farm administration building was chosen as it is frequently visited by the faculty members and visitors. It reflects the faculty?s aim to demonstrate to the wider public the application of sustainable practices as well as to encourage collaborative monitoring and maintenance of the landscape. The envisioned design is in response to the opportunities and ideas to improvise functionality and aesthetic appeal of the site.
O29|Sustainable Tourism Development Planning in Klong-Blab village, Surat Thani Province Thailand|The objective of the research aims to develop the route of attraction at Klong-Blab. Sustainable Tourism Development Planning (ACTPPR: 2006) In which the research shown that in the area particularly, Doi Sathit is full of natural resources. This research has 3 main objectives, they are: to study the involvement of community management, to evaluate the potential of the tourism community, and to determine the potential for tourism development. The 400 questionnaires were completed by three sample groups: 100 locals, 20 academics, 280 tourists. The questionnaire was created to examine readiness of Doi Sathit area for tourism development and to examine weaknesses, strengths, opportunities and obstacles, of which to the development of Klong-Blab village as a tourist attraction, in order to guide the tourism development in the Klong-Blab village. Results found that the way to the development of tourist attraction of Klong-Blab village are: Tourism Resource Development, Tourism Marketing Development, and Tourism Readiness Development. For evaluation the potential of Doi Sathit to become a part of tourist attraction sights of Klong-Blab village, by interview locals and inside observation. In addition to that there are 5 community groups meeting for the share of responsibilities which the interpretation given to the 5 areas: The center of the sufficiency economy; Non-toxic orchard; The center of a ?Lhoom? pig farm and mushroom farm; Community of learning center; and Doi Sathit Herbal Learning Center. In conclusion, these 5 areas were then a single local tourist attractions, now they become Klong-Blab community tourist attraction.
O29|Crisis? What crisis? The World Bank and Housing Finance for the Poor|This paper provides a critical assessment of the BankÃ­s housing policies, against the backdrop of far-reaching transformations of the financial sector across the world and a persistently dire shelter situation in developing countries. It situates the BankÃ­s housing stance historically since its initial involvement in the sector in the early 1970s. This allows to shed light on systemic and analytical tendencies bearing on Bank housing policy with significant implications for the BankÃ­s current policy stance, including its response (or lack thereof) to the dramatic experience with housing finance laid bare through the global financial and economic crisis.
O29|Application of New Instruments to Increase Effectiveness of Implementation of Social Policies on Labour Market in Bulgaria|Nowadays, public employment services face a number of urgent tasks as raising the employment rate and reducing the number of vacant jobs for which is difficult to find enough qualified workers. New realities on labour market and dynamic environment require adequate actions, rational and timely decision making and optimization of work. Dynamic changes in social environment impacting labour markets and activities of public employment services impose various tasks which implementation should be carefully planned, organized and controlled. To achieve that public employment services should take a more comprehensive look at the demand and supply of labour, considering the numerous transitions taking place constantly on the labour market and people's personal development. Improving processes and the quality of the administrative services in the Bulgarian employment agency is seen as a prerequisite for effective implementation of employment policies. The study presents opportunities for improving the quality of services offered in the Directorates Labour Office in the Republic of Bulgaria by introducing a process model and improvements in the capacity and efficiency of work in the field of labour mediation.
O29|Network (Mis)Alignment, Technology Policy and Innovation: The Tale of Two Brazilian Cities|This article addresses network alignment through an investigation of network governance (coordination) and structure, and examines how regional level network governance and structure influence the effectiveness of technology policy to improve local firms’ innovativeness in a developing country context. It examines whether network governance and structure have a consistent influence on firms’ innovative performance in developing country regions with different levels of socio-economic development. The empirical evidence is based on case studies of the Campinas and Recife regional software networks in Brazil and the innovative performance of the participating local firms. We find that adoption of a general technology policy prescription and formation of networks to improve firm-level innovation and regional catch-up should involve careful consideration of the intended effects: membership of a network may not be a necessary condition for improved innovation at firm level.
O29|A review of the Mexican national innovation system|Governments and business leaders are increasingly aware of the role that innovation plays in economic growth, development and competitiveness. There are imperative challenges for Latin American countries, among them, poverty, social inclusion, sustainable development, climate change, natural disasters, productivity, improve the quality of education and health. Innovations are essential to drive economic growth and prosperity in the region. According to the Global Innovation Index (2015), Mexico is ranked 57th. Most of the research on innovation performance is mostly focused on technological innovation. Therefore, the main variables used, such as patents and number of scientific publications, do not always reflect the other types of innovations (i.e. business model, organizational, etc.) that are developing in emerging markets. The aim of this paper is to analyze the Mexican innovation system using a broad concept with a focus on other types of innovation including cultural aspects to identify the main characteristics that distinguish and determine how innovation in Mexico is formed. Although the Mexican government has improved its institutional structure for innovation and its support policies, they need to evaluate programs and adjust incentive schemes based on performance to improve their innovation policy. Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to examine the Mexican National Innovation System using a broad concept with a focus on other types of innovation and including cultural aspects to identify some of the main characteristics that determine how innovation in Mexico is formed. Design/methodology/approach – The national innovation systems framework is used to review the Mexican innovation policy.A review of relevant literature on national innovation systems and Mexican innovation policies with data from the Global Innovation Index and INEGI were used for this paper. Findings – Higher private investment in R&D is needed to enhance innovation, the Mexican government needs to incentivise the private sector investment and collaboration with higher education institutions on innovation projects is essential. Mexico has improved its institutional structure for innovation and its support policies.An explicit innovation policy is recent and it is difficult to evaluate its effectiveness. Research limitations/implications – This study contributes to the debate on how to improve the Mexican innovation system with emphasis on a broad concept of innovation.The Mexican innovation data is limited. Originality/value – This paper provides a landscape from which policy makers and academics can build on to present proposals for ways to improve innovation performance in Mexico and other Latin American countries.
O29|Household Access to Nongovernmental Microfinance, Formal Credit and Informal Credit in Rural China|There has been a rising concern that microfinance is abandoning its mission to serve the poor. Based on a longitudinal dataset, this paper examines rural households¡¯ credit access to all the sources in less developed areas in China, and analyzes its relationship with household wealth. It is found that nongovernmental microfinance has expanded rapidly by serving a mixture of poor and wealthy clients. Meanwhile, formal financial institutions have gradually reduced their loan services in poor areas and have targeted more on the wealthy. In the presence of a large unmet demand for credit in rural China, informal network became the primary source of credit to smallholders.
O29|Evaluating the Impact of Cluster Development Programs|Do the programs that aim to promote and develop industry clusters (also known as Cluster Development Programs, or CDP) work? Do they have an impact on enterprise development? This paper offers an insight into the methods that can help answer these fundamental questions through solid quantitative evidence. In general, results will depend on the level of coordination that is achieved and on the actions undertaken as a result of improved coordination and strategy-setting of the relevant actors. The techniques of Social Network Analysis (SNA) can be employed to assess the evolution of coordination among cluster actors, with the requirement that network indicators are observed before and after the implementation of the CDPs. While this particular analysis can assist in monitoring and assessing the process of coordination and its changes throughout the program, other qualitative and contextual information can also assist in interpreting the data and, thus, increase the reliability of results. However, in order to properly assess the impact of CDPs, their causality needs to be explored further by the application of additional quantitative methods. In fact, the effects cannot be attributed to the program itself, unless a proper counterfactual is built in, such as what would have happened to the beneficiaries in the absence of the program. By definition, this particular counterfactual cannot be observed, but the application of experimental and quasi-experimental techniques can help construct control groups of non-beneficiaries to approximate the counterfactual and assess the evidence with econometric techniques. Furthermore, a detailed observation of cases and specific interviews can help regarding the interpretation of results derived from these methods. The quantitative tools discussed herein are indeed complementary and not alternatives, with each applied as a means to strengthen the explanatory capacity of the other. Each tool requires specific and challenging data analysis that can be achieved with careful resource planning and the appropriate team skill set. The overarching objective is to build new and solid evidence on the effectiveness of CPDs and their respective policies.
O29|Social Network Analysis Methodologies for the Evaluation of Cluster Development Programs|Cluster development programs (CDPs) have been adopted widely in many countries worldwide. Many such programs aim to promote economic development by forming and strengthening inter-organizational networks. Despite their widespread diffusion, we know very little about CDP outputs or the impact CDPs have on host regions and their populations. Evaluation studies are beginning to appear, but the overall concern is that a distinct evaluation concept and method with a focus on CDPs is not yet available. The objective of this paper is to address this limitation, by proposing a novel methodological approach in the evaluation of CDPs based on the application of concepts and methods of social network analysis (SNA).
O29|A Study on Stress Management Among the Employees of Nationalised Banks|Organizational life is quite stressful. Work pressures, tight schedules, meetings that never seem to end on time, unhelpful colleagues, critical bosses, incompetent subordinates and a host of other irritating factors may all have a cumulative effect in making the lives of modern-day executives quite miserable. As we all know, stress is the body’s reaction to any demand made on it. Perception of events, whether positive or negative, activates stress. Banking, like other services, has become one of the highly competitive sectors in India. The banking organizations, since the beginning of this decade, have been facing greater challenges in terms of technological revolution, service diversification and global banking. Stress is unavoidable on the part of the employees as the systems, procedures; techniques are getting complicated with the use of advance technology. Every employee cannot cope with such rapid changes taking place in the jobs. This will lead to arising of stress among employees. An attempt has been made through this research paper to know the reasons of stress among the bank employees and the ways used by employees to cope with the stress generated at workplace. It is found that maximum number of employees in banks remains in stress. Majority of the employees try to find solution to relieve them from stress. Also the measures are also suggested in the paper to overcome stress that affects their physical and mental health.
O29|Telecommunication Sector and Foreign Direct Investment: An Indian Perspective|A paradigm shift has occurred in the telecommunication sector after 1991. After the liberlisation measures taken in 1991, this sector has brought revolution in the history of India. In this study an attempt has been made to assess the existing scenario of FDI in the telecommunication sector and to analyse the FDI inflows in this sector. The study reveals that FDI inflows have increased from Rs. 685.54 crores in 2000 to Rs. 1,770 crores in 2013. This sector is mainly dominated by Mauritius and followed by Singapore, Russia, Japan and U.S.A. The major share in FDI inflows in this sector is attracted by New Delhi region. No doubt much progress has been made in urban areas and metros in the telecommunication sector but still there exists a lot of scope for this sector in semi urban and rural areas.
O29|The spillover effects of the ICT cluster support in Córdoba|This paper presents evidence on the spillover effect associated with the support received by firms located in a City of Argentina, between 2003 and 2007. The rationale for the cluster development program was the presence of agglomeration economies and coordination failures that generated spillovers and therefore to a suboptimal allocation of resources. We use a panel of firms in the ICT sector for the period 2003-2011 that allowed us to control for the dynamics of firms’ sales and fixed-effect applying the System GMM estimator. We find that one additional participant in the program increases the sales of non-participants in the City of Córdoba by 0.7%.
O29|The influence of European regulations on the Constitution and of certain infraconstitutional regulations regarding localpublic administration٭|Choosing the European path allowed Romania to modernize its legislation by adapting to the European requirements. These requirements, which take the form of standards contained in various European regulations, are the result of the experience of EU bodies or the Council of Europe, as well as other international bodies. Taking into consideration all these regulations and driven by the desire to become part of the European family as soon as possible, national policy makers have modernized the legislation,thereby bringing substantial improvements to regulations regarding local public administration. The article presents the main legal and political instruments at European and international level that have positively influenced the legislation on local public administration in Romania and the internal normative acts resulting from this influence.
O29|The relationship between services trade and government procurement commitments: Insights from relevant WTO agreements and recent RTAs|"To date, government procurement has been effectively carved out of the main multilateral rules of the WTO system. This paper examines the systemic and other ramifications of this exclusion, from both an economic and a legal point of view. In addition to relevant elements of the WTO Agreements, particularly the Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA) and the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS), it derives insights from a large number of Regional Trade Agreements (RTAs) that embody substantive provisions on both government procurement and services trade. An important finding is that, from an economic perspective, general market access commitments with respect to services trade and commitments regarding government procurement of services are complementary and mutually reinforcing. In contrast, from a legal point of view and at the multilateral level, disciplines in the two areas have been ""divided up"" into two Agreements with different (but complementary) spheres of application: the key provisions regarding the scope of application of the GATS and the GPA make clear that each serves purposes that the other does not. Analysis of corresponding provisions of RTAs broadly supports and extends this finding. In light of the foregoing, a question arises as to possible ways of deepening disciplines in this area. Part 5 sets out, for reflection, several related options: (i) the built-in mandate in the GATS for negotiations on services procurement (Article XIII:2); (ii) ""multilateralization"" of the GPA; (iii) the reactivation of work in the (currently inactive) WTO Working Group on Transparency in Government Procurement; and (iv) the taking up of relevant issues in the context of bilateral or regional negotiations. Overall, we find that each of these possibilities has potential merits, though none is without related challenges."
O29|Using discrete choice experiments to assess the preferences of new mining workforce to commute or relocate to the Surat Basin in Australia|Two choice modelling experiments have been used to examine how residents of a major urban centre would consider commuting or relocation options if they were to consider taking up employment in a rapidly growing resource region. The case study area focused on the Surat Basin in southern Queensland where recent increases in mining activity involve both coal mining and coal seam gas extraction. The preferences of residents of Brisbane, the state capital and closest major centre to the Surat Basin, were assessed in the experiment. The results identified increased salary as the most important factor, but respondents were also concerned about potentially offsetting influences such as high living costs and accommodation affordability/availability. Respondents indicated that the additional salary needed to take up employment in the Surat Basin was substantially higher for relocation options than for FIFO options.
O29|Contribution of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in Country’S H-Index|The aim of this study is to examine the effect of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) development on country’s scientific ranking as measured by H-index. Moreover, this study applies ICT development sub-indices including ICT Use, ICT Access and ICT skill to find the distinct effect of these sub-indices on country’s H-index. To this purpose, required data for the panel of 14 Middle East countries over the period 1995 to 2009 is collected. Findings of the current study show that ICT development increases the H-index of the sample countries. The results also indicate that ICT Use and ICT Skill sub-indices positively contribute to higher H-index but the effect of ICT access on country’s H-index is not clear.
O29|The Concentration of Knowledge Activities in Italy: An Analysis at Local Level|Innovation activities localized in municipalities are increasingly regarded as the key to fostering growth at the regional level. A deeper statistical analysis of its main actors enables identifying previously unobvious interrelations and better understanding capacities of a territory. However in most countries the analysis of the geographical distribution of R&D until today has been based, so far, on data broken down at regional level. Only a few countries implement breaking down the available regional data to a much more detailed municipality level. The paper reports some preliminary results of such comprehensive study recently undertaken in Italy. It provides a descriptive analysis on localization of knowledge activities (R&D, patents, publications), evaluates the relationship among the knowledge activities performed by the key actors — business, public sector, higher education and private non-profit organizations, attempts to identify the sectorial R&D specialization of the Italian Local Labour Systems (LLSs). The analysis shows that knowledge activities are quite spread over the Italian territory but, at the same time, they are also heavily concentrated. Only about half of LLSs accommodate public or private R&D performers or authors of scientific publications. The presented data largely confirm the traditional dichotomy between Northern and Southern Italy: Northern regions host the highest rates of the national R&D expenditure and have almost a monopoly for patents. When considering only large urban areas, there are no major differences in the geographical distribution of research expenditure and output. The main difference is about the “less knowledge active” LLSs: in Southern Italy, for instance, there is a significant gap of research activities between the urban areas and the territories less intensively urbanized and industrialised. On the other hand, in the Northern regions, even small LLSs have some evidence of R&D expenditure or patents. These differences are strictly connected with the structure of university network and productive activities: in particular, Veneto and Emilia Romagna have a more even diffusion of R&D activities — there are a large number of universities as well as a plenty of small or medium innovative firms in these regions. In their turn, Piedmont and Lombardy concentrate their knowledge potential around the large urban areas. Relating to the first two regions the existence of a Regional Innovation System could be assumed, while in Piedmont and Lombardy a Local Innovation System has emerged. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
O29|Guanxi: Personal connections in Chinese society|Guanxi is known to be an important feature of Chinese society, and while studies of the subject are voluminous, the present study attempts to explore two critical aspects that tend to be neglected. First, previous studies have mostly dealt with guanxi in business activities, but we analyze the meanings of guanxi in the context of ordinary people. More importantly, even though guanxi has routinely been attributed to Confucianism, it begs the more fundamental question of why Chinese society has developed Confucianism and why the latter has become the dominant ideology over the centuries. We provide a plausible account of this important question from both sociological and economic perspectives. Secondly, we illustrate the general implications of guanxi in Chinese society, in particular relating guanxi to the development of democracy and of the rule of law. Consequently, its significance in Chinese society is actually more important than what has been suggested in the literature. Finally, we present some preliminary empirical evidence, based on survey results, of the importance of guanxi in contemporary Chinese society. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
O29|The Evolution of Regional Accommodation Capacity – Case Study West Development Region|The specific technical-material infrastructure plays an important role in the tourist offer. The accommodation facilities offer the possibility to receive and host tourists for a period of time. Tourism development is connected to the existent and functional accommodation capacity of an area, which is why its evolution can be considered a case study. The West Development Region has valuable tourist resources and promotes various types and forms of tourism. According to analyses, the accommodation capacity in this part of Romania has shown an increase of certain types of accommodation facilities.
O29|Financing Rural Development in Romania – Challenges and Opportunities|At present, the main theoretic dilemma related to the rural development can be formulated as follows: are rural development and agriculture factors that may contribute to the boost of financial crisis or possible solutions to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis and re-launch the economic growth? The economic doctrine shows that agriculture is a vital economic activity for the society and a sector a high contribution in maintaining stability and growth, thus, having the potential to alleviate the economic crisis. Nevertheless, this important contribution can only be achieved through a massive investment in infrastructure that will stimulate and increase the agricultural production, as well as in technical and technological equipment for agricultural land and also by creation and continuous development of micro-enterprises in rural areas. In order to contribute to the economic growth, rural development in Romania depends on how the local actors in the rural areas achieve financial support for their projects. Our paper proposes to emphasis the main opportunities but also the most critical problems regarding the financial support acquired by the rural communities.
O29|What Is the Future of the Market Economy?|"(On the Book by Justin Yifu Lin ""The Quest for Prosperity: How Developing Economies Can Take Off"") According to the opinion of Chinese economist J. Y. Lin, industrial structure of economy is endogenously determined by factors of production. Its effective operation is possible only under the influence of market forces. The main role of the government is to target the strategic support for specific industries with comparative advantages, as well as to improve the infrastructure."
O29|Contribution of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in Country'S H-Index|The aim of this study is to examine the effect of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) development on country's scientific ranking as measured by H-index. Moreover, this study applies ICT development sub-indices including ICT Use, ICT Access and ICT skill to find the distinct effect of these sub-indices on country's H-index. To this purpose, required data for the panel of 14 Middle East countries over the period 1995 to 2009 is collected. Findings of the current study show that ICT development increases the H-index of the sample countries. The results also indicate that ICT Use and ICT Skill sub-indices positively contribute to higher H-index but the effect of ICT access on country's H-index is not clear.
O29|The Design and Implementation of Ethics-Related Administrative Law in Eastern Europe|How can senior policymakers use data in the design of ethics (anti-corruption) related legislation and regulations? In this paper, we describe how to draft subsidiary legislation (mainly executive agency regulations) based on explicit or implied competencies given by national legislation. We then discuss how to conduct the organisational, legal, economic and audit analysis needed to allocate ethics-related rights and obligations across-government and within the Agency. We illustrate with an example from Romania and use the tools we have presented to make recommendations for Hungary. We describe the roles that the human resource managers and internal auditors play in implementing the provisions of Agency-level ethics-related regulations. We conclude by encouraging policy makers to make greater use of ethics-related regulations.
O29|Kreatywne starzenie się. Przykłady zagranicznych i polskich zaleceń i praktyk<BR>[Creative Ageing. Examples of Foreign and Polish Recommendations and Practices]|Artykuł zwraca uwagę na powiązania procesu starzenia się społeczeństwa z kształtowaniem zmian organizacyjnych zachodzących w miejskich instytucjach kulturalnych i artystycznych w zakresie świadczenia usług dla osób starszych. Przybliżone zostają główne cechy zachodzących na początku XXI wieku przemian pracy i czasu wolnego oraz zjawiska kreatywnej gospodarki wraz z nową stratyfikacją społeczną i nowymi czynnikami rozwojowymi. Zarysowany został także paradygmat kreatywnego starzenia się, korzyści i bariery budowania kapitału kreatywnego seniorów oraz zagraniczne i krajowe przykłady wykorzystywanych na tym polu rozwiązań a zarazem obszarów dalszych badań. ** Article draws attention to the relationship of ageing process and evolution of the organizational changes in cultural and artistic institutions in cities that are connected to provision of services for older people. Study shows main features of work and leisure time transformation at the beginning of the XXI century and the phenomenon of creative economy with new social stratification and development factors. It also describes creative ageing paradigm, benefits and barriers of building a senior creative capital, foreign and domestic examples of solutions used in this field which are also areas for further research.
O29|Strategy in Crisis Management|Nowadays, crisis management is a fundamental part of strategic management. Before pursuing any kind of long-term goals, crisis management is necessary for the guarantee of stability and continuous success in an organization. The effective and efficient survival of organization is typically considered as a strategic goal for its beneficiary parts in the path of creating short- and long-term interests. From this perspective, the methods which organization considers for confronting disasters and its survival guarantee can include a part of strategy. Nowadays, by utilizing the findings of crisis management and its combination with the achievements of strategic management, the managers attempt to prevent unpredictable dangerous waves. Crisis management is considered as a scientific major, generally in the area of strategic management and it is a process for the prevention of crisis or minimizing its effects at the time of a crisis occurrence and for accomplishing the process, the worst conditions should be planned and then methods should be searched for managing and solving them. Basically, the organizations which are the subjects of crisis need more preparedness (Behnamiri, 2012).
O29|Mining Rehabilitation Planning, Mining Heritage Tourism, Benefits and Contingent Valuation|This article approaches the values underpinning derelict mining rehabilitation plans, their assessment in monetary terms, and reviews the empirical studies literature on this theme. The paper correspondingly contains four main aims. The first involves putting into perspective the thematic content on the rehabilitation of derelict and depressed mining areas, transforming them into mining heritage tourism products designed to trigger sustainable regional development. The second aim, concerns defining the range of benefits and values potentially arising. The third seeks to demonstrate and discuss why and how the theoretical frameworks of Total Economic Value (TEV) and economic valuation, taken together with the contingent valuation approach, enable the monetary estimation of the range of non-market individual values, through eliciting the individual’s willingness to pay (WTP) for the rehabilitation. And the fourth objective incorporates reviewing the literature on empirical studies estimating the monetary values of mining rehabilitation plans through recourse to the Contingent Valuation (CV) approach. We proceed by demonstrating that TEV, the economic valuation concept and CV are approaches appropriate to estimating the aforementioned benefits; we defend their utility as important inputs to raising the efficiency of political decision making processes and ensure local populations actively comply and participate in the rehabilitation process. Finally, we conclude that the empirical studies hitherto applied for estimating the monetary values of mining rehabilitation and remediation through recourse to CV remain very few despite the fact that this estimation type is increasingly recognised as an important tool in decision making processes on the rehabilitation of industrial cultural heritage in general, and mining heritage in particular.
O29|Measuring Pattern, Amplitude and Timing Differences between Monetary and Non-Monetary Seasonal Factors of Tourism - the Case of Aruba|Seasonality is a frequent and important occurrence in the tourism industry, with simultaneous effects on both the volume and financial flows of tourism. The seasonal characteristics of these monetary and non-monetary tourism indicators can show diverging paths. Lack of synchronization between the seasonal patterns of these two types of indicators of tourism development can produce suboptimal situations, with less than best choices when formulating and implementing anti-seasonal policies. The purpose of this study is to measure pattern, amplitude and timing differences between the seasonal factors of monetary and non-monetary indicators of tourism development in Aruba. The study contributes to the gap in the literature on the dynamics in the co-movement of these two types of seasonal factors, while concurrently incorporating three measurement dimensions of this relation. Moreover, the study introduces novel calculation techniques in two of the three measurement dimensions. The methodology involves decomposing time series on both monetary and non-monetary variables using Census X12-ARIMA, with subsequent calculation of Pearson’s correlation coefficients, median relative differences, and median timing differentials. The results show important quarterly differences in pattern, amplitude and timing of the seasonal factors, in terms of the applied timeframe, periodicity, variables and markets involved. The findings implicate the need for synchronizing strategies and a differentiated anti-seasonal policy.
O29|Limitations Of Microcredit For Promoting Microenterprises In Bangladesh|Microcredit is regarded as a tool for poverty alleviation. A stereotyped delivery system is designed and used for promoting and serving survival- and subsistence-level economic activities, particularly for poor female clients. In Bangladesh its success has raised social expectations as to its potential as also a promoter of microenterprises, which are growth-yielding small businesses beyond subsistence-level economic activity. The field survey shows that about 11.7% of the microcredit borrowers are this kind of potential or growing microentrepreneur. It also shows that microcredit’s standardised delivery system, particularly in respect of gender preference, loan size, loan disbursement, and repayment schedules, is a strong limiting factor in effectively serving the microenterprises, which require a more flexible credit package. Therefore a methodological modification is necessary to accommodate flexibility in the microcredit delivery system.
O29|Le financement des infrastructures|The current economic crises reduce governments? room for manoeuvre on infrastructure finance. At the same time banks withdraw from on-balance-sheet long term lending and the monoline credit insurance system has virtually collapsed. Pure public or private solutions should not be viewed as panacea. Channelling savings to infrastructure projects require both public and private involvements: a regulatory framework conducive to long term investments, risk sharing based on an acute risk analysis, public infrastructure banks providing long term lending and the development of infrastructure and project bonds. Classification JEL: G18, O18, O29.
O29|Les politiques de développement financier en Afrique subsaharienne : définition - enjeux - réalités et propositions|In 50 years, Africa has seen little progress in development. Our work analyzes a factor able to explain this singular path: the structure of financial systems. After deepening the concept of financial development and providing a better understanding of the relationship between the real and financial spheres, it proposes an indicator of financial development which emphasizes the weak structure of African financial systems and their limited contribution to development. This work also highlights the existence of equilibriums of underdevelopment related to the financial factor over the long run. Given the strength of the factors explaining these equilibriums, the implementation of public policies, financial development policies, must be at the heart of development strategies to come. Their implementation in Africa is all the more legitimate that they have proven their effectiveness in other areas. This thesis defines these policies and their governance.
O29|Measuring Vulnerability to Poverty Using Long-Term Panel Data|We investigate the accuracy of ex ante assessments of vulnerability to income poverty using cross-sectional data and panel data. We use long-term panel data from Germany and apply di fferent regression models, based on household covariates and previous-year equivalence income, to classify a household as vulnerable or not. Predictive performance is assessed using the Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC), which takes account of false positive as well as true positive rates. Estimates based on cross-sectional data are much less accurate than those based on panel data, but for Germany, the accuracy of vulnerability predictions is limited even when panel data are used. In part this low accuracy is due to low poverty incidence and high mobility in and out of poverty.
O29|Assessment of multidimensional poverty and effectiveness of microfinance-driven government and NGO projects in the rural Bangladesh|This paper has developed a multidimensional model usable in assessing economic, social, political and cultural dimensions of poverty by utilizing primary data collected from 78 villages in Bangladesh using a participatory approach. Employing the developed model, a comparative analysis has been performed between microfinance-driven government (GO) and NGO (non-government organization) projects to explore their relative effectiveness in enhancing wellbeing of the poor in rural Bangladesh. It is observed that GO agencies are more effective in enhancing ‘economic wellbeing’ of the poor, whereas NGOs are contributing more in the ‘social’ aspects of wellbeing. Findings also revealed that, as whole, GO agencies perform 42% better than NGOs in improving living standards of the rural poor which contradicts with the existing literature of poverty reduction projects in developing countries.
O29|HIV prevalence and sexual behaviour at older ages in ruralMalawi|Research on HIV infection and sexual behaviour in sub-Saharan Africa typically focuses on individuals aged 15–49 years, under the assumption that both become less relevant for older individuals. We test this assumption using data from rural Malawi to compare sexual behaviour and HIV infection among individuals aged 15–49 with individuals aged 50–64 and 65 years and over. Although general declines with age were observed, levels of sexual activity and HIV remained considerable: 26.7 percent and 73.8 percent of women and men aged 65 and older reported having sex in the last year, respectively; men’s average number of sexual partners remained above one; and HIV prevalence is significantly higher for men aged 50–64 (8.9 percent) than men aged 15–49 (4.1 percent). We conclude that older populations are relevant to studies of sexual behaviour and HIV risk. Their importance is likely to increase as access to antiretrovirals in Africa increases. We recommend inclusion of adults aged over 49 years in African HIV/AIDS research and prevention efforts.
O29|Measuring Vulnerability to Poverty Using Long-Term Panel Data|We investigate the accuracy of ex ante assessments of vulnerability to poverty using cross-sectional data and panel data. We use long-term panel data from Germany and apply different regression models, based on household covariates and previous-year equivalence income, to classify a household as vulnerable or not. Predictive performance is assessed using the Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC), which takes account of false positive as well as true positive rates. Estimates based on cross-sectional data are much less accurate than those based on panel data, but for Germany, the accuracy of vulnerability predictions is limited even when panel data are used. In part this low accuracy is due to low poverty incidence and high mobility.
O29|Target loading, functional role of small business in the conditions of modernization and globalization of economic processes|Small business bears the target, tool, social loading which successful realization allows to hope that its initiative, dynamism at rather small expenses for development, is capable within 4-5 years to provide modernization of economy and to give not less than 40 % of gross national product.
O29|The state and public support for small enterprise (SME) in Russia|The article provides an overview of the structures to support small business in Russia. Particular attention is paid to issues of consultancy support to small and medium enterprises. Displaying the virtual absence of marketing support for competitiveness and customer orientation.
O29|Does Singapore Need Economic Restructuring II or Another ‘Wage Revolution’?|In this paper, Professor Lim first discusses the circumstances that led to the urgent need to embark on the Economic Restructuring I in 1979 and assesses the modus operandi used then to achieve the restructuring objective. He then compares the changed circumstances of today’s economy, which has a new set of problems and priorities. He advocates another formal economic restructuring exercise (Economic Restructuring II) and proposes recommendations to restructure the present economy. His iconoclastic and likely to be controversial recommendations are based on the economic principles used in the Economic Restructuring I, but with the additional objectives of checking the trend of rising income inequality and lessening the over-reliance of cheap foreign labour import.
O29|Shock Therapy II Revisited|In this presentation, Professor Lim Chong Yah revisits his original proposal for “Shock Therapy II”, paying particular attention to the need to have a pause for three years for the very top income-earners with a view not to slide into “unconscionable salaries”. He also outlines the need to consider the introduction of minimum wage, should NWC’s quantitative guidelines fail to exit workers with income less than $1,000 a month in two years’ time.
O29|Income Inequality in Some Major European Union Economies a Discriminant Analysis|This exercise is an attempt to assess the importance of some social, economic, demographic and infrastructural factors which account for the prevailing income inequality across some of the EU countries. Using discriminant analysis the study suggests that crime recorded by police is the most important predictor in discriminating between the group of countries with relatively more equitable distribution of income from those with less. This variable is followed by number of students in the country. Reduction in the level of crime and improvement in the student strength could help in reducing income inequality. Quite intuitively, improvement in all the economic factors like GDP per capita and agricultural index will help to reduce income inequality. Identical is the case of the demographic factors. This calls for implementation of developmental policies towards improvement in these areas.
O29|Instruments of Place Branding and Regional Dynamics: Guimarães as European Capital of Culture|Place branding has emerged as a powerful instrument to create some uniqueness, and differentiate places, which could be linked to a general increase in competition between countries, regions and cities in order to draw the attention of stakeholders to invest and host events. Moreover, it has been implemented as a form of spatial planning and place management. The concept is thought to provide valuable tools for places to differentiate themselves, by managing their opportunities and transforming them into competitive advantages, thus gaining brand value and strengthening their global market position. Three following instruments have been explored as a competitive appeal: i) personality association ii)signature building, and iii) event hallmarking. Amongst others, cultural events are used to improve overall reputation and stimulate development by attracting visitors and capital. This paper focuses on the European Capital of Culture-Guimarães as the 2012 city host (ECC-2012). First, it attempts to clarify the contribution of place branding instruments, from the organization of cultural events to a branding strategy capable of enhancing development, and discuss the links between them. Secondly, to what extent the ECC-2012 (short-term intervention) is embedded in a longer-term strategy to create a new regional dynamic of the northwest region of Portugal. Is the ECC creating momentum? Is place branding (i.e. as a spatial planning instrument) used to foster this momentum?
O29|An Atypical Approach to Graduation from the LDC Category: The Case of Bangladesh|From the creation of the category in 1971, the number of least developed countries (LDCs) has almost doubled to account for 48 members by 2011. Only three countries have managed to exit from the category thus far, and two more are in the pipeline. The recognition of the difficulty of leaving the category is entrenched in the overarching goal of the Fourth UN Conference on LDCs, which specifically calls for halving the number of LDCs within the next decade. The existing asymmetries between the entrance and the graduation criteria have favoured inclusion. Of the three exit criteria, those countries that have graduated, or are in the process of doing so, have all met the low-income exit threshold. This study argues for a graduation path that is not linked to income performance, rather on human capital development. In so doing, it identifies a different, non-conventional route to graduation. Bangladesh makes a good example for it as it is through the development of its human capital assets that it could (a) stop being an LDC and (b) accelerate its rate of economic and income growth. If the appropriate human capital enforcement policies are implemented in the coming 22 years, Bangladesh could meet the graduation thresholds by 2027, graduate out of the LDC group in 2033 and keep all the benefits linked to the LDC status until 2036. At the domestic level, actions aimed at leaving the LDC category have to be framed by, and within, a national employment-generating strategy. The article concludes with specific policy recommendations, particularly related to human capital development, for nearing the estimated graduation date.JEL: O10, O29, O53
O29|Determinants of the prevalence of diarrhoea in adolescents attending school: A case study of an Indian village school|In developing countries, including India, diarrhoea is a leading killer throughout the age pyramid. However, most of the medical literature on the determinants of diarrhoea focuses only on young children or the elderly, with health policy mainly targeting the former. Thus, the present article attempts to contribute to a better understanding of the determinants of diarrhoea in adolescents - the understudied population. The paper develops a model using the medical literature, refines it to fit an Indian village context and tests the hypotheses identified through administering a questionnaire to 114 adolescents in an Indian village school. Results confirm the well known importance of household sanitation. In addition, the contribution of the present study is to assert that access to school toilets and usage of school toilets are also crucial. Furthermore, usage of toilets at school varies as a function of gender and the existence of a toilet in the student's household. Finally, the installation of toilets in schools is not enough, sustainable financial models must be found to maintain toilets and induce students to use them.
O29|Formal and Informal Sectors in a Social Accounting Matrix for Brazil|This paper presents a methodology to estimate a Social Accounting Matrix for Brazil in 2006 that separates between formal and informal sectors. The goal of this study is to estimate and to analyze the Social Accounting Matrix for Brazil in 2006. The shares of output by informal and formal sectors are applied as weights to estimate the size of the two sectors. The results reveal important structural linkages between the two sectors and may serve as data input for future Structuralist Calibrated models.
O29|The Potential Of E-Commerce In Developing Countries; Study Case: Romania|The Electronic Commerce (EC) has affected the global economy in many different ways. First of all, it has affected the information technology, and all the economic sectors, and most importantly, e-commerce has enhanced the productivity growth worldwide. The impact of e–commerce on developing countries could be even stronger than that on developed countries because the scope for reducing inefficiencies and increasing productivity is much larger in the developing countries. The current research investigates the reasons why Romania is one of the last countries concerning the adoption level of EC in the European Union. Although EC has received significant attention in many countries, in developing countries such as Romania there has been some doubt about the relevance of e-commerce. Currently, there are still a limited number of studies on e-commerce adoption in Romania.
O29|Specific Elements Of Some Components Of The Management System On The Level Of The Team|This study analyses some management tools on the level of the team as: the „tree” diagram, the matrix diagram and the priority matrix. The study of this diagram is focused on the practical aspects of the diagrams and the analysis of the conditions of use in some branch of activity. At the same time some useful tools are pointed out for the practical activity. The problem of the study also deals with the matrix diagram. This tool allows the individuals from the team to identify and clarify the relations between two or more variables. The information is presented in a table and can be subjective or objective, with symbols with or without numerical values. There are four implementation criteria as one can see in the upper part of the matrix. The priority matrix is the most difficult of the management tools. This study analyses some management tools on the level of the team as: the „tree” diagram, the matrix diagram and the priority matrix. The study of this diagram is focused on the practical aspects of the diagrams and the analysis of the conditions of use in some branch of activity. At the same time some useful tools are pointed out for the practical activity.
O29|Territorio y Desarrollo: Bases Conceptuales Para la Gobernanza Local|Los territorios son una construcción humana, aparecen en la medida en que las personas los habitan, es decir, se dan a partir de la existencia de las sociedades, cuando estas transforman las geografías en sus hábitats. Así, los actores públicos y privados tienen posibilidades de organizar sus comunicaciones, interacciones y conflictos en la pretensión de resolver sus necesidades y deseos. A ello concurren con conceptos generales de las ciencias sociales, la gobernabilidad y gobernanza como escenario de las decisiones públicas, la productividad y competitividad como variables fundamentales del accionar privado y las acciones públicas deliberadas, las cuales generalmente se convierten en políticas para el desarrollo, consensos de los agentes y agencias públicas y privadas en procura de un objetivo común. Sobre esta base, con este documento se busca formular un espacio académico que pretende aportar al desarrollo humano integral y sustentable, en una perspectiva que asume el cambio social, el respeto por los frágiles equilibrios ecosistémicos y la base de sustentabilidad de los procesos económicos y sociales desde la perspectiva del gobierno y las responsabilidades sociales de empresas y ciudadanos.
O29|Predation, Labor Share and Development|This paper proposes a new mechanism based on the allocation of labor to help understand why differences among countries have remained stable. We formulate a neoclassical growth model in which agents devote time either to produce or to commit predation. Labor share is the key variable which determines in equilibrium the time devoted to each activity: an increase in the labor share raises the incentive to devote time to production and discourages predation. When the elasticity of substitution between labor and capital is lower than one, the labor share rises throughout the transition while the per capita capital is lower than the steady state level. This increase in the labor share reduces the incentive to predate and increases the incentive to work for production. Empirical evidence supports these results: low per capita income countries have larger portions of predation and present lower labor shares. The standard effects of an increase in the productivity are amplified by the indirect effects of productivity on the reallocation of labor from predation to production. Institutional improvements play a key role in reducing predation and increasing the level of per capita income.
O29|Propaganda si manipulare, seductie sau convingere? - Propaganda and Manipulation, Seduction or Conviction? (Romanian version)|This study analyses, at the present moment, the phenomena of propaganda, persuasion and manipulation in the political communication of the 21st century, filtered through the specialized study in the social sciences field. In the first section of the study, I have established the conceptual basis of propaganda, persuasion and manipulation, going over a summarized history, then over the corresponding terminological delimitations. Moreover, I have included the rules and the techniques and mostly the connection among these three concepts. Once the conceptual terms have been determined, one can proceed to their practical application in the area of political communication. I have chosen to operate both with the analysis of the bibliography, and with the filter and the personal interpretation of the field mentioned above.
O29|Relationship marketing and life-cycle of small enterprise (SME)|The article investigates the hypothesis about the connection between marketing and life cycle enterprise of a small business (SME). Some results of studies of small enterprises in the Russian Federation: Moscow and St. Petersburg, Moscow, Novgorod, Novosibirsk, Sverdlovsk, Tomsk and Chelyabinsk regions and in the Krasnodar region. Some results of analysis demonstrate the link between marketing and life-cycle of small businesses (SME).
O29|Problems of marketing in small innovative enterprises|Article is devoted to the continuation of the study hypotheses on the relationship between marketing and life cycle of a small business. Some results of studies of small innovative companies in the Russian Federation: Moscow and St. Petersburg, Moscow, Novgorod, Novosibirsk, Sverdlovsk, Tomsk, Chelyabinsk Region and the Krasnodar Territory. Some results of the analysis, showing the feature in the marketing of innovative enterprises.
O29|Conceptual issues of state support of private enterprise in crisis|development of the Small-scale business and private businesses - one of the most urgent problems in Uzbekistan. While the relative weight and importance of a small-scale business grow in economy, a share of these indicators more low than in the developed countries. One of the most important factors mentioning efficiency of functioning of a small-scale business, the state comprehensive (institutional) support of business is.
O29|Capacity Development for Environmental Management and Governance in the Energy Sector in Developing Countries|The relationships between energy, the environment, and development are deep and complex. The International Energy Agency has noted that energy is deeply implicated in each of the economic, social and environmental dimensions of human development. Energy services provide an essential input to economic activity, contribute to social development, and help meet basic human needs. But energy production and use also has significant environmental implications that must be managed if countries are to meet their long term sustainable development goals. The purpose of this paper is to highlight the importance of environmental management and governance in the energy sector; to present environmental goals, requirements, entry points, and strategies/approaches to capacity development for the environment (CDE) in this sector; and to discuss implications for donors. The focus is on CDE in a developing country context. The paper recognises that CDE must be seen as part of an endogenous process of change, and that it must operate at multiple levels: the enabling environment, the organisation, and the individual. The paper argues that capacity development is not an end in itself; instead, defined environmental goals should be the basis for determining capacity requirements, which in turn should be the basis for defining capacity development priorities. Based on this, the paper further argues that CDE should focus on sustainable energy sources of relevance to the majority of the population, and on increased efficiency of energy use. The paper links these concepts to the country systems approach to development assistance advocated in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, and discusses some of the challenges donors face in providing CDE assistance that responds to these concepts and principles.
O29|Harmonising Climate Risk Management: Adaptation Screening and Assessment Tools for Development Co-operation|Development planners and project managers have used a wide variety of tools to manage a broad range of environmental risks, including those posed by climate variability, for a long time. Some of these tools have also now been modified to take into account the risks posed by climate change. At the same time, there has been a recent emphasis in developing more dedicated tools which have an explicit focus on screening for climate change risks and for facilitating adaptation. The purpose of this paper is to analyse this latter set of tools targeted to screen climate change risks. The paper focuses on the need to consider the experiences of users as well as developers, and to investigate the extent to which tools are meeting user needs and if opportunities may exist for streamlining the tools landscape. This analysis is therefore an effort to contribute to the alignment and harmonisation priorities of the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness of March 2005 and the follow-up Accra Agenda for Action of September 2008. While a “one-size-fits-all” approach or methodology may not be appropriate, there may be opportunities to provide common guidance on specific topics, such as categorisation and risk management frameworks, and to clarify the diverse terminology. In an effort to improve the use of screening and assessment tools, the paper recommends that the development community increase partner country ownership of risk screening and assessment tools/processes, narrow the gap between process guidance tools and data and information provision tools, supply guidance for users in moving from analysis to action and collaborate to prepare harmonised guidelines. While this analysis is limited to tools which have an explicit focus on climate change and adaptation, future work should also consider existing risk analysis tools which are practically used in development planning and modified for applications to adaptation. Les responsables de la planification du développement et les gestionnaires de projets utilisent depuis longtemps une batterie d’instruments très divers pour gérer un large éventail de risques environnementaux, dont fait partie la variabilité du climat. Certains de ces outils ont été modifiés dernièrement pour prendre en considération également les risques que présente le changement climatique. Parallèlement, des activités ont été consacrées récemment à la mise au point d’outils plus spécialisés, spécifiquement conçus pour mettre en évidence les risques qui tiennent au changement climatique et faciliter l’adaptation. Le présent article a pour objet d’analyser ces derniers outils axés sur le dépistage des risques relevant du changement climatique. Il insiste sur la nécessité de prendre en considération les expériences des utilisateurs et des promoteurs, et de déterminer dans quelle mesure les outils répondent aux besoins des utilisateurs et s’il est possible de rationaliser l’arsenal existant. Il vise ainsi à apporter des éléments à la réalisation des objectifs d’alignement et d’harmonisation énoncés dans la Déclaration de Paris sur l’efficacité de l’aide de mars 2005 et le Programme d’action d’Accra de septembre 2008 qui lui a fait suite. Il ne s’agit pas nécessairement de rechercher une approche ou une méthode universelle, mais il est peut-être envisageable de fournir des pistes communes sur des questions précises, comme les systèmes de classification et les cadres de gestion des risques, et de mettre de l’ordre dans la terminologie. Dans l’optique d’améliorer l’utilisation des instruments de dépistage et d’évaluation, l’article recommande que les acteurs du développement intensifient l’appropriation par les pays partenaires des outils et processus qui s’y rapportent, comblent le fossé entre outils d’orientation des processus et outils de fourniture de données et d’informations, et collaborent pour élaborer des lignes directrices harmonisées. La présente analyse est limitée aux outils spécifiquement axés sur le changement climatique et l’adaptation, mais les travaux futurs devraient s’intéresser également aux outils existants d’analyse des risques qui ont cours dans la planification du développement et qui sont modifiés pour être appliqués à l’adaptation.
O29|Strategies for Tourism Development in Coastal Spas, Nationally and Internationally|Based on the assumptions that Romania is a luxury tourig resort at an European level, it should be adopted a set of strategies for tourism development Spas. Development strategies in coastal resorts vary by national or local level of the resort location in the hierarchy at a country level.
O29|Knowledge Based Economy Strategies and Policies in Romania|In recent decades, knowledge is increasingly viewed more as a driving force of economic growth, which has generated a growing interest to information, technology and learning and their role in economic growth. Specialists consider that this new economy, knowledge-based economy, implies permanent products sold through virtual markets which determine much lower transaction costs and new business strategy is centered on exploiting niches. This type of economy is emerging in Romania and this paper aims to present the main national strategies and public policies for the development and implementation of information society knowledge economy in Romania
O29|Regional Development - Past, Present and Future in Romania|"Romania's participation in the implementation of EU regional policy means, first opportunity to benefit from a system of values that can be found between economic efficiency, environmental protection, ensuring minimum standards of existence, the definition of a ""European lifestyle, urban values, qualified human resources. Moreover, European integration and openness to the EU internal market and the challenge involves increasing competitiveness, which can negatively affect the process of building an economy, like Romania. In this context, structural instruments are the most important resource that Romania will have to face the challenges of change and integration. However, regional development policy can not solely be the key to overall development of a state, especially in terms of its actual effects on growth are difficult to assess. A critical dimension of this is represented on the nature of economic and quality of other public policies that form the core of economic policy mix of a state: the legal protection of property rights and market economy, taxation, antitrust, etc."
O29|An Empirical Investigation of the Relationship between Food Insecurity, Landlessness, and Violent Conflict in Pakistan|This study is an attempt to examine empirically the association between socio-economic measures of deprivation—such as food insecurity, landlessness, unemployment, and human under-development—and the incidence of violent conflict as measured by the number of violent attacks across districts in Pakistan. The study uses a linear probability model in which the dependent variable is defined on the basis of the presence or absence of violent attacks in a particular district. The results of the study indicate that in addition to the provincial-level fixed characteristics, landlessness and food insecurity are positively and robustly associated with the probability of violent attacks across districts in Pakistan. Quite contrary to the general impression held, the number of madrassahs (religious seminaries), employment rate, and literacy rate appear to be statistically irrelevant, on average, in terms of determining the probability of the presence of violent conflict across districts in Pakistan. While emphasising the need to collect better data on the intensity of violent conflict— to take into account both the incidence as well as the origin of violent attacks across districts in Pakistan—the study raises some important questions regarding the role of landlessness and food insecurity that need to be investigated further in future studies on socio-economic drivers of violent conflict in Pakistan.
O29|Contents and Aims of Management Plans for World Heritage Sites: Managerial Analysis with a Special Focus on the Italian Scenario|This paper aims to discuss the use of management tools for the UNESCO World Heritage sites. In particular, it focuses on the specific tool of the “management plan”. We have carried out a three dimension research project: 1) Analysis and development of a strong theoretical background, in order to consider the economic and managerial dimension of the management plans, even from the perspective of cultural tourism; 2) Deep study of Italian state of the art about use and application of management plans by the organizations managing World Heritage sites; 3) Comparison among some national and international case studies, in order to get empirical evidences which could be useful for theoretical considerations, regarding the general management system of the World Heritage sites. These first phases of research highlight the necessity for further studies in the next years. Notwithstanding, we are able to evidence some elements that can lead the next steps of drafting and monitoring the management plans. The final goal of these processes should be the realization of effective management systems for cultural and natural heritage. The most important points to be considered are: - The awareness of the absence of a unique “model” for every kind of UNESCO site; as far as this aspect is concerned, the aim should be the study and application of general guidelines that could be applied to different situations; - The necessity to realize a real sharing among all the stakeholders of the site with regard to vision, mission and strategies that should be implemented; - The introduction of performance measurement systems, to get both support to the management and accountability to the community.
O29|Sustained endogenous growth driven by structured and evolving general purpose technologies|No abstract is available for this item.
O29|The Role of Multi-Level Regulation in the Transition towards Cleaner Production and a Circular Economy in China: The Case of Bao'an District, Shenzhen Under the 11th Five Year Plan|No abstract is available for this item.
O29|The Gender impact in Earnings Inequality: Evidence from Sri Lanka|This paper estimates an earnings function for Sri Lanka, followed by a decomposition analysis of male-female earnings suggest that the gender disparity in earnings largely represents ‘discrimination’ against women. The findings showed that irrespective of their “inferior” labour market attributes, men had average earnings that were considerably higher than the female average and that this could be attributed entirely to discrimination in favour of male earners.
O29|Behavioural Factors as Emerging Main Determinants of Child Mortality in Middle-Income Countries: A Case Study of Jordan|This paper uses data from Jordan’s 2007 Demographic and Health Survey to reassess the main determinants of child mortality in this middle-income country. Running different logit estimations to allow for different time windows and sets of variables, we find that behavioural factors have gained importance, compared to the household and community factors that were found to be important in earlier studies. We conclude that once a country has passed a certain threshold in household income, education and access to health care and safe drinking water, policies targeting behavioural changes are the most promising for achieving further reductions in mortality rates.
O29|Strengthening the roles of political parties in Public Accountability - A case study of a new approach in political party assistance|Donors in development cooperation increasingly emphasize the importance of public accountability in developing countries for the good functioning of democratic institutions, governance and the effectiveness of their aid. Political parties are prime actors in a democratic society that have essential roles to fulfil in public accountability. However, only few donors work with them. As a result, there is relatively little knowledge and experience available. This paper aims to contribute to this body of knowledge by assessing how and to what extent a new approach of so called 'Centre's for Multiparty Democracy', national platforms for and by political parties, assist parties in their key roles between citizen and state to enhance public accountability. This is done in a case study on Kenya. The paper also explores the main constraints to public accountability and to what extent cooperation between parties and civil society has been enhanced. A new conceptual framework that differentiates political party's roles in public accountability in four domains and three phases of the accountability process is used to assess CMD-Kenya's contribution. The paper concludes that CMDs' approach explores interesting new ways to strengthen the roles of parties in public accountability. Its main contribution lies in enhancing mutual trust and strengthening politicians' awareness of the value that parties have to add to a democratic society in providing them with a platform that helped them to establish their identities as parties. At the same time societal trust in parties was strengthened by organizing joint projects between parties and civil society actors. Considering its recent set up in 2004, CMD-K has been relatively successful in initiating modest changes in some of the formal practices and policies of parties and to some extent in the behaviour of individual politicians. On the other hand deeper changes in the underlying 'rules of the game', in parties' stability and their added value to society, have hardly been realized as strong traditional informal power relations, donor dependency, institutional governance problems and managing multiple accountabilities on multiple levels pose serious threats to CMD-Kenya's functioning and therefore to its clout and relevance in the future.
O29|The elusive quest for the golden standard: Concepts, policies and practices of accountability in development cooperation|Promoting public accountability plays an ever increasing role in the recent discourse on development cooperation. It is said to encourage a more efficient use of public funds, to decrease corruption, add to more legitimate, responsive and democratic institutions including government and therefore to enhance aid effectiveness (OECD/DAC, 2005). To realize these ideals, a wide range of stakeholders, from international institutions, national governments to International Non-Governmental Organisations (INGOs), unite in their elusive quest for the golden standard to promote public accountability in their policies. More accountability seems to have become the universal cure for all democratic deficits and ineffective policies in developing countries. However, in contrast to their high expectations, accountability promotion policies have not yet delivered the expected results. This paper seeks to understand why this has been the case by analysing the current state of affairs of promoting public accountability in development cooperation with a focus on donor interventions and particularly on the interaction between donors' concepts, policies and practices. We start by exploring how accountability gained importance in development cooperation and what the underlying development paradigms, ideologies and concepts were. A multilevel governance framework is established in which four key interrelated accountability relationships are identified and examined that characterize accountability in development cooperation. The paper proceeds by exploring the main types of donor practices in accountability promotion and discusses their effects. It introduces a new perspective on assessing donor policies and practices to understand the mismatch between expectations and result from which conclusions and recommendations for future aid interventions and for further research in the area of promoting public accountability are formulated.
O29|A Prospective Approach On Product Responsibility|The present study analyses a current and important problem because we are currently experiencing an unseen growth of the volume of production in parallel with its diversification. The introduction in production of the new products is preceded by the preliminary execution of some manually executed prototypes, which is followed by their production on a large industrial scale. Under these circumstances there is the possibility for small errors to appear which can influence the behaviour of the products on consumers. Therefore, the focus of the audit is to follow closely the opinions of the consumers and the faults of some products which were found by consumers in order to remove these products from production. Due to the fact that this present study analyses in detail the prevention program of the product responsibility, I have also presented some essential common elements for such a program. In order to have an efficient program for the prevention of product responsibility, the following operations are required: organisation, education, new review of product, initial review of products and the seasonal control of production, warranties control, warnings of the contracts, complaints and claims, saving the registrations, revocation plan, subrogation, risk criteria, standards, control of the service, repairs, etc. All these elements are presented according to their individual characteristics and they should allow for a prevention program for product responsibility in other countries. That is why these elements have an important role in the economy of this material and point out once again the theoretical and practical importance of the studied problem.
O29|Nanotechnology Foresight: How Can We Explore Employment and Skills Implications?|Policymakers responsible for improving the skill base needed for future economic development must assess the implications of radical technological change in the future. The example selected here is in nanoscience and nanotechnology. The objective of this paper is to demonstrate the importance of using more than one scenario of long term development when assessing such a complex issue as technology development and the demand for skills. Scenario forecasting is appropriately based on assessing plausible alternatives combined with horizon-scanning and determination of “weak signals”. This procedure will provide early warning about how far the key elements of various scenarios become manifest and those with maximum influence on emerging trends. This procedural approach for forecasting future skills needs in a particular technology is to estimate short-term and medium-term prospects for its development from concrete scenarios. Nanotechnology, the paper shows, due to its relative infancy, its composition of numerous lines of knowledge development, and the many contested claims about the scope and speed of its evolution, poses particular challenges. The paper assesses how confident we can be about skill and employment projections related to nanoindustries – and industrial applications of nanotechnology, i.e. in medicine; chemistry and the environment; energy; information and communication; heavy industry; and consumer goods. It proposes ways in which to provide more policy-relevant intelligence. Future skills forecasts, it argues, can be shaped using familiar ideas from innovation research - about technological paradigms and trajectories, and about diffusion and industry life-cycles. Requirements for skills will vary depending on how revolutionary nanotechnologies will be. Will innovation essentially extend existing nanoengineering techniques or embody more radical visions of molecular engineering and “bottom up” nanotechnologies? Responses to these questions can be derived from expert-based alternative scenarios. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
O29|The Analysis of the Main Factors of the Macro-medium Influencing the Dynamics of Public Services in Romania|The current study presents the PESTE analysis, as well as the analysis of the evolution of the main factors of the macromedium influencing the dynamics of public services, namely: the political and legal environment, the economic environment, the socio-cultural environment, the technological environment and the ecological (natural) environment. Currently, from a political point of view, we can say that in Romania the climate is relatively stable and favorable for change. On the other hand, the legislative system is rather unpredictable, influencing in a negative manner the course of business in the economy, hence public services. Economic factors influence to the highest degree the development of public services, the level and dynamics of the main indicators of economic development determining their level and quality. In the last part of the paper, we shall present a SWOT analysis of the social and economic situation of Romania after 1990, which had a decisive influence on the dynamics of public services.
O29|Planning, managing and implementing place/city marketing effectively: review and discussion of the last 25 years|One of the most interesting issues in the literature of urban studies, the last thirty years especially,, concern the significance of city marketing procedure on high degree of city competitiveness achievement. The basic questions arising refer to the effectiveness of city marketing and how it can be measured, to the ability of public local authorities to plan and implement promotion policies as well as to the determination of the prerequisites according to which the “final produced good”, which is the “city image”, can be promoted effectively to the potential target markets. The purpose of the paper is to provide some answers to the questions above by reviewing and discussing the main relevant arguments of the last 25 years.
O29|EU Rural Development Policy. Some Reflections Prompted by the Italian Debate|The recent publication in Italy of several books on rural development policy and the commitment shown by many of the actors and institutions to its implementation contrast with the evidence of an administration showing scant propensity to dedicate efforts to targeting and selecting, integrating between spatial and sectoral objectives with due attention to efficiency and effectiveness It is necessary to improve the quality of the rural development policies in progress also, with a view to the year 2013, to contribute to the design of a European agricultural and rural development policy consistent with the strategic objectives of the Union.
O29|A Prospective Approach On Product Responsibility|The present study analyses a current and important problem because we are currently experiencing an unseen growth of the volume of production in parallel with its diversification. The introduction in production of the new products is preceded by the preliminary execution of some manually executed prototypes, which is followed by their production on a large industrial scale. Under these circumstances there is the possibility for small errors to appear which can influence the behaviour of the products on consumers. Therefore, the focus of the audit is to follow closely the opinions of the consumers and the faults of some products which were found by consumers in order to remove these products from production. Due to the fact that this present study analyses in detail the prevention program of the product responsibility, I have also presented some essential common elements for such a program. In order to have an efficient program for the prevention of product responsibility, the following operations are required: organisation, education, new review of product, initial review of products and the seasonal control of production, warranties control, warnings of the contracts, complaints and claims, saving the registrations, revocation plan, subrogation, risk criteria, standards, control of the service, repairs, etc. All these elements are presented according to their individual characteristics and they should allow for a prevention program for product responsibility in other countries. That is why these elements have an important role in the economy of this material and point out once again the theoretical and practical importance of the studied problem.
O29|Kultur ve Kalkinma: Vergi Kulturu Ornegi|Kuresellesme sureci ve farkli kultur carpismalarinin yogun bicimde yasandigi, ozellikle de ekonomik butunlesmelerin gundemde oldugu gunumuzde vergi kulturu, ekonomi ve kamu maliyesi acisindan oldukca populer ve onemli bir konudur. Aslinda vergi kulturu dogrudan ekonomi ve kamu maliyesini ilgilendirse de vergi kulturu konusu iktisat, sosyoloji ve tarih olmak uzere diger bilim dallarinin kesisimin de yer almaktadir. Vergi kulturu hakkinda calisan iktisatci gruplar kendi icinde bir takim farkliliklara ayrilmaktadir. Bu goruslerden on onemlileri klasik gorus ve donusum iktisatcilarinin savundugu modern gorustur. Mukellef ve idarenin basrolde oynadigi vergi oyunu icerisinde cevresel aktorler ve mevzuata iliskin duzenlemeler vergi oyununun kurallarini ortaya koymaktadir. Bu oyunun aktorleri ise, siyasetciler, vergi mukellefleri, vergi memurlari, uzmanlar ve mali musavirler ile bu konuda calisan akademisyenlerdir. Bu oyun surecinde soz konusu aktorler arasinda arasindaki etkilesim ve bu etkilesimin yonu sosyal bagimlilik ya da bir baga donusmekte ve vergi oyunu mevzuat sinirlamasi altinda bir kultur olgusuna donusmektedir. Bu calisma soz konusu kultur olgusundan hareketle vergi kulturu literaturune ve spesifik ulke ornekleri uzerine yogunlasarak, vergi ve kultur iliskisini belirgin kilmaya cabalamaktadir.
O29|Channels of transmission of inequality to growth: A survey of the theory and evidence from a Portuguese perspective|We review the theoretical and empirical literature on the relationship between inequality and economic growth from the perspective of the Portuguese economy in order to identify the correct (predicted) sign for the relationship in this particular country and the underlying mechanisms that explain it. Different mechanisms relating inequality and economic growth can be at stake explaining why different countries can experience different outcomes in the same period of time or why the same country experiences different outcomes in different periods of time. It is thus fundamental to correctly identify the channels of transmission of inequality to growth in the Portuguese economy. Ideally, all the mechanisms selected should be tested, but prior judgments should also lead us to produce a ranking of the mechanisms according to its relevance for the economy under analysis. This correct identification and ranking leads to more accurate policy recommendations as far as redistributive policies for the Portuguese economy are concerned.
O29|A Sectoral Analysis of Total Factor Productivity in Italy|This paper uses microdata in order to investigate the productivity slowdown observed in Italy since the early 1990s. The key question is aimed at understanding whether this productivity slowdown, which occurred in the Italian economy, can be ascribed to the dynamics in specific sectors. After having derived a very strong correlation between labour productivity and total factor productivity (TFP), the paper yields another two important results. The first of these regards the differences in TFP across sectors and the dependence of aggregate TFP on the estimates obtained for a restricted number of sectors. In particular, the productivity slow-down of the Italian economy up to 2002-2003 was due to what happened in the paper and in the chemical sectors. The second result refers to the dynamics of firms' market share. When TFP slowed down (1996-2003), this impact was very large, whereas it was negligible when the economy started to grow again. This phase of growth was characterised by a generalised increase of TFP in each and every firm.
O29|Greening Development Planning: A Review of Country Case Studies for Making the Economic Case for Improved Management of Environment and Natural Resources|Different approaches to making the economic case for improved management of natural capital in national planning are reviewed in this report. In many low-income countries natural resources sectors (agriculture, mining, forestry, fishery, nature-based tourism) are identified as the engines of economic growth. However, a majority of the ecosystems on which human well-being depends are being degraded. The difficulties in providing economic and policy-relevant information about sustainable economic management of natural capital are often seen as an important reason for inadequate integration of the environment in macroeconomic and sector polices. The report concludes that the analysed country studies (Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mozambique, Peru, Tajikistan and Uganda) mainly relied on existing domestic or international analytical work, used relatively basic calculations/data (such as the market value of fisheries, the value of timber sold etc.) and often formed part of a broader analytical effort. Ce rapport examine différentes approches pour défendre du point de vue économique l’amélioration de la gestion du capital naturel dans le cadre de la planification du développement national. Dans beaucoup de pays à faible revenu, les secteurs fondés sur les ressources naturelles (agriculture, activités extractives, foresterie, pêche, tourisme de nature) sont les moteurs de la croissance économique. Pourtant, la majorité des écosystèmes dont dépend le bien-être humain subissent des dégradations. On considère souvent que si l’environnement n’est pas convenablement pris en compte dans les politiques macro-économiques et sectorielles, c’est en grande partie parce qu’il est difficile de produire des informations économiques utiles à l’action des pouvoirs publics sur la gestion économique durable du capital naturel. Les études de cas par pays analysées pour ce rapport (qui concernent le Mozambique, l’Ouganda, le Pérou, la République démocratique populaire lao et le Tadjikistan) reposent principalement sur des travaux analytiques menés précédemment au niveau national ou international, font appel à des calculs et des données relativement simples (comme la valeur marchande des pêcheries, la valeur des ventes de bois, etc.) et s’inscrivent souvent dans une démarche analytique plus vaste.
O29|The Italian Network for Rural Development: Challenges and Weaknesses|This paper offers an empirical analysis of the Network in EC rural development policies. Taking into account some of the elements of a network system, like accreditation of the framework, the competences involved and management flexibility, we focus on the experience of the Italian Rural Network, established in 2008 by the Italian Ministero delle politiche agricole, alimentari e forestali in order to follow with closer attention application of the interventions in the agricultural sector. Outlining its purposes, its organizational structure and the activities realized, we have endeavoured to highlight the opportunities as well as the constraints that currently characterise its implementation. Our thesis is that the Network, if well managed, can represent an apt tool to face the challenges of the national rural and agricultural development policy, playing a strategic role especially over the long term, with a view to the new Reform.
O29|An analysis of explanatory factors of logistics performance of a country|The paper uses standard econometric techniques and the Logistics Performance Index calculated by The World Bank for evaluating the impact of several key macroeconomic variables on the quality of the logistics sector from 42 countries and regions. The regression results and the graphs have revealed that there is a strong relationship between the development of the services sector and the logistics performance of a country. Services are a major source of sustainable economic development, but they are very sensitive to the quality of the infrastructure and the functioning of institutions. Another finding is that many economies where a significant part of value added is generated in industrial activities tend to have high growth rates and lower logistics performance. Many of these countries are located in Central and Eastern Europe and their economic expansion was mainly supported by foreign direct investments in industrial sites and real estate developments. Since these businesses are cyclical there is a high risk of an economic downturn. These countries, particularly Romania, should rapidly improve their trade and transport facilitation framework, i.e., logistics performance. Such measures will allow the emergence of a robust service sector able to make the economic development sustainable by cushioning the cyclical shocks from the industrial side of economy.
O29|Dimensions Of The Social Risk In The Contemporary Economy|The role of risk and its implications in the societal life causes the systemic approach in the triad consumer - firm - environment. One of the types of risk that the company always supported but in periods of crisis, a known multiplied size and gravities, is the social risk. This paper highlights, mainly, two types of social risk faced by the demand, supply, the economic system exponents, as a whole, respectively the risk of poverty and social risk to the organization. The conditioning and the interdependencies of them are generated and maintained by the state of development of national economy, the quality of the business environment.
O29|Sulla dinamica della produttività totale dei fattori in Italia. Un’analisi settoriale|L’obiettivo di questo lavoro è di analizzare, utilizzando dati di impresa, il rallentamento della produttività osservato in Italia a partire dagli anni ‘90. L’idea è di verificare se nel periodo 1996-2005 l’andamento della produttività aggregata è imputabile a un rallentamento generalizzato, oppure se è riconducibile a specifici settori. I principali risultati sono tre. In primo luogo, si mostra che l’andamento della produttività del lavoro è sempre spiegato dalla produttività totale dei fattori. Inoltre, si evidenziano dinamiche differenti nei livelli della produttività settoriale e una forte dipendenza della produttività aggregata da quella osservata in alcuni specifici settori. In particolare, i comparti della carta e della chimica spiegano gran parte del declino che si è osservato nel settore manifatturiero fino al 2002-2003. La terza conclusione riguarda il contributo alla crescita dovuto al riposizionamento delle imprese nel mercato. Nella fase della riduzione della produttività (1996-2003), questo contributo è elevato e tale da aver impedito una crisi di dimensioni maggiori, mentre è marginale nella fase della ripresa, quando, al contrario, la performance del settore è legata ad un incremento generalizzato della produttività delle imprese
O29|El Desarrollo como Derecho Humano|Face to that kind of globalization, providing financial and human capital drain toward most priviledged social sectors and the richest, most powerful countries, humane and sustainable development link to other model of globalization not reduced to a mere commercial exchange. This would also implies respect, protection and promotion for the ensemble of Human Rights, for all groups and individuals, specially for most vulnerable and unpriviledged ones. Therefore, it is necessary that the current capital and human resource flow be invested in favour of poorer and less priviledged social sectors and underdeveloped countries. As well, basic needs fulfilling should be given preference over the external debt reimbursement, in the assignation of budget resources. putting forward, in case appropriate, the state of need or force majeure, toward to suspend such a payment.
O29|The Rise and Decline of Catching Up Development. An Experience of Russia and Latin America with Implications for Asian 'Tigers'|This book deals with the general problems of catching up development, which have been considered through lenses of the concrete cases studies of the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia, Latin American and East Asian countries. The book is subdivided into two parts. In the first part, some general problems of development in the past century are considered and draw attention to the cases of Russia and Latin American countries. The second part is devoted to the NICs of E/SEA.
O29|Distretti industriali e politiche per l'innovazione: il ruolo del Foresight|"Distretti industriali e politiche per l'innovazione: il ruolo del Foresight - Industrial districts and innovation policies: the role of Foresight, by Claudio Roveda and Riccardo Vecchiato It is well recognised that innovation is a systemic process, which involves quite a number of actors with different capabilities, competencies and goals, operating at different levels: national, regional, local. In particular, the local level is receiving a growing attention, due to the fact that, on one hand, innovations tend to be concentrated in localized production systems (clusters) and, on the other hand, they tend to be specialised according to the features of the local systems. Many studies have pointed out that in a local system innovation is the output of exchange of formalised and not-formalised knowledge among various actors, which interact and cooperate on the basis of mutual trust and acceptance of shared values. These actors are basically firms, universities and public and private research centres, banks, trade associations, governmental bodies. Industrial districts are a clear example of the localised nature of innovation. Their economic system strongly interacts with the social system, from which it acquires manpower, know-how, physical and non-physical infrastructures, cultural va lues. These factors are fundamental in creating and disseminating innovations by means of the production of both explicit (or coded) and tacit (or contextual) knowledge and of its integration in a continuous process of socialization, articulation, combination and internalization. Our recent Foresight exercises on the engineering district of Lecco and in the silk district of Como show that Foresight can play an important role in creating and exploiting new knowledge: however, the Foresight methodology has to be properly chosen. Interactive workshops and experts panels, with the participation of entrepreneurs of SMEs and technologists, are more suited to foster incremental innovation, based on the transfer of technologies that have passed through the initial stage of their life cycle. On the other hand, to promote and to foster radical innovation other methodologies are needed, as Scenarios. They are definitely more complex, expansive and time consuming, as they require the wide participation and the active role of the different district stakeholders: firms, centres of research and technology transfer, local governmental bodies, trade associations. On the other hand, these methodologies allow an organic and comprehensive investigation of the economic, social and cultural dimensions of an industrial district, on a long term horizon, as an essential precondition for developing strategies and policies that are really effective with regard to the macro changes brought by the global competition. One of the main results of our empirical research studies, is that Foresight may facilitate the integration of small entrepreneurs, district stakeholders and medium and large companies, driving them to play the critical roles of ""frontline employees"", ""senior managers"" and ""middle managers"" that Nonaka and Takeuchi describe in their Knowledge creating company (1995): the first ones master what the district is; the second ones build the vision of what it ought to be; the third ones serve as a bridge. JEL Classification: O290, O330."
O29|Framework of the Future: Notes to Practical Guidelines for the Design of Social Realities|"In a relatively short time, futurology has acquired the status of a scientific discipline. In November 2007, the international humanitarian social fund ""Znanie"" has declared an open competition among young scientists on the history and futurology. It involves awarding 18 prizes at 200-500 thousand roubles per each, 10 prizes to young scientists under the age of 25 years, the allocation of grants for research projects. And soon there was an event by which futurology in Russia has received official recognition and political legitimacy: a round table with a complicated name - ""Global Strategic Forum"" The Future - in search of a coordinator? '"", took place in Moscow. The keynote speaker was the"" father ""of futurology Alvin Toffler. This fact has motivated the author to put forward a working hypothesis, ""social engineering is a technological application of futurology,"" which is discussed in this article. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian."
O29|Foresight in the EU Forestry Sector|The importance of forests as a strategic resource and intangible assets is growing. So the forest sector has become a subject of numerous Foresight studies of different level and orientation. The European approach is considered as most productive so it is analyzed in the given paper. The basic instruments of strategic planning, first of all technology platforms and strategic studies implemented in the forest sector on their basis are discussed. A short review of Foresight practices of individual countries is presented. The general conclusion: reforms in the Russian forestry would be successful only if qualitative structural changes will take place. But related steps should be undertaken only on the base of shared future vision for all stakeholders. Results of Foresight studies at different level will allow to determine required innovation changes and to build roadmaps for development of different subsections of Russian forestry. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
O29|Technology Roadmaps: Tools for Development|The paper opens a series of two publications devoted to technological roadmapping. This technique allows revealing and relating threats, risks, priorities and opportunities of development for different technologies and thus making better decisions. Different factors influencing on road mapping are considered such as base technologies and possible alternatives, potential gaps and risks, competitiveness etc. Special attention is paid to emerging technologies having great potential, when expected benefits compensate investment risks. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
O29|Environmental Policy, Fuel Prices, and the Switch to Natural Gas in Santiago, Chile|In this study, I analyze the role of environmental policies and energy cost savings in the switch to natural gas by stationary sources in Chile. According to the data, most of the switching was induced by the lower cost of natural gas, although environmental policies played a small role and showed that sources were more sensitive to the cost of energy than to environmental regulation.
O29|Il processo della scelta economica. Variazioni su un tema di Albert Hirschman|"The fundamental theme underlying Hirschman’s thought regards the nature of the process of the economic choice. He argues that the search of an ""appropriatness"" between too much and too little, expresses our aspiration to well-being, better than the idea of an objective concerning pleasure maximization. Once the choice has been carried out, we usually aim, trough a mechanism of reduction of the cognitive dissonance, to weaken disappointment and regret for the criteria we have discarted. It is on the very base of these theses that Hirschman discusses which ""strategies"" could better enhance our economic choices."
O29|Embedding Research in Society: Development Assistance Options for Supporting Agricultural Innovation in a Global Knowledge Economy|The emergence of a globalised knowledge economy, and the contemporary views of innovation capacity that this trend enables and informs, provides a new context in which development assistance to agricultural research and development needs to be considered. The main argument in this paper, which focuses on The Netherlands, is that development assistance should use this emerging scenario to identify niches where inputs can add value to the R&D investments of others, particularly in activities that help wire up innovation systems, linking R&D to other activities and actors in society. The paper outlines four agricultural innovation priorities and guiding principles for development assistance that could help strengthen national and global innovation capacity. These trends also raise many tensions and dilemmas for the development research community in Northern countries. A key message of this paper is that these tensions could be better handled if a long-term vision for development assistance to ST&I - which recognised the contingencies of the global knowledge economy and the importance of participation in the resolution of international issues that affect all countries - were in place. The paper concludes by suggesting that national development assistance policies on ST&I cannot be thought of separately from a country's general ST&I policy as participation in the resolution of international issues is a key element of a country's comparative advantage. This requires investments in expertise in the North and not just financial assistance to the South.
O29|The Rise and Decline of Catching Up Development. An Experience of Russia and Latin America with Implications for Asian 'Tigers'|This book deals with the general problems of catching up development, which have been considered through lenses of the concrete cases studies of the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia, Latin American and East Asian countries. The book is subdivided into two parts. In the first part, some general problems of development in the past century are considered and draw attention to the cases of Russia and Latin American countries. The second part is devoted to the NICs of E/SEA.
O29|OSTACOLI ALLO SVILUPPO? VARIAZIONI SU UN TEMA DI ALBERT HIRSCHMAN (Ostacles to Development?)|The fundamental theme underlying Hirshman’s thought regards the nature of the process of the economic choice. He argues that the search of “appropriateness” between too much and too little, expresses our aspiration to well-being, better than the idea of an objective concerning pleasure maximization. Besides this is due to the fact that the most relevant among our choices don’t allow us to characterize an optimal solution, but press for the “appropriate” alternation of different criteria. Once the choice has been carried out, we usually aim, trough a mechanism of reduction of the cognitive dissonance, to weaken disappointment and regret for the criteria we have discarded. It is on the very base of these theses that Hirschman discusses which “strategies” could better enhance our economic choices.
O29|From Fortune-telling to Identification of Prospects: How to Define Future Needs in Qualified Personnel|Increasingly, teachers, employers, students and their families talk about the importance of identifying promising areas of education, of giving him the ability to meet the strategic needs of the growing and changing economy, a dynamic society. We need to understand a feasibility of such a task, possibility to identify future needs for skilled workers, availability of a chance to develop an approach that is applicable in different circumstances. We proceed from the assumption that the flexibility of demand in the labor market doesn’t allow to predict a high degree of accuracy the structure of the economy's needs in the workforce. However, this problem can be seen not only in quantitative terms, but above all with the content, ie answering the question, what should be the content of a student training. The value of this perspective is obvious: the huge resources are concentrated in education, at the same time the rapidly changing economic life requires constant updating of the trainings’ content as well as approaches to their organization. In this case, as is known, changes in any system are impossible as long as the goal remains undefined and is not accepted by the key actors. The paper considers a number of challenges currently facing higher education and discusses methodological approaches to determining the future directions of its development. Note: Downloadable document is in Russian.
O29|Aid Effectiveness: Politics Matters|The literature on aid effectiveness has focused more on recipient policies than the determinants of aid allocation yet a consistent result is that political allies obtain more aid from donors than non-allies. This paper shows that aid allocated to political allies is ineffective for growth, whereas aid extended to countries that are not allies is highly effective. The result appears to be robust across different specifications and estimation techniques. In particular, new methods are employed to control for endogeneity. The paper suggests that aid allocation should be scrutinized carefully to make aid as effective as possible.
O29|Evaluating Recipes for Development Success| This article offers a provocative critique of the ability of research on the impact of institutions on growth to offer immediate and practical recommendations for reforming and redesigning institutions in developing countries and transition economies. The literature traces the sources of growth to unalterable historical and geographic features. It contains equally plausible recommendations for opposite courses of action. It is sometimes driven by fads or recommends imitation of the latest success story. Some recommendations are too vague or too general to constitute practical advice. The article suggests a Bayesian diagnostic procedure to identify the causes of economic failure in an individual country as a first step toward remedying the failure. Copyright The Author 2007. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / the world bank . All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org, Oxford University Press.
O29|Evaluating Recipes for Development Success|The paper is a critical review of recent literature on institutions and development, from the perspective of whether the research findings offer useful recipes for development policy. It concludes by suggesting a Bayesian framework for diagnosing causes of low growth.
O29|Estimates of the steady state growth rates for selected Asian countries with an endogenous growth framework|This paper develops an endogenous growth ramework with externalities due to learning by doing and trade openness to show that these externalities are significant for 6 Asian countries. The estimated parameters of the augmented production functions are used to compute the steady state growth rates for Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong, Korea and the Philippines. A few broad policies to improve these steady state growth rate are suggested.
O29|The metamorphosis of Lewis's dual economy model| This paper argues that Arthur Lewis originally presented the problem of economic development in terms of an open system, in the sense that it focused on a number of possible pitfalls and socio-economic constraints in the process of capital accumulation and industrialization in a labour-surplus economy. In the hands of the neoclassical economists, who were predominantly interested in achieving deterministic equilibrium results by introducing strict assumptions, the theoretical system later became closed - something Lewis never intended. JEL Classifications: B41, O10, O17, O29
O29|L'esigenza di elementi manageriali nei piani di gestione UNESCO. I risultati di uno studio condotto su due siti patrimonio mondiale dell'umanita' in Italia e Spagna|This work is the final result of a research project, funded by the Italian Nation Research Centre (CNR) about the cultural identity like integration factor. The project aim was to study, from a business economics perspective, the management system of the cultural sites, belonging to the World Heritage List of the UNESCO. In particular, the paper examines the informative systems and tools, implemented by the organizations (normally local authorities or cultural institutions) responsible for the management of the UNESCO sites. The methodological approach is deductive-inductive, coherently with the traditional business economics formulations: it consists in practice of two parts, the first one focused on the literature review and the context analysis, the second one based on the case studies of two cultural sites. They are Ferrara (Italy) and Granada (Spain), where respectively two and three organizations, responsible of the site management, have been identified. The conclusions of this work enlighten the importance of a specific tool, requested by the UNESCO, called â€œmanagement planâ€ , for the administration of the site and the necessity on one hand of a managerial approach in its process of drafting and on the other hand of including economic and managerial aspects in its contents.
O29|Harnessing the Private Sector for Rural Development, Poverty Alleviation and HIV/AIDS Prevention|In resource-constrained developing countries, mobilizing resources from outside sources may assist in overcoming many development challenges. This paper examines the Thai Business Initiative in Rural Development (TBIRD), an NGO-sponsored program that brings together the comparative advantages and self-interest of rural villages, private sector firms and a facilitating NGO, to improve social and community health outcomes in rural areas. We analyze key issues in the program with data from Northeast Thailand. We find that the TBIRD program appears to improve the income earning and other prospects of the TBIRD factory workers. Further, TBIRD factory employment exhibits a pro-poor bias. A key impact is to provide jobs for people who might otherwise be at increased risk of HIV infection through poverty-induced decisions to migrate to urban centres and participate in the commercial sex industry. This program adds another important tool for development planners in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
O29|Debt Relief and Changing Governance Structures in Developing Countries|In this paper we empirically discuss the question whether or not debt relief in the past fifteen years has been economically rational. Analysing the determinants of debt relief our results suggest that governance quality did not play a role in the decision of creditor countries to forgive debt in the 1990s. Furthermore, even the actual debt burden of highly indebted poor countries had not been crucial for the decision whether or not debt forgiveness was granted. Rather, debt relief followed a strong path dependence: those countries whose debt had been forgiven in the first half of the 1990s have also been granted debt forgiveness in the second half of this decade. However, this allocation pattern changed at the beginning of the 21st century, where the path dependence was less strong and at least some dimensions of governance quality have been taken into account by donor countries.
O29|A Sociedade da Informação e do Conhecimento: Análise de Enquadramento no Algarve<BR>[The Information and Knowledge Society: Analysis of guidelines in the Algarve]|The Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) play a crucial role in the world today. Globalization as we know it and the emergence of so-called Information and Knowledge Society are the direct consequence of radical technological innovations that led to the development of the Internet and revolutionized the dominant paradigm for accelerating the flow and increasing the intensity of contacts and exchanges. However, in this new society old problems remain, the exclusion takes new forms, the info-exclusion, generating a Digital Divide. Noting the importance of ICT to a wider integration, the EU has given emphasis to actions on this issue, in particular with the Lisbon Strategy and the eEurope Action Program. In Portugal this interest has been felt with the establishment of an Operational Program Topic in the CSF III (originally called POSI then renamed POS_C). This work aims to summarize the end of this issue by introducing a look on the Algarve region, compared with other regions of the Atlantic Area in central aspects as the behavior of citizens, firms, municipalities, schools, museums and the tourist accommodation.
O29|International perspectives on Gender, science and Development|International perspective on Issues in Gender, Science and Economic Development Abstract The gender issues in science and economic development have two major dimensions: economic opportunities for women and abilities of women. The focus of this study is on economic opportunities for women from a global perspective. While there are significant increases in the female labor force participation rates in almost all countries, the proportion of female professional and technical workers remains much smaller. Using data from fifty countries with high human development index, we find that high index of achievement in education and high per capita incomes are important factors that contribute to the growth of professional and technical women workers. Gender empowerment index alone does not guarantee increased participation of women in science and technology.
O29|Fifty Years of Italian Emigration in Germany: Labour Market and Migration Policies|This article takes its lead from the anniversary of the labour hire agreement signed between Italy and Germany in 1955. On the basis of this agreement, and of the subsequent choices in German migration policy, Italian emigration to Germany has remained essentially temporary, following a rotation model. Nevertheless, Italians represent the most numerous immigrant group in Germany after the Turks. In the fifty years that have passed since the beginning of Italian emigration to Germany, the Italian community there has not only significantly grown, but has also shown a radically modified social and demographic composition, going through a process of integration and, to some extent, of upward social mobility. Nevertheless, it also faces serious problems, especially in the case of the juvenile component. Young Italians meet with serious difficulties at school and the rate of unemployment amongst Italian youth is higher than amongst their German counterparts. These problems are in part imputable to deficiencies in German and Italian migration policies and, in particular, the rotation model, which has kept Italian families in conditions of uncertainty, with no clear prospects for the future.
O29|Global production networks and linkages: a new development perspective|This paper attempts to bring together advances in literature on industrial economics and marketing, development economics, complexity (evolutionary theory), international business and geography of global production in order to illustrate an emerging paradigm of development which I call linkage promotion (LP).
O29|Investire per un turismo di élite o di massa: un modello dinamico|In this paper we investigate the convenience for a destination to specialize in mass-tourism or in élite-tourism. We take a micro-economic dynamic perspective, and propose a theoretical model, able to explain the switch in this kind of specialization, which is easily observed in several cases. We also study the case in which it is possible for a destination to select a combination between mass – and élite – tourism and we characterize the optimal degree of composition between these two extreme cases.
O29|Structural Changes in NICs: Some Evidences on Attractor Points|In this paper we develop a regression and a kernel density based model for finding fixed points and attractors of dynamical systems to explore attractors of structural change for NICs. The results show that countries consume longer time in some structures than the others. This can be interpreted as existence of attractors that pull countries to themselves in the first stage of the development. In the other words one attractor (low level attractor) prevent countries to reach industrial structure. Awareness of this can be helpful in policymaking for transition from one structure to another. This analysis shades light on the problem that 'why some countries can not get ride of traditional structure?' or bad structure phenomena.
O29|Structural Changes in NICs: Some Evidences on Attractor Points|In this paper we develop a regression and a kernel density based model for finding fixed points and attractors of dynamical systems to explore attractors of structural change for NICs. The results show that countries consume longer time in some structures than the others. This can be interpreted as existence of attractors that pull countries to themselves in the first stage of the development. In the other words one attractor (low level attractor) prevent countries to reach industrial structure. Awareness of this can be helpful in policymaking for transition from one structure to another. This analysis shades light on the problem that 'why some countries can not get ride of traditional structure?' or bad structure phenomena.
O29|Boomerang Effect of FDI| This article develops a duopoly model (one home and one foreign firms) of FDI examining whether the boomerang effect exists and what determines it. We show that for a given cost disadvantage to the home firm there is a range of of shipping costs with which the home firm chooses to be a multinational enterprise (MNE) performing FDI rather than to export its products, and that cost parameters, especially plant-specific fixed cost, and demand parameter affect the range of the shipping cost inducing FDI. We also show that the boomerang effect exists when the home firm reversely imports its products from the foreign country for sales in the home market. Our welfare analysis show that the existence of boomerang effect does not necessarily deteriorate the welfare of the home country, suggesting the firms of a industry facing intensified import competition to conduct more FDI as a policy implication, depending on the shipping cost. Trade liberalization in the foreign country has different effects on the home firm's incentive for FDI
O29|Entre émergence et rationalité, deux cas de pratiques de planification en PME technologiques|(VF)Cet article s'attache à l'étude des pratiques de planification de deux PME high-tech. En premier lieu, les informations récoltées auprès de Digigram illustrent plutôt une conception émergente de formation de la stratégie. En second lieu, la planification menée par Metrologic Group se rapproche davantage du courant rationaliste de formation de la stratégie. Au final, Metrologic Group comme Digigram sont deux sociétés en pleine réussite actuellement. Ce constat nous conduit naturellement, sans rejeter une construction théorique au profit de l'autre, à nous interroger sur les spécificités des démarches de planification au sein de ces deux entreprises.(VA)This article deals with the study of planning practices in two technological SME. First, information harvested with Digigram rather illustrates an emergent approach of strategy formation. Secondly, planning led by Metrologic Group nearer draws to the rationalist current of strategy making. At last, Metrologic Group as Digigram are two successful companies at present. This report naturally drives us, without throwing back a theoretical approach for the benefit of the other, to wonder about specificities of planning practices within these two companies.
O29|Wzajemne zależności uczelni wyższych i przedsiębiorstw w gospodarce opartej na wiedzy<BR>[Interdependencies of Universities and Companies in a Knowledge - Based Economy]|The paper describes a concept of economic development based on a non - material resource, such as knowledge. It presents the idea of a knowledge - based economy together with directions of its development. It shows the interdependencies between various institutions operating on the market as the main mechanism of creating, spreading and applying new knowledge. The paper also points at the need for changing the paradigms of interrelation and cooperation used in traditional economies towards those present in a knowledge - based economy.
O29|The relevance of foresight for accession countries and possibilities for co-operation|Accession countries, faced with the same challenge of joining the EU while still characterised by their own distinct level of socio-economic development, set of institutions, culture and norms, can benefit significantly from conducting foresight programmes. Yet, foresight should not be conducted for its own sake – just because it is becoming “fashionable” throughout the world, and currently being promoted by the EU. On the contrary, there should be a strong link between foresight, decision preparation and policy-making. Foresight has now reached a point, at which different approaches can be compared to highlight good practices: what has worked in certain circumstances (level of development, challenges and hence policy aims), and thus what set of tools and approaches are likely to be useful in different environments. International co-operation, therefore, can be extremely useful for accession countries in various ways. The simplest one would be to share information, exchange experience, as well as compare methods and achievements, i.e. to learn from each other. A more ambitious way could be to conduct joint foresight programmes on issues that go beyond the national boundaries, such as accession countries’ role and prospects as members in the new, enlarged EU, scope for their re-invigorated co-operation in those new settings, etc. However, trans-border foresight exercises would also require adequately adapted or even entirely new methods and techniques.
O29|En torno a la economía política de la exclusión social en Colombia|Colombia is a society with grave problems of social exclusion. However it is possible to work toward social inclusion if the political and economic forces of the country restructured democratically. It is necessary to create a comprehensive system of social protection and social security, adjust public finances, establish justice and defense as the two pillars of a state based on law enforcement, work toward economic and political democratization, without interrupting the development of the market regime with appropriate regulation of the State. It is only possible to construct a political, economical and social democracy with a profound social transformation.
O29|Is it Possible to Avoid a Lemon? Reflections on Choosing a Poverty Mapping Method|Poverty and food security in most countries are highly heterogeneous phenomena, making it common to find wide spatial variability. Both types and depth of poverty, measured in a variety of ways, vary between and within countries, regions or other geographic and administrative units. Spatial heterogeneity can develop for a variety of reasons, including differences in geography, history, ethnicity, and access to markets and public services, infrastructure, and other facets of public policy (see, for example, Bloom and Sachs, 1998, Jalan and Ravallion, 2000, or de Janvry and Sadoulet, 1997). Heterogeneity in poverty and food security is often hard to measure correctly, however, with conventional analytical tools. The key problem is obtaining data which permits the measurement of poverty and food security at a level of disaggregation sufficient to capture the heterogeneity brought on by spatial variability. The concept of mapping involves measuring the incidence of poverty and food security by some predetermined area. While the term “poverty” mapping has become ubiquitous in research and policy circles, an almost unlimited variety of poverty and food security indicators can be mapped with the methods described in this paper. Although poverty and food security are not necessarily the same concept, the terms are used interchangeably in this paper since here the focus is on methods, not specific indicators.
O29|Unravelling the Pacific Paradox|The performance of the Pacific Island countries (PICs) over the past two decades has been characterized by economic growth rates that are low on average yet extremely volatile. This has been so despite favorable levels of natural and human resources, high levels of public investment and aid, and reasonably prudent economic management – a phenomenon that has been labeled the “Pacific Paradox”. Questions may be posed therefore as to what accounts for this poor performance of the PICs, especially when countries elsewhere of the same size and characteristics have registered impressive growth performance during the same period? Although the inherent structural constraints characterizing the PIC economies have a direct impact on the performance of these economies, one cannot dismiss the more fundamental constraints imposed by the institutional environment in which these countries operate. The purpose of this study was to critically review the economic performance of the PICs with a view to evaluating the possible explanations for the “Pacific Paradox”. The proposition evaluated is that it is not the lack of capital or good policies that constrains the economic growth and development of these island economies, but rather the lack of appropriate institutions and incentives to accumulate and acquire human and physical capital and to make policies effective. Early tests of this proposition across several Pacific island countries indicate that ineffective institutions, leading to contract insecurity, as well as corrupt practices and bureaucratic ineffectiveness account for large reductions in the average rate of growth of national income in these countries. Unless the PICs undertake appropriate institution-building measures with a view to putting in place the conditions necessary for broad-based, sustained economic growth, these island economies will continue to live out the “Pacific Paradox”.
O29|Using market valuation to assess the importance and efficiency of public school spending|"In this paper we take a ""market-based"" approach to examine whether increased school expenditures are valued by potential residents and whether the current level of public school provision is inefficient. We do so by employing an instrumental variables strategy to estimate the effect of state education aid on residential property values. We find evidence that, on average, additional state aid is valued by potential residents and that school districts appear to spend efficiently or, if anything, underspend. We also find that school districts spend less efficiently in areas in which they face little or no competition from other public schools, in large districts, and in areas in which residents are poor or less educated. One interpretation of these results is that increased competition has the potential to increase school efficiency in some areas."
O29|Using Market Valuation to Assess the Importance and Efficiency of Public School Spending|"In this paper we take a ""market-based"" approach to examine whether increased expenditures improve perceived school quality and whether the current level of public school provision is inefficient. We find evidence that, on average, school districts are not wasting taxpayers' education dollars. Rather, if anything, we find that education may be underfunded. As a result, increased competition has the potential to increase school spending levels. We also find evidence that school districts spend less efficiently in areas in which school districts face less competition from other public schools and in areas in which residents are less educated (leading either to less mobility from a lack of resources or to less efficient education production through peer effects)."
O29|Indigenous Work-for-the-Dole and Mutual Obligation: Prospects for Employment Generation in Remote Australia|This article focuses on Indigenous communities in remote Australia who participate in the Community Development Employment Projects (CDEP) scheme, a form of work-for-the-dole that was first established in 1977 and is now administered by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission. At the time of the 1996 Census there were 265 CDEPs Australia-wide and about 31,000 participants. The analysis here focuses on the 70% of these CDEPs that are located in remote regions. Initially a census-based assessment is provided of the economic impacts of the scheme. This indicates that the scheme has discernible economic and employment benefits. Next, an attempt is made to reconcile the mutual obligation nature of the scheme with the emerging reform of social policy (also based on principles of mutual obligation) currently being implemented that is based on recommendations made by the McClure Committee and endorsed in the writings of influential Indigenous spokesperson Noel Pearson. The article ends by outlining how, in this reformist policy context, the CDEP scheme could itself be modified to provide a more effective framework for Indigenous economic development in remote regions and makes brief comment on lessons from the CDEP scheme for the wider Australian community.
O29|Using Market Valuation to Assess the Importance and Efficiency of Public School Spending|In this paper we take a market-based approach to examine whether increased school expenditures are valued by potential residents and whether the current level of public school provision is inefficient. We do so by employing an instrumental variables strategy to estimate the effect of state education aid on residential property values. We find evidence that, on average, additional state aid is valued by potential residents and that school districts appear to spend efficiently or, if anything, under spend. We also find that school districts spend less efficiently in areas in which they face little or no competition from other public schools, in large districts, and in areas in which residents are poor or less educated. One interpretation of these results is that increased competition has the potential to increase school efficiency in some areas.
O29|Рациональная Функция Протестантизма<BR>[Rational Functions of Protestantism]|Article about the role of Protestantism in shaping the conditions for successful social and economic development of the state. The author compares the Orthodoxy in Russia and European Protestantism as the ideological foundation of ensuring social stability and social progress of the state.
O29|Industrialisation with Specification and Modernisation: Static and Dynamic Considerations|No abstract is available for this item.
O29|"""Wir Beniner sind keine Deutschen"" - Zur soziokulturellen Problematik der Zusammenarbeit mit Partnerfachkräften in Benin"|Häufig wird erst bei der Schlußevaluierung von TZ-Projekten erkannt, daß das Nichterreichen von Teilzielen oder gar das Scheitern des gesamten Projektes auf die mangelnde Berücksichtigung sozialer und soziokultureller Voraussetzungen zurückzuführen sind. Es reicht nicht aus, technische, ökonomische und organisatorische, am europäischen Modell orientierte Ansätze modifiziert zu übertragen. Ausgehend von ökologischen, ökonomischen, sozialen, politischen und kulturellen Rahmenbedingungen müssen angemessene Problemlösungen gemeinsam mit den Zielgruppen entwickelt und umgesetzt werden. Es stellt sich die Frage, ob das Instrumentarium der GTZ mit der Bevorzugung der Projektabwicklung über staatliche Träger dieser Aufgabe gerecht werden kann.
O29|Considerations About Public Housing Policy|The field of house construction in Romania is confrunting in the transition period through a real democratic system with remarkable aspects. It’s about, first of all, the human rights: that the owner of a home, which correspond to the requirements of safety and comfort, but that housing constructor, motivated by achieving profits. Thus, for the conciliation of these conditions and interests so different, and to use rational resources and social goods, it’s necessary to have a medium and long-term policy of housing, which has to be understood by both central and local administration, and of civil society.
