O32|Cross-border knowledge flows through R&D FDI: Implications for low- and middle-income countries|R&D related foreign direct investments represent a powerful mechanism for cross-border knowledge sharing that can stimulate the process of technological catch-up. However, low-income countries and smaller middle-income countries remain largely excluded from this kind of global flows of knowledge. In this chapter, we discuss the motivations and implications of this type of FDI for low and middle income countries, building on a critical review of the existing literature and analyse the trajectory of R&D FDI during the period 2003-2017 by region and industry. The data is used as a point of departure to discuss potential policies specially tailored for low and middle income countries and their capacity to attract and anchor R&D related FDI for technological catch up. The paper finalizes outlining a future research agenda.
O32|Performance management and audit & feedback to support learning and innovation – Theoretical review and implications for Swedish primary care|Health care professionals frequently describe performance management and monitoring of efficiency and quality measures for external accountability as an administrative burden with limited benefits. Professionals argue that they are subject to too tight control that signals distrust, limits professional autonomy and ultimately decreases their motivation to perform. At worst, poorly incentivized indicators influence the behavior of providers in directions that undermine patient benefits. Against this background, policy interest has recently turned towards new governance and managerial approaches in Swedish health care services, allowing for a higher degree of professional autonomy, participatory processes and use of non-financial incentives. This change will undoubtedly have implications for performance management. Inspired by current changes in Swedish primary care, this article explores the design of audit & feedback elements through a review of the empirical evidence and theories about motivation and incentives. Audit & feedback interventions have so far taken a “diffusion of innovation” perspective focusing on implementation of evidence and targets into practice. More complex changes in the delivery of services is likely to require experience-based DUI (Doing, Using, Interacting) modes of innovation, which in turn calls for a more formative and enabling approach to performance management and audit & feedback. A key question is how an appeal to social determinants of professional identity and reputation mechanisms can motivate professionals to change their behavior. Practical implications and research opportunities that follow from the theoretical propositions are discussed using Swedish primary care as an illustrative case.
O32|Trademarks and Appropriability in the Digital Era: Evidences from Swedish Video Games Industry|What role can trademark play in appropriability regime, especially in a digitalized era where many innovations are easy to copy and difficult to protect, and where rapid diffusion is the norm? This study, using the Swedish video games industry as a case, aims to provide some insights and tentative answers to those questions. Combining firm-level interviews, statistical data concerning EUIPO trademarks filed by the Swedish video games industry, we present the quantitative trends of trademarking across this industry sector (i.e. timeline; distribution across technological platforms and firm sizes; correlation with turnover), as well as qualitative explanations for that. This study contributes to a meso-level explanation of the role of trademarks (registrations) in appropriability on the one hand, and to the understanding of the complexity of the general appropriability conditions (and logic) in the Digital Era, on the other.
O32|Public policy failures related to China´s Wind Power Development|An anecdote about the failure of the Soviet economic system tells about a factory which were evaluated based on tons of nails produced – unsurprisingly the nails became heavy. China is currently hailed as the worlds primer wind power producer; however, a closer examination reveals a string of policy failure making the Chinese wind power development resemble the infamous Soviet nail example. From a technological transition perspective, policy failures in China's wind power program from 1980-2016 is documented and analysed. Five overarching topics are analysed including: Conflicting policies, quality problems, underwhelming technological development, lacking technological standards and insufficient grid transmission system. One conclusion is that when the Chinese government set a command and control target of how much new installed capacity that was going to be constructed the state utilities delivered to target but with an abundance of power plants without grid connectivity, severe quality problems and low technological development.
O32|The Role of Obstacles to Innovation on Innovative Activities: an Empirical Analysis|We study the effect of different types of barriers to innovation (financial, demand, knowledge, market, cooperation, and regulatory barriers) on firm level innovation inputs and outputs. Using a pooled sample of three Chilean innovation surveys, based on an instrumental variables approach, we find that the probability of generating innovation outcomes is significantly reduced by demand and financial barriers. Regarding inputs for innovation, we find a clear negative relationship between financial and demand obstacles and the propensity to incur (non-R&D) innovation expenditures, but not with its intensity. We also provide evidence of heterogeneous effects across sectors, finding that knowledge obstacles are relevant for manufacturing and market structure obstacles for services, while demand and financial obstacles appear to matter across the board.
O32|Innovation, Productivity, and Spillovers Effects: Evidence from Chile|This paper estimates the direct and spillover effects of two matching grants schemes designed to promote firm-level research and development (R&D) investment in Chile on firm productivity. Because the two programs target different kinds of projects—the National Productivity and Technological Development Fund (FONTEC) subsidizes intramural R&D, while the Science and Technology Development Fund (FONDEF) finances extramural R&D carried out in collaboration with research institutes—analyzing their effects can shed light on the process of knowledge creation and diffusion. The paper applies fixed-effects techniques to a novel dataset that merges several waves of Chile’s National Manufacturing Surveys collected by the National Institute of Statistics with register data on the beneficiaries of both programs. The results suggest that while both programs have had a positive impact on participants’ productivity, only FONDEF-funded projects have generated positive spillovers on firms’ productivity. The analysis reveals that the spillover effects on productivity display an inverted-U relationship with the intensity of public support. Spillover effects were found to occur only if firms were both geographically and technologically close.
O32|Artificial Intelligence: Socio-Political Challenges of Delegating Human Decision-Making to Machines|Artificial intelligence is at the heart of current debates related to ethical, social and political issues of technological innovation. This briefing refocuses attention from the techno-ethical challenges of AI to artificial decision-making (ADM) and the questions related to delegating human decisions to ADM. It is argued that (a) from a socio-ethical point of view the delegation is more relevant than the actual ethical problems of AI systems; (b) instead of traditional responsible AI approaches focusing on accountability, responsibility and transparency (ART) we should direct our attention to trustworthiness in the delegation process; and (c) trustworthiness as a socio-communicational challenge leads to questions that may be guided by a responsible research and innovation framework of anticipation, reflexivity, inclusion, and responsiveness. This may lead to different questions policymakers and other interested publics may ask as well as novel approaches, including regulatory sandboxes and other measures to foster a more inclusive, open and democratic culture of human-ADM relations.
O32|The 2019 PREDICT Key Facts Report. An analysis of ICT R&D in the EU and beyond|The 2019 PREDICT Key Facts Report provides a detailed analysis of the state of ICT R&D activities in the EU. This is the twelfth edition of a series that is published annually. As the previous editions, an online version is available at: https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/predict. The report covers the period between 1995 and 2016, providing a long-term analysis of the European Union (EU) ICT sector and its R&D, covering a whole cycle from the initial expansion years, to the double recession that began in early 2008, and the most recent evolution up to 2016. Whenever possible, the report includes nowcasted data for 2017 and 2018. The statistical information provided by the figures allows the comparison between: the ICT sector and the total economy; the ICT manufacturing sector and the ICT services sector; the four ICT manufacturing sectors, two ICT services sectors, and MC and RS sectors; EU countries; the EU and the international context (including the most relevant countries in the world economy). The report is focused especially on the ICT R&D macroeconomic dynamics.
O32|Immigrant Entrepreneurs and Innovation in the U.S. High-Tech Sector|We estimate differences in innovation behavior between foreign versus U.S.-born entrepreneurs in high-tech industries. Our data come from the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs, a random sample of firms with detailed information on owner characteristics and innovation activities. We find uniformly higher rates of innovation in immigrant-owned firms for 15 of 16 different innovation measures; the only exception is for copyright/trademark. The immigrant advantage holds for older firms as well as for recent start-ups and for every level of the entrepreneur’s education. The size of the estimated immigrant-native differences in product and process innovation activities rises with detailed controls for demographic and human capital characteristics but falls for R&D and patenting. Controlling for finance, motivations, and industry reduces all coefficients, but for most measures and specifications immigrants are estimated to have a sizable advantage in innovation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O32|Who Founds? An Analysis of University and Corporate Startup Entrepreneurs Based on Danish Register Data|We compare individuals presently employed either at an university or at a firm from a R&D intensive sector and analyze which of their personal-specific and employer-specific characteristics determine their choice of subsequently founding a startup. Our data set is unusually rich and combines the population of Danish employees with their present employers. We focus on persons who at least hold a Bachelor's degree in engineering, sciences and health and track them over the time period 2001-2012. We show that (i) there are overall little differences between the characteristics of university and corporate startup entrepreneurs, (ii) common factors triggering startup activity of both university and corporate employees are education, top management team membership, previous job mobility and being male, (iii) it is exclusively human capital-related characteristics that affect startup choice of university employees while (iv) the characteristics of the present workplace constitute major factors of entrepreneurial activity.
O32|Unions and Firms' Investments. A Unified View|In this paper, we present a simple model in which a unionized and non-unionized firm optimally make investment decisions given their labor productivity. By allowing workersâ€™ organizations to have positive effects on labor effort, we find that the classic hold-up problem does not necessarily survive. We also derive conditions under which rent-seeking by unions may actually encourage firmsâ€™ investments.
O32|Advertising, innovation and economic growth|This paper analyzes the implications of advertising for firm dynamics and economic growth through its interaction with R&D investment at the firm level. We develop a model of endogenous growth with firm heterogeneity that incorporates advertising decisions. We calibrate the model to match several empirical regularities across firm size using U.S. data. Through a novel interaction between R&D and advertising, our model provides microfoundations for the empirically observed negative relationship between both firm R&D intensity and growth, and firm size. Our model predicts substitutability between R&D and advertising at the firm level. Lower advertising costs are associated with lower R&D investment and slower economic growth. We provide empirical evidence supporting substitution between R&D and advertising using exogenous changes in the tax treatment of R&D expenditures across U.S. states. Finally, we find that R&D subsidies are more effective under an economy that includes advertising relative to one with no advertising.
O32|Funding academic research: grant application, partnership, award, and output|Funding agencies tend to allocate (scarce) resources using a bottom-up competitive process. This paper analyzes the determinants and the consequences of the choices made in each of the stages of the funding process. We build on previous research (Banal-Estañol, Macho-Stadler, and Pérez-Castrillo 2013, 2018, and 2019) using, and present new results based on, one of the major public organizations funding academic research worldwide: the UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
O32|Inovação em saúde: um estudo a partir da Pesquisa Sondagem de Inovação|The objective of this study is to analyze the dynamics of innovation in the industrial sectors of the Economic and Industrial Health Complex, compared to other sectors of the manufacturing industry in Brazil. For that purpose, data of Survey of Innovation Survey, realized by the the Brazilian Industrial Development Agency (ABDI, acronym in Portuguese), from 2010 to 2016, was used. This is a descriptive study focusing on the characterization of company innovation processes in terms of product and process innovation, professional qualification, the composition of of spending and the main factors that influence the decision of future investments by companies. The results is in agreement with the literature that suggest a slowdown of economic activity after the economic crisis. Furthermore, it is possible to notice that more aggressive strategies of innovation by the companies are relatively rare over every segment, pointing to the low capacity of innovation of the national industry.
O32|Do Tax Cuts Produce More Einsteins? The Impacts of Financial Incentives vs. Exposure to Innovation on the Supply of Inventors|Many countries provide financial incentives to spur innovation, ranging from tax incentives to research and development grants. In this paper, we study how such financial incentives affect individuals' decisions to pursue careers in innovation. We first present empirical evidence on inventors' career trajectories and income distributions using de-identified data on 1.2 million inventors from patent records linked to tax records in the U.S. We find that the private returns to innovation are extremely skewed – with the top 1% of inventors collecting more than 22% of total inventors' income – and are highly correlated with their social impact, as measured by citations. Inventors tend to have their most impactful innovations around age 40 and their incomes rise rapidly just before they have high-impact patents. We then build a stylized model of inventor career choice that matches these facts as well as recent evidence that childhood exposure to innovation plays a critical role in determining whether individuals become inventors. The model predicts that financial incentives, such as top income tax reductions, have limited potential to increase aggregate innovation because they only affect individuals who are exposed to innovation and have no impact on the decisions of star inventors, who matter most for aggregate innovation. Importantly, these results hold regardless of whether the private returns to innovation are known at the time of career choice. In contrast, increasing exposure to innovation (e.g., through mentorship programs) could have substantial impacts on innovation by drawing individuals who produce high-impact inventions into the innovation pipeline. Although we do not present direct evidence supporting these model-based predictions, our results call for a more careful assessment of the impacts of financial incentives and a greater focus on alternative policies to increase the supply of inventors.
O32|A Toolkit of Policies to Promote Innovation|"Economic theory suggests that market economies are likely to underprovide innovation because of the public good nature of knowledge. Empirical evidence from the United States and other advanced economies supports this idea. We summarize the pros and cons of different policy instruments for promoting innovation and provide a basic ""toolkit"" describing which policies are most effective according to our reading of the evidence. In the short run, R&D tax credits and direct public funding seem the most productive, but in the longer run, increasing the supply of human capital (for example, relaxing immigration rules or expanding university STEM admissions) is likely more effective."
O32|Prioritized Examination and its Impact on Commercialization of Patents|Patents play an important role in facilitating transfers of knowledge, and enable commercialization of innovative ideas by reducing information asymmetry between potential buyers and sellers on the market for technology. The crucial question, however, is how quickly innovative ideas can be patented. Previous research has shown that the probability of commercialization for pending applications peaks immediately after the patent allowance event (Gans, Hsu & Stern, 2008). But does the length of pendency of an application at a patent office also affect the overall saleability of a technology and create some frictions on the market for technology? In this paper, we exploit the introduction of the USPTO’s Prioritized Examination (Track One) Program to capture the impact of shortened pendency on the likelihood that a pending or granted patent will be commercialized via the transfer of property rights. Using the difference-in-differences approach, we compare the average saleability of patents, which we assign into three groups according to their predicted propensity for prioritization before and after the program start date. We find that introduction of the Track One program has significantly increased the probability of commercial reassignment of applications that were more likely to be prioritized. Our results suggest that the policy implemented by the USPTO and shortened pendency of applications, in general, may reduce frictions on the market for technology and facilitate commercialization of innovations.
O32|Strategic Growth and Implementation: Thriving in a Disruptive Landscape|To create wealth in a changing and competitive landscape, managers need to identify and develop opportunities for new strategic growth. They also need to have excellent implementation capabilities to reap the benefits of their new growth initiatives. Yet, most managers and companies struggle or even fail to do so. To address this struggle, management practice and research about strategic growth and about implementation need integration. In this inaugural address, I propose three avenues, which may contribute to this. First, for organizations to become really good at developing new strategies for growth and also at implementing them, they need ambidextrous managers, i.e., managers with the capacity to do two very different things equally well, like being entrepreneurial and strategic, conducting exploratory and exploitative learning, and putting in place top-down and bottom-up strategic processes. The second avenue is about creating close connections and systematic interactions between new growth and implementation activities within the organization and among the actors involved. This pertains to managers across different hierarchical levels and to the involvement of operational managers and employees. The third avenue points to scale-ups as an exciting context for practice and research on growth and implementation. Interest in scale-ups may benefit from going beyond typical macro questions of job creation as scaling-up a company rapidly is full of unique managerial and organizational challenges, and scale-ups have the potential to be impactful forces for positive change.
O32|Surveying Business Uncertainty|We develop a new monthly panel survey of business executives and a new question design that elicits subjective probability distributions over own-firm outcomes at a one-year look-ahead horizon. Our Survey of Business Uncertainty (SBU) began in 2014 and now covers 1,500 firms drawn from all 50 states, every major industry in the nonfarm private sector, and a full range of firm sizes. We use SBU data to measure expected future outcomes for the growth of sales, employment, and investment for each firm and the uncertainty surrounding those expectations. Mean expectations are highly predictive of realized growth rates in the firm-level data, and subjective uncertainty is highly predictive of absolute forecast errors. We also use the SBU data to produce a Business Expectations Index (first moment) and a Business Uncertainty Index (second moment) for the U.S. economy. In Granger causality tests, the Business Expectations Index has statistically significant predictive power for a range of prominent business cycle indicators. The SBU also includes special questions that elicit additional information, including the perceived effects of specific government policy developments on the firm’s decisions and outcomes.
O32|Working Paper 04-19 - Tax incentives for business R&D in Belgium - Third evaluation|Belgium has committed to raise investment in research and development (R&D) to 3% of GDP by 2020. In fulfilment of this commitment, the federal government introduced different tax incentives in support of business R&D. This paper presents the results of the third evaluation of the efficiency of these tax incentives, covering the period 2003-2015.
O32|Science and innovations in Russia in 2018|The past year marked the start of drawing up new integrated technological development plans for the Russian science and technology. The plans were originally presented by an Executive Order of the Russian President and then evolved into a nationwide project called “The ‘Science’ National Project” which is in turn linked to the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of the Russian Federation adopted in 2016 as well as a national program called “Digital Economy of the Russian Federation.” In addition to the plans, there were some important organizational changes that led to the ultimate separation of former academic research institutes from the Russian Academy of Science (the Academy) and to the establishment of a single Ministry of Science and Higher Education with authority over institutions of higher education and research-performing organizations, while the Academy was granted the legal status of public expert organization. Other important changes include positive moves towards the development of science in institutions of higher education and more active position of regional government authorities with regard to scientific and technological development. Yet, no breakthroughs or visible changes in technological innovations took place.
O32|Animate the cluster or subsidize collaborative R&D? A multiple overlapping treatments approach to assess the impact of the French cluster policy|This paper examines the effectiveness of the French competitiveness cluster policy on participating SMEs in terms of innovation and economic performance. Using an original dataset, we construct different measures of treatment with crossover designs. The findings indicate substantial additionality effects on R&D and employment and weak or insignificant effects on other types of economic performance. While only adhering to clusters induces much stronger positive impacts on SMEs than only participating in R&D collaborative projects, the policy is most effective when the two treatments are simultaneously used. To achieve its impact on SMEs, the cluster policy should not overlook low-cost instruments such as animation actions and common services.
O32|Intrinsic vs. Extrinsic Motivators on Creative Collaboration: The Effect of Sharing Rewards|Charness and Grieco (2019) have experimentally shown that financial incentives have a positive impact on individual creativity, but only in the case of “close” creativity, i.e., when there are constraints to the creative task that a subject has to accomplish. In this paper, we build on the same “close” creativity assignments of Charness and Grieco (2019) and analyze with undergraduate students and with experts in creativity the interplay between monetary incentives and group cooperation in creative assignments. We introduce a novel model of intrinsic vs. extrinsic motivation to group collaboration in creativity and run a theorydriven experiment to test our experimental hypotheses on the crowding out of intrinsic motivation due to extrinsic motivation to group creativity. We find more creativity in the group than in the individual treatment, apart when there are explicit monetary incentives to co-working (sharing ideas) in the creative assignment. Therefore, while Charness and Grieco (2019) show a positive interplay between monetary incentives (extrinsic individual motivation) and “close” creativity at the individual level, we provide evidence of a negative interplay between monetary incentives and “close” creativity at the group level (crowding out of intrinsic group motivation). Furthermore, and again in line with our model predictions, the latter effect is found more in the experimental sessions with experts in creativity than in those with undergraduate students.
O32|Looking at Creativity from East to West: Risk Taking and Intrinsic Motivation in Socially and Culturally Diverse Countries|This article presents a mixed-methods research in the eld of creativity. By making use of experiments and a questionnaire, it analyses how creativity is aected by three factors: i) motivation, ii) individuals' attitudes towards risk and ambiguity and iii) social context. Each one of these factors has been extensively investigated in the theoretical and empirical literature getting to results still open to discussion. In particular, this research focuses on two aspects. First, we try to shed some light on the controversial ndings linking risk taking and creativity that exist in the economic and psychology literature. To do so, we test the hypotheses that self perception of creative abilities may play a role in establishing a riskcreativity positive correlation. Second, being the three factors strongly inuenced by culture, the study investigates whether the impacts on creativity may dier in diverse geographical locations. Following Attanasi et al. (2019), we exploit data from experiments performed in main cities of one eastern and one western country: Ho Chi Minh city (Vietnam) and Strasbourg (France). The information to build the risk and ambiguity factor derive from risk and ambiguity elicitation via lotteries. To account for motivation, dierent organizational scenarios are set in experimental treatments (nancial incentives vs non nancial incentives to collaborate). Finally, information on social context and self perception of creative abilities are collected through a self administrated questionnaire. In our analysis, we nd that risk aversion, social habits and leisure activities have a positive eect on the creative performance of the French participants, while for Vietnamese the intrinsic motivation and the perception of their own creative capacities are positive correlated with creative scores. Our results suggest that in a country like France, social context has a strong inuence on individual creativity, while for Vietnam individual features play a role in creativity, suggesting that the socio-cultural context has dierent impacts on creativity.
O32|Les externalités de la R&D et la capacité d’innovation : implications sur données camerounaises pour une politique de promotion d’innovation<BR>[The externalities of R&D and innovation effort: implications for Cameroonian data for innovation promotion]|This article seeks to analyze the R&D externalities effect on innovation effort. The data analyzed based on a sample of 640 enterprises located in Douala, Yaoundé and Bafoussam. The method of estimation is a probit with selection based on the framework proposed by Heckman (1979). The first equation explains the cooperation in R&D and the second shows the innovation effort of enterprises. The empirical analysis focused on the unobserved heterogeneity of externalities. Our results reveals the existence of unobserved elements, due to cooperation between the firms, which reinforce their innovation effort. Our results reveals that cooperation can be a vector of positive externalities that reinforce their innovation effort. Moreover, our results tend to show the importance of the social returns of R&D in the innovation process. These results question the relevance of current innovation policies, mainly focused on the promotion of private R&D. Thus, innovation promotion policies should be oriented towards open innovation and intensified innovation cooperation.
O32|ENTREPRENEURIAT ET CAPACITE D’INNOVATION, CAS DES PME AGROALIMENTAIRES. Une évidence empirique sur données camerounaises et implications pour une politique de développement sectoriel<BR>[ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND CAPACITY OF INNOVATION, CASES OF AGRO-FOOD SMEs. EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE ON CAMEROON DATA AND IMPLICATIONS FOR SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY]|The purpose of this article is to analyze innovation capacity and describe innovation trends in agro-food SMEs in Cameroon. The data analysis based on a subsample of 96 agro-food companies located in the cities of Douala, Yaoundé and Bafoussam. The descriptive analyzes reveal an innovation trend of agribusiness SMEs oriented towards adaptive innovations, as opposed to radical innovations. They are also more engaged in commercial and organizational innovations. In terms of the characteristics of innovation, the results of logistic regression reveal a wide range of external and internal factors influencing the direction of innovation. These factors are R&D activity, size, the role of competition and the geographical location of companies.
O32|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment|Definition of Internet of Things (IoT) Cyber Risk – Discussion on a Transformation Roadmap for Standardization of Regulations, Risk Maturity, Strategy Design and Impact Assessment
O32|Forecasting the capacity of mobile networks|The optimization of mobile network capacity usage is an essential operation to promote positive returns on network investments, prevent capacity bottlenecks, and deliver good end user experience. This study examines the performance of several statistical models to predict voice and data traffic in a mobile network. While no method dominates the others across all time series and prediction horizons, exponential smoothing and ARIMA models are good alternatives to forecast both voice and data traffic. This analysis shows that network managers have at their disposal a set of statistical tools to plan future capacity upgrades with the most effective solution, while optimizing their investment and maintaining good network quality.
O32|Анализ На Състоянието На Системата За Споделяне На Знания И Иновации В Селското Стопанство В България<BR>[Analysis of the State of the System of Sharing of Knowledge and Innovations in Bulgarian Agriculture]|This study analyses the state and development of the system of sharing of knowledge, innovations and digitalisation of Bulgarian agriculture. First, the scope of the study and information sources are outlined. After that analysis is made of the state and evolution of the research and development activity in Bulgaria. Following is the analysis of the state and development of major agents in the system of sharing knowledge and innovations in agriculture and the relations - the system of agrarian research, the system of agrarian education, advises and consultations, and the system of application of agrarian innovations. Next, the state and evolution of the digitalisation in agriculture and rural regions are analysed. After that the results of an expect assessments on the state, efficiency and factors of development of the system of sharing of knowledge, innovations and digitalisation in agriculture are presented. Finally, conclusions of the study are made.
O32|Uncertain R&D Outcomes and Cooperation in R&D|The present paper provides a brief survey of some of the papers dealing with R&D uncertainty. This helps us identify which factors are more favorable for cooperative R&D and which factors are not. The paper provides the analysis under a unified framework. We take the classic paper by Marjit (1991) as the benchmark case, and then proceeds to examine whether, or to what extent, Marjit result will undergo a change with respect to different assumptions related to R&D investment.
O32|Peluang dan Tantangan Financial Technologi Syariah di Indonesia|This article describes how the opportunities and challenges of FinTech Sharia in the face of the industrial revolution 4.0. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that FinTech Sharia which is the development of technological innovations that are in accordance with sharia provisions and becomes a solution to avoid interest transactions. The synergy between the Islamic financial sector and information technology innovation should also be a challenge as well as an opportunity for all actors in the Islamic finance industry to catch up with the conventional financial industry.
O32|Opportunities and Challenges of Sharia Technology Financials in Indonesia|This article describes how the opportunities and challenges of FinTech Sharia in the face of the industrial revolution 4.0. By using a negation approach, this study concludes that FinTech Sharia which is the development of technological innovations that are in accordance with sharia provisions and becomes a solution to avoid interest transactions. The synergy between the Islamic financial sector and information technology innovation should also be a challenge as well as an opportunity for all actors in the Islamic finance industry to catch up with the conventional financial industry.
O32|Innovation and Economic Growth: Does Internet Matter?|We analyze the relationship between economic growth and innovation taking into consideration the importance of the internet. To do so, we use a panel ARDL model, with data on a sample of 76 developed and developing countries in different geographic regions for the 1995–2016 period. Our findings provide empirical evidence of the positive role of innovation and internet in economic growth and the positive role of economic growth and internet in innovation. From these results, we derive several basic policy conclusions.
O32|The Effect of Fiscal Incentives on Business R&D|This paper analyses the determinants of business R&D choices. In particular, it provides new empirical evidence on the effectiveness of fiscal policies aimed at driving companies to invest in R&D activity. By computing two very accurate proxies for firm-specific tax savings achievable when investing in R&D, and by exploiting exogenous changes in fiscal legislation in Italy, this study investigates if fiscal considerations affect companies’ choice to invest in R&D and how much to spend in such activity. The empirical analysis is based on an unbalanced panel data set composed of 163 Italian companies, covering the years 2004-2010. A two-step approach has been implemented, by combining a probit and a tobit estimation model. The results deliver strong empirical evidence that fiscal incentives significantly affect business R&D choices, by one side, increasing companies’ likelihood to invest in R&D, and, by the other, fostering companies’ R&D expenditure.
O32|Digital Transformation and Lean Management. Challenges in the Energy Industry of Utilities. A Review|In an era of increasing technological transformation, industries, competitors, and companies are combining platforms to create unique methods for engagement. Survival and growth in a rapidly changing marketplace require companies to embrace internal innovation that adds value for both channel members and customers. The fourth industrial revolution has already begun to take shape, on the road to an end-to-end value chain, by using Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and decentralized intelligence in manufacturing, production and logistics. The world is heading toward a digitized future. Already, an entire generation has grown up immersed in the digital world. This paper focus on the following fields: General Strategy and Procedural Aspects of Digital Transformation, Digital Transformation and Lean, Lean Digital Management, Applying Lean Digital Transformation and Transformation of Enterprise Resource Planning Systems to Smart Engaged Systems. Finally, this research study the challenges of Digital Transformation in Energy Industry of Utilities.
O32|Incomplete Contracts, Limited Liability, and the Optimality of Joint Ownership|The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is the most prominent application of the incomplete contracting paradigm. A central conclusion of the standard model says that joint ownership is suboptimal. In this note, we analyze a modified version of the standard model that is tailored to the organization of R&D activities, where one of the parties is wealth-constrained and protected by limited liability. It turns out that joint ownership can be optimal, since it avoids wasteful rent-seeking activities when limited liability rents are necessary to induce high effort. Our results are in line with the fact that R&D activities are often conducted in research joint ventures.
O32|Sequencing R&D decisions with a consumer-friendly firm and spillovers|This study considers a duopoly model in which both a consumer-friendly (CF) firm and a for-profit (FP) firm undertake cost-reducing R&D investments in an endogenous R\&D timing game and then play Cournot output competition. When the CF firm chooses its profit-oriented consumer-friendliness, we show that the consumer-friendliness is non-monotone in spillovers under both simultaneous-move and sequential-move with FP firm’s leadership while it is decreasing under sequential-move with CF firm’s leadership. We also show that a simultaneous-move outcome is a unique equilibrium when the spillovers are low and the CF firm invests higher R&D and obtains higher profits. When the spillovers are not low, two sequential-move outcomes appear and the CF firm might obtain lower profits with higher spillovers under the CF firm leadership.
O32|Patents, Data Exclusivity, and the Development of New Drugs|Pharmaceutical firms typically enjoy market exclusivity for new drugs from concurrent protection of the underlying invention (through patents) and the clinical trials data submitted for market approval (through data exclusivity). Patent invalidation during drug development renders data exclusivity the sole source of protection and shifts the period of market exclusivity at the project level. In instrumental variables regressions we quantify the effect of a one-year reduction in expected market exclusivity on the likelihood of drug commercialization. The effect is largely driven by patent invalidations early in the drug development process and by the responses of large originators. We hereby provide first estimates of the responsiveness of R&D investments to market exclusivity expectations.
O32|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital (VC) and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and initial patent quality than non-VC-backed ones. VC-backing increases a startup’s likelihood of reaching the right tails of the firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, outcomes are better for startups matched with more experienced venture capitalists. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing for business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The presence of venture capital, the degree of assortative matching between startups and financiers, and the taxation of VC-backed startups matter significantly for growth.
O32|The Internationalization of R&D|Abstract The aim of this paper is to broaden the knowledge concerning the development of Finnish firms’ innovation activities. The results show that during 2008–2017 the share of overseas R&D has risen. Currently, 14–25% of Finnish firms’ total R&D are conducted overseas. If Nokia is taken into account, the share of overseas R&D rises to 53–65%. Furthermore, the results suggest that Finnish firms invest approximately Eur 1.8 billion in innovation activities outside the traditional R&D definition.
O32|Exploring the Impact of R&D on Patenting Activity in Small Women-Owned and Minority-Owned Entrepreneurial Firms|The relevant economics literature on the impact of R&D on patenting activity falls within two methodological areas of inquiry. The first area might be classified as a test of the Schumpeterian hypothesis. The second and lesser research area might be classified as an estimation of the knowledge production function relationship between R&D and patenting. This paper focuses on estimates of the R&D-to-patenting relationship for a random sample of small, entrepreneurial firms whose research projects were supported through the U.S. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. Our paper contributes to the R&D-to-patenting literature in two ways. It examines empirically a unique set of small, entrepreneurial firms funded by the public sector, and it explores the effect of the gender and ethnicity of firm owners on the propensity of their firms to patent from funded research projects.
O32|Role of Transformational Leadership and Transactional Leadership on Organization Innovation|This study investigates the mediating effect of entrepreneurial orientation on the relationship between transformational leadership, transactional leadership, and organizational innovation. The data were collected by using a questionnaire from 135 software industry in Thailand. We use structural equations modeling (SEM) to explore the mediating effect of entrepreneurial orientation on a positive relationship between transformational leadership, organizational innovation directly and indirectly through the construct. The mediating effect of entrepreneurial orientation on a positive relationship between transactional leadership, organizational innovation directly and indirectly through the construct.
O32|There's a Google Scholar Alert for that: An integrative review methodology exploring mobile app features through Leximancer|Mobile application (app) usage has become a universal trend. Paramount in most app designers' focus, is what mobile app users want in terms of features offered by an app. Forming part of a larger study which aims to determine the most desirable app features for a mobile blood donation app, this paper reports on one section of that study's exploratory sequential mixed method research strategy.The paper illustrates how the use of Google Scholar alerts, over a period of six months, was systematically employed to inform the researchers of the most current research on app features. Abstracts and keywords from 47 academic articles which were included in the alert emails, were analysed through the natural language analysis software Leximancer. The findings aimed at highlighting prominent concepts and themes related to the development, selection, and application of mobile app features. Findings showed a prevalence of research articles focused on mobile health apps, specifically apps that support self-management of various illnesses.
O32|Possibilities Of Digitization In Construction During The Building Life Cycle|The object of this paper is to figure out the possibilities of digitization in the construction industry and whether the digitization is beneficial. Construction industry has a share 6% of world GDP and is therefore the cornerstone of the world economy. However, compared with other industries, almost all of them are investing more into digitization than the construction sector. Fewer investments in digitization are just in the agriculture and hunting sectors. The author of this paper would like to point out what digitization possibilities can be used in construction industry to reduce construction costs, more accurately control construction and reduce operate costs.
O32|Virtual Community Characteristics as Success Factors for Crowdfunding Projects|In this paper I investigate the factors influencing the likelihood of crowdfunding projects’ success by analyzing data from the crowdfunding platform Kickstarter. The research focus is on the influence of virtual community characteristics. The results show that the probability of project success is positively influenced by a higher number of project supporters but a larger amount of comments on the project, controlled for project definition factors, is found to decrease the likelihood of project success. This is in line with previous findings of a double-edged impact of the size of the virtual innovation community and the amount of peer-to-peer interaction on the likelihood of successful innovation input by the participants.
O32|R&D Spillovers in Canadian Industry: Results from a New Micro Database|Business investment in research and development (R&D) makes a key contribution to rising living standards. Firms undertaking the R&D can reduce production costs and introduce new products that provide benefits to consumers that are not fully captured in selling prices. Further, it is very difficult for R&D-performing firms to prevent some of the knowledge created from leaking out or spilling over to other firms. Since firms do not take these positive spillover benefits into consideration when making investment decisions, most governments subsidize business investment in R&D with the expectation that economic performance will improve as a result. Our study confirms the existence of substantial spillover benefits from R&D performed in Canada, so government support for R&D is justified. However, we do not find any empirical evidence to support the current policy of subsidizing R&D at a higher rate when it is performed by small firms than when it is performed by large firms. We also find much lower private rate of return on R&D performed by small firms than by large firms. Subsidies appear to be playing a key role in this result
O32|Does Import Competition Reduce Domestic Innovation? Evidence from the 'China Stock' and Firm-Level Data on Canadian Manufacturing|A key economic issue in Canada is the declining Business Enterprise Research and Development in manufacturing since the early 2000s. Accompanying this, the total factor productivity (TFP) growth in manufacturing slowed after 2000. However, there has not been a definitive explanation for these trends. To deepen our understanding of this phenomenon, we focus on the increasing Chinese import share in the total domestic absorption in Canadian manufacturing since the early 2000s, which appears to be driven by positive supply shocks within Chinese manufacturing. Based on a firm-level database covering all incorporated firms in Canadian manufacturing, we find that rising Chinese import competition led to declines in R&D expenditure and TFP growth within firms but reallocated employment towards more productive firms and induced less productive firms to exit. The negative within-effects were pronounced for firms that were initially smaller, less profitable, and less productive. These firms also experienced declines in their profit margins due to rising Chinese import competition while larger and better-performing firms did not. Our estimates imply that rising Chinese import competition can explain about 7 per cent of the total decline of $1.36 billion (2007 CAD) in R&D expenditure in Canadian manufacturing between 2005 and 2010. Although it led to declines in TFP within firms, the positive reallocation effects more than offset the negative within-effect. Had there been no increase in Chinese import competition between 2005 and 2010, TFP in Canadian manufacturing would have declined by 1.26 per cent per year instead of the actual 1.09 per cent per year over this period.
O32|Innovation in Brazil by technological intensity: cooperation and nationality of ownership|This article analyze the innovative effort of the manufacturing companies that cooperated to innovate from those that innovated without cooperation, segmented by technological categories and origin of controlling capital. Special data with informationâ€™s from Pintec/IBGE has been used. The contribution is contrasting companies that innovated with and without cooperation, since this comparison has not yet been studied. Results showed that cooperation is decisive to differentiate innovative efforts, regardless of the technological category. The origin of controlling capital did not represent a distinctive factor. The cooperation was mainly made with customers and suppliers, and another group company overseas to foreign firms, despite the literature focus on cooperation with universities and research institutes. It is concluded that innovating with cooperation generates better innovative efforts, thus, stimulate companies to cooperate can increase Brazilian innovation
O32|Innovation and Self-Employment|The paper adds to the literature on innovation and employment by looking at the relationship between R&D investments and the rise of alternative work arrangements, particularly selfemployment (SE). A literature review on the determinants of the emergence of non-standard work, alternative work arrangements and self-employment if offered first. The contributions that have looked at SE in relation to innovation strategies is surprisingly limited. General trends of SE in Europe are considered. The empirical contribution is focused on the analysis of local labour markets in the UK (Travel-To-Work-Areas, TTWAs), where their initial concentration of routinized and non-routinized jobs is considered. The probability that an individual shifts from paid employment to either unemployment or self-employment over the period 2001-13, as linked to changes in R&D investments in the TTWA is empirically accounted for. Results show that overall R&D has negligible effects on the probability of workers to become selfemployed. R&D increases the probability of moving from unemployment to paid employment, especially in routinized areas, and reduces the permeability between routinised and nonroutinised workers. Also, a non-negligible increase in the probability that a routinized worker becomes SE as a result of R&D increase is found in low routinised local labour markets, but not in highly routinised areas. The paper sheds new lights on the effect of R&D on employment and self-employment in areas with different degrees of routinization, and adds to the discussion on the more general raise of alternative work arrangements in Europe by disentangling the characteristics of self-employment as resulting from R&D investments.
O32|Standard Setting Organizations, Information Flows and Business Strategies: An Empirical Investigation|The paper investigates the link between standards, business strategy and innovation, based upon a factor analysis of the stated ‘context’ for innovation contained in the 2012-2014 UK Innovation Survey (UKIS). The analysis reveals a distinction between pro-active ‘entrepreneurial’ strategies and reactive and ‘defensive’ strategies, as well as firms, although regarded in the survey as innovation ‘active’ have no clear innovation based objective. We combine this classification with sectoral indicators of the significance of standards to investigate how firms deliver these strategies. We find that, in addition to the important role played by the type of innovation strategy, standards have a significant impact not only on the extensive margin of R&D expenditures, but also on the likelihood that firms will invest in related complementary investments, notably in training and design. We test these propositions with a specific UKIS question on the value that firms put on standards. The positive impact that standards have on the acquisition of innovation related assets suggest that, on balance, the impact of standards has significant pro-competitive effects on an innovation system.
O32|Data Science for Entrepreneurship Research : Studying Demand Dynamics for Entrepreneurial Skills in the Netherlands|The recent rise of big data and artificial intelligence (AI) is changing markets, politics, organizations, and societies. It also affects the domain of research. Supported by new statistical methods that rely on computational power and computer science --- data science methods --- we are now able to analyze data sets that can be huge, multidimensional, unstructured, and are diversely sourced. In this paper, we describe the most prominent data science methods suitable for entrepreneurship research and provide links to literature and Internet resources for self-starters. We survey how data science methods have been applied in the entrepreneurship research literature. As a showcase of data science techniques, based on a dataset of 95% of all job vacancies in the Netherlands over a 6-year period with 7.7 million data points, we provide an original analysis of the demand dynamics for entrepreneurial skills in the Netherlands. We show which entrepreneurial skills are particularly important for which type of profession. Moreover, we find that demand for both entrepreneurial and digital skills has increased for managerial positions, but not for others. We also find that entrepreneurial skills were significantly more demanded than digital skills over the entire period 2012-2017 and that the absolute importance of entrepreneurial skills has even increased more than digital skills for managers, despite the impact of datafication on the labor market. We conclude that further studies of entrepreneurial skills in the general population --- outside the domain of entrepreneurs --- is a rewarding subject for future research.
O32|Intrinsic vs. extrinsic motivators on creative collaboration: The effect of sharing rewards|Charness and Grieco (2019) have experimentally shown that financial incentives have a positive impact on individual creativity, but only in the case of “close” creativity, i.e., when there are constraints to the creative task that a subject has to accomplish. In this paper, we build on the same “close” creativity assignments of Charness and Grieco (2019) and analyze with undergraduate students and with experts in creativity the interplay between monetary incentives and group cooperation in creative assignments. We introduce a novel model of intrinsic vs. extrinsic motivation to group collaboration in creativity and run a theorydriven experiment to test our experimental hypotheses on the crowding out of intrinsic motivation due to extrinsic motivation to group creativity. We find more creativity in the group than in the individual treatment, apart when there are explicit monetary incentives to co-working (sharing ideas) in the creative assignment. Therefore, while Charness and Grieco (2019) show a positive interplay between monetary incentives (extrinsic individual motivation) and “close” creativity at the individual level, we provide evidence of a negative interplay between monetary incentives and “close” creativity at the group level (crowding out of intrinsic group motivation). Furthermore, and again in line with our model predictions, the latter effect is found more in the experimental sessions with experts in creativity than in those with undergraduate students.
O32|Looking at Creativity from East to West: Risk Taking and Intrinsic Motivation in Socially and Culturally Diverse Countries|This article presents a mixed-methods research in the field of creativity. By making use of experiments and a questionnaire, it analyses how creativity is affected by three factors: i) motivation, ii) individuals’ attitudes towards risk and ambiguity and iii) social context. Each one of these factors has been extensively investigated in the theoretical and empirical literature getting to results still open to discussion. In particular, this research focuses on two aspects. First, we try to shed some light on the controversial findings linking risk taking and creativity that exist in the economic and psychology literature. To do so, we test the hypotheses that self perception of creative abilities may play a role in establishing a riskcreativity positive correlation. Second, being the three factors strongly influenced by culture, the study investigates whether the impacts on creativity may differ in diverse geographical locations. Following Attanasi et al. (2019), we exploit data from experiments performed in main cities of one eastern and one western country: Ho Chi Minh city (Vietnam) and Strasbourg (France). The information to build the risk and ambiguity factor derive from risk and ambiguity elicitation via lotteries. To account for motivation, different organizational scenarios are set in experimental treatments (financial incentives vs non financial incentives to collaborate). Finally, information on social context and self perception of creative abilities are collected through a self administrated questionnaire. In our analysis, we find that risk aversion, social habits and leisure activities have a positive effect on the creative performance of the French participants, while for Vietnamese the intrinsic motivation and the perception of their own creative capacities are positive correlated with creative scores. Our results suggest that in a country like France, social context has a strong influence on individual creativity, while for Vietnam individual features play a role in creativity, suggesting that the socio-cultural context has different impacts on creativity.
O32|Desarrollo económico regional, especializaciones productivas y cooperación empresarial. Un estudio comparado de Chile, El Salvador, Paraguay y Uruguay|This research has two aims. First, it characterizes regional development in the four selected countries. Second, it analyzes cooperation networks between firms and organizations, in 24 clusters in different regions of the four countries. Regarding the first aim, the work analyzes in each region the generation of wealth, the development of small business sector and socioeconomic conditions of the environment, complemented by the identification of the productive specializations in each region. Results show that economic development is not evenly distributed in the territory. Certain sub-national patterns in terms of economic development were found. In addition, there is a strong concentration of economic activity in the regions where the national capitals are located (except for the regions rich in mining or energy resources). The analysis of local business development and the socioeconomic environment shows that, in addition to external factors, a region must develop its own local capacities to take advantage of these external impulses and transform them into local development. Regarding the second objective, the study of 24 cooperation networks in clusters proves that organizations are the key actors to keep the networks connected. On the other hand, the level of cooperation among firms is, on average, low. In this sense, the countries under study do not present, in general, regions with high levels of local business capacity that can be the main support of cooperation networks. Therefore, organizations play an intermediary role between firms and provide access to external sources of innovation that can be disseminated through the network. Finally, the combination of social network analysis with econometric regression techniques revealed a positive relationship between the cooperation in networks and the economic performance of firms.
O32|Knowledge searching strategies, testing for complementarities on the innovation behavior of the firm|According to two basic building blocks of neo-Schumpeterian economics, firms innovation process shows idiosyncratic features related to their specific characteristics of the firm and of the environment where it acts. Moreover, firms innovation is recognized as an interactive process. Hence, due to systemic functioning, it is expected that the effect of two simultaneous external linkages will be different from the sum of their isolated effects. However, the external search for knowledge and information sources (KISs) may present constraints related to the searching costs and the cognitive distance between the firm and the KISs. This paper aims to contribute empirical evidence to revisit these theoretical building blocks by analyzing the search strategies conducted by firms. We identify three types of external KISs and analyze the effects of eight search strategies (KIS combinations) on firms innovation behavior. In addition, we test the complementarity or substitution effects of the simultaneous use of different KISs on the innovation behavior – effort and performance – of Uruguayan firms. We identify the specific effect of different KIS combinations but find no evidence of a linear relation between search scope and innovation behavior. Moreover, we find evidence of complementary effects between relatively closer and more distant KISs and substitution effects between relatively near KISs.
O32|The Potential for innovation in mining value chains. Evidence from Latin America|This paper tries to broaden the scope and understanding of innovation in the mining sector, with a focus on emerging countries based on the experience of Latin America. It discusses the innovation processes that are developing in the mining sector of emerging countries, and uses the global value chains (GVC) approach to analyze the potential available to local firms. The focus is on all forms of innovation, not only those eventually subject to patenting, to include innovations in products and processes, but also in business, marketing and organizational models and practices. The new features of scientific knowledge applied to the mining sector (e.g. ICT, new materials, biotechnology) open new opportunities for new suppliers to enter and add value in mining GVCs, and we illustrate this point with specific examples of Latin American suppliers. However, in developing this argument, we cannot forget that in most of Latin American mining there is insufficient supply of local knowledge, indicators of R&D expenditures and researchers involved show a significant lag with respect to advanced countries. Multinational mining companies have not traditionally conducted intensive R&D activities near their operations, and local universities do not tend to specialize in scientific topics directly linked to the mining industry. The paper concludes by arguing that there is a need to rethink and innovate policy approaches, if countries aim at scaling up and broadening the many good examples of innovative suppliers.
O32|Funding Academic Research: Grant Application, Partnership, Award, and Output|Funding agencies tend to allocate (scarce) resources using a bottom-up competitive process. This paper analyzes the determinants and the consequences of the choices made in each of the stages of the funding process. We build on previous research (Banal-Estañol, Macho-Stadler, and Pérez-Castrillo 2013, 2018, and 2019) using, and present new results based on, one of the major public organizations funding academic research worldwide: the UK's Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.
O32|Le dinamiche dei flussi di conoscenza della provincia di Vicenza|Attraverso l’uso dei dati presenti dei brevetti questo lavoro analizza due tipi di flussi di conoscenza: da un lato, sono state studiate le citazioni di brevetti vicentini, dall’altro lato, sono stati tracciati i movimenti del capitale umano necessario a produrre innovazione nel territorio. Mediante lo strumento dell’ego-network, abbiamo evidenziato come la conoscenza prodotta a Vicenza si sia progressivamente internazionalizzata con un allargamento degli orizzonti geografici dall’Italia ad altre regioni europee ed extra-europee. Nel caso delle citazioni, in particolare, sono emersi legami con diverse regioni tedesche e con autori americani e giapponesi. Questo indica che gli inventori vicentini, quando si tratta di citare o venire citati, sono inseriti in una rete mondiale. Diversamente, il caso dei rapporti inventore-possessore ha una portata spaziale più limitata, sebbene in crescita: i possessori di brevetti vicentini fanno ricorso ad inventori per lo più italiani anche se, negli ultimi anni, sono iniziate collaborazioni con inventori tedeschi e francesi.
O32|La globalización como proceso sinérgico en la evolución del desarrollo humano y la educación|Este documento busca analizar los efectos de la globalización sobre el desarrollo humano (medido a través del IDH) y la educación (medida a través del resultado de las pruebas PISA, número de solicitud de patentes e índice H) en Brasil, Chile, Colombia y México, para analizar si esta cumple con las características de un proceso sinérgico (heterogeneidad, complementariedad, autoorganización y sincronización). Se concluye que la evolución histórica de todos los indicadores analizados es positiva conforme avanza el proceso de globalización; por lo que este se puede considerar como un proceso sinérgico donde la cooperación, especialización y sincronización entre los países conlleva a mejoras en los campos de interés. Sin embargo, quedan por explicar las brechas existentes entre los distintos casos de estudio, así como la razón por la cual países con alto grado de globalización, como Colombia, tienen indicadores de desarrollo humano y educación con resultados menores en términos relativos. *** This paper seeks to analyze the effects of globalization on human development (measured through the HDI) and education (measured through the result of PISA test results, patent application number and H index) in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico, to examine whether it meets the characteristics of a synergistic process (heterogeneity, complementarity, self-organization and synchronization). It is concluded that the historical evolution of all the analyzed indicators is positive as the globalization process advances; therefore, this can be considered as a synergic process where cooperation, specialization and synchronization among countries lead to improvements in the fields of interest. However, the existing gaps between the different case studies remain to be explained, as well as the reason why countries with a high degree of globalization, such as Colombia, have indicators of human development and education with lower results in relative terms.
O32|How Effective are Innovation Support Programs to Stimulate Innovation? Evidence from Paraguay|In this paper we evaluate the impact of two programs to support innovation in micro, small and medium enterprises in Paraguay. This article has two contributions to literature. First, the evidence on the impact of this type of programs in developing countries is still scarce. Second, we evaluate the impacts on some variables that have been largely overlooked in the literature, such as innovation activities other than R&D. The evaluation finds positive and significant effects on the probability of carrying out various innovation activities, on the probability of achieving different types of innovation and on the incorporation of technical personnel to the firms. A negative effect on R&D was found, which might be showing a displacement effect of this innovation activity by others. The most robust results are those related to the impact of the program on process and product innovation. The impacts on innovation activities and employment are less robust to alternative specifications and samples.
O32|Obstáculos a la Innovación, Innovación y Productividad en Paraguay|En este trabajo analizamos la relación que existe entre diferentes tipos de obstáculos percibidos por las empresas (costos, conocimientos, mercados, institucionales) y la inversión en actividades de innovación, la innovación y la productividad de las empresas paraguayas. Los obstáculos financieros aparecen como la principal barrera a la inversión en actividades de innovación, a la innovación y al crecimiento de la productividad en Paraguay; los demás obstáculos se asocian con estas variables de forma más heterogénea. En este trabajo también exploramos heterogeneidades de estas relaciones de acuerdo a los tipos de innovaciones (tecnológicas vs. no tecnológicas) y tipos de empresas (por tamaño y productividad). Finalmente, a partir de los resultados encontrados extraemos implicaciones de política.
O32|Does combining different types of collaboration always benefit firms? Collaboration, complementarity and product innovation in Norway|Product innovation is widely thought to benefit from collaboration with both scientific and supply-chain partners. The combination of exploration and exploitation capacity, and of scientific and experience-based knowledge, are expected to yield multiplicative effects. However, the assumption that scientific and supply-chain collaboration are complementary and reinforce firm-level innovation has not been examined empirically. This paper tests this assumption on an unbalanced panel sample of 8337 firm observations in Norway, covering the period 2006–2010. The results of the econometric analysis go against the orthodoxy. They show that Norwegian firms do not benefit from doing “more of all” on their road to innovation. While individually both scientific and supply-chain collaboration improve the chances of firm-level innovation, there is a significant negative interaction between them. This implies that scientific and supply-chain collaboration, in contrast to what has been often highlighted, are substitutes rather than complements. The results are robust to the introduction of different controls and hold for all tested innovation outcomes: product innovation, new-to-market product innovation, and share of turnover from new products.
O32|Risk-Mitigating Technologies: the Case of Radiation Diagnostic Devices|We study the impact of consumers' risk perception on firm innovation. Our analysis exploits a major surge in the perceived risk of radiation diagnostic devices, following extensive media coverage of a set of over-radiation accidents involving CT scanners in late 2009. Difference-in-differences regressions using data on patents and FDA product clearances show that the increased perception of radiation risk spurred the development of new technologies that mitigated such risk and led to a greater number of new products. We provide qualitative evidence and describe patterns of equipment usage and upgrade that are consistent with this mechanism. Our analysis suggests that changes in risk perception can be an important driver of innovation and shape the direction of technological progress.
O32|Buyers' Role in Innovation Procurement|What is the impact of buyers on the performance of innovation procurement? In which phase of the procurement process are buyers most crucial and why? We address these questions by exploiting a novel dataset that links U.S. federal R&D contracts to their follow-on patents, citations and claims. Using the deaths of managers in the offices close to where contracts are performed as shocks to the functioning of these offices, we measure a positive and sizable effect of public buyers on all three outcome measures. The buyer's role is stronger in the pre-award, tender-design phase, where cooperation between different specialists is essential, than in the following contract-management phase typically performed by individual officers. Consistently, bureaus where employees perceive high level of cooperation within the office are associated with better R&D outcomes.
O32|Incomplete Contracts, Limited Liability, and the Optimality of Joint Ownership|The property rights approach to the theory of the firm is the most prominent application of the incomplete contracting paradigm. A central conclusion of the standard model says that joint ownership is suboptimal. In this note, we analyze a modified version of the standard model that is tailored to the organization of R&D activities, where one of the parties is wealth-constrained and protected by limited liability. It turns out that joint ownership can be optimal, since it avoids wasteful rent-seeking activities when limited liability rents are necessary to induce high effort. Our results are in line with the fact that R&D activities are often conducted in research joint ventures.
O32|Synergizing Ventures|Venture capital and growth are examined both empirically and theoretically. Empirically, VC-backed startups have higher early growth rates and patenting levels than non-VC-backed ones. Venture capitalists increase a startup's likelihood of reaching the right tails of firm size and innovation distributions. Furthermore, there is positive assortative matching: better venture capitalists match with better startups, creating a synergistic effect. An endogenous growth model, where venture capitalists provide both expertise and financing to business startups, is constructed to match these facts. The degree of assortative matching and the taxation of VC-backed startups are important for growth.
O32|Bargaining Failure and Freedom to Operate: Re-evaluating the Effect of Patents on Cumulative Innovation|We investigate the causal effect of patent rights on cumulative innovation, using large-scale data that approximate the patent universe in its technological and economic variety. We introduce a novel instrumental variable for patent invalidation that exploits personnel scarcity in post-grant opposition at the European Patent Ofï¬ ce. We ï¬ nd that patent invalidation leads to a highly signiï¬ cant and sizeable increase of follow-on inventions. The effect is driven by cases where the removal of the individual exclusion right creates substantial freedom to operate for third parties. Importantly, our results suggest that bargaining failure between original and follow-on innovators is not limited to environments commonly associated with high transaction costs.
O32|ICT and Ethical Finance: Fostering Social Innovation and Financial Inclusion|This paper describes the links between ethical and responsible finance and social innovation. The two have long been in a close relationship. Ethical and responsible finance has traditionally supported projects that face difficulties in the mainstream banking sector, fostering experimental approaches (to give but an example) to market failures of traditional welfare. Moreover, ethical and responsible finance is interested not only on the economic viability of a project to fund, but also its social and/or environmental impact.The additional dimension brought about by the impact of the activities of ethical and responsible finance is social innovation. This potentially encompass several disciplines, phenomena and social constructs, which makes it difficult to analyse. However, interest in social innovation is increasing, especially concerning digital social innovation. After the theoretical analysis, the focus shifts to the PROFIT platform, presented as a practical example of ICT response to the need for improving the financial knowledge and literacy of the citizens for better decision-making and social resilience. During the creation of the platform, its creators have taken the diversity of the potential beneficiaries into account, in order to be useful for as many social groups as possible. The paper concludes with an analysis of the digital social innovation potential of the PROFIT platform.
O32|European Innovation Partnerships: How Successful Have They Been in Promoting Innovation in the EU?|The paper presents an analytical assessment of the implementation of European Innovation Partnerships (EIPs) launched as one of the commitments of the EU Flagship Initiative Innovation Union with the aim to achieve innovative breakthroughs addressing major societal challenges. The EU launched five EIPs to address important societal challenges (1) Active & Healthy Ageing; (2) Water; (3) Agricultural Productivity and Sustainability; (4) Raw Materials; and (5) Smart Cities and Communities. The paper reviews the rationale of introducing the EIPs as a policy intervention aimed at promoting innovation in the EU and traces the organic evolution and governance structures of the newly emerging formations. It then provides an analytical evaluation of this EU policy initiative based on factual analysis of its implementation experiences and a comparison of its objectives and actual outcomes. In particular, the paper analyses the role of the EIPs as drivers of systemic change in the European innovation ecosystem and catalysts of new innovation activity in Europe. This critical assessment serves as the basis for drawing some conclusions about the strengths and weaknesses of the EIPs as a new policy approach to foster innovation activity in Europe. One central conclusion is that while the EIPs have been very efficient in promoting collaboration among innovation stakeholders they have fallen short of breeding innovation activity of the expected scope and scale. The paper analyses the reasons for this weakness and formulates some recommendations that could serve as possible remedies.
O32|Experimentation in Dynamic R&D Competition|We study a two-stage, winner-takes-all, R&D race, in which, at the outset, ﬁrms are uncertain regarding the viability of the project. Learning through experimentation introduces a bilateral (dynamic) feedback mechanism. For relatively low-value products,theequilibriumstoppingtimecoincideswiththesociallyefﬁcientstoppingtime althoughﬁrmsmightexperimentexcessivelyinequilibrium;forrelativelyhigh-value products,ﬁrmsmightreduceexperimentationandstopratherprematurelyduetothe fundamental free-riding effect. Perhaps surprisingly, a decrease in the value of the product can spur experimentation.
O32|Experimentation in Dynamic R&D Competition|We study a two-stage, winner-takes-all, R&D race, in which, at the outset, firms are uncertain regarding the viability of the project. Learning through experimentation introduces a bilateral (dynamic) feedback mechanism. For relatively low-value products , the equilibrium stopping time coincides with the socially efficient stopping time although firms might experiment excessively in equilibrium; for relatively high-value products, firms might reduce experimentation and stop rather prematurely due to the fundamental free-riding effect. Perhaps surprisingly, a decrease in the value of the product can spur experimentation.
O32|Non-R&D, interactive learning and economic performance: Revisiting innovation in small and medium enterprises|In the present paper, various groups of innovating German SMEs are empirically identified according to their use (or non-use) of in-house R&D, their reliance on external sources of knowledge, and the degree of internal interactive learning that they employ.In order to account for non-R&D innovation activities, we apply the STI/DUI concept as a theoretical starting point. This distinguishes between (1) the science, technology, innovation (STI) mode with its strong emphasis on formal processes of in-house R&D and (2) the doing, using, interacting (DUI) mode with its focus on experience-based knowledge and interactive learning. On this basis, the empirical results indicate that three groups associated with different modes of learning and innovation exist within the German SME sector: the supplier-dependent DUI group, the customer-oriented DUI group and the STI/DUI group. The corresponding findings confirm that SMEs innovate differently depending on the specificities of their knowledge environments. In order to evaluate this in terms of innovation policy, we examine how these learning modes among innovating SMEs relate to overall company performance. Our main observation is that each learning mode is likely to positively affect performance, at least to some degree. There isno differ-ence in economic performance between the three learning modes as long as non-high-growth SMEs are considered. Hence, in large parts of the SME sector, it is economically rational to choose a non-R&D-oriented mode of learning and innovation. The paper con-cludes with some policy implications of these findings.
O32|The distinct features of hidden champions in Germany: A dynamic capabilities view|Hidden Champions (HCs) are firms unknown to the wider public, but global leaders in the niche markets they serve. This paper looks at distinctive features of these firms, focusing on their dynamic capabilities. Employing a unique data base on German firms, we identify a representative sample of German HCs. Based on a matching technique, we examine differences to other firms in terms of the firms' processes, position, and path. We find that HCs' competitive strategy rests on technology leadership and customisation. HCs are more open in their knowledge management, but without compromising control over the new product development process. HCs do not invest more into innovation, but achieve higher innovation success. The higher efficiency can be linked to their superior technological capabilities and to higher investment in human capital and HR management practices that mobilise the creative potential of their employees.
O32|FinTech and the future of financial services: What are the research gaps?|New financial technologies (FinTech) have erupted around the world. Consequently, there has been a considerable increase in academic literature on FinTech over the last five years. Research tends to be scantily connected with no coherent research agenda. Significant research gaps and important questions remain. There is much work to be done before this area becomes an established academic discipline. This paper offers coherent research themes formulated through focus group meetings with policymakers and academics, and also based on a critical assessment of the literature. We outline seven key research gaps with questions that could form the basis of academic study. If these are addressed it would help this area become an established academic discipline.
O32|Employment Effect of Innovation|The present paper estimates and decomposes the employment effect of innovation by R&D intensity levels. Our microeconometric analysis is based on a large international panel data set from the EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard. Employing flexible semi-parametric methods - the generalised propensity score - allows us to recover the full functional relationship between R&D investment and firm employment, and to address important econometric issues, which is not possible in the standard estimation approach used in the previous literature. Our results suggest that modest innovators do not create and may even destruct jobs by raising their R&D expenditures. Most of the jobs in the economy are created by innovation followers: increasing innovation by 1% may increase employment up to 0.7%. The job creation effect of innovation reaches its peak when R&D intensity is around 100% of the total capital expenditure, after which the positive employment effect declines and becomes statistically insignificant. Innovation leaders do not create jobs by further increasing their R&D expenditures, which are already very high.
O32|International Talent Inflow and R&D Investment: Firm-level Evidence from China|Using firm-level R&D data with regional international talent data, we find that international talent increases the R&D investment of Chinese manufacturing firms, a result that is further confirmed with patent data and under a number of robustness checks. These findings stem from two mechanisms: international talent boosts human capital accumulation and provides a diversified labor force. Further, the R&D promoting effect is stronger if firms are located in eastern China rather than in other regions, of small and medium-sized rather than large-sized, of domestic ownership rather than foreign ownership. The policy implication is, the introduction of international talent can be a new way to promoting R&D investment, especially for skilled-labor constrained countries.
O32|Procurement in Big Science Centres: politics or technology? Evidence from CERN|Procurement from Big Science Centers (BSC) yields a variety of spillover effects that can ultimately have growth enhancing consequences for their partner countries. We study the determinants of procurement for the biggest research infrastructure ever built: the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN. Using a unique cross-section database of firms that have registered to become industrial partners of the LHC program, we estimate the determinants for potential suppliers of receiving an order from CERN. We compare the relative weight of firms’ technological features and CERN’s procurement rules aimed at securing a juste retour for its Member States. Our results point to a strong impact of technological factors, while also highlighting the importance of political constraints related with CERN’s procurement rules as well as the presence of a home bias. Since the constraints related with the achievement of a juste retour affect–directly or indirectly–the procurement policy of many European BSCs, our results have policy implications that go beyond the CERN case study.
O32|Can a Tiger Change Its Stripes? Reform of Chinese State-Owned Enterprises in the Penumbra of the State|The majority of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in China were privatized through ownership reforms over the last two decades. Using a comprehensive dataset of all medium and large enterprises in China between 1998 and 2013, we show that privatized SOEs continue to benefit from government support relative to private enterprises. Compared to private firms that were never state-owned, privatized SOEs are favored by low interest loans and government subsidies. These differences are more salient with the Chinese government’s trillion-dollar stimulus package introduced after the 2008 global financial crisis. Moreover, both SOEs and privatized SOEs significantly under-perform in profitability compared to private firms. Nevertheless there are clear improvements in performance post-privatization. The tiger can change its stripes; however, the government’s behavior seems to be sticky.
O32|The Consequences of Invention Secrecy: Evidence from the USPTO Patent Secrecy Program in World War II|This paper studies the effects of the USPTO's patent secrecy program in World War II, under which over 11,000 U.S. patent applications were issued secrecy orders which halted examination and prohibited inventors from disclosing their inventions or filing in foreign countries. Secrecy orders were issued most heavily in high-tech areas important to the war effort – such as radar, electronics, and synthetic materials – and nearly all rescinded at the end of the war. I find that compulsory invention secrecy reduced follow-on invention and restricted commercialization, but as part of the security policies in place during the war it appears to have been effective at keeping sensitive technology out of the public view. The results shed light on the consequences of invention secrecy, which is widely used by inventors to protect and appropriate the returns to innovation, and yield lessons for ongoing policy discussions over potential measures to protect U.S. inventors against the growing incidence of foreign IP theft today.
O32|The Relationship Dilemma: Organizational Culture and the Adoption of Credit Scoring Technology in Indian Banking|Credit scoring was introduced in India in 2007. We study the pace of its adoption by new private banks (NPBs) and state-owned or public sector banks (PSBs). NPBs adopt scoring quickly for all borrowers. PSBs adopt scoring quickly for new borrowers but not for existing borrowers. Instrumental Variable (IV) estimates and counterfactuals using scores available to but not used by PSBs indicate that universal adoption would reduce loan delinquencies significantly. Evidence from old private banks suggests that neither bank size nor government ownership fully explains adoption patterns. Organizational culture, possibly from formative experiences in sheltered markets, explains the patterns of technology adoption.
O32|Is Blinded Review Enough? How Gendered Outcomes Arise Even Under Anonymous Evaluation|For organizations focused on scientific research and innovation, workforce diversity is a key driver of success. Blinded review is an increasingly popular approach to reducing bias and increasing diversity in the selection of people and projects, yet its effectiveness is not fully understood. We explore the impact of blinded review on gender inclusion in a unique setting: innovative research grant proposals submitted to the Gates Foundation from 2008-2017. Despite blinded review, female applicants receive significantly lower scores, which cannot be explained by reviewer characteristics, proposal topics, or ex-ante measures of applicant quality. By contrast, the gender score gap is no longer significant after controlling for text-based measures of proposals’ titles and descriptions. Specifically, we find strong gender differences in the usage of broad and narrow words, suggesting that differing communication styles are a key driver of the gender score gap. Importantly, the text-based measures that predict higher reviewer scores do not also predict higher ex-post innovative performance. Instead, female applicants exhibit a greater response in follow-on scientific output after an accepted proposal, relative to male applicants. Our results reveal that gender differences in writing and communication are a significant contributor to gender disparities in the evaluation of science and innovation.
O32|Tax Policy for Innovation|A large number of countries around the world now provide some kind of tax incentive to encourage firms to undertake innovative activity. This paper presents the policy rationale for these incentives, discusses their design and potential effectiveness, and reviews the empirical evidence on their actual effectiveness. The focus is on the two most important and most studied incentives: R&D tax credits and super deductions, and IP boxes (reduced corporate taxes in income from patents and other intellectual property).
O32|Risk-Mitigating Technologies: the Case of Radiation Diagnostic Devices|We study the impact of consumers’ risk perception on firm innovation. Our analysis exploits a major surge in the perceived risk of radiation diagnostic devices, following extensive media coverage of a set of over-radiation accidents involving CT scanners in late 2009. Difference-in-differences regressions using data on patents and FDA product clearances show that the increased perception of radiation risk spurred the development of new technologies that mitigated such risk and led to a greater number of new products. We provide qualitative evidence and describe patterns of equipment usage and upgrade that are consistent with this mechanism. Our analysis suggests that changes in risk perception can be an important driver of innovation and can shape the direction of technological progress.
O32|Employee Disputes and Innovation Performance: Evidence from Pharmaceutical Industry|In this study, we use a hand-collected dataset of employee lawsuits to understand the effect of employee allegations on firms’ innovation in a human capital-intensive industry. We gather more than 2,293 employee disputes between 2000 and 2015 and test the relationship between employee lawsuits and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) product approvals in the pharmaceutical industry. We find that employee disputes lower the total number of FDA-approved products. We document that firms with frequent employee allegations maintain low innovation outcomes. Additional results show that case characteristics are an important determinant of FDA approvals; labor unions and case duration delay time-to-approval of submitted products, which may explain the deteriorated innovation outcomes. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of employee treatment in the workplace environment, which is ultimately related to firms’ innovation performance.
O32|Asymmetric additionalities between R&D outsourcing locations|This paper empirically examines the additionalities or crowding-out effects of international and national outsourcing of R&D to generate innovation. Using a panel database of about 10,000 Spanish firms for the period 2005-2014, we show that there is asymmetry in the effectiveness of the combined adoption of R&D outsourcing locations. International R&D outsourcing re-inforces the effect of domestic R&D outsourcing. However, national outsourcing does not re-inforce international R&D outsourcing. We next explore sources of additionality. Property Right Theory (PRT) suggests that additionality is high when holdup problems are low. We therefore analyze two important situations where holdup problems are likely to be low: with public foreign providers and in sectors with low technological complexity. Consistent with PRT, our results suggest that additionality is stronger when R&D is acquired from public providers rather than from private providers. Moreover, we find additionality in sectors with medium or low R&D complexity. In sectors with high R&D complexity, domestic and international outsourcing are largely independent. These results also suggest that international R&D outsourcing does not undermine domestic R&D.
O32|Tax Policy for Innovation|A large number of countries around the world now provide some kind of tax incentive to encourage firms to undertake innovative activity. This paper presents the policy rationale for these incentives, discusses their design and potential effectiveness, and reviews the empirical evidence on their actual effectiveness. The focus is on the two most important and most studied incentives: R&D tax credits and super deductions, and IP boxes (reduced corporate taxes in income from patents and other intellectual property).
O32|Cooperating in R&D and Advertising|This paper studies the impact of cooperative R&D and advertising on innovation and welfare in a duopolistic industry. The model incorporates two symmetric firms producing differentiated products. Firms invest in R&D and advertising in the presence of R&D spillovers and advertising spillovers. Advertising spillovers may be positive or negative. Four cooperative structures are studied: no cooperation, R&D cooperation, advertising cooperation, R&D and advertising cooperation. R&D spillovers and advertising spillovers always increase innovation and welfare if products are highly differentiated and/or spillovers are sufficiently high. The ranking of cooperation settings in terms of R&D, profits and welfare depends on product differentiation, R&D spillovers and advertising externalities. Firms always prefer cooperation on both dimensions, which is socially beneficial only when advertising and R&D spillovers are sufficiently high.
O32|Can Innovators be Created? Experimental Evidence from an Innovation Contest|Existing theories and empirical research on how innovation occurs largely assume that innovativeness is an inherent characteristic of the individual and that people with this innate ability select into jobs that require it. In this paper, we investigate whether people who do not self-select into being innovators can be induced to innovate, and whether they innovate differently than those who do self-select into innovating. To test these questions, we designed and implemented an innovation contest for engineering and computer science students which allowed us to differentiate between those who self-select into innovative activities and those who are willing to undertake them only after receiving an additional incentive for doing so. We also randomly offer encouragement to subsets of both the induced and self-selected contest participants in order to examine the importance of confidence-building interventions on each sample. We find that while induced participants have different observable characteristics than those that were ‘innately’ drawn to the competition, on average, the success of induced participants was statistically indistinguishable from their self-selected counterparts and encouragement does not change this result. Heterogeneity in treatment effects suggests an important role for the use of targeted interventions.
O32|Learning When to Quit: An Empirical Model of Experimentation|The paper studies a dynamic model of the decision to continue or abandon a research project. Researchers improve their ideas over time and also learn whether those ideas will be adopted by the scientific community. Projects are abandoned as researchers grow more pessimistic about their chance of success. It estimates the structural parameters of this dynamic decision problem using a novel data set that contains information on both successful and abandoned projects submitted to the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), an organization that creates and maintains internet standards. Using the model and parameter estimates, it also simulates two counterfactual policies: a cost-subsidy and a prize-based incentive scheme. For a fixed budget, subsidies have a larger impact on research output, but prizes perform better when accounting for researchersâ€™ opportunity costs.
O32|Crowdfunding Scientific Research|Crowdfunding may provide much-needed financial resources, yet there is little systematic evidence on the potential of crowdfunding for scientific research. We first briefly review prior research on crowdfunding and give an overview of dedicated platforms for crowdfunding research. We then analyze data from over 700 campaigns on the largest dedicated platform, Experiment.com. Our descriptive analysis provides insights regarding the creators seeking funding, the projects they are seeking funding for, and the campaigns themselves. We then examine how these characteristics relate to fundraising success. The findings highlight important differences between crowdfunding and traditional funding mechanisms for research, including high use by students and other junior investigators but also relatively small project size. Junior investigators are more likely to succeed than senior scientists, and women have higher success rates than men. Conventional signals of quality - including scientists' prior publications - have no relationship with funding success, suggesting that the crowd applies different decision criteria than traditional funding agencies. Our results highlight significant opportunities for crowdfunding in the context of science while also pointing towards unique challenges. We relate our findings to research on the economics of science and on crowdfunding, and we discuss connections with other emerging mechanisms to involve the public in scientific research.
O32|Control versus execution: endogenous appropriability and entrepreneurial strategy|This article considers the role of Rosenbergian uncertainty (i.e., economic uncertainties that arise after successful invention) in shaping appropriability for start-up innovators. Rather than assuming that the appropriability regime surrounding an innovation is exogenous, we focus on the endogenous choice entrepreneurs face between investing in ensuring control-based appropriability versus investing in the execution and operation of their fledgling businesses. Investment in execution allows entrepreneurs to advance more quickly than competitors, while control requires delays in commercialization. Control and execution are strategic substitutes, as they represent alternative paths to earning future rents. Because the size and likelihood of these rents are uncertain, entrepreneurs may be unable to rank these alternative paths in advance, and so their endogenous choice will be grounded in factors such as individual preferences, capabilities, or coherence with their overall entrepreneurial strategy. A subtle consequence is that the appropriability regime ultimately governing an innovation will be the result of the endogenous choices of the entrepreneur rather than more traditional environmental factors. Motivated by notable historical examples such as the invention and commercialization of the telephone, we explore these ideas by considering the choice of appropriability regime among a sample of academic entrepreneurs: within a sample of ventures that could have been developed by either faculty or students (or both), we find that faculty-led ventures are much more closely associated with formal intellectual property, student-led ventures are more rapid in their commercialization activities, and, relative to faculty-led ventures, student-led ventures display a trade-off between patenting and commercialization speed.
O32|Knowledge Transfer Abroad: The Role of U.S. Inventors within Global R&D Networks|The location of US multinational foreign R&D has shifted significantly to include emerging markets in addition to traditional Western R&D hubs, resulting in two challenges for multinationals: (1) how to transfer knowledge across geographic distances, and (2) how to facilitate learning when local knowledge sources in given technological areas are inadequate. This paper argues that to overcome these challenges, multinationals utilize home country inventors on foreign affiliate inventor teams – and in particular on teams in locations with insufficiently specialized local knowledge stocks – to facilitate knowledge transfer. Empirical analysis of a comprehensive dataset of US multinational R&D and patenting activity provides robust support for this argument. The findings have important implications for understanding how countries can gain expertise in technical areas and how poor countries can escape the knowledge trap, and they provide insight into management of increasingly dispersed multinational global R&D networks, particularly in locations with relatively unspecialized local inventors.
O32|Immigrant Entrepreneurship in America: Evidence from the Survey of Business Owners 2007 & 2012|We study immigrant entrepreneurship and firm ownership in 2007 and 2012 using the Survey of Business Owners (SBO). The survival and growth of immigrant-owned businesses over time relative to native-founded companies is evaluated by linking the 2007 SBO to the Longitudinal Business Database (LBD). We quantify the dependency of the United States as a whole, as well as individual states, on the contributions of immigrant entrepreneurs in terms of firm formation and job creation. We describe differences in the types of businesses started by immigrants and the quality of jobs created by their firms. First-generation immigrants create about 25% of new firms in the United States, but this share exceeds 40% in some states. In addition, Asian and Hispanic second-generation immigrants start about 6% of new firms. Immigrant-owned firms, on average, create fewer jobs than native-owned firms, but much of this is explained by the industry and geographic location of the firms. Immigrant-owned firms pay comparable wages, conditional on firm traits, to native-owned firms, but are less likely to offer benefits.
O32|Cost of experimentation and the evolution of venture capital|We study how technological shocks to the cost of starting new businesses have led the venture capital model to adapt in fundamental ways over the prior decade. We both document and provide a framework to understand the changes in the investment strategy of venture capitalists (VCs) in recent years – an increased prevalence of a “spray and pray” investment approach – where investors provide a little funding and limited governance to an increased number of startups that they are more likely to abandon, but where initial experiments significantly inform beliefs about the future potential of the venture. This adaptation and related entry by new financial intermediaries has led to a disproportionate rise in innovations where information on future prospects is revealed quickly and cheaply, and reduced the relative share of innovation in complex technologies where initial experiments cost more and reveal less.
O32|Measuring Moore’s Law: Evidence from Price, Cost, and Quality Indexes|“Moore’s Law” in the semiconductor manufacturing industry is used to describe the predictable historical evolution of a single manufacturing technology platform that has been continuously reducing the costs of fabricating electronic circuits since the mid-1960s. Some features of its future evolution were first correctly predicted by Gordon E. Moore in 1965, and Moore’s Law became an industry synonym for continuous, periodic reduction in both size and cost for electronic circuit elements. This paper develops develops some stylized economic facts, reviewing why and how this progression in manufacturing technology delivered a 20 to 30 percent annual decline in the cost of manufacturing a transistor, on average, as long as it continued. Other characteristics associated with smaller feature sizes would be expected to have additional economic value, and historical trends for these characteristics are reviewed. Lower manufacturing costs alone pose no special challenges for price and innovation measurement, but these other benefits do, and motivate quality adjustment methods when semiconductor product prices are measured. Empirical evidence of recent changes to the historical Moore’s Law trajectory is analyzed, and shows a slowdown in Moore’s Law as measured by prices for the highest volume products: memory chips, custom chip designs outsourced to dedicated contract manufacturers (foundries), and Intel microprocessors. Evidence to the contrary, which relates primarily to Intel microprocessors is reviewed, as are economic reasons why Intel microprocessor prices might behave differently from prices for other types of semiconductor chips. A computer architecture textbook model of how chip characteristics affect microprocessor performance is specified and tested in a structural econometric model of microprocessor computing performance. This simple econometric model, using only a small set of explanatory chip characteristics, explains 99% of variance across processor models in performance on commonly used performance benchmarks. This small set of characteristics should clearly be included in any hedonic model of computer or processor prices. Most of these chip characteristics also affect chip production cost, and therefore have an additional rationale for inclusion in a hedonic model that is separate from their demand-side effects on computer performance metrics relevant to users.
O32|Funding Breakthrough Research: Promises and Challenges of the “ARPA Model”|From its 1958 origin in defense, the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) model for research funding has, in the last two decades, spread to other parts of the US federal government with the goal of developing radically new technologies. In this paper, we propose that the key elements of the ARPA model for research funding are: organizational flexibility on an administrative level, and significant authority given to program directors to design programs, select projects and actively manage projects. We identify the ARPA model’s domain as mission-oriented research on nascent S-curves within an inefficient innovation system. Finally, we describe some of the challenges to implementing the ARPA model, and we comment on the role of ARPA in the landscape of research funding approaches.
O32|The IT Revolution and the Globalization of R&D|Since the 1990s, research and development (R&D) has not only become less geographically concentrated, but there has been especially fast growth in less developed emerging markets like China and India. One of the distinguishing features of the R&D globalization phenomenon is its concentration within the software/information technology (IT) domain. The increase in foreign R&D on the firm side has been largely concentrated within software and IT-intensive multinational corporations (MNCs). This concentration is mirrored on the country side; new R&D destinations such as India, China, and Israel look very different in the types of innovative activity being done there than older R&D destinations such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Japan. In this paper we will document three important phenomena: (1) the globalization of R&D by US MNCs, (2) the growing importance of software and IT to firm innovation, and (3) the rise of new R&D hubs and the differences in the type of activity done there. We argue that the shortage in software/IT-related human capital resulting from the large IT- and software-biased shift in innovation drove US MNCs abroad, and particularly drove them abroad to “new hubs” with large quantities of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) workers who possessed IT and software skills. Our findings support the view that the globalization of US multinational R&D has reinforced the technological leadership of US-based firms in the information technology domain and that multinationals’ ability to access an increasingly global talent base could support a high rate of innovation even in the presence of the rising (human) resource cost of frontier R&D.
O32|The IT Revolution and the Globalization of R&D|Since the 1990s, R&D has become less geographically concentrated, and has seen especially fast growth in emerging markets. One of the distinguishing features of the R&D globalization phenomenon is its concentration within the software/IT domain; the increase in foreign R&D has been largely concentrated within software and IT-intensive multinationals, and new R&D destinations are also more software and IT-intensive multinationals than traditional R&D destinations. In this paper we document three important phenomena: (1) the globalization of R&D, (2) the growing importance of software and IT to firm innovation, and (3) the rise of new R&D hubs. We argue that the shortage in software/IT-related human capital resulting from the large IT- and software-biased shift in innovation drove US MNCs abroad, and particularly drove them abroad to “new hubs” with large quantities of STEM workers who possessed IT and software skills. Our findings support the view that the globalization of US multinational R&D has reinforced the technological leadership of US-based firms in the information technology domain and that multinationals’ ability to access a global talent base could support a high rate of innovation even in the presence of the rising (human) resource cost of frontier R&D.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O32|Public Contracting for Private Innovation: Government Expertise, Decision Rights, and Performance Outcomes|We examine how the U.S. Federal Government governs R&D contracts with private-sector firms. The government chooses between two contractual forms: grants and cooperative agreements. The latter provides the government substantially greater discretion over, and monitoring of, project progress. Using novel data on R&D contracts and on the geo-location and technical expertise of each government scientist over a 12-year period, we test implications from the organizational economics and contracting literatures. We find that cooperative agreements are more likely to be used for early-stage projects and those for which local government scientific personnel have relevant technical expertise; in turn, cooperative agreements yield greater innovative output as measured by patents, controlling for endogeneity of contract form. The results are consistent with multi-task agency and transaction-cost approaches that emphasize decision rights and monitoring.
O32|When Does Advice Impact Startup Performance?|Why do some entrepreneurs thrive while others fail? We explore whether the advice entrepreneurs receive about people management influences their firm's performance. We conducted a randomized field experiment in India with 100 high-growth technology firms whose founders received in-person advice from other entrepreneurs who varied in their managerial style. We find that entrepreneurs who received advice from peers with an active approach to managing people–instituting regular meetings, setting goals consistently, and providing frequent feedback to employees–grew 28% larger and were 10 percentage points less likely to fail than those who got advice from peers with a passive people-management approach two years after our intervention. Entrepreneurs with MBAs or accelerator experience did not respond to this intervention, suggesting that formal training can limit the spread of peer advice.
O32|Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century|This paper studies the effect of corporate and personal taxes on innovation in the United States over the twentieth century. We use three new datasets: a panel of the universe of inventors who patent since 1920; a dataset of the employment, location and patents of firms active in R&D since 1921; and a historical state-level corporate tax database since 1900, which we link to an existing database on state-level personal income taxes. Our analysis focuses on the impact of taxes on individual inventors and firms (the micro level) and on states over time (the macro level). We propose several identification strategies, all of which yield consistent results: i) OLS with fixed effects, including inventor and state-times-year fixed effects, which make use of differences between tax brackets within a state-year cell and which absorb heterogeneity and contemporaneous changes in economic conditions; ii) an instrumental variable approach, which predicts changes in an individual or firm's total tax rate with changes in the federal tax rate only; iii) event studies, synthetic cohort case studies, and a border county strategy, which exploits tax variation across neighboring counties in different states. We find that taxes matter for innovation: higher personal and corporate income taxes negatively affect the quantity and quality of inventive activity and shift its location at the macro and micro levels. At the macro level, cross-state spillovers or business-stealing from one state to another are important, but do not account for all of the effect. Agglomeration effects from local innovation clusters tend to weaken responsiveness to taxation. Corporate inventors respond more strongly to taxes than their non-corporate counterparts.
O32|Inventive Capabilities in the Division of Innovative Labor|We study how the inventive capability of a firm conditions its participation in a division of innovative labor. Capable firms are, by definition, able to invent; for them, external inventions substitute for their own R&D. However, external knowledge is an input into internal invention, and thus, more valuable to firms with inventive capability. Using a simple model of innovation and imitation, we explore how inventive capability affects a firm’s R&D investments, and thus whether and how it innovates, imitates, or does neither. Further, we study how these outcomes are conditioned by the supply of external knowledge as well as the supply of external inventions. In an advance over the literature, we treat firm inventive capability as unobserved, and use a latent class multinomial model to infer its value. Using a recent survey of product innovation and the division of innovative labor among US manufacturing firms, we find that high capability firms tend to use internal, rather than externally generated inventions, to innovate, and they use external knowledge to enhance their internal inventive activity. By contrast, lower capability firms are more likely to introduce “me-too” or imitative products, and when they innovate, are more likely to rely on external sources of inventions. Our findings suggest the successful pursuit of R&D-led growth depends both on firm inventive capability and the external knowledge environment.
O32|Creativity Under Fire: The Effects of Competition on Creative Production|Though fundamental to innovation and essential to many industries and occupations, individual creativity has received limited attention as an economic behavior and has historically proven difficult to study. This paper studies the incentive effects of competition on individuals' creative production. Using a sample of commercial logo design competitions, and a novel, content-based measure of originality, I find that intensifying competition induces agents to produce original, untested ideas over tweaking their earlier work, but heavy competition drives them to stop investing altogether. The results yield lessons for the management of creative workers and for the implementation of competitive procurement mechanisms for innovation.
O32|When does Product Liability Risk Chill Innovation? Evidence from Medical Implants|Liability laws designed to compensate for harms caused by defective products may also affect innovation. We examine this issue by exploiting a major quasi-exogenous increase in liability risk faced by US suppliers of polymers used to manufacture medical implants. Difference-in-differences analyses show that this surge in suppliers’ liability risk had a large and negative impact on downstream innovation in medical implants, but it had no significant effect on upstream polymer patenting. Our findings suggest that liability risk can percolate throughout a vertical chain and may have a significant chilling effect on downstream innovation.
O32|Corruption, Government Subsidies, and Innovation: Evidence from China|Governments are important financiers of private sector innovation. While these public funds can ease capital constraints and information asymmetries, they can also introduce political distortions. We empirically explore these issues for China, where a quarter of firms’ R&D expenditures come from government subsidies. Using a difference-in-differences approach, we find that the anticorruption campaign that began in 2012 and the departures of local government officials responsible for innovation programs strengthened the relationship between firms’ historical innovative efficiency and subsequent subsidy awards and depressed the influence of their corruption-related expenditures. We also examine the impact of these changes: subsidies became significantly positively associated with future innovation after the anti-corruption campaign and the departure of government innovation officials.
O32|The Effects of Downstream Competition on Upstream Innovation and Licensing|We study how competition between two downstream firms affects an upstream innovator's innovation strategy, which includes selecting how much innovation to produce and whether to license this innovation to one (targeted licensing) or both (market-wide licensing) downstream competitors. Our model points to a U-shaped relationship between downstream competition and upstream innovation: at low levels of competition, market-wide licensing is optimal and competition reduces innovation, while at high levels of competition targeted licensing is optimal and competition increases innovation. Empirical analysis using a large panel of US data provides clear support for these predictions linking competition, innovation and licensing.
O32|Firm Scope and Spillovers from New Product Innovation: Evidence from Medical Devices|When firms span related product categories, spillovers across categories become central to firm strategy and industrial policy, due to their potential to foreclose competition and affect innovation incentives. We exploit major new product innovations in one medical device category, and detailed sales data across related categories, to develop a causal research design for spillovers at the customer level. We find evidence of spillovers, primarily associated with complementarities in usage. These spillovers imply large benefits to multi- vs. single-category firms, accounting for nearly one quarter of sales in the complimentary category (equivalent to four percent of revenue in the focal category).
O32|A Portrait of U.S. Factoryless Goods Producers|This paper evaluates the U.S. Census Bureau’s most recent data collection efforts to classify business entities that engage in an extreme form of production fragmentation called “factoryless” goods production. “Factoryless” goods-producing entities outsource physical transformation activities while retaining ownership of the intellectual property and control of sales to customers. Responses to a special inquiry on the incidence of purchases of contract manufacturing services in combination with data on production inputs and outputs, intellectual property, and international trade is used to identify and document characteristics of “factoryless” firms in the U.S. economy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O32|Technology Adoption in a Hierarchical Network| This paper studies the effect of network structure on technology adoption, in the setting of the Python programming language. A major release of Python, Python 3, provides more advanced but backward-incompatible features to Python 2. We model the dynamics of Python 3 adoption made by package developers. Python packages form a hierarchical network through dependency requirements. The adoption decision involves not only updating one's own source code, but also dealing with dependency packages lacking Python 3 support. We build a dynamic model of technology adoption where each package makes an irreversible decision to provide support for Python 3. The optimal timing of adoption requires a prediction of all future states, for the package itself as well as each of its dependencies. With a complete dataset of package characteristics for all historical releases, we are able to draw the complete hierarchical structure of the network, and simplify the estimation by grouping packages into different layers based on the dependency relationship. We study how individual adoption decisions can propagate along the links in such a hierarchical network. We also test the effectiveness of various counterfactual policies that can promote a faster adoption process.
O32|The role of international and domestic R&D outsourcing for firm innovation|Firms are increasingly outsourcing their high-tech services. Theory suggests that R&D outsourcing allows firms to specialize in core knowledge-intensive tasks, thereby increasing innovation, but R&D outsourcing may also undermine internal capabilities. Our goal is to empirically assess the relative importance of these two possibilities, distinguishing between national and international R&D outsourcing and firms’ exporting status. We examine R&D purchases of more than 10,000 Spanish firms for the period 2004–2014. We show that R&D outsourcing improves firm innovation. Product innovation rises mostly with domestic outsourcing, while process innovation increases with both domestic and international R&D outsourcing. In addition, we find that international outsourcing provides an extra premium, mostly for exporters. Our results contribute to a better understanding of how firms organize the production of knowledge and innovation.
O32|Digital technology diffusion: A matter of capabilities, incentives or both?|Insufficient diffusion of new technologies has been quoted as one possible reason for weak productivity performance over the past two decades (Andrews et al., 2016). This paper uses a novel data set of digital technology usage covering 25 industries in 25 European countries over the 2010-16 period to explore the drivers of digital adoption across two broad sets of digital technologies by firms, cloud computing and back or front office integration. The focus is on structural and policy factors affecting firms’ capabilities and incentives to adopt -- including the availability of enabling infrastructures (such as high-speed broadband internet), managerial quality and workers skills, and product, labour and financial market settings. We identify the effects of structural and policy factors based on the difference-in-difference approach pioneered by Rajan and Zingales (1998) and show that a number of these factors are statistically and economically significant for technology adoption. Specifically, we find strong support for the hypothesis that low managerial quality, lack of ICT skills and poor matching of workers to jobs curb digital technology adoption and hence the rate of diffusion. Similarly our evidence suggests that policies affecting market incentives are important for adoption, especially those relevant for market access, competition and efficient reallocation of labour and capital. Finally, we show that there are important complementarities between the two sets of factors, with market incentives reinforcing the positive effects of enhancements in firm capabilities on adoption of digital technologies
O32|Strengthening innovation in Poland|Poland’s catch up with other OECD country has been largely based on productivity growth resulting from restructuring towards more productive sectors and foreign technology absorption. The economy’s own innovation capacity is relatively weak, with low investment in research and development, no tradition of commercialising research and very limited innovation activity within firms. The government plans a higher education reform to strengthen the quality of research output, science-industry cooperation and international collaboration, which are all weak. Considerable EU funding is available to support innovation. Most of it is conditioned on science-industry co-operation, which is showing initial benefits. A lively start-up scene is gradually emerging, and the government foresees considerable public support for venture capital financing. Yet, investment in higher education and research trails behind economies that have been able to build strong science and high-tech start-up activity. Poland’s many small and medium-sized enterprises have particularly low productivity, partly related to weaknesses in vocational training and adult education, as too many workers have weak basic and digital skills. The government's education reform and digital strategy address some of these issues.
O32|OECD 2017 OURdata Index: Methodology and results|This paper presents the methodological process and results of the OECD 2017 Open-Useful-Reusable Government data Index (OURdata Index). It is meant to present the methodology and outline the data collection and verification process; discuss key findings of the composite indicators including overall country scores and scores by pillars and sub-pillars; and show the outcomes of different statistical tests to assess the robustness of the results, including tests to evaluate the sensitivity of the indicators to various weighting schemes. The paper highlights the relevance of the Index to support the design and monitoring of open government data policies and practices leading to socio-economic outcomes and to the improved performance and efficiency of public sector organisations.
O32|In the Eye of the Beholder? Empirically Decomposing Different Economic Implications of the Online Rating Variance|The growing body of literature on online ratings has reached a consensus of the positive impact of the average rating and the number of ratings on economic outcomes. Yet, little is known about the economic implication of the online rating variance, and existing studies have presented contradictory results. Therefore, this study examines the impact of the online rating variance on the prices and sales of digital cameras from Amazon.com. The key feature of our study is that we employ and validate a machine learning approach to decompose the online rating variance into a product failure-related and taste-related share. In line with our theoretical foundation, our empirical results highlight that the failure-related variance share has a negative impact on price and sales, while the impact of the taste-related share is positive. Our results highlight a new perspective on the online rating variance that has been largely neglected by prior studies. Sellers can benefit from our results by adjusting their pricing strategy and improving their sales forecasts. Review platforms can facilitate the identification of product failure-related ratings to support the purchasing decision process of customers.
O32|A Homeowner’s Guide to Airbnb: Theory and Empirical Evidence for Optimal Pricing Conditional on Online Ratings|Optimal price setting in peer-to-peer markets featuring online ratings requires incorporating interactions between prices and ratings. Additionally, recent literature reports that online ratings in peer-to-peer markets tend to be inflated overall, undermining the reliability of online ratings as a quality signal. This study proposes a two-period model for optimal price setting that takes (potentially inflated) ratings into account. Our theoretical findings suggest that sellers in the medium-quality segment have an incentive to lower first-period prices to monetize on increased second-period ratings. The possibility of monetizing on second-period ratings depends on the buyers’ assessment of the rating system’s reliability. Additionally, we find that total profits and prices increase with online ratings and additional quality signals. Empirically, conducting Difference-in-Difference regressions on a comprehensive panel data set from Airbnb, we can validate that price increases are associated with lower ratings, and we find empirical support for the prediction that additional quality signals increase prices. Our work comes with substantial implications for sellers in peer-to-peer markets looking for an optimal price setting strategy.
O32|The Traveling Reviewer Problem – Exploring the Relationship between Offline Locations and Online Rating Behavior|Amongst the growing body of literature on the drivers of online ratings, the influence of customers’ local offline environment on their ratings has largely been neglected. This study examines the relationship between ratings made outside of a customer’s home area, i.e., when traveling, and the magnitude of online ratings. In line with our theory, we find that customers who rate while traveling give, on average, higher ratings than locals. This relationship is moderated by the posting time of a review relative to consumption, as travelers also post more positive ratings during or shortly after consumption compared to locals. Our identification strategy leverages panel data to control for unobservable reviewer heterogeneity and a clustering approach to mitigate reviewer-restaurant selection biases. We also investigate several additional factors such as travel distance, identification strategy of a reviewer’s home city, and the size of the home city relative to the size of the travel destination. Our results come with substantial implications for a business’ average rating and for customer decision making.
O32|Division of Labour Amongst Innovation Intermediaries in Agricultural Innovation Systems: The Case of Indonesia|Innovation intermediaries are individuals and organisations that enhance connectivity amongst constituencies of national, sectoral, and regional systems of innovation, thereby facilitating knowledge spillover. This paper articulates the whole picture of Indonesia’s agricultural innovation system, with a special focus on how different innovation intermediaries play different roles in technology transfer and knowledge dissemination. First, the public sector accounts for more than half of the actors involved in research and extension, but insufficient routes to transfer local needs to the public sector impede efficient feedback. Second, village unit cooperatives are closely associated with extension workers, suggesting the presence of a feedback mechanism, but many of them face serious financial distress. Third, private agricultural research and development and extension are organised and managed efficiently where they involve fewer internal actors working in an environment with minimal bureaucracy. However, a vague regulatory environment makes it difficult for multinational enterprises to hold a positive view towards agricultural research and development and extension from the public sector. Last, the changing governance system and the ensuing shift in political decision-making have introduced uncertainties to the arrangement of actors and resources in the system, which may take some time to resolve.
O32|Learning When to Quit: An Empirical Model of Experimentation|We study a dynamic model of the decision to continue or abandon a research project. Researchers improve their ideas over time and also learn whether those ideas will be adopted by the scientific community. Projects are abandoned as researchers grow more pessimistic about their chance of success. We estimate the structural parameters of this dynamic decision problem using a novel data set that contains information on both successful and abandoned projects submitted to the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), an organization that creates and maintains internet standards. Using the model and parameter estimates, we simulate two counterfactual policies: a cost-subsidy and a prize-based incentive scheme. For a fixed budget, subsidies have a larger impact on research output, but prizes perform better when accounting for researchers' opportunity costs.
O32|Permit Markets, Carbon Prices and the Creation of Innovation Clusters|Innovation clusters that combine public basic research and applied research performed by private firms may be needed for greater technological advances to slow down climate change. We use a multi-country model with emissions permit trade to examine how international climate policy can induce countries to create such clusters. We allow for a varying degree of cooperation between the countries, represented by different carbon price targets. We find that a minimal carbon price is needed to attract applied research firms, but countries may nevertheless fail to invest in basic research. We construct a mechanism that can overcome this barrier and that can induce the first-best creation of innovation clusters. The mechanism involves a combination of few permits given to the country with the lowest costs for basic research, fair burden-sharing and maximal grandfathering.
O32|Agricultural R&D investment, knowledge stocks and productivity growth in Latin America and the Caribbean:| Between 2001 and 2012, Latin America and the Caribbeanâ€™s (LAC) agriculture saw its best performance of the last 30 years. Given the importance of agricultural R&D investment to sustain agricultural growth in the future, this study looks at the state of agricultural R&D investment in LAC, and analyzes the role that this investment played in the performance of agriculture in recent years. This is done by developing a new approach for the estimation of knowledge stocks that allow us to obtain R&D elasticities and measures of return to R&D investment that avoid some of the major problems encountered in the literature that uses econometric methods.
O32|Science and innovations|The year of 2017 can be described as a year of making plans, rather than assessing outputs, in the Russian scientific and technological sector. Preference was given to the development of a plan for the implementation of Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Russian Federation, including its integration with polices in progress as part of the National Technological Initiative of Russia (NTI), and to the endorsement of the state program for the development of a digital economy in the Russian Federation, including its synchronization with the NTI for the development of scientific and educational and technological competences. Finally, the 2017 full-year consideration of a new science legislation still continued at the end of year.
O32|Government promotion of scientific research and innovative activity at higher educational institutions: the main instruments of support, its scale and beneficiaries|One typical feature of Russia’s science sector, inherited from the Soviet period, is the predominant role in its research and development (R&D) activities of the ‘traditional’ scientific research organizations, represented by the research institutes operating under the system of government-funded academies of sciences (academic science), as well as by the research institutes and R&D bureaus subordinated to branch ministries and government departments (sectoral science); meanwhile, the role of higher educational institutions (HEE) in those activities was rather modest. At the same time, since the early 2000s, the volume of R&D projects launched in Russia by higher educational institutions and the number of researchers participating in them, has been increasing at a stable rate both in absolute and relative terms. As a result, over the last one-and-a-half decades, the number of researchers involved in the higher education sector increased more than 1.5 times, the sector’s relative share in the total number of researchers and total internal R&D costs[1] nearly doubled, and the corresponding costs incurred by higher educational institutions in constant prices increased more than 4-fold.
O32|Biomedical Research â€“ the PNEI approach. Ricerca scientifica: artt. 9 e 33 cost. costanti e nodi irrisolti|The constitutional provisions promote research and recognize the freedom of science. But beyond the research emphases, is it really free? Actually, it meets limits and consequently balances but also surreptitious obliterations.
O32|Ecosystem complexity, firm learning and survival: UK evidence on intra-industry age and size diversity as exit hazards|Firm age or size diversity in an industry is taken for granted but its implications for industry evolution and firm survival have remained below the radars of empirical research. We address this knowledge gap by drawing on an interdisciplinary theoretical framework informed by theoretical biology, organizational ecology and industrial organisation. We hypothesize that firms in more diverse industries are more likely to exit as a result of rugged fitness distributions where a global fitness optimum is less likely to emerge. We also hypothesize that investment in research and development (R&D) may counterbalance the adverse effect of diversity on survival by enabling the firm to engage in active learning about its market and technology niches. Evidence from discrete-time hazard estimators and an unbalanced panel dataset of 35,136 R&D-active UK firms lend support to these hypotheses. The findings remain robust to: (i) a battery of sensitivity checks, including step-wise estimations, different diversity measures and various firm cohorts; (ii) control for frailty and for a wide range of firm, industry, and macroeconomic factors considered in the survival literature; and (iii) taking account of direct effects of age, size and R&D intensity.
O32|Innovation, job creation and productivity: implications for public policy|Direct and indirect public support (subsidies and tax relief) for business R&D in the UK is higher than most other OECD countries. Nevertheless, total business R&D expenditure as percentage of GDP in the UK (1.7%) is relatively low compared to OECD countries (2.43%). This policy brief summarizes the findings from an ESRC-funded research project on productivity and employment effects of R&D investment; and on whether direct public support has had additionality effects in terms of increasing the funded firms’ R&D investment. The findings suggest that the bot the effects of R&D on productivity and employment and the effect of subsidies on private R&D effort are heterogeneous and non-linear. Therefore, we call for well-targeted R&D subsidies, new conditionality clauses taking account of past performance, and industry-specific targets for R&D investment.
O32|What do we know about R&D spillovers and productivity? Meta-analysis on heterogeneity and statistical power|Endogenous growth theory and the knowledge capital model predict that research and development (R&D) investment is associated with increasing returns and positive externalities. These insights have informed public support for R&D investment directly and indirectly. We aim to establish where the balance of the evidence lies, the extent to which the evidence has adequate statistical power, and which factors may explain the variation in the empirical findings. Drawing on 983 spillovers and 501 own-R&D effect-size estimates from 60 empirical studies, we find that the average productivity effect of spillovers: (i) is smaller than what is reported in most narrative reviews; (ii) is even smaller when only adequately-powered evidence is considered; (iii) differs by spillover types; and (iv) is not larger than that of own-R&D. We also report that the percentage of adequately-powered evidence is low (30%-55%). We highlight the implications of these findings for future research and public policy design.
O32|"Contemporary Frontier Transformation for Inclusive Growth: The Dual Role of ""Smart"" Competitiveness Factors"|"Objective - This paper aims to contribute to inclusive development literature by empirically verifying that some ""smart"" or ""knowledge-and innovation-related"" competitiveness enhancing factors, besides raising competitiveness and growth, enable inclusiveness and sustainability. Methodology/Technique - The methodology used includes making ranks of frontier, advanced countries based on World Economic Forum data regarding competitive quantities and qualities of smart factors and growth and inclusive and sustainable outcomes. Then, a Spearman's rank correlation analysis is used to determine the similarities between each factor rank and each outcome rank. Findings - The smart factors show a significant relationship with both growth and inclusiveness/sustainability outcomes; this may be a target for use as policy instruments to promote both growth and inclusiveness. The study found that higher levels of business-sophistication and network-related training, access and use of existing-technology, and ICT utilization factors contribute to higher levels of growth and also infer higher levels of employment, intergeneration eco-adjusted savings and lower levels of inequality, poverty and carbon intensity. Novelty - Given that current government and international organization policies aimed at improving competitiveness/growth vis-à-vis inclusiveness/sustainability remain separated, the results of this study may assist in improving the collaboration between these two objectives. The policy implications of this study include: certain dual competitive-inclusive enhancing policies can be suitably designed and targeted to uplift smart elements and the acceleration of inclusiveness and sustainability alongside the competitiveness-growth nexus. Further, developing countries may learn to leapfrog the development frontier without developing competitiveness and inclusiveness/sustainability separately, but rather each at a time."
O32|Coordination Frictions and Economic Growth|In practice, firms face a mass of scarce innovation projects. They choose a particular research avenue towards which to direct their effort, but do not coordinate these choices. This gives rise to coordination frictions. Our paper develops an expanding-variety endogenous growth model to study the impact of these frictions on the economy. The coordination failure generates a mass of foregone innovation and reduces the economy-wide research intensity. Both of these effects decrease the growth rate. Because of this, the frictions also amplify the fraction of wasteful simultaneous innovation. A numerical exercise suggests that the impact of coordination frictions on both the growth rate and welfare is substantial. This paper also analyzes firm-level data on patents which provide an estimate of the severity of the coordination problems and further evidence in favor of the hypothesis that research avenues are scarce.
O32|Building Entrepreneurial Ecosystems Conducive to Student Entrepreneurship: New Challenges for Universities|We explore the challenges universities face when contributing to the development of an entrepreneurial ecosystem. The lack of efficiency of policies inspired by the traditional entrepreneurial university model, and the fact that students are more active than academic researchers in creating start-ups, lead to student start-up creation being part of the issue of academic entrepreneurship. The higher the number of stakeholders the broader the ecosystem and the more the challenges for universities actively engaged in their development. Our research explores the mechanisms used by universities in triggering transformation of the entrepreneurial ecosystem when integrating student entrepreneurship. It is based on a longitudinal study of the University of Strasbourg. Our findings highlight the incremental nature of entrepreneurial ecosystem building, the internal changes operated by universities integrating students? entrepreneurship activities in their technology transfer policies, and the evolution of policies oriented to the development of an entrepreneurial culture. Codes JEL: M13, O32
O32|Impact sur l’emploi de la participation aux projets de R&D des pôles de compétitivité. Méthode et résultats|?Since their creation in 2005, competitiveness clusters have been defined as a structuring instrument of French industrial policy. From the implementation of an evaluation model that is well-identified in the literature, this work proposes a quantified estimation of the clusters? effects on employment for the companies taking part in R&D projects labeled by the clusters. This observation was carried out on the basis of the construction of an original database and the mobilization of a double difference evaluation method. This article highlights the positive and significant effect of French competitiveness clusters on employment.?
O32|Offshoring and Innovation Capabilities: Evidence from Swedish Manufacturing|This paper examines the impact of global value chains on rms' innovation capabilities. Using the United Nations Broad Economic Categories (BEC) system to identify offshoring-related intermediate imports, we study contracting out production over the period 2001-2014 from about 7,000 mainly small Swedish manufacturing frms to six different destinations and test hypotheses on improvements and outcomes of innovation capabilities. Our empirical fndings show that the strategy to participate in global value chains increases frms' innovative capability regardless of frms' technology intensity. The results are robust to a wide set of controls and in line with predictions in recent models of directed technical change.
O32|Allocation of R&D Grants in the Business Sector|The aim of this paper is to provide new empirical evidence on the most crucial determinants of success for firms applying for public R&D grants. Previous studies have been limited to firm level data and mainly tested how firm characteristics affect the allocation of R&D grants. Thereby, they cannot differentiate between firms that have applied for grants but been rejected and firms that did not apply at all. Our contribution is that we use a detailed database of accepted and rejected R&D applications and also introduce several measures of quality indicators of R&D project applications. The estimates show that R&D projects that are assessed with good or very good ratings are significantly more likely to receive approval; particularly for innovative content and novelty as well as to expected additional impacts on R&D activities. In contrast to previous studies, most firm-level characteristics (R&D intensity, labor productivity, cash flow, industry affiliation) are not relevant, indicating that the R&D funding agency does not discriminate among different types of firms. Consequently, applicant firms should focus on radical, new and innovative ideas in their applications rather than on minor improvements.
O32|The Role Of Business Model Innovation For Product Innovation Performance|We analyse the effect of business model innovation (BMI) on the product innovation performance of firms, based on a dynamic capabilities theoretical framework. Our empirical study is based on a large-scale representative sample of cross-industry Swedish firms participating in three waves of the Community Innovation Survey (CIS) from 2008 to 2012. We hypothesise that BMI in the form of product innovations combined with different complementary and simultaneous innovations in processes, marketing and organisation will act as isolating mechanisms towards replication by competitors, resulting in superior firm performance. Our findings provide support for such hypothesis. BMI is significantly and positively associated with superior product innovation performance. Managers should frame and align product innovations in BMI context, i.e., dynamically adapting product innovations with process, marketing and organisation innovations.
O32|University invention and the abolishment of the professor's privilege in Finland|In 2007 Finland changed ownership rights to inventions from its employees – “the professor's privilege” – to universities. We investigate how this change affected academic patenting using new data on inventors and patenting in Finland for the period 1995–2010. Matched sample panel data regressions using difference-in-differences show that patenting by individuals dropped by at least 29 percent after 2007. Unlike other countries studied, in Finland the reform was known before implementation. Adding the period after announcement to the reform period increases the drop in academic patenting to 46 percent. Our and others’ results call into question whether the European reform of the professor's privilege were good innovation policy.
O32|Post-acquisition dynamics of technology start-ups: drawing the temporal boundaries of post-acquisition restructuring process|The evolutionary perspective is important in order to understand post-acquisition restructuring as a dynamic process. In particular, this paper focuses on how the survival pattern of target start-ups as autonomous business units changes over time. This study observes a large sample of Swedish technology start-ups entering from 1997 to 2002 and follows them until 2009. Based on a discrete-time duration analysis, we find that acquisition affects the survival of target start-ups differently in the short-run and the long-run. Within 4 years after acquisition, acquisition is found to lower the probability of survival of start-ups as autonomous business units. However, from the 5th year after acquisition, the acquisition effects tend to become positive, although not statistically significant after possible endogeneity of acquisition is controlled for. It is inferred that acquired start-ups experience an extensive selection and experimentation internally by acquirers through post-acquisition restructuring within 4 years after acquisition. During the process, target start-ups’ operations are temporally disrupted
O32|Corporate returns to subsidized R&D projects: Direct grants vs tax credit financing|According to theory, direct R&D grants should be used for projects with low private returns, high social returns and high risk. R&D tax credits, on the other hand, allow firms to choose projects freely according to their private returns. Building on the standard R&D capital model, I develop a framework for estimating private returns to R&D projects with different types of funding. I apply the framework to estimate the corporate returns to subsidized R&D projects in Norway. Consistent with theory and a high quality grant allocation process, I find that projects funded through direct grants have private returns that are not significantly different from zero and with high variance, while the return to R&D projects financed by tax credits is just slightly below the return to R&D projects financed by own funds. The latter two return estimates are 16 % and 19 % respectively. I find that SMEs and small R&D performers have somewhat higher returns to R&D than larger firms. The overall return estimate across all types of finance is 15 %. This is in line with recent meta-regression results in the international literature.
O32|Crowding out or Knowledge Spillovers: The Wind Power Industry´s Effect on Related Energy Machinery|There is a risk that if a government adopts a R&D spending policy directed towards wind power technology crowding out of other technologies might occur due to fiscal constraints and changes in relative prices. The purpose of this paper is to provide a backward-looking analysis of how the accumulation of wind energy patents and public R&D spending affected the domestic and neighboring country output of granted patents in the “related energy machinery field”. The econometric analysis, a Poisson fixed-effects estimator based on the Hausman, Hall and Griliches (1984) method, relies on a data set consisting of eight countries in Western Europe with the highest rates of patent production in the field of wind power between 1978 and 2008. The results show that an accumulation of a national wind power stock is a statistically significant negative determinant of a country’s related energy machinery patenting outcomes. However, no crowding out effects of public R&D spending were found.
O32|Technology Classification for the Purposes of Futures Studies|The paper analyses problems associated with technologies classification for the purposes of futures studies, in order to ensure definitive inclusion of technologies in specific classes/types when conventional approaches to classification are applied. The evolution of classification approaches in the scope of science philosophy is shortly reviewed, together with the latest research on expert-based and computerised (algorithmic) classification and methodological dilemmas related to hierarchical aggregation of technological and production processes are analysed. Common problems with classifying technologies and industries frequently encountered in the age of converging technologies are examined, using the agricultural sector and related industries as an example. A case study of computerised classification of agricultural technologies based on clustering algorithms is presented, with a brief analysis of the potential and limitations of the methodology. For doing so a two-stage approach to classifying technologies is suggested, based on distinguishing between platform (multipurpose) and industry-specific technologies. An adaptive approach to analysing technological structures is proposed, based on many-to-many relationships and fuzzy logic principles.
O32|Do Living Labs Live in Russia?|Innovation infrastructure plays a crucial role in the establishment of links among knowledge producers, intermediaries, and exploiters to deal with socio-economic challenges. Traditionally, the representatives of public sector, business and academia have been considered as the key stakeholders; however today there is a shift of interest towards end users or consumers of products and services. Users, especially citizens, are able to bring new insights of their experience while taking part in testing and validation of innovative products and / or services. Hence, it is essential to decide, which forms of innovation infrastructure units enable successful involvement of users into the design and innovation process. Since mid-2000, the European Union has successfully introduced a platform for testing and experimentation based on the users’ engagement – a living laboratory. The study investigates the features of living labs, including their possible business applications, and searching for the living labs’ analogous among the existing forms of innovation infrastructure units in Russia. Business Model Canvas and comparative analysis are employed to do the research. Taken together, our results support the idea that a living lab is a very special form of innovation infrastructure unit, since it brings a product, technology, or service closer to the market, based on the insights from the end users’ engagement in testing and experimentation
O32|Patents For Evidence-Based Decision-Making And Smart Specialization|The paper compares and contrasts the patent-based indicators, traditionally used to assess a country’s technological capacities and specialization. It seeks to determine how a chosen metric might affect the results of such an analysis, sometimes being misleading. Empirically, the paper is based on the statistical information on patent activity of the top-10 patenting countries. It concludes with a clear demonstration of the need to employ a complex of patent-related indicators to make deliberate solutions on managing technological development of a country. Also the authors offer a taxonomy of technological capacities, which might further help understanding their current status and prospects for future progress. Above the methodological implications, the paper might be of an interest for policy-makers and practitioners as it analyzes the patent profiles and technological specialization of the global leaders
O32|The Role Of Wild Cards Analysis In Foresight Studies: The Case Of Russia|The wild cards conception as an element of foresight studies has been widely discussed by numerous scholars who have interest and qualification in strategic management field or STI policies from the end of the previous century. Some researchers focus their attention on the general key features of this phenomenon and its overall impact as well as origin, while others study possible applications of wild cards analysis in corporate and government sectors. The purpose of this research is to systematize knowledge about wild cards, determine their role in foresight practices and suggest an instrument for their detection and implementation into foresight research. For this reason, on the basis of a number of national and international foresight projects, we developed existing methodological approaches of wild cards identification, analysis and visual presentation. The results of the study were applied to Russian S&T Foresight 2030.
O32|Endogenous skill-biased technology adoption: Evidence from China’s college enrollment expansion program|China’s college expansion program, which was implemented in 1999 significantly increased the share of college-educated workers in the urban labor force. We find that returns to education were not responsive to changes in local skill supply be- tween then and 2009. To explain the trend, we develop a model of endogenous technology adoption and predict that increasing the share of college-educated work- ers leads firms to adjust their use of production technology. We construct supply shocks in local labor markets based on policy-driven variations in the changes of college enrollment quotas across cities. Using panel data from over 20,000 large manufacturing firms, we find that an enlarged college-educated labor force causes skill-intensive firms to invest more in capital and R&D as well as employ more workers, evidence that supports the theory of endogenous technology adoption.
O32|Impact of counterfeiting on the performance of digital technology companies|Counterfeiting activities target companies in various sectors, including digital technology companies, defined as companies that produce and/or commercialize at least one physical product that incorporates a digital technology, excluding the merchandising related to the company brands. Counterfeiting is a fraudulent activity that potentially damages the economic and innovation performance of companies and can pose major threats to global competition and economic growth. However, the actual impact of counterfeiting on the performance of companies has not been tested empirically, due to methodological problems, including the lack of data on counterfeiting at the firm-level. Furthermore, prior theoretical studies have speculated that counterfeiting could have in part a beneficial effect on the performance of companies, due to indirect advertising, calling for empirical investigations to shed light on the issue. The goal of the present study is to provide empirical evidence on the impact of counterfeiting on both the economic and innovative performance of digital technology companies at the firm-level and on the global scale. To this aim, a new database was created combining data on counterfeiting activities during 2011-2013 (OECD-EUIPO, 2016) with financial information and patent data from 2009 to 2015. The result is a firm-level database that enables unprecedented analyses on the impact of counterfeiting on performance of digital technology companies. About 9% of the seizures of counterfeits that were illegally traded across borders during 2011 2013 involved goods commercialized by digital technology companies, equivalent to about the 9.1% of the total value of seizures. Collectively, about 11% of companies affected by illegal international trade of counterfeits are digital technology companies. The majority of these (58%) are big corporations with Operating Revenues greater than USD 1 bn. These account for 77% of the number of total seizures, and 84% of the value of seizures related to the digital technology companies. SMEs, defined as those with Operating Revenues up to USD 50 million, represent 21% of digital technology companies targeted and account for 5% of total seizures and 6% of the total value of seizures. The industries mostly targeted are electronics (both consumers’ electronics and electronics for industrial use), automotive and digital media. The digital technology products commercialized in frauds of IPRs include computer hardware and electronic components, batteries, sensors, autoparts, optical instruments, videogames, and recording of movies and motion picture. About 34% of digital technology companies affected by international trade of counterfeits are located in the EU28 or EFTA, 41% are located in North America, 23% are located in Asia. Within the EU28, UK, Germany, France and Italy are the countries hosting the largest number of targeted digital technology companies. Within the EU28, Germany and UK, followed by Belgium and Ireland, are the most-common country of destination of seized counterfeits. The overwhelming majority of seized goods related to digital technology companies is imported from Asia. 51% of these are imported from China, 41% comes from Hong Kong, China, 3% from Singapore. Other economies of provenance account each for less than 1% of the seizures. The vast majority (93%) of seizures affecting digital technology companies are due to violations of trademarks, and only a minority are due to violations of design models (4%), and copyrights (2%). Less than 1% of the seizures are due to violations of patents. However, seizures enacted in defence of patents are those that have the highest mean value. The analysis of infringed companies with respect to a control samples of non-infringed companies indicates that counterfeiting targets specifically highly profitable companies, with high propensity to innovate. Indeed, digital technology companies are more likely to become target of counterfeiting when they have larger Operating Revenues, and when they perform at a higher level in terms of profitability (return on total assets), prior to the window of observation. Target companies also have on average larger patent portfolios, prior to the observation of counterfeiting activities. Digital technology companies located in EU28 are on average less likely than companies located outside of EU28 to be the target of counterfeiting activities. Results from impact analyses indicate lower growth rates of operating profits for digital technology companies targeted by counterfeiting with respect to control samples of firms not affected by counterfeiting. In particular the econometric models provide evidence of a negative impact of counterfeiting on both EBITDA (Earnings before interest taxes depreciation and amortisation) and EBIT (Earnings before interest taxes). This result is robust across different estimation methods, model specifications and time windows. The data reveals only a weak negative impact on operating revenues, with limited statistical confidence. Conversely, there is no significant evidence that counterfeiting affected the investment in Fixed Assets of targeted firms with respect to the control sample. The results about the negative impact of counterfeiting activities on operating profits are in line with reports of greater costs incurred by these companies to enact anti-counterfeiting strategies, reported in prior descriptive literature. These practices include the broadening of product ranges, with fewer scale-economies and the enactment of anti-infringement procedures, such as ‘conspicuous packaging’, more screening and origin certifications, development of licensing downstream retailers and direct self-enforcement aimed at limiting the circulation of counterfeits. Results do not provide support for the existence of indirect positive spillover effects, as hypothesised by the theoretical literature, according to which infringed companies might benefit from an advertising effect due to the greater diffusion of brands from the counterfeiting activities. Indeed, at least for what concerns digital technology companies, there is no evidence of any positive effect of infringement on sales of original products. The digital technology companies that were affected by counterfeiting on average increased their patent portfolios during the observation period, but less than the digital technology companies that were not affected by counterfeiting. However, the result is not robust to the inclusion of control variables and to the adoption of alternative measures of innovation performance (Intangible Assets). It certainly merits further research, once more data on counterfeiting become available. Overall, the results indicate that counterfeiting activities harm the economic performance of targeted digital technology companies, by eroding their operating profits. The effect on innovative performance is negative, but still inconclusive due to insufficient dataset, and cannot exclude that counterfeiting may harm the propensity to innovate of digital technology companies. The analysis rules-out the existence of any positive spillover from counterfeiting.
O32|The 2018 PREDICT Key Facts Report. An analysis of ICT R&D in the EU and beyond|The 2018 PREDICT Key Facts Report provides a detailed analysis of the state of ICT R&D activities in the European Union. This is the eleventh edition of a series that is published annually. Like the previous editions, an online version is available at: https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/predict. The report covers the period between 1995 and 2015, providing a long-term analysis of the European Union (EU) ICT sector and its R&D, covering a whole cycle from the initial expansion years, to the double recession that began in early 2008, and the most recent evolution up to 2015. Whenever possible, the report includes nowcasted data for 2016 and 2017. The statistical information provided by the figures allows comparing the ICT sector with the total economy; the ICT manufacturing sector with the ICT services sector; each of the four ICT manufacturing, two ICT services, MC and RS sectors’ behaviour; the pace followed by each EU country; and the pattern of the EU in an international context, including the most relevant countries from the perspective of the role they play in the world economy today, especially from the ICT R&D perspective.
O32|From R&D to market: using trademarks to capture the market capability of top R&D investors|This paper investigates the links between the market capability of top corporate R&D investors (EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboards), as captured by trademark data and their economic performance in terms of net sales growth. It provides empirical evidence to better understand the extent to which companies, operating in different industrial sectors, combine technological capabilities with commercialization efforts to generate and appropriate the economic returns of their R&D investments. This paper shows how different dimensions of firms’ market capabilities can be captured through trademark indicators. The results suggest that complementing R&D efforts and patenting activities with strong and specific market capabilities can indeed yield significant growth premiums. Moreover, offering services seems to pay off depending on the intensity of R&D investments. Yet, a quantile regression approach and a series of robustness checks indicate that such effects differ across the quantiles of the conditional sales growth distribution.
O32|Incubators, Accelerators and Regional Economic Development|A growing wave of co-location programmes promises to boost growth for young firms. Despite great public and policy interest we have little idea whether such programmes are effective. This paper categorises accelerators and incubators within a larger family of 'co-location' interventions. We then develop a single framework to theorise workspace-level impacts. We summarise available evaluation evidence and sketch implications for regional economic policy. We find clear evidence programmes are effective overall. But we know little about how effects operate - or who benefits. Providers and policymakers should experiment further to establish optimal designs.
O32|Learning When to Quit: An Empirical Model of Experimentation in Standards Development|Motivated by a descriptive analysis of standards development within the Internet Engineering Task Force, we develop a dynamic discrete choice model of R&D that highlights the decision to continue or abandon a line of research. Our estimates imply that sixty percent of IETF proposals are publishable, but only one-third of those good ideas survive the review process. Increased attention and author experience are associated with faster learning. We simulate two counterfactual innovation policies: an R&D subsidy and a publication-prize. Subsidies have a larger impact on research output, though prizes perform better when accounting for researchers' opportunity costs.
O32|Heterogeneous R&D spillovers and sustainable growth: Limits to efficient regulation|This paper introduces heterogeneity of cross-technologies interactions into the double-differentiated R&D-based endogenous growth model. In this model new technologies appear continuously and older are outdated generating structural change. All technologies may interact with each other through knowledge spillovers which are technology-specific and this results in innovations' heterogeneity. The conditions on the shape of these interactions for the existence of the (sustained) growth path in the decentralized economy as well as for the social planner's problem are estab- lished. Next the necessity for government interventions depending on the complexity of these interactions is studied. At last the scale and duration of interventions are demonstrated to be functions of spectral properties of the interactions operator.
O32|Games without winners: Catching-up with asymmetric spillovers|Dynamic game with changing leader is studied on the example of R&D co-opetition structure. The leader benefits from higher followers' innovations rate and followers are enjoying a spillover from the leader. Leadership changes because of asymmetric efficiency of investments of players. It is demonstrated that under sufficiently asymmetric players there is no long-run leader in this game and all players act as followers. Moreover this outcome may be the socially optimal one. In decentralised setting additional complex types of dynamics are observed: permanent uctuations around symmetric (pseudo)equilibrium and chaotic dynamics. This last is possible only once strategies of players are interdependent. Cooperative solution is qualitatively similar for any number of players while market solution is progressively complex given all players are asymmetric. Results are extended to an arbitrary linear-quadratic multi-modal differential game with spillovers and the structure necessary for the onset of non-deterministic chaos is discussed.
O32|Have R&D spillovers changed?|This paper revisits the results of Bloom, Schankerman, and Van Reenen (2013) examining the impact of R&D on the performance of US firms, especially through spillovers. We extend their analysis to include an additional 15 years of data through 2015, and update the measures of firms' interactions in technology space and product market space. We show that the magnitude of R&D spillovers appears to have been broadly similar in the second decade of the 21st Century as it was in the mid-1980s. However, there does seem to have been some increase in the wedge between marginal social returns to R&D and marginal private returns with the ratio of marginal social to private returns increasing to a factor of 4 from 3. There is certainly no evidence that the need to subsidize R&D has diminished. Positive spillovers appeared to increase in the 1995-2004 boom.
O32|Managing Trade: Evidence from China and the US|We present a heterogeneous-firm model in which management ability increases both production efficiency and product quality. Combining six micro-datasets on management practices, production and trade in Chinese and American firms, we find broad support for the model's predictions. First, better managed firms are more likely to export, sell more products to more destination countries, and earn higher export revenues and profits. Second, better managed exporters have higher prices, higher quality, and lower quality-adjusted prices. Finally, they also use a wider range of inputs, higher quality and more expensive inputs, and imported inputs from more advanced countries. The structural estimates indicate that management is important for improving production efficiency and product quality in both countries, but it matters more in China than in the US, especially for product quality. Panel analysis for the US and a randomized control trial in India suggest that management exerts causal effects on product quality, production efficiency, and exports. Poor management practices may thus hinder trade and growth, especially in developing countries.
O32|Incubators, Accelerators and Regional Economic Development|A growing wave of co-location programmes promises to boost growth for entrepreneurs and young firms. Despite great public and policy interest we have little idea whether such programmes are effective. This paper categorises accelerators and incubators within a larger family of co-location interventions. We then develop a single framework to theorise workspace-level impacts. We summarise available evaluation evidence and sketch implications for regional economic policy. We find clear evidence programmes are effective overall. But we know little about how effects operate – or who benefits. Providers and policymakers should experiment further to establish optimal designs.
O32|Increasing differences between firms: market power and the macro-economy|A rich understanding of macro-economic outcomes requires taking into account the large (and increasing) differences between firms. These differences stem in large part from heterogeneous productivity rooted in managerial and technological capabilities that do not transfer easily between firms. In recent decades the differences between firms in terms of their relative sales, productivity and wages appear to have increased in the US and many other industrialized countries. Higher sales concentration and apparent increases in aggregate markups have led to the concern that product market power has risen substantially which is a potential explanation for the falling labor share of GDP, sluggish productivity growth and other indicators of declining business dynamism. I suggest that this conclusion is premature. Many of the patterns are consistent with a more nuanced view where many industries have become “winner take most/all” due to globalization and new technologies rather than a generalized weakening of competition due to relaxed anti-trust rules or rising regulation.
O32|Producción bibliográfica en Colombia|En este trabajo se analiza la dinámica de la producción bibliográfica del país a través de indicadores bibliométricos. Los indicadores bibliométricos se construyen sobre las características de las publicaciones científicas y son útiles para analizar prioridades de investigación, procesos de difusión, transmisión del conocimiento generado en la investigación, entre otras características. Pueden delimitarse a un individuo, institución o región, a un país, disciplinas científicas o áreas del conocimiento. La medición de la producción bibliográfica del país puede ser usada como insumo para el diseño e implementación de políticas públicas en CTI que fomenten y orienten la investigación, dada la capacidad de descripción, análisis y evaluación de la actividad investigativa de los autores.
O32|Inversión en actividades de ciencia, tecnología e innovación|Los constantes cambios generados por las actividades de ciencia, tecnología y la innovación (ACTI) y las rápidas transformaciones de la sociedad producto de los avances en la investigación y el desarrollo (I+D) y la innovación en diferentes áreas del conocimiento sugieren que estos nuevos desarrollos sean tenidos en cuenta en las metodologías para el cálculo de los indicadores. Por tanto, no es incompatible que la forma como se miden los indicadores de ACTI e I+D presenten cambios y actualizaciones que busquen adaptar las estadísticas de ciencia, tecnología e innovación (CTI) a los nuevos estándares internacionales y a las diferentes necesidades de la sociedad. Desde esta perspectiva la medición es un insumo fundamental para determinar las mejores políticas a implementar en temas de Investigación y Desarrollo de los países dada las nuevas teorías del crecimiento económico.
O32|Knowledge and Perceptions of Open Science among Researchers—A Case Study for Colombia|Open science can provide researchers diverse opportunities to collaborate, disseminate their research results, generate important impacts in the scientific community, and engage in effective and efficient science for the benefit of society. This study seeks to analyse and evaluate researchers’ knowledge of open science in Colombia using a survey to determine adequate instruments with which to improve research in the framework of open science. The aim of the study is to determine researchers’ current awareness of open science by considering demographic characteristics to analyse their attitudes, values, and information habits as well as the levels of institutionalism and social appropriation of open science. A representative sample of Colombian researchers was selected from the National Research System. An anonymous online survey consisting of 34 questions was sent to all professors and researchers at Colombian universities and research institutes. Sampling was random and stratified, which allowed for a representative sample of different categories of researchers, and principal component analysis (PCA) was used for the sample design. A total of 1042 responses were received, with a 95% confidence level and a margin of error of 3%. The majority of respondents knew about open science, especially in relation to open science tools (software, repositories, and networks) and open data. Researchers consider open science to be positively impacted by factors such as the rise of digital technologies, the search for new forms of collaboration, the greater availability of open data and information, and public demand for better and more effective science. In contrast, a lack of resources to develop research activities within the open science approach and the limited integration between traditional and open science are identified as the most important barriers to its use in research. These results are important for building adequate open science policy in Colombia.
O32|Open source hardware as a profit-maximizing strategy of downstream firms|This paper characterizes and explores a corporate strategy in which downstream firms collaborate to develop open substitute designs for proprietary hardware they would otherwise purchase from upstream suppliers. This strategy centrally involves customers themselves distributing design costs over multiple customers â€“ a strategy that is routine to producers selling to multiple customers, but which has been impractical for coalitions of customers until fairly recently. Today customers find it increasingly feasible to co-design products they may all purchase due to two technological trends. First, CAD-CAM and other design technologies are lowering downstream firms' costs to develop designs for purchased hardware inputs. Second, better communication technologies are lowering the costs of doing such projects collaboratively, even among large groups of downstream customer firms. Customer firms collaborating to develop a design for a hardware input they all purchase could in principle choose to protect their design as a club good. However, opening up collaboratively-created designs to free riders can increase the profits of the contributing firms for several reasons that we explore and model. Important among these is that free revealing draws free riders away from purchases of proprietary software or hardware to customer-developed free substitutes. This reduces the markets of upstream suppliers of competing proprietary inputs. Free riders also, in the case of hardware only, contribute to reducing the average manufacturing costs of the open hardware by increasing purchase volumes and so creating increased economies of scale. Resulting reduced unit purchase costs benefit customers contributing to the free design as well as free riders.
O32|How does product liability risk affect innovation? Evidence from medical implants|Liability laws designed to compensate for harms caused by defective products may also affect innovation incentives. This paper examines this issue, exploiting a major quasi-exogenous increase in liability risk faced by US suppliers of polymers used to manufacture medical devices implanted in human bodies. Difference-in-differences analyses suggest that the surge in liability risk had a large and negative impact on downstream innovation in medical implants but no significant effect on upstream polymer patenting. These findings show how tort laws may affect the development of new technologies and how liability risk may percolate through an industry's vertical chain.
O32|Innovating in less developed regions: What drives patenting in the lagging regions of Europe and North America|Not all economically disadvantaged—“less developed” or “lagging”—regions are the same. They are, however, often bundled together for the purposes of innovation policy design and implementation. This paper attempts to determine whether such bundling is warranted by conducting a regional level investigation for Canada, the United States, on the one hand, and Europe, on the other, to (a) identify the structural and socioeconomic factors that drive patenting in the less developed regions of North America and Europe, respectively; and (b) explore how these factors differ between the two contexts. The empirical analysis, estimated using a mixed‐model approach, reveals that, while there are similarities between the drivers of innovation in North America's and Europe's lagging regions, a number of important differences between the two continents prevail. The analysis also indicates that the territorial processes of innovation in North America's and Europe's less developed regions are more similar to those of their more developed counterparts than to one another.
O32|Taxation and Innovation in the 20th Century|This paper studies the effect of corporate and personal taxes on innovation in the United States over the twentieth century. We use three new datasets: a panel of the universe of inventors who patent since 1920; a dataset of the employment, location and patents of firms active in R&D since 1921; and a historical state-level corporate tax database since 1900, which we link to an existing database on state-level personal income taxes. Our analysis focuses on the impact of taxes on individual inventors and firms (the micro level) and on states over time (the macro level). We propose several identification strategies, all of which yield consistent results: i) OLS with fixed effects, including inventor and state-times-year fixed effects, which make use of differences between tax brackets within a state-year cell and which absorb heterogeneity and contemporaneous changes in economic conditions; ii) an instrumental variable approach, which predicts changes in an individual or firm's total tax rate with changes in the federal tax rate only; iii) event studies, synthetic cohort case studies, and a border county strategy, which exploits tax variation across neighboring counties in different states. We find that taxes matter for innovation: higher personal and corporate income taxes negatively affect the quantity and quality of inventive activity and shift its location at the macro and micro levels. At the macro level, cross-state spillovers or business-stealing from one state to another are important, but do not account for all of the effect. Agglomeration effects from local innovation clusters tend to weaken responsiveness to taxation. Corporate inventors respond more strongly to taxes than their non-corporate counterparts.
O32|Teams and Bankruptcy|We study the impact of corporate bankruptcies on teams and inventor productivity in the United States. We show that bankruptcy reduces team stability. After a bankruptcy, team inventors produce fewer and less impactful patents, and they are more likely to cease patenting. This points to the loss of team-specific human capital as a cost of resource reallocation through bankruptcy. Our findings also suggest that the labor market values teams and their stability. Past collaboration increases the probability of inventors jointly moving to a new firm after bankruptcy, and the productivity of inventors that relocate together with their team increases.
O32|Endogenous Technology Cycles in Dynamic R&D Networks|We study the coevolutionary dynamics of knowledge creation and diffusion with the formation of R&D collaboration networks. Differently to previous works, we do not treat knowledge as an abstract scalar variable, but rather represent it as a multidimensional portfolio of technologies. Over time the composition of this portfolio may change due innovations and knowledge spillovers between collaborating firms. The collaborations between firms, in turn, are dynamically adjusted based on the firms' expectations of learning a new technology from their collaboration partners. We show that the interplay between knowledge diffusion, network formation and competition across sectors can give rise to a cyclical pattern in the collaboration intensity, which can be described as a damped oscillation. This theoretical finding recapitulates the novel observation of oscillations in an empirical sample of a large R&D collaboration network over several decades. Finally, we apply our findings to describe how an effective R&D policy can balance subsidies for entrants as well as R&D collaborations between incumbent firms.
O32|Public research in Nanotechnology in Piedmont (Italy)|Nanotechnologies and nanosciences are a relevant interdisciplinary field in sciences and technologies. They belong to the group of Key Enabling Technologies, and are considered a general purpose and a disruptive technological field. This working paper describes the research activities in nanotechnologies performed inside the regional research system of Piedmont, Italy. After performing a bibliometric search using a tested and reliable methodology, the database of scientific works is analysed. Several features of the nanotech scientific production of the regional research system are analysed: numerical evolution, scientific topics and subject of the works, authors and institutions. The obtained results are commented in the framework of regional systems of innovation. At the end of the analysis, the paper offers comments and draws conclusions.
O32|A Survey of Big Data Technologies and Internet of Things for Economic Growth and Sustainable Development|Big Data is a source of innovation that has captured the attention of citizens and decision makers in both the public and private sectors. Making use of the technology innovations in big data could contribute to economic growth and sustainable development and to capture the explosive growth of big data. For some time now, the world has stepped up in its focus on evidence based policy making and monitoring of development progress, hence the measurement and analysis of diverse sources of data, combined with advanced analytics, promise to create value for decision makers and society hence for economic growth and development. There are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 169 SDG targets and 230 SDG indicators, The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets demonstrate the scale and ambition of this new universal Agenda of countries to collect and maintain relevant standardized data such that it will support domestic technology development, research and innovation in developing countries. This paper highlights the new technological innovations in big data and cloud computing which can lead to economic growth and sustainable development. Also, we present a comprehensive survey of the Big Data challenges, Big Data technology challenges, cloud computing and relevant technology landscape like Internet of Things (IoT) towards economic growth and technological innovation.
O32|Choosing the Production Function Model for an Optimal Measurement of the Restructuring Efficiency of the Polish Metallurgical Sector in Years 2000–2015|Between 2000 and 2015, the Polish metallurgical sector was subject to serious restructuring. Presented research aimed at providing a framework for possibly most accurate measurement of efficiency of this process. The study employed: (I) Quantitative research for elaboration of production function models: power regression Cobb-Douglas function with its developments; (II) Qualitative research: Analytic Hierarchy Process for assessment of relevance of efficiency evaluation criteria in reference to various production function models in metallurgy sector: (i) sectoral added value (net production); (ii) production sold; and, (iii) steel production volume. Criteria relevance has been assessed by scientists and practitioners with specialization in metallurgy. As a result the sectoral added value function has been chosen as the one that optimally reflects sector’s restructuring efficiency. This, in turn, constitutes a qualitative confirmation of previous research result, which has been verified with a quantitative method. Practical outcome is a more precise modelling of efficiency of restructuring processes in the metallurgical sector, both for scientific and business needs. The main research limitations originate from the sector itself—in order to make our tool more universal, further research should be led in parallel branches of industry.
O32|Collaboration Networks and Innovation: How to Define Network Boundaries|Numerous studies in management, sociology, and economics have documented that the architecture of collaboration networks affects the innovation performance of individuals, firms, and regions. Little is known though about whether the association between collaboration patterns and innovation outcomes depends on the network geographical boundaries chosen by the researcher. This issue is crucial for both policy-makers and firms that rely on innovation. This article compares the association between collaboration networks and future patenting between regional and country-level collaboration networks. If we relate future innovation to the global, country-wide network our statistical analysis reproduces the findings of the previous literature. However, we find systematically less important effects of regional innovation patterns on subsequent patenting of innovators. Hence, managers and policy makers should choose the boundaries of the innovation networks that they look at carefully, aiming for integration into larger-scale collaboration communities.
O32|Corporate scientists as the triggers of transitions towards firms' exploration research strategies|Exploration-oriented research strategies represent a critical factor for firms’ innovation performance and long term survival since they influence the capacity of these organizations to develop breakthrough innovations and move up the quality ladder of product development. However, setting in motion and sustaining exploratory research strategies are not straightforward. In this study, we contend that the availability of corporate scientists (i.e. personnel with PhD qualifications in R&D units) is a triggering factor for two critical transitions in firms’ R&D strategies: i) initiation of exploration-oriented research activities (exploration-enacting strategy); and ii) increased commitment to exploration-oriented research activities (exploration-deepening strategy). We conduct our analysis on a large sample of Spanish manufacturing firms. We address endogeneity concerns by using the exogenous supply of PhD graduates as an instrumental variable. Our results show that firms recruiting doctoral graduates (PhDs) to their R&D units increase the likelihood of initiating and strengthening exploration-oriented research strategies. The implications of these findings for innovation management and policy are discussed.
O32|Forschung und Entwicklung im österreichischen Unternehmenssektor in langfristiger Perspektive: Starkes Wachstum, aber alles beim Alten?<BR>[Research and development in the Austrian business sector in a long-term perspective: a long way to the top?]|Die F&E-Ausgaben österreichischer Unternehmen haben sich seit 2002 mehr als verdoppelt. Eine Analyse auf Basis von Firmendaten zeigt, dass für diesen Anstieg vor allem große, etablierte Firmen und nur zu einem geringen Teil neue Unternehmen verantwortlich waren. 62% der F&E-Ausgaben des Jahres 2013 stammen von Unternehmen, die bereits im Jahr 2002 Forschung & Entwicklung betrieben haben. Die Wahrscheinlichkeit, dass kleine F&E-Betreiber in die Gruppe der großen, forschungsintensiven Player aufsteigen, ist sehr gering. Diese Beobachtung weist auf institutionelle Hemmnisse im österreichischen Innovationssystem hin, die kleine Firmen möglicherweise davon abhalten, sich zu R&D Leaders zu entwickeln. The R&D expenditures of the Austrian business sector have more than doubled since 2002. Our analysis shows that this increase is mainly due to large incumbent firms. Only a fraction of the additional funds for R&D can be attributed to the growth of new firms. 62% of all R&D expenditures in 2013 can be related to firms which already did R&D in 2002. The probability that a small R&D intensive firms becomes one of the large R&D players is very low. Our observation points to structural obstacles in the Austrian innovation system that may hamper small firms to evolve into R&D leaders.
O32|Towards Platform Defined Business – Complementarity at the Spotlight|As markets become increasingly more competitive firms systematically move away from hierarchical integrated supply chains toward fragmented networks of strategic partnerships with external partners. Business practice indicate a growing number of busi-nesses relying on the platform organizational structures. For such constructs superior pro-duct quality and customer appeal maintain necessary but it is the breadth of the ecosystem of related product and services that has become a prerequisite for success. It implies the focus on third parties, complementors, who develop and deliver diverse content to plat-forms as well as enhance platform’s generativity. Although complementary relations should be the main reference while considering the network dynamics from different angles, the attention in the extant research gravitates toward inter-platform competition with platform owners as the central object. Thus, with the objective to contribute to the emerging lite-rature on industry platforms, this conceptual article discusses main challenges concerned with orchestrating arm’s length relationships with complementors, by departing from plat-form-owner-centered approach and focusing on behavior of interdepended contributors.
O32|On the Choice of R&D Organization|This paper seeks to examine, in the context of Marjit (1991, Eco. Lett.) and Mukherjee and Marjit (2004, Gr. Dec. Nego.) models, the effect on the choice of R&D organization if the number of research lab is chosen by the firms optimally under R&D cooperation. Given the optimal form of R&D cooperation, the paper further studies the effect of introducing fee licensing under non-cooperative R&D. We show that our results substantially differ from those in the existing literature. The R&D cost, the success probability, and the size of innovation, all these play a crucial role.
O32|Loss Minimization through the Allocation of DGs Considering the Stochastic Nature of Units|Smart grid as the cleaner alternative to the legacy power system can improve technical, economical, and environmental aspects of the system up to a considerable degree. In smart grids, Distributed Generation (DG) units; which play an important role, should be optimally allocated. In this paper, DG placement is conducted with the goal of loss minimization of the grid considering the technical limitations associated with the voltage profile of the buses as well as the stochastic nature of the DGs. In this paper, three different kinds of DGs are included which are wind turbines, solar panels, and biomass generators. The results related to the case study which is IEEE standard 33 bus system reveals that the costs can be dramatically decreased.
O32|R&D cooperation in SMEs: the direct effect and the moderating role of human capital|We analyze the determinants of R&D cooperation for SMEs in Italy. We introduce in the literature human capital as one of the main determinants of R&D cooperation, concentrating on its moderating role, and specifically focusing on the high-tech sector. Using an extremely rich dataset, we improve the literature, building robust explanatory variables, and disaggregating the cooperation by partner. We find that human capital facilitates cooperation, but its moderating role depends on the type of disaggregation and/or the partner.
O32|Technological Trajectories and FDI: Top Bananas and Underdogs|Previous empirical evidence searching for externalities from Foreign Direct investment in Portugal showed mixed results. Using a new database containing 5,045 Portuguese manufacturing firms grouped by technological trajectories, we investigate the occurrence and magnitude of externalities from FDI in 1995-2007. We find both positive and negative externalities in scale-intensive and supplier-dominated industries. The magnitude of externalities is higher in the current period than in lagged periods. Because positive externalities outweigh the negative externalities, on the whole a 1% increase in foreign presence (measured by turnover) increases the Total Factor Productivity of domestic firms by 0.42 percentage points. Thus, the Investment Promoting Agency should attract foreign projects in those technological groups.
O32|Decomposition analysis of sustainable green technology inventions in China|Sustainable green technology is an important contributor to creating a sustainable society by simultaneously promoting environmental protection and economic development. This study examines the determinants of sustainable green technology invention in China, with a focus on the differences in green technology development priorities in each five-year plan period. This study uses patent publication data in a patent decomposition analysis framework. We find that sustainable green patent publications increased due to efficiency improvements, the prioritization of sustainable green patents, an increased R&D expenditure share and economic growth, especially during periods of gradual economic development in China. Additionally, we find that the relative priority of R&D shifted from renewable energy technology to pollution abatement and other sustainable green technology in the 12th five-year plan. The different R&D priority trends for sustainable green technologies among the five-year plans can be used to formulate effective policies that promote sustainable green technology invention.
O32|Future developments in cyber risk assessment for the internet of things|This article is focused on the economic impact assessment of Internet of Things (IoT) and its associated cyber risks vectors and vertices – a reinterpretation of IoT verticals. We adapt to IoT both the Cyber Value at Risk model, a well-established model for measuring the maximum possible loss over a given time period, and the MicroMort model, a widely used model for predicting uncertainty through units of mortality risk. The resulting new IoT MicroMort for calculating IoT risk is tested and validated with real data from the BullGuard's IoT Scanner (over 310,000 scans) and the Garner report on IoT connected devices. Two calculations are developed, the current state of IoT cyber risk and the future forecasts of IoT cyber risk. Our work therefore advances the efforts of integrating cyber risk impact assessments and offer a better understanding of economic impact assessment for IoT cyber risk.
O32|Capital, technical progress and international trade|(Abstract) CAPITAL, TECHNICAL PROGRESS AND INTERNATIONAL TRADE Much has been written about the objection originally formulated by Piero Sraffa to the use of production functions and aggregate capital and of the disputes that ensued, but there seems to be no systematic explanation in one place of why this objection is crucial to the foundations of economic theory and why the various attempts to escape it fail. This paper is an attempt provide one. First, it presents the reasoning of the objection and shows how the arguments against it are either fallacious or too restricted to be useful. Second, it shows how technical progress and international trade give two more reasons for the same objection, which, though logically independent, only became apparent because of the first. From these it follows that neither technical progress nor international trade can be plausibly described or explained if capital goods are not treated as heterogeneous goods manufactured with the use of capital goods. This leads to a more realistic depiction of technical progress as the outcome of the R&D of competing firms. (For brevity, government activities are left out.) The implications for international trade are described briefly. This paper is not a survey; it is confined to the minimum needed to establish its contentions. Its discussion of the disputes has mostly been said before, but it covers some gaps that seem to have been overlooked. It adds to the discussion in that the disputes did not take up the implications of technical progress and international trade.
O32|Продовольственное Обеспечение Столичного Мегаполиса Республики Казахстан: Институты Инфраструктуры, Потенциал Местного Производства, Обеспечение Питанием Социально Незащищенных Слоев Населения<BR>[Food supply of the capital megalopolis of the Republic of Kazakhstan: infrastructure institutions, local production potential, provision of food for socially vulnerable groups of the population]|При формировании инфраструктуры обеспечения продовольствием населения столичного мегаполиса Казахстана г. Нур-Султан (Астана) и его пригородной зоны важная роль отводится оптимальному пространственному распределению запасов пищевых продуктов. В соответствии с нормами ВТО возможности государства по стимулированию развития сельского хозяйства ограничены. Приоритетными становятся задачи, которые возможно решить в рамках «зеленой корзины» ВТО, – формирование институтов инфраструктуры внутренней продовольственной помощи нуждающимся слоям населения региона, финансирование научно-исследовательских работ, субсидирование консультационных услуг, затрат по охране окружающей среды. В регионе создается системы технологически синхронизированных производственных процессов, операторов питания, складской и транспортной логистики, сервиса, оптовой и розничной торговли, способной качественно удовлетворить запросы населения. Новые институты инфраструктуры агропродовольственного рынка учитывают различные формы внутренней продовольственной помощи для поддержки отечественных производителей и переработчиков сельскохозяйственной продукции; механизмов развития производственной и товаропроводящей инфраструктуры, использования современных электронных платежных систем
O32|The Role of Universities in the Knowledge Triangle Model on the Example of EIT Activities|Background. For universities, it is essential to develop in the direction of market expectations. It is necessary to enter into cooperation with entrepreneurs which allows technology transfer to create innovations. The knowledge triangle model is a concept that involves creating relationships between universities, research institutions and enterprises. This idea is very important for European policy and is implemented by the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT). However, it is worth checking whether it is actually being implemented. Research Aims. To check if the approach of the knowledge triangle is used in practice by entities set up under the EIT. Another research aim is an exploration of the current directions in which the university's cooperation with other bodies is heading, and if this has an impact on raising the level of innovation in Europe. Methodology. A look at the model of cooperation between universities and the environment and search for an appropriate framework of benefit from this kind of collaboration on scientific literature review. Moreover, the desk research regarding the EIT Food - one of the European initiatives in the food sector. Key findings. The analyses carried out allow us to state that the concept of the knowledge triangle is not just a theoretical idea. The concept has its application in practice. It was also identified that universities are the main engine of all undertaken activities in the field of education, research and innovation.
O32|Exploitation of Research Findings as a Source of Well-being|Abstract In Finland, universities have the explicit mandate to support the transformation of high-quality knowledge into profitable business, as well as to promote the creation of new businesses and workplaces within the boundaries of their so-called third mission. This report looks at how Finnish universities perform in the task. The results point at a clear lack of dedicated resources. The underlying reason is systemic: performance is not linked to incentives in the form of public university funding. Currently, resources for the implementation of the third mission are largely obtained via competition from external sources, endangering the continuity of the technology transfer function and creating disincentives to invest in its development. The lack of incentives is echoed among researchers: Nearly half of the scientists who, according to their own view, have made economically valuable findings state they do not find the time to promote their exploitation. The report proposes several remedies: (1) the performance of universities in their third mission needs to be metered. (2) These metrics need to be linked to earmarked public university funding; (3) Individual-level metrics concerning the exploitation of their findings should encourage researchers and promote their academic careers. In order to support more rapid cultural change, universities could (4) recruit professors directly from the business world; and (5) set up cooperative, joint laboratories with industry in their respective strategic research areas.
O32|Employment in China’s hi-tech zones|Abstract The purpose of this paper is to explore employment differences over time across China’s hi-tech zones. Using data from China’s Ministry of Science and Technology, we find that if a university science park is within a hi-tech zone, employment in that zone is higher, but that finding only holds for zones established in the pre-information communication technology period. After 2000, proximity to a university science park does not appear to be necessary for the exchange of tacit knowledge which we contend leverages the technology base of firms and organizations in the zone and thus their level of employment. We also find greater employment in hi-tech zones in which information technology is a dominant industry.
O32|U.S. federal laboratories and their research partners: a quantitative case study|Abstract The Stevenson–Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 made explicit the technology transfer responsibilities of U.S. Federal laboratories. The Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 and the National Competitiveness Technology Transfer Act of 1989 further enhanced the technology transfer activities of laboratories by permitting Cooperative Research and Development Agreements (CRADAs). However, very little is known about the characteristics of CRADA activity in Federal laboratories. Using a new, robust dataset of CRADA activity at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), we describe research partnerships over the years 1978 through 2014, and we explore several research questions. When did the Federal Technology Transfer Act have an impact on CRADA activity at NIST? Is CRADA activity at NIST a cyclical phenomenon? At what frequency do private sector establishments engage in CRADA activity with NIST? We find suggestive evidence that the Federal Technology Transfer Act began to influence NIST’s CRADA activity within 2–3 years after its passage, and we find that CRADA activity moves with the business cycle. We also find that most establishments that were engaged in CRADA activity were engaged only once over this time period; it was only the larger establishments that continued to engage in CRADAs with NIST. We speculate about the implications of these findings, and we suggest a broader research agenda into CRADA activity in Federal laboratories.
O32|Geographic Proximity and Science Parks|Science parks, also called research parks, technology parks, or technopolis infrastructures, have increased rapidly in numbers as many countries adopted the approach of bringing together in a park research-based organizations. A science park’s cluster of research and technology-based organizations is often located on or near a university campus. The juxtaposition of ongoing research of both the university and of the park tenants creates a two-way flow of knowledge; knowledge is transferred between the university and firms, and all parties develop knowledge more effectively because of their symbiotic relationship. Theory and evidence support the belief that the geographic proximity that a science park provides for the participating organizations creates a dynamic cluster that accelerates economic growth and international competitiveness through the innovation-enabling exchanges of knowledge and the transfer of technologies. The process of creating innovations is more efficient because of the agglomeration of research and technology-based firms on or near a university campus. The proximity of a park to multiple sources of knowledge provides greater opportunities for the creation and acquisition of knowledge, especially tacit knowledge, and the geographic proximity therefore reduces the search and acquisition costs for that knowledge. Understanding the mechanisms by which the innovative performance of research and technology-based organizations is increased by their geographic proximity in a science park is important for formulating public and private sector policies toward park formations because successful national innovation systems require the two-way knowledge flow, among firms in a park and between firms and universities, that is fostered by the science park infrastructure.
O32|The Regional Economic Impacts of University Research and Science Parks|This paper focuses on the regional economic impacts of U.S. university research and science parks. Motivating this focus is the fact that the landscape for private-sector research is changing, and future research might well emphasize America’s “new geography of innovation.” Thus, university research and science parks might face, if they are not already doing so, pressure to retain current tenants and competition for future tenants. We find that only 11 of 146 research and science parks in the United States have, in the spirit of public accountability, conducted an economic impact study. One reason for the paucity of such studies is that universities are unfamiliar about how to conduct as well as how to interpret the findings from such a study. We offer an economic impact method for park administrators to follow if they proceed to document the regional economic impact of their park.
O32|Some reflections on policy mix in the EU low-carbon strategy|The EU low-carbon strategy includes different complementary policies. Potential interactions between instruments and timing of their implementation can influence the cost and likelihood of achieving the targets. We test the interactions between the three main pillars of the EU strategy through a dynamic CGE model (GDynEP) with a time horizon of 2050. Main results are: i) going for the unilateral EU carbon mitigation target without any complementary technological policy will produce large economic losses; ii) by investing in clean energy technologies (energy efficiency and renewable energy) with a carbon tax revenue recycling mechanism, these losses will substantially decrease; iii) when complementary clean energy technology policies are implemented, the optimal timing of binding targets changes; iv) the higher the contribution to clean energy technologies, the larger the economic gains in early adoption of challenging abatement targets.
O32|Living Labs from Open Innovation Approach: a Systematic Literature Review|This research presents the body of a systematic literature review on Living Labs. Based on a review of the Scopus database and the analysis of the 53 most cited articles, we can be conclude that the research and development of the Living Labs concept has been taken off since 2006 and to date, in terms of quality and academic impact, remains insignificant The review of Living Labs requires to be identified in the scientific literature: 17 definitions, 20 concepts, 4 predecessors, 5 elements, 7 characteristics, 4 types, 4 archetypes, 20 benefits, 3 streams, 3 levels and 17 roles of innovation intermediaries. This study identified three methodologies that allow us to understand the methodological processes for the creation of Living Labs from the quasi-experimental perspective, the innovation phases and the development of the projects-based in ICT. The information contained in this literature review allows us to understand the evolution of the theoretical concept of Living Labs over time, as well as the variables that intervene in the characterization of these innovation ecosystems from the open innovation approach.
O32|Knowledge Management In Colombian Public Sector - A Literature Review|One of the main challenges that governments face is managing scarce resources to attend society's needs. To achieve this, among other actions, they have developed initiatives that allow the coordination of technologies, people, processes and structures; however, these actions have had a short-term vision and low impact rates.To determine the current situation of knowledge management in the Colombian public sector, a literature review was carried out to identify barriers of initiatives from the international context, detect Colombian initiatives and characterize the scientific documentation of the country related with knowledge management.As a result, in Colombia and other emerging economies, knowledge management actions are rarely documented and developed from the scientific and research literature, evidencing the absence of guidelines and guidance tools to create and manage knowledge management initiatives. This delay is attributed to the fact that, in the private sector, it is not considered a strategic issue, and, the academic focus on conceptual approach, research the importance of formulating strategies and the needs of finding an adequate model.It is emphasized that the implemented approach is related to the use of information technologies, leaving aside the importance of human interaction to create, transfer and appropriate knowledge. The identified Colombian initiatives are from the MinTIC and non-financial public companies, which have focused on the implementation of knowledge management tools and practices and the creation of specialized equipment.In conclusion, from the international perspective, where innovation is sought to be implemented as a response mechanism to the demands of current citizens, in Colombia there are significant delays in the development and documentation of knowledge management initiatives. Also, although there is a growing interest in the implementation of KM models in the public sector, but they can't achieve be materialized because there are no guidelines or processes for the creation of models that facilitate the transfer of knowledge.
O32|Information Technology Project with Augmented Reality|This research aimed to study and design information technology project with Augmented Reality for learning and teaching. It was a case study. The sample group was 8 students who studied the special problem course and 20 users were used to evaluate the systems. The methods of data collection were questionnaires and information technology projects. The key performance indicators in this study included 8 information technology systems, usability of system, the accuracy and completeness of system. The instruments used in this study were: time to develop information system and evaluate users? document. The data were analyzed by mean and standard deviation. The results of this research found that 6 information technology systems submitted in time and 2 information technology systems had been delayed for one month. For the system evaluation, it was found that the mean score of systems acceptance was 4.25 and the standard deviation was 0.15. The students and users expressed positive attitudes towards instruments of learning and information technology systems.
O32|Collaborative Innovation with External Partners in China: Cultural Similarity Effect|This study focuses on collaborative innovation in China ICT(Information and Communications Technology) industry. Although prior findings point out that collaborative innovations do facilitate innovation performance, there are some unresolved problems and one of which is the problem of ?collaborating with whom?. Is there the effect of cultural similarity in collaborative innovation. This paper aims to contribute to the literature of collaborative innovation by investigating into the effects of collaborative partners on innovation performance from the perspective of cultural similarity. Based on the analysis of patent and citation from the U.S. Patents and Trademark Office (USPTO) from 1985 to 2010, empirical results are shown the performance of collaborative innovation between China and foreign is significantly greater than that of domestic collaborative innovation in China. The performance of collaborative innovation between China and culturally similar country is significantly better than that between China assignees and culturally different country.
O32|Using Trust Agent as Strategy by Retailers to Investigate Potential and Existing Customers in Nigeria E-Commerce Industry|The trend in technology has shifted to internet base whereby the majority of activities take place ranging from government data storage, educational portal, medical, banking, online retail shopping etc. are all the talk of the century with the digital age. This trend comes with its own advantages and disadvantages facing it and there is no actual framework to curtail its excesses and check irregularities. Nigeria has become a phenomenon character when it comes to online crimes and other fraudulent activities causing damages to her wellbeing among the community of nations even with her vast human resources and natural resources surplus in the country but due to various situations like corruption and lack of infrastructure has caused brain drain and others into various illegal activities. This research investigates trust building ?Using Trust Agent as Strategy by Retailers to Investigate Potential and Existing Customers in Nigeria E-commerce Industry?. Various factors were considered in trust building not just human perspectives, they are; Infrastructure; Security, Fraud and Hacking; National Culture; Consumer Perspective; Perceived Quality; Critical Success Factor; Delivery System. The integration of both ITC and management/marketing concept was looked upon to find the out the growth of e-commerce and to build trust among consumers in the industry in Nigeria. A model was developed and with the help of a questionnaire, we were able to analyze using SPSS tool to validate the theoretical model. The study found out the main issue of trust depends on the factors on grounds not the consumers but how good infrastructures that burst the e-commerce industry are put in place by both vendors and government agencies by protecting consumers and vendors in the industry which can freely access any website by using their credit cards, debit cards etc. knowing they are well protected without any fear or doubt. Further studies are suggested in the area of payments and delivery issues by introducing more technological innovation in Nigeria to burst the growth of e-commerce.
O32|Cloud computing and big data in the context of industry 4.0 : opportunities and challenges|The global industrial systems have changed in the last few years due to great technological advancement in many fields. The Industry 4.0 concept has emerged in 2011 in Germany and later has been adopted and investigated by both academic and practitioners in many other advanced countries. Two main new technologies associated by and will have a great impact on industry 4.0. In this review paper, we shielded the light on cloud computing and big data. We present the possibilities and challenges associated with these technologies. The review reveals that sharing, efficiency in production and information sharing are the main possibilities of cloud computing meanwhile the security and privacy are main concerns. From other hand big data brings many opportunities like cost reduction, support the efficiency of decision making, however challenges related to large-scale parallel system and technical challenges still need to be addressed.
O32|A Patent Mining Approach for Technological opportunity Analysis in the Telehealth Industry|Early identification of emerging technological opportunities is crucial for companies to formulate technology strategies that can provide a core competitive advantage over competitors in the future. This research develops a dynamic patent citation analysis methodology based on the theory of social network evolution to analyze patent documents for technological opportunity discovery in the telehealth industry. We found several technological opportunities, including healthcare administration, vital sign detection methods, transaction-based healthcare network management, movement disorder therapeutic system, health related services for IOT devices, alarm management for vital signs, and teleconference among medical practitioners. The research findings are useful for telehealth firms to understand the technological trend and explore potential technological opportunities, while formulating technology strategies to provide a core competitive advantage over competitors in the future.
O32|Expanding to online platform business models for grocery retailers ? Insights from case studies|This paper examines the requirements of German, owner managed grocery retailers when expanding their business model by including online platforms to their distribution channels. Fourteen guided interviews with German grocery retailers were conducted, focusing on the status quo of their business models as well as their individual needs when it comes to online distribution. The contribution with this paper are twofold. First, we provide practical insights from real case studies in the way business models from small and medium enterprises in grocery retailing are structured. Second, we point out technological and non-technological requirements when small grocery retailers try to change their business model concerning to the engagement in online platforms. The paper finishes with suggestions on opportunities how to address these requirements.
O32|User Integration in New Product Development: Field Insights|The traditional new product development (NPD) process is vertically integrated within a company, resulting in internally developed products by professionals. However, it encounters difficulties to optimally capture all innovation-relevant knowledge, which is distributed also among external actors such as product end users. This paper investigates if the theoretically proposed positive effect of integrating users in NPD on new product success is supported by evidence from the field. The aim is to summarize existing field insights in a conceptual model outlining the paths of influence of user integration in NPD on subsequent new product performance. By reviewing the findings of empirical studies based exclusively on real-field data from various industries, I identify factors that can be assigned to three groups: (i) Stage of the NPD process in which users are integrated, (ii) User-level factors, and (iii) Innovation setting factors. I map the relationships between the different factors in a holistic framework that can serve as guidance for practitioners who consider involving users in their innovation process.
O32|Patent-based Estimation Procedure of Private R&D: The Case of Climate Change and Mitigation Technologies in Europe|Information on R&D expenditure of the private sector is very limited, both in term of availability and data quality, especially when interest focuses on Climate Change Mitigation Technologies (CCMTs). This has an impact on the robustness of quantitative analyses, and, consequently, on the insights deriving from them. This paper proposes a methodology to estimate R&D expenditure in firms simultaneously active in multiple technology sectors, with the focus on those contributing to the development of CCMTs. The methodological approach is applied to measure how the private sector invests in R&D dedicated to CCMTs, and how this differentiates among European countries. Further the paper proposes metrics to analyse the geographical distribution of the R&D expenditures in Multinational Corporations (MNCs) across subsidiaries located in Europe. Early findings are formulated into useful insights for stakeholders and policy makers.
O32|Management Information, Decision Sciences, and Financial Economics : a connection|The paper provides a brief review of the connecting literature in management information, decision sciences, and financial economics, and discusses some research that is related to the three cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, and analyze some interesting issues in the three related disciplines.
O32|Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology: Connections|The paper provides a review of the literature that connects Big Data, Computational Science, Economics, Finance, Marketing, Management, and Psychology, and discusses research issues that are related to the various disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models, as well as conduct simulation to examine whether the estimators in their theories on estimation and hypothesis testing have good size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could apply theory to analyse some interesting issues in the seven disciplines and cognate areas.
O32|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
O32|Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data: Connections|This paper provides a review of some connecting literature in Decision Sciences, Economics, Finance, Business, Computing, and Big Data. We then discuss some research that is related to the six cognate disciplines. Academics could develop theoretical models and subsequent econometric and statistical models to estimate the parameters in the associated models. Moreover, they could then conduct simulations to examine whether the estimators or statistics in the new theories on estimation and hypothesis have small size and high power. Thereafter, academics and practitioners could then apply their theories to analyze interesting problems and issues in the six disciplines and other cognate areas.
O32|Digital technology adoption and knowledge flows within firms: Can the Internet overcome geographic and technological distance?|Under what conditions does digital technology adoption increase cross location knowledge flows within firms? We investigate this question by studying the impact of adopting basic Internet access on cross-location knowledge flows within the same firm. We construct a large data set of Internet adoption and patent citations among dyadic pairs of firm-locations between 1992-1998. We find that when both locations in the pair adopt basic Internet there is an increase in the likelihood of a citation between the citing and (potential) cited location. In contrast, we find no significant effect of Internet adoption at only the citing location. We further study how this effect varies according to the proximity of the research activities between the source and recipient of knowledge and specialization of the research activities within the recipient. We find that the likelihood of a citation increases more after dyadic Internet adoption when the pair is working in similar research areas and when the research areas in the citing location are less specialized. These results, which are robust to a range of robustness analyses, suggest that digital technologies such as Internet connectivity are able to facilitate knowledge flows between locations only when they share a common knowledge base.
