O42|Convergence, Financial Development, and Policy Analysis|We study the relationship among inflation, economic growth, and financial development in a Schumpeterian overlapping-generations model with credit constraints. In the baseline case money is super-neutral. When the financial development exceeds some critical level, the economy catches up and then converges to the growth rate of the world technology frontier. Otherwise, the economy converges to a poverty trap with a growth rate lower than the frontier and with inflation decreasing with the level of financial development. We then study efficient allocation and identify the sources of inefficiency in a market equilibrium. We show that a particular combination of monetary and fiscal policies can make a market equilibrium attain the efficient allocation.
O42|Multinational Expansion in Time and Space|This paper studies the expansion patterns of the multinational enterprise (MNE) in time and space. Using a long panel of US MNEs, we document that: MNE affiliates grow by exporting to new markets; the activities of MNE affiliates persist during the affiliate's life, usually starting with sales to their host market and eventually expanding to export markets; and MNE affiliates' entry into new locations does not depend on the location of preexisting affiliates. Informed by these facts, we develop a multi-country quantitative dynamic model of the MNE that features heterogeneity in firm-level productivity, persistent aggregate shocks, and a rich structure of costs that affect MNE expansion. Importantly, MNE affiliates can decouple their locations of production and sales, and endogenously choose to enter or exit the host and the export markets. We introduce a compound option formulation that allows us to capture in a tractable way the rich heterogeneity that is observed in the data and that is necessary for quantitative analysis. Using the calibrated model, our quantitative application to Brexit reveals that export platforms are important for understanding the reallocation of MNE activity in time and space, and that the nature of the frictions to MNE activities matters for aggregate firm dynamics.
O42|Output Hysteresis and Optimal Monetary Policy|We analyze the implications for monetary policy when deficient aggregate demand can cause a permanent loss in potential output, a phenomenon termed as output hysteresis. We incorporate Schumpeterian endogenous growth into a business cycle model with nominal rigidities. In the model, incomplete stabilization of a temporary shortfall in demand reduces the return to innovation, thus reducing R&D and producing a permanent loss in output. Output hysteresis arises under a standard Taylor rule, but not under a strict inflation targeting rule when the nominal interest rate is away from the zero lower bound (ZLB). At the ZLB, a central bank unable to commit to future policy actions suffers from hysteresis bias: it does not offset past losses in potential output. A new policy rule that targets zero output hysteresis approximates the optimal policy by keeping output at the first-best level. Estimated structural impulse response functions for key variables align with predictions of the model. A quantitative model provides evidence of significant output hysteresis resulting from endogenous growth over the Great Recession.
O42|Does Financial Globalization Still Spur Growth In Emerging And Developing Countries? Considering Exchange Rate Volatility'S Effects|We examine the effects of financial globalization and exchange rate volatility on growth in emerging and developing countries. We generate several measures of exchange rate volatility, as well as their interaction terms with indicators of disaggregated financial globalization. Using the two-step GMM system method on dynamic panel data, we find that exchange rate volatility has a negative impact on long-term growth. On the contrary, financial globalization, and particularly investment-globalization, promotes growth not only directly, but also indirectly, by reducing the negative impact of exchange rate volatility. However, the results show that indebtedness-globalization does not produce these benefits. In this way, the results inform the government's decision on the liberalization of the domestic financial market. JEL: E44, F21, F36, O42, G15, G18
O42|A Keynes + Schumpeter model to explain development, speculation and crises|Recently, Dosi and his co-authors have developed a ‘Keynes+Schumpeter’ model which “endogenously generates self-sustained growth patterns together with persistent economic fluctuations ...”. The aim of this work is twofold. First, to show that the K+S model developed by Dosi and his co-authors does not allow to explain the instability that characterizes a capitalist economy. This limitation is due to the fact that the model overlooks some key elements of Schumpeter’s analysis. The second objective is to show that a solid K+S model can be built starting from the elements of Schumpeter’s theory neglected by Dosi and his co-authors.
O42|Inflation Aversion and the Growth-Inflation Relationship|This paper re-examines the theoretical relationship between inflation and output growth by introducing inflation aversion in a standard overlapping generations monetary endogenous growth model with productive public expenditure. We show that when the time preference parameter is a negative function of expected money growth rate, then the theoretical growth-inflation relationship that emerges is “hump-shaped”. This finding is consistent with recent empirical literature.
O42|Growth Dynamics, Multiple Equilibria, and Local Indeterminacy in an Endogenous Growth Model of Money, Banking and Inflation Targeting|We develop an overlapping generations monetary endogenous growth (generated by productive public expenditures) model with inflation targeting, characterized by relocation shocks for young agents, which in turn generates a role for money (even in the presence of the return-dominating physical capital) and financial intermediaries. Based on this model, we show that two distinct growth paths emerge conditional on a threshold value of the share of physical capital in the production function. Along one path, we find convergence to a single stable equilibrium, and on the other path, we find multiple equilibria: a stable low-growth and an unstable high-growth, with the stable low-growth equilibrium found to be locally indeterminate. Since, government expenditure is productive in our model, a higher inflation-target would translate into higher growth, but under multiple equilibria, this is not necessarily always the case.
O42|Central Bank Independence and Inflation: Schumpeterian Theory and Evidence|We first use a monetary Schumpeterian model to investigate how central bank independence (CBI) affects inflation. We find that we cannot predict a monotone relationship between CBI and infiation. When the elasticity of labor supply is high or the seigniorage is mainly used to finance entrepreneurs, a condition that is more likely in developed countries, CBI has a positive effect on inflation; in contrast, when labor supply is inelastic or the seigniorage is mainly used to finance non-productive government spending, a situation more commonly found in developing countries, CBI has a negative effect or no effect on inflation. Calibration shows the following. When the nominal interest rate increases from 8.3% (the sample mean) to the optimal value of 28.1%, the equilibrium rate of economic growth increases from the benchmark value of 1.8% to 1.99%, and the welfare gain is equivalent to a permanent increase in consumption of 1.02%. The growth and welfare effects increase with CBI. As an empirical test, we build panel data for 68 countries during 1998â€“2010 and find that the effect of CBI on inflation is positive and significant in developed countries, and it is insignificant (at the 5% level) in developing countries in both system generalized method of moments (GMM) and instrumental variable (IV) estimations. Our results remain robust to the consideration of financial crises, financial development, and other factors affecting inflation. Our empirical findings provide support for our theory.
O42|Aging, Output Per Capita and Secular Stagnation|This paper re-examines the relationship between population aging and economic growth. We confirm previous research such as Cutler, Poterba, Sheiner, and Summers (1990) and Acemoglu and Restrepo (2017) that show positive correlation between measures of population aging and per-capita output growth. Our contribution is demonstrating that this relationship breaks down when the adjustment of interest rates is inhibited by an effective lower bound on nominal rates as took place during the Great Financial Crisis decade. Indeed, during the “secular stagnation regime” of 2008-2015 that prevailed in a number of countries, aging had a negative impact on living standards, consistent with the secular stagnation hypothesis.
O42|Inflation and Fertility in a Schumpeterian Growth Model: Theory and Evidence|This study explores a novel channel for monetary policy to impact growth and welfare---through fertility choice. In a scale-invariant Schumpeterian growth model with endogenous fertility and a cash-in-advance constraint on consumption, we find a positive effect of an increase in the nominal interest rate on fertility. The increase in fertility decreases labor supplied to production and R&D, which in turn decreases long-run growth. Calibration shows that long-run growth increases 0.12% by reducing the nominal interest rate from 9.6% to 0%, and the welfare gain is equivalent to a permanent increase in consumption of 3.14%. As an empirical test, we build panel data for 12 advanced countries during 2000--2014. We use the degree of central bank independence and money growth as the instruments for inflation. We find that the effect of inflation on population growth is positive and significant in instrumental variables estimation. Our results remain robust to using birth rate or fertility rate as the dependent variable. An increase in annual inflation of 1 percentage point would bring an increase of 0.06 percentage point in the annual growth of the total population. Our empirical findings provide support for our theory.
O42|Investment attraction, competition and growth; theoretical perspective in the context of Africa|Examination in both theoretical and empirical perspective deduce that, the major indicators of modern economy growth, depends on the extent of economic financialization, commonly defined as capital stock, industrialization and Technological Advancement. The focus of this paper is to theorize investment attraction mechanism for a national economy in a global competitive arena taking a posteriori perspective of Africa politico-economic climate.
O42|Monetary policy in perspective of Umer Chapra|This research is a type of qualitative research with a study approach profound literature. The study discussed was the thought of M. Umer Chapra in the field of Islamic monetary policy. Chapra's extensive experience in teaching and research economic field as well as a good understanding of Islamic Shari'ah, bringing on the conclusion that Islam is only the most appropriate alternative system for creating the welfare of mankind. It was shown Chapra in the discussion about instruments in monetary policy, the urgency of changing the banking system and on finally realize the concept of Islamic-style welfare state.
O42|Socio-Political Instability and Growth Dynamics|Since 2006, almost 60 percent of global protest events have been exclusively driven by economic injustice. Standard determinants of socio-political instability reported in the literature, do not fully explain the effect of monetary and fiscal policy decisions on the intended target audience of those policy outcomes. We develop an overlapping generation’s monetary endogenous growth model characterized by socio-political instability, to analyse growth dynamics and specifically, monetary policy outcomes in the presence of this augmentation. Socio-political instability is specified as the fraction of output being lost due to strikes, riots and protests and is positively related to inflation. Interesting, two distinct growth dynamics emerge, one convergent and the other divergent, if socio-political instability is a function of inflation. And by using a sample of 170 countries during the 1980 – 2012 period, and allowing for time and fixed effects, the results indicate that inflation correlates positively with socio-political instability. Policy makers should be cognisant that it is crucial to maintain long-run price stability, as failure to do so may result in high inflation emanating from excessive money supply growth, and high (er) socio-political instability, and ultimately, the economy being on a divergent balanced growth path.
O42|Combating Hysteresis With Output Targeting|"Hysteresis, path dependence, and multiple equilibria are characteristic features of post-Keynesian economics. This paper constructs an otherwise conventional three-equation model that includes a hysteresis-generating mechanism and an invariant output target. We use it to explore the implications for monetary policy of an output targeting policy framework that seeks to reverse the damage caused by hysteresis. We restrict ourselves to negative aggregate demand shocks and positive inflation shocks that in most instances require a disinflationary response from the central bank. One important finding is that as long as inflation expectations are to some degree anchored, the central bank can achieve its output target after an aggregate demand shock by overshooting its inflation target temporarily and running a ``high-pressure labor market."" If expectations are unanchored, an aggregate demand shock will not have long-run hysteresis effects because the central bank is obliged to reflate aggressively, replacing on a cumulative basis all the demand that was lost through the shock. However, with unanchored expectations a pure inflation shock will create hysteresis effects since the central bank will need to disinflate and it does not have the option of running a high-pressure labor market. Anchoring gives the central bank this option, making inflation shocks manageable."
O42|Stagnant productivity and low unemployment: stuck in a Keynesian equilibrium|A major challenge is to build simple intuitive macroeconomic models for policy-makers and professional economists as well as students. A specific contemporary challenge is to account for the prolonged slow growth and stagnant productivity that has followed the post-financial crisis recession, along with low inflation despite low unemployment (notably in the UK). We set out a simple three-equation model, which extends the core model in our two recent books (Carlin and Soskice, 2006, 2015) to one with two equilibria and two associated macroeconomic policy regimes. One is the standard inflation-targeting policy regime with equilibrium associated with central bank inflation targeting through monetary policy. It is joined by a second, Keynesian policy regime and equilibrium, with a zero lower bound (ZLB) in the nominal interest rate and a ZLB in inflation in which only fiscal policy is effective (Ragot, 2015). Our approach is related to the Benigno and Fornaro (2016) Keynesian–Wicksellian model of growth with business cycles. It diverges from New Keynesian models because although we attribute model-consistent expectations to the policy-maker, we do not assume that these are the basis for inflation and growth expectations of workers and firms. We compare our approach to Ravn and Sterk’s related multiple equilibrium New Keynesian model (Ravn and Sterk, 2016).
O42|Stagnation Traps|We provide a Keynesian growth theory in which pessimistic expectations can lead to very persistent, or even permanent, slumps characterized by high unemployment and weak growth. We refer to these episodes as stagnation traps, because they consist in the joint occurrence of a liquidity and a growth trap. In a stagnation trap, the central bank is unable to restore full employment because weak growth depresses aggregate demand and pushes the policy rate against the zero lower bound, while growth is weak because low aggregate demand results in low profits, limiting firms’ investment in innovation. Aggressive policies aiming at restoring growth, such as subsidies to investment, can successfully lead the economy out of a stagnation trap by generating a regime shift in agents’ growth expectations.
O42|Asset Bubbles, Unemployment, and a Financial Crisis|A tractable model with asset bubbles is presented to demonstrate that a financial crisis caused by a bubble bursting increases unemployment rates. A bubbly asset has a positive market value because purchasing the asset is the sole saving method for agents who draw insufficient productivity, whereas selling the asset is a fund-raising method to initiate an investment project. The presence of bubbles corrects allocative inefficiency, relocating investment resources from low-productivity agents to high-productivity agents. Accordingly, the presence of bubbles can promote capital accumulation and reduce unemployment rates. However, a self-fulfilling financial crisis would result in high unemployment rates.
O42|Entrepreneurial Status, Social Norms, and Economic Growth|We offer a behavioural approach on the relation between growth and volatility, based on a monetary growth model where entrepreneurs borrow funds to invest in projects that produce capital goods. In addition to their varying pecuniary returns, different projects also vary with respect to the status they confer to the entrepreneurs who operate them. We show that social status promotes capital accumulation. We also show that, even when the status-induced increase of marginal utility is constant over time, the interaction between status and inflation is an additional source of transitional dynamics. When a social norm links this increase of marginal utility to past outcomes, however, the dynamics can generate endogenous cycles in the transition to the balanced growth path.
O42|Leveraged Growth: Endogenous Money and Speculative Credit in a Stock-flow Consistent Measure of Output|Modern Monetary Theory (MMT) as well as Stock-Flow Consistent (SFC) modelling have both had significant implications for economic theory in recent years. Neither, however, had any meaningful impact on the key measurement of output, Gross Domestic Product (GDP). While balance sheets have been nominally included in national accounting systems since 1968, main aggregates such as GDP are still blind to the creation and flow of credit (and hence debt). The financial sector is only presented in GDP as a provider of services, not as a producer of credit and thus money. Following Schumpeter's (and Bezemer's) functional differentiation of credit, this paper separates finance into two parts - credit to the productive sectors and credit for speculation (i.e. for purchasing financial assets and real-estate). The former grows at the same rate as GDP, while the latter grows faster, increasing aggregate leverage. A systemic leverage index is then constructed from flow-of-funds data for the US (1960-2015), and used to render real GDP stock-flow consistent. Debt-adjusted GDP is theoretically and methodologically more consistent than GDP, and also correlates better with aggregate employment. The paper concludes by discussing the implications of debt-adjusted output for the trend and volatility of growth, as well as some thoughts on the gap between measurement and theory in economics.
O42|Is inflation targeting useful for economic growth?|The paper presents an overview of studies of the effects of inflation targeting on long-term economic growth. We analyze the potential channels of influence, as well as modern empirical studies that test performance of these channels. We compare the effects of different variants of inflation targeting (strict and mixed). Based on the analysis recommendations on the choice of optimal (in terms of stimulating long-term growth) regime of monetary policy in developed and developing economies are formulated.
O42|Fiscal Rules in a Monetary Economy: Implications for Growth and Welfare|This study considers two fiscal rules, a debt rule that controls the debt-to- GDP ratio, and an expenditure rule that controls the expenditure-to-GDP ratio, in a monetary growth model with financial intermediation. Tightening fiscal rules promotes economic growth and thus benefits future generations. However, there could be two equilibria of the nominal interest rates, and the welfare effects of the rules on the current generation are different between the two equilibria. In particular, the effects of a decreased debt-to-GDP ratio depend on its initial ratio; a low (high) ratio country has an incentive (no incentive) to reduce the ratio further from the viewpoint of the current generation's welfare. This result offers a reason for difficulties with fiscal reform in countries with already high debt-to-GDP ratios.
O42|Can Trade Unions Increase Social Welfare? An R&D Model with Cash-in-Advance Constraints|Economic growth crucially depends on the level of R&D investment, as well as on the existing labour market institutions (LMI); the latter might shape the amount of profit obtained by each firm and its incentives to continuously innovate. This paper proposes a novel analysis combining a Schumpeterian growth model with cash-in-advance (CIA) constraints on R&D to study the impact of trade unions on economic growth and social welfare. Two main results arise: one the one hand, economic growth is always decreasing in trade union’s markup and interest rate. However, in terms of social welfare, although Friedman rule appears to be optimal across all the considered scenarios, free labour market can be suboptimal below a specific threshold level of economic growth, depending on whether there is over or underinvestment in R&D. Hence, by demanding a wage above the perfect competition equilibrium, trade unions can have a positive impact on welfare through a reallocation of labour among sectors. This relationship seems to be stronger for countries with lower labour share and higher rents in the intermediate sector. This latter case highlights the redistributive effect of trade unions, contributing for a decrease in inequality between monopolists and workers. Therefore, for the case of the Eurozone, a “common” labour market setting might be more “inefficient” than a common monetary policy.
O42|Welfare Cost of Inflation: The Role of Price Markups and Increasing Returns to Production Specialization|Estimates of the welfare costs of moderate inflation are generally modest or small. This paper, by shedding light on increasing returns to production specialization, obtains a substantial welfare cost of 8% in an endogenous growth model of monopolistic competition with endogenous entry. Analytically, we show that the effect of inflation is aggravated (resp. alleviated) by a price markup if the degree of increasing returns to production specialization is relatively high (resp. low). Accordingly, our quantitative analysis indicates that the welfare cost of inflation exhibits an inverted U-shaped relationship with the price markup. This non-monotone is sharply in contradiction to the conventional notion. Nonetheless, the welfare cost of inflation is unambiguously increasing in the degree of increasing returns to production specialization.
O42|How much Keynes and how much Schumpeter? An Estimated Macromodel of the US Economy|The macroeconomic experience of the last decade stressed the importance of jointly studying the growth and business cycle fluctuations behavior of the economy. To analyze this issue, we embed a model of Schumpeterian growth into an estimated medium-scale DSGE model. Results from a Bayesian estimation suggest that investment risk premia are a key driver of the slump following the Great Recession. Endogenous innovation dynamics amplifies financial crises and helps explain the slow recovery. Moreover, financial conditions also account for a substantial share of R&D investment dynamics.
O42|Инфляция И Экономический Рост<BR>[Inflation and Economic Growth]|Attempts to establish a link between inflation and economic growth are made quite regularly. The aim of such attempts is not only to determine the impact of inflation on economic growth but also to assess efficiency of the inflation rein-in policy, for example, the policy of inflation targeting. This work reveals the nature of the inter-connection between inflation and economic growth and explains why this inter-connection cannot be sustainable without considering the third parameter, i.e. money supply. Попытки установить взаимосвязь между инфляцией и экономическим ростом предпринимаются регулярно. Цель этих попыток не только определить влияние инфляции на экономический рост, но и оценить эффективность политики по сдерживанию инфляции, например, политики инфляционного таргетирования. В данной работе раскрывается характер взаимосвязи между инфляцией и экономическим ростом и объясняется, почему эта взаимосвязь не может быть устойчивой без учёта третьего параметра – денежной массы.
O42|Inflation and Economic Growth|Attempts to establish a link between inflation and economic growth are made quite regularly. The aim of such attempts is not only to determine the impact of inflation on economic growth but also to assess efficiency of the inflation rein-in policy, for example, the policy of inflation targeting. This work reveals the nature of the inter-connection between inflation and economic growth and explains why this inter-connection cannot be sustainable without considering the third parameter, i.e. money supply.
O42|Openness and Growth: Is the Relationship Non-Linear?|Using a novel, augmented two–sector endogenous growth model appropriate for a small, open economy characterised by human capital accumulation and productive government expenditure, we analyse the nature of the relationship between openness and economic growth. In the augmented form, external openness enters the human capital accumulation function directly. Productive government expenditure also affects human capital accumulation, but relies on seigniorage revenue to finance the productive expenditure where seigniorage revenue is itself dependent on the level of openness. Specifically, the findings indicate two, opposing effects of openness on growth – a direct effect of openness on growth through the knowledge spillovers that affect human capital accumulation, and an indirect effect of decreasing seigniorage revenue on growth through decreasing productive government expenditure on human capital. We discuss conditions under which the resultant openness–growth curve can be concave or convex, but do not specify theoretical functional forms or values to unknown parameters in the model to provide a concise theoretical result. Rather, drawing samples of exact model–match countries over a sample period of 1980–2011, we rely on a semi–parametric, data–driven empirical approach augmented with a restricted cubic spline regression function to provide empirical impetus to the theoretical outcomes reported. We show that the relationship between openness and growth is non–linear and specifically, inverted U–shaped. The result suggests that openness can only have a positive impact on the growth-rate until a certain threshold–level, beyond which, the effect is negative.
O42|Relationship Between Savings and Economic Growth: The Case Study of OECD Countries|The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between savings and economic growth theoretically and empirically in OECD countries. The relationship between savings and economic growth using data from selected OECD countries between 1988 and 2014 was examined by Panel Data Analysis. Unit root tests were used to test the stability of the variables, and the Pedroni co integration test was used to test for long term co integration relations. According to the results of the study, the effect of economic growth on saving is statistically significant and positive. Economic growth has been found to increase savings. Dumitrescu-Hurlin Panel shows that there is a bidirectional causality relationship between economic growth and saving in causality results.
O42|Lord of the lemons: Origin and dynamics of state capacity|To better understand the role of taxation in the emergence of states, this article presents an incomplete contract model of an agricultural society in which information asymmetries cause inefficient taxation, and hence outmigration, uprisings, and rent-seeking, but also urbanization. We propose a geographic index of information costs, observability, to test our model. Our case study is the Holy Roman Empire, which had a relatively homogeneous institutional framework, state of technology, culture, and ethnic composition across hundreds of observed states, for over 500 years. We find a robust link between observability and states' tax capacity, their size, and their survival.
O42|Endogenous growth and the Taylor principle|This paper analyzes conditions for equilibrium determinacy in a new Keynesian model with endogenous growth. Endogenous growth shrinks the determinacy region considerably. Complying with the Taylor principle is not sufficient for equilibrium determinacy.
O42|Hysteresis in a Three-Equation Model|This paper introduces two post-Keynesian hysteresis mechanisms into a standard textbook three-equation model. The mechanisms work through wage bargaining and price setting. Workers are assumed to change their wage aspirations when the actual wage differs from their target wage, and firms are assumed to change their mark-up norm when the actual profit share differs from their target share. These mechanisms do not themselves guarantee hysteresis. A pure inflation shock will create hysteresis even if expectations are anchored to the central bank's inflation target. After a demand shock, if inflation expectations are not anchored, these mechanisms generate persistence but not true hysteresis. But if expectations are partially (as they seem to be) or fully anchored, a demand shock will have a permanent effect on output, employment, and the real wage because in this case, the central bank is not obligated to reflate as aggressively in order to manage expectations. Hysteresis effects may explain the absence of disinflation and the fall in the wage share in the aftermath of Global Financial Crisis.
O42|Inflation targeting on output growth: A pulse dummy analysis of dynamic macroeconomic panel data|This study contributes to the empirical literature on inflation targeting (IT) and output growth through a combination of econometric models seeking the flexibility to capture the collateral effects of IT on economic growth and acknowledging the relationships among the countries in the models with macro panel data analysis. To this end, three samples are used: advanced countries, developing countries and all countries. An important result of the many estimations in this study is that there is a positive constant effect on output after the adoption of IT, especially for developing countries. Therefore, the findings denote that the adoption of IT implies gains in economic growth or at least non-sluggish economic growth.
O42|Collateral and growth cycles with heterogeneous agents|We investigate the effects of collateral and monetary policy on economic growth within a Ramsey equilibrium model where agents have different discount factors. Introducing liquidity constraints in segmented markets where (poor) impatient agents without collateral have limited access to credit, we study their implications in terms of welfare and business cycles (based on deterministic cycles through bifurcations and self-fulfilling prophecies). We find that an accommodative monetary policy may be growth-enhancing and welfare-improving (through the inequality reduction) while making unpleasant fluctuations more likely. Conversely, a regulation reinforcing the role of collateral and tempering the financial market imperfections may stimulate the economic growth while pursuing the goal of stabilization.
O42|You Reap What You Know: Observability of Soil Quality, and Political Fragmentation|We provide a theoretical model linking limits to the observability of soil quality to state rulers’ ability to tax agricultural output, which leads to a higher political fragmentation. We introduce a spatial measure to quantify state planners’ observability in an agricultural society. The model is applied to spatial variation in the 1378 Holy Roman Empire, the area with the highest political fragmentation in European history. We find that differences in the observability of agricultural output explain the size and capacity of states as well as the emergence and longevity of city states. Grid cells with higher observability of agricultural output intersect with a significantly lower number of territories within them. Our results highlight the role of agriculture and geography, for size, political, and economic organization of states. This sheds light on early, though persistent, determinants of industrial development within Germany, and also within Central Europe.
O42|Optimal Inflation Rate in a Life-Cycle Economy|This paper investigates long-run effects of inflation and deflation in a monetary life-cycle model that incorporates both capital stock and elastic labor supply as production factors. The model also introduces the zero lower bound on the nominal interest rate. The findings of this paper are twofold. First, in contrast to a result obtained from most neoclassical monetary models with an infinitely lived representative agent, the Friedman rule is not optimal and mild inflation can be desirable in this model. The Tobin effect on capital stock is encouraged by redistribution among households and therefore dominates distortionary effects of the inflation tax on labor supply and consumption. Importantly, the optimal rate of inflation depends on how inflation tax revenues are rebated to households. Second, there is a remarkable asymmetry in terms of welfare costs between inflation and deflation. For a lower rate of inflation than the rate that makes the nominal interest rate just zero, the Tobin effect works strongly in a deflationary direction because households are willing to hold more money, thus depressing aggregate output and social welfare significantly. This result reinforces the validity of pursuing mild inflation to evade the risk of hitting the zero lower bound.
O42|Asset bubbles, labor market frictions, and R&D-based growth|Employing an overlapping generations model of research and development (R&D)-based growth with labor market frictions, this paper examines how employment changes induced by labor market frictions influence asset bubbles and long-run economic growth. Asset bubbles can (cannot) exist when the employment rate is high (low), which leads to higher (lower) economic growth through labor market efficiency. We also explore the steady state and transitional dynamics of bubbles, economic growth, and employment. Furthermore, we show that policy or parameter changes that have a negative influence on the labor market can lead to a bubble burst.
O42|On Monetary Policy, Unemployment, and Economic Growth|Recognizing the possible relation between investments, economic growth and unemployment, and how there is not an established impact of an unlikely productive project failure on the secondly mentioned variables, we address such relation and asses theoretically the effect of different instruments of monetary policy on the mentioned macroeconomic indicators. To do this we build upon two models of economic growth considering the role of entrepreneurs, risk takers, and a monetary authority which is the average agent of the economy that is assumed to be aware of how the inflation can damage equally the individuals' life style, independently of their particular levels of income, finding that the impact of the monetary instruments depends on the behavior of the population, and endogenizing the money in circulation.
O42|Inflation Targeting and Real GDP Dynamics: Cross-Country Evidence|The paper provides the analysis of short-run and long-run effects of inflation targeting policy adoption on real GDP dynamics. We examine the existing econometric approaches to the estimation of these effects, and based on the provided comparative analysis choose the dynamic panel regression methods for our purposes. In order to estimate the effect of inflation targeting adoption we use a dataset of 141 countries for the 1980-2012 period, which includes 2008 crisis to the range, that has been absent in existing papers. In our paper we distinguish between the short-run and long-run effects of inflation targeting adoption, and we obtain a result which is robust to econometric approach. We apply System GMM in order to estimate the model on the dataset of all 141 countries, and we obtain a result that the adoption of inflation targeting policy in general does not affect negatively the GDP dynamics. We also found out that the result could differ between developing and developed countries: while no negative effect is observed for developed economies, there is some evidence of negative impact in developing economies. Based on the provided analysis we conclude that the general notion about the neutrality of monetary policy for real indicators in long-run could hold also for the regimes of the monetary policy. At the same time the difference in the results for developed and developing economics leaves space for future research.
O42|Bubbles and unemployment in an endogenous growth model|We construct a continuous-time overlapping-generations model with labour market frictions to examine the relationships among unemployment, asset bubbles, and economic growth. We show that the existence of asset bubbles is contingent upon the unemployment rate: a bubble (non-bubble) regime arises in equilibrium when unemployment is relative low (high). Our framework focuses on the boom and bust of asset bubbles caused by changes in fundamental variables, not a stochastic probability. Then, as labour market frictions generate a negative relationship between the unemployment rate and economic growth, we find that the bubble regime exhibits a higher growth rate than the non-bubble regime. Furthermore, we show that policy or parameter changes that have a positive influence on the labour market shift the economy from a non-bubble regime to a bubble regime.
O42|A post-Keynesian theory for the yield on equity markets|This paper offers a novel post-Keynesian theory, in a stock-flow consistent framework, to understand equity returns and their links with economic growth and consumption decisions from a long-run perspective. The main features of such a theory can be summarised as follows. First, there is a negative relationship between Tobin’s q and economic growth. Second, the effect of economic growth on dividend yields and earnings growth is positive, but its effect on the growth in the number of shares is negative (i.e. a ‘dilution effect’), which makes the relationship between equity returns and economic growth undetermined a priori. Third, consumption decisions emerge as crucial drivers for shareholder profitability in the long-run, being such a result very close to Kalecki’s theory of profits, but now applied to financial markets. And fourth, in the post-Keynesian theory the equity yield is determined by aggregate demand, and no theory of risk is needed. Finally, the post-Keynesian theory will be compared against the mainstream financial theory, which features the famous risk-return nexus where asset returns are given by the volatility of the asset with respect to consumption. It will be claimed that the use of risk for determining equity returns at the macroeconomic level is problematic, and that depending on the risk definition assumed, the risk-return relationship can be either positive or negative – being thus such a nexus of little theoretical significance and posing serious problems for mainstream finance.
O42|Output Decomposition and the Monetary Policy Transmission Mechanism in Bangladesh: A Vector Autoregressive Approach|This paper investigates the output composition of the monetary policy transmission mechanism for Bangladesh. Vector Auto-regression (VAR) models are used to analyse the data from 1973 to 2015. Although the central bank’s policy interest rate shock does not significantly affect the major compositions of the output, investment channel still works better than consumption. However, exchange rate shock effects more significantly on the real economy mainly through consumption than investment. This research, on one hand, demonstrates the potential channels of the monetary policy transmission mechanism. On the other hand, methodologically, it proposes a minor modified model that suite for economy of the developing countries like Bangladesh where the net export component of output is negative which creates some complexity in using the standard model used for developed countries like the USA, the EU, Japan and Australia.
O42|Money and Pay-As-You-Go Pension|This paper presents examination of how a pension policy affects income growth and the inflation rate in a utility model. Even if the contribution rate of pension increases because of an aging society, an aging society increases income growth and the inflation rate. Moreover, this paper presents examination of the optimal growth rate of the money supply. Because of the pension policy, the optimal growth rate of money stock changes. This result is intuitive because a pay-as-you-go pension changes capital accumulation. Therefore, the income growth rate should be changed to raise the welfare of all generations.
O42|Innovation, Growth and Optimal Monetary Policy|This paper examines how the mechanism driving growth in the economy is likely to affect the optimal monetary policy response to shocks. We consider the Ramsey policy in a New Keynesian model in which growth is sustained by the creation of new patented technologies through R&D and we compare the results obtained with those arising when growth is exogenous. We find that optimal monetary policy must be counter-cyclical in face of both technology and public spending shocks, but the intensity of the reaction crucially depends on the underlying growth mechanism.
O42|Corruption perceptions versus corruption incidence: Competition for rents across Russian regions|This paper examines the effects of different competitions for favors on the prevalence and perceptions of corruption across Russian regions. Results show that while greater general competition (measured by regional population size), increases both perceived and actual corruption, competition among enterprises only increases corruption perceptions, while competition among government employees increases actual, but not perceived, corruption. Privatization activity and unemployment fail to affect either measure of corruption. Finally, the effects of urbanization differ on perceived and actual corruption. Besides Russia, these findings are somewhat unique to the broader literature. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2016
O42|Commercial Banks, Credit Unions, and Monetary Policy|The objective of this manuscript is to study the strategic interaction between different types of financial institutions and its implications for economic activity and monetary policy. While commercial banks and credit unions provide similar financial services, they have different ownership structure and therefore have different objectives. For instance, banks are often perceived as profit maximizers, while credit unions act like cooperative entities seeking value and aim to maximize the welfare of their depositors. Following the 2007-2008 financial crisis, credit unions gained more market share and their role in the process of financial intermediation became more pronounced. Such changes raise some important questions that I attempt to address in this manuscript. First, how does the strategic interaction between credit unions and commercial banks affect risk sharing, total welfare, and capital formation? Second, will the effects of monetary policy become stronger if credit unions gain more market share? Finally, what is the optimal size of each financial institution? In order to address these important questions, I study a dynamic general equilibrium model with an important role for money and where different types of financial intermediaries interact strategically in deposit and capital markets. Length: 22 pages
O42|The Cash-In-Advance Constraint In Monetary Growth Models With Labor Market Search|In most monetary models of economic growth, higher long-run inflation is associated with a decline in the growth rate and employment. We show that this result is sensitive with respect to the specification of the cash-in-advance constraint. We consider three types of endogenous growth models: 1) the AK-model, 2) the Lucas (1990) supply-side model, and 3) the two-sector model of Jones and Manuelli (1995). With the standard cash-in-advance constraint on consumption, higher inflation results in lower growth and employment in all three models, while, in the cash-credit good economy of Dotsey and Ireland (1996), the effect is the exact opposite.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Taylor rules, long-run growth and real uncertainty|We study the effects of real uncertainty on long-run growth under different Taylor-type rules. We find a non-negligible relationship between real uncertainty and growth, which depends on the source of real uncertainty as well as on the type of the Taylor rule considered.
O42|Completing the Monetary Union of Europe as mid-term solution of the Euro crisis|This research note discusses the Euro crisis in Greece in light of the referendum of July the 5th. It lays out the social and political costs of a GREXIT, but also of a continuing austerity policy. It proposes a reform policy fostering growth in Greece and discusses the role of conditionality. Finally, the important role of mid-left parties is highlighted.
O42|Fiscal and Monetary Policy in a Basic Endogenous Growth Model|We present a monetary endogenous growth model and analyse the effects of fiscal and monetary policy with real money as an argument in the utility function. We show that a balanced government budget gives a higher balanced growth rate and lower inflation than a situation with permanent public deficits. It also leads to higher welfare compared to a situation with permanent deficits when the government does not put a high weight on stabilizing debt. However, when governments run deficits with a high weight on stabilizing debt, comparative welfare effects depend on the initial conditions with respect to public debt. Further, for a given monetary policy a stricter debt policy yields higher growth, lower inflation and higher welfare. A rise in the nominal money supply can compensate the negative growth effects of a loose debt policy up to a certain point but only at the cost of higher inflation and lower welfare. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
O42|Consumption tax, seigniorage tax and tax switch in a cash-in-advance economy of endogenous growth|This paper studies the effects of alternative tax policies (a consumption tax, seigniorage tax, and tax switch) on economic growth under different methods of government budget adjustment in a monetary endogenous growth model with a labor–leisure choice and a cash-in-advance constraint which is only imposed on consumption. It is found that the validity of both the Mundell–Tobin effect and the consumption tax neutrality crucially depends on the adjustment methods used to maintain the balanced government budget. In addition, we find that a switch from a consumption tax to a seigniorage tax unambiguously enhances economic growth. This result stands in sharp contrast to that of Ho et al. (J Money Credit Bank 39:105–131, 2007 ), in that it does confirm the validity of the qualitative equivalence between the money-in-the-utility-function and cash-in-advance approaches in terms of the effect of tax shifting away from a consumption tax towards a seigniorage tax. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2015
O42|Inside Money in a Kaldor-Kalecki-Steindl Fiscal Policy Model: The Unit of Account, Inflation, Leverage, and Financial Fragility|"We hope to model financial fragility and money in a way that captures much of what is crucial in Hyman Minsky's financial fragility hypothesis. This approach to modeling Minsky may be unique in the formal Minskyan literature. Namely, we adopt a model in which a psychological variable we call financial prudence (P) declines over time following a financial crash, driving a cyclical buildup of leverage in household balance sheets. High leverage or a low safe-asset ratio in turn induces high financial fragility (FF). In turn, the pathways of FF and capacity utilization (u) determine the probabilistic risk of a crash in any time interval. When they occur, these crashes entail discrete downward jumps in stock prices and financial sector assets and liabilities. To the endogenous government liabilities in Hannsgen (2014), we add common stock and bank loans and deposits. In two alternative versions of the wage-price module in the model (wage-Phillips curve and chartalist, respectively), the rate of wage inflation depends on either unemployment or the wage-setting policies of the government sector. At any given time t, goods prices also depend on endogenous markup and labor productivity variables. Goods inflation affects aggregate demand through its impact on the value of assets and debts. Bank rates depend on an endogenous markup of their own. Furthermore, in light of the limited carbon budget of humankind over a 50-year horizon, goods production in this model consumes fossil fuels and generates greenhouse gases. The government produces at a rate given by a reaction function that pulls government activity toward levels prescribed by a fiscal policy rule. Subcategories of government spending affect the pace of technical progress and prudence in lending practices. The intended ultimate purpose of the model is to examine the effects of fiscal policy reaction functions, including one with dual unemployment rate and public production targets, testing their effects on numerically computed solution pathways. Analytical results in the penultimate section show that (1) the model has no equilibrium (steady state) for reasons related to Minsky's argument that modern capitalist economies possess a property that he called ""the instability of stability,"" and (2) solution pathways exist and are unique, given vectors of initial conditions and parameter values and realizations of the Poisson model of financial crises."
O42|Finance According to Greenspan|"This article discusses the key issues of macroeconomics and finance, raised in a new book by Alan Greenspan ""The Map and the Territory: Risk, Human Nature, and the Future of Forecasting"" (2013). Firstly, the role of the state in economy, excessiveness of the government interventions, the need to clarify the Greenspan's position, taking into account very special ""nature"" of the emerging economies, sustainable patterns of collective behavior and long regulatory cycles. Secondly, the limitations to forecast the risk overconcentrations, market failures and crises, according to Greenspan, are discussed. Lastly, the role of the rational / irrational behavior in formation of the macroeconomic dynamics, as well as to what extent the monetary authorities could rely on long-term patterns and forecasting when influencing the economic growth and mitigating the financial risks in macro-space."
O42|Polityka gospodarcza w warunkach globalizacji. Szanse i zagrozenia|Zakres oddzialywania panstwa na gospodarke pozostaje kwestia sporna i wciaz nie rozstrzygnieta przez teorie ekonomiczne. Spor pomiedzy pogladami liberalnymi i etatystycznymi powraca wraz z kolejnymi kryzysami: gospodarczymi i finansow publicznych. Z jednej strony pojawiaja sie argumenty wspierania popytu globalnego, z drugiej wiekszej dyscypliny finansow publicznych. Jednak obecnie duzego znaczenia zaczal nabierac jeszcze jeden czynnik silnie oddzialujacy na ksztalt polityki gospodarczej: globalizacja. Celem niniejszego opracowania jest ocena zakresu wplywu globalizacji na polityke gospodarcza oraz sposobu jej oddzialywania na swobode ksztaltowania tej polityki przez rzady panstw narodowych. W szczegolnosci uwaga zostanie zwrocona na szanse i zagrozenia niesione przez globalizacje. W tym kontekscie zostanie rowniez oceniona skutecznosc narzedzi polityki gospodarczej oraz zakres niezaleznosci poszczegolnych rzadow, zwlaszcza w krajach rozwijajacych sie i w Polsce.
O42|A post Keynesian theory for Tobin’s in a stock-flow consistent framework| The paper proposes a post Keynesian framework to explain Tobin’s q behavior in the long run. The theoretical basis is informed by the Cambridge corporate model originally proposed by Kaldor (1966), which is reinterpreted here as a theory for q. The core of the “Kaldorian q theory” is a negative long-run relation between q and growth rates, a negative relation between q and propensities to consume, and the fact that q can be different from 1 in the long-run equilibrium. We generalize this model through a medium-scale stock-flow consistent (SFC) model, which introduces important post Keynesian aspects missing in the Kaldorian model, such as endogenous money, a financial system, and inflation. We extend the model to include a more realistic treatment of firms’ financial structure decisions and allow the interdependence between these decisions and dividend policy. Numerical simulations confirm that the original Kaldorian relations between q and growth rates and propensities to consume hold, but unlike the original model, in our model, q is not independent of how firms finance their investment. We also confirm the possibility of q being different from 1 in the long run. Finally, we contrast this “post Keynesian q theory” with the Miller–Modigliani dividend irrelevance proposition and the neoclassical investment and financial theory. It is shown that its validity depends crucially on the value taken by q: for q values different from 1 the proposition will not hold and dividend policy will be relevant for equity valuation. Therefore, post Keynesian q theory stands against the main predictions of mainstream finance and constitutes an alternative for developing a macroeconomic theory for equity markets.
O42|Issues and barriers in economic development (Last stage of economic development)|The research study is to determine the barriers within overall economic development which diversify the issues and problems in growth. Pakistan is a well-sustainable economy in current world. This research investigated the factor affecting issues which are unrealistic. The most common issues are financial issues, negative human resource policies, micro inflation and corruption in public and private projects.
O42|Completing the Monetary Union of Europe as Mid-term Solution of the Euro Crisis|This research note discusses the Euro crisis in Greece in light of the referendum of July the 5th. It lays out the social and political costs of a GREXIT, but also of a continuing austerity policy. It proposes a reform policy fostering growth in Greece and discusses the role of conditionality. Finally, the important role of mid-left parties is highlighted.
O42|Как Удвоить Ввп России<BR>[How to Double Russia’s GDP]|In 2003, President of Russia Vladimir Putin set the task of doubling the GDP. However, this task is yet to be accomplished. Why this goal has not been achieved yet? What needs to be done to double Russia’s GDP? To answer these questions is exactly what this paper sets out to do. We can see that it is quite possible to double the GDP, but to do that, it takes an absolutely different perspective of the monetary policy of the Central Bank of Russia.
O42|How to Double Russia’s GDP|In 2003, President of Russia Vladimir Putin set the task of doubling the GDP. However, this task is yet to be accomplished. Why has not this goal been achieved yet? What needs to be done to double Russia’s GDP? To answer these questions is exactly what this paper sets out to do. We can see that it is quite possible to double the GDP, but to do that, it takes an absolutely different perspective of the monetary policy of the Central Bank of Russia.
O42|Indeterminacy in a Matching Model of Money with Productive Government Expenditure|This study explores the effects of inflation on economic growth in a monetary search-and-matching model with productive government expenditure. Our results can be summarized as follows. When labor intensity in the production function is below a threshold value, the economy features a unique balanced growth equilibrium in which inflation reduces economic growth. When labor intensity in the production function is above a threshold value, the economy may feature multiple balanced growth paths. Multiple equilibria (i.e., global indeterminacy) arise when the matching probability in the decentralized market is sufficiently large. In this case, the high-growth equilibrium features a negative effect of inflation on economic growth whereas the low-growth equilibrium features a U-shaped effect of inflation on growth. Furthermore, under a sufficiently large matching probability in the decentralized market, both equilibria are locally determinate, and hence, either equilibrium may emerge in the economy.
O42|Реальные Деньги И Экономический Рост<BR>[Real Money and Economic Growth]|People recognized the important role played by money a long time ago. But it was only approximately 50 years ago that Milton Friedman convincingly proved that change in the quantity of money in the economy may have a very serious effect on the GDP. This paper reveals a most intimate non-linear linkage between growth of real GDP and growth of real money supply using the example of a number of countries and unions (Russia, Japan, Brazil, Eurozone). It is shown that exponential growth of real money supply corresponds to linear growth of real GDP. Two hypotheses are advanced which explain such a nature of the inter-linkage as well as practical recommendations are given which pertain, first of all, to monetary policy.
O42|Real Money and Economic Growth|People recognized the important role played by money in the economy a long time ago. However, it was only approximately 50 years ago that Milton Friedman convincingly proved that change in the quantity of money in the economy might have a very serious effect on the GDP. This paper reveals a most intimate non-linear linkage between growth of real GDP and growth of real money supply using the example of a number of countries and unions (Russia, Japan, Brazil and Eurozone). It is shown that exponential growth of real money supply corresponds to linear growth of real GDP. Hypotheses are advanced which explain such a nature of the inter-linkage. A number of practical recommendations are given which pertain, first of all, to monetary policy.
O42|Implementation of Monetary Policy and its Influence on the Output|The output plays one of the main roles in both theoretical: orthodox and heterodox framework. In Mexico, where was embrace, and it is still ruling, an Inflation Targeting policy, it says that the output gap determines the inflation level, hence it symbolize worthy role of the application policy. Besides the fact that, in the heterodox framework, where the aggregate demand determines the output, it in turn, affect the level of employment, etc. This paper portrays, though statistics analysis, how monetary policy affects the output in Mexican case, also to provide a contrast of the role of product into the orthodox and heterodox framework.
O42|Inflation Thresholds and the Efficiency of the Banking Sector|This study re-examines the validity of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) by focusing on the real effective exchange rates (REERs) for the post-Bretton Woods period, using newly developed unit root tests that account for both nonlinearity and smooth temporary multiple breaks in the data. The tests are applied to the REERs of 23 developed countries and are able to reject the null hypothesis of a unit root in 20 cases. The test results reveal that large swings truly exist in most of the REERs, therefore it is crucial to model these infrequent smooth temporary mean changes in the data in testing the (non)stationarity of the REERs. The study provides stronger support than most of previous studies for that PPP holds in a stricter, multi-country version during the floating exchange rate period for the majority of developed countries.
O42|Banking Competition, Production Externalities, and the Effects of Monetary Policy|Since the global financial crisis, there has been a significant amount of concern about the presence of large-scale financial intermediaries which affects the competitive landscape of the banking sector in advanced economies. In light of this issue, this paper develops a framework to demonstrate how the degree of concentration impacts capital accumulation and economic growth. As is standard in the growth literature, we incorporate production externalities from the aggregate capital stock which promote economic development and growth over time. Notably, the model demonstrates that higher degrees of concentration distort economic activity by interrupting the externalities from capital investment. We also show that the ability of monetary policy to provide a favorable growth environment and achieve price stability is hampered by higher degrees of concentration. Consequently, the task of central banking will be more difficult as the sector further consolidates over time. Furthermore, the developing world will not be immune to these challenges facing regulators and policymakers in advanced economies. Length: 33 pages
O42|Productividad, eficiencia y sus factores explicativos en el sector de la construcción en Colombia 2005-2010|Este artículo analiza la productividad, la eficiencia y sus factores determinantes en cuatro sectores de la construcción en Colombia: construcción de obras residenciales, construcción de obras civiles, actividades inmobiliarias y adecuación de obras de la construcción en el período 2005-2010. Los resultados con la aplicación de la metodología DEA, revelan que tan solo este último sector experimenta crecimientos acumulados de la productividad en un 0,1%. El análisis de la eficiencia muestra bajos niveles de esta que oscilan entre 78% y 54%. Por último, los factores explicativos de la eficiencia han resultado ser la cuota de mercado y el tamaño empresarial. ***** This paper analyzes the total factor productivity, efficiency and its determinants in four construction sectors in Colombia: residential, civil works, Real estate, and Adequacy during the period 2005-2010. The results with the application of the DEA methodology reveal that only the latter sector undergoes cumulative productivity increases by 0.1%. Efficience analysis shows low levels thereof ranging between 78% and 54%. Finally it was discovered that the explanatory factors of efficiency are market share and firm size.
O42|Money, random matching and endogenous growth: A quantitative analysis|In this study, we develop a search-and-matching monetary growth model to analyze the effects of inflation on economic growth and social welfare by introducing endogenous economic growth via capital externality into a two-sector search-and-matching model. We find that the channel through which inflation affects economic growth in the search-and-matching model is different from the traditional cash-in-advance model. To facilitate the calibration, we obtain an empirical estimate of the effects of inflation on economic growth using panel regressions. In the simulation analysis, we quantitatively evaluate the welfare effect of inflation in the search-and-matching endogenous growth model and compare it to a search-and-matching exogenous growth model. We find that the welfare effect of inflation is nonlinear in the endogenous growth model whereas it is linear in the exogenous growth model. Furthermore, we find that the welfare cost of inflation under endogenous growth is up to four times as large as the welfare cost of inflation under exogenous growth.
O42|Effects of direct pricing of retail payment methods in Norway|In this paper we develop a model where agents can acquire goods using cash and two non-cash alternatives. We use it to study the effects of the pricing policy of payment methods implemented in Norway, carried out by individual banks and promoted by the authorities. We show that this policy induces a relative increase in the prices of checks with respect to the other means of payments (cash and cards) and leads to a fast switch towards cheaper electronic transactions. Our analysis shows that due to this policy welfare has diminished in the short run.
O42|Does Foreign Environmental Policy Influence Domestic Innovation? Evidence from the Wind Industry|This paper analyses the relative influence of domestic and foreign demand-pull policies in wind power across OECD countries on the rate of innovation in this technology. We use annual wind power generation to capture the stringency of the portfolio of demand-pull policies in place (e.g., guaranteed tariffs, investment and production tax credits), and patent data as an indicator of innovation activity. We find that wind technology improvements respond positively to policies both home and abroad, but the marginal effect of domestic policies is 12 times greater. The influence of foreign polices is reduced by barriers to technology diffusion, in particular lax intellectual property rights. Reducing such barriers therefore constitutes a powerful policy leverage for boosting environmental innovation globally. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
O42|The Economic Cost of General Strikes in Nepal|This paper reviews the key aspects of general strikes and analyses the economic cost of such strikes in Nepal. Data analysis shows that average direct cost of general strikes stood at NRs. 1.8 billion per strike day and NRs. 27 billion per year at current prices during 2008-2013. The lost output per year accounted for 1.4 percent of the annual gross output. The total accumulated output loss due to general strikes in the five-year period amounted to NRs. 117 billion. With such losses, general strikes decelerated annual GDP growth rates in a range between 0.6 percentage point and 2.2 percentage points during the study period. The impact of general strikes was quick and significant on inflation and tourist arrival rates. The monthly inflation rate jumped to over 9 percent as a result of two-day general strike while the strike called for three or more days led to an inflation of more than 10 percent. Similarly, tourist arrival declined over a lag. However, gross fixed capital formation and foreign direct investment appeared to be less affected by general strikes, which might be due mainly to their bottomed out levels.
O42|A simple model of income, aggregate demand and the process of credit creation by private banks|This paper presents a small macroeconomic model describing the main mechanisms of the process of creation by the private banking system. The model is composed of a core unit—where the dynamics of income, credit and aggregate demand are determined—and a set of sectoral accounts that ensure its stock-flow consistency. In order to grasp the role of credit and banks on the functioning of the economic system we make an explicit distinction between planned and realized variables, thanks to which, while maintaining the ex-post accounting consistency, we are able to introduce an ex-ante wedge between current aggregate income and planned expenditure. Private banks are the only economic agents capable of filling this gap through the creation of new credit. Through the use of numerical simulation we discuss the link between credit creation and the expansion of economic activity, also contributing to a recent academic debate on the relation between income, debt and aggregate demand. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
O42|National and International Inequalities in Income and Wealth in a Global Growth with Free Trade and National Inflation Policies|The purpose of this paper is to study global monetary economic growth with heterogeneous households under free trade. The paper examines dynamics of global and national wealth and income distribution in association with monetary economic growth within an integrated framework. Money is introduced via the cash-in-advance (CIA) approach. We show that the dynamics of the world economy (with any number of countries) is described by a set of differential equations. We simulate equilibrium of the global economy with three countries and two types of households in each country. We also demonstrate effects of changes in technology and inflation policy. Our model demonstrates, as Grier and Grier (2007) empirically show, that the global economy exhibits absolute divergence in output levels if some determinants of steady state income are different. The study shows that as one country increases its inflation policy, the equilibrium values of the global output, consumption level and physical wealth are enhanced, and the rate of interest is lowered. The country which raises its inflation policy benefits in every aspect, but the other countries suffer in some aspects and benefit in others.
O42|Productivity growth and volatility: how important are wage and price rigidities?| We study the implications of having different sources of nominal rigidities on the relationship between productivity growth and shocks volatility in a model with procyclical R&D and imperfect competition in goods and labour markets. We show that the effects of uncertainty on long-term growth not only depends on the source of fluctuations, as recent literature shows, but also, and crucially, on whether prices and/or wages are rigid. Copyright 2014 Oxford University Press 2013 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.
O42|Monetary policy and growth with trend inflation and financial frictions|This paper studies the effects that conventional and unconventional monetary policies generate when endogenous growth, trend inflation and financial frictions are considered in a New Keynesian macroeconomic model. Financial variables play a key role in the determination of the steady state growth rate, given the value of the trend inflation. Calibrating the model following Gertler and Karadi (2011), long-run growth rate, welfare, normalized investment and financial wealth are maximized when trend inflation is 1.7% while leverage, external finance premium and marginal gain of the financial intermediaries are minimized. Finally, unconventional policies could extend their impact to the long run.
O42|Cash-in-advance constraint with status and endogenous growth|This paper explores a one-sector AK model with a cash-in-advance (CIA) constraint that itself depends on relative income, which implies status (we call this constraint the “CIA-status constraint”). The CIA-status constraint means that agents with higher income are more creditworthy and can make purchases with fewer money holdings. Under the Clower-Lucas-type CIA-status constraint, we show that the endogenous growth rate and money growth are positively correlated. On the other hand, under the Stockman-type CIA-status constraint, we confirm that the relationship between the endogenous growth rate and money growth changes from negative to positive when the elasticity of the CIA constraint with respect to status exceeds one.
O42|Endogenous Fluctuations in an Endogenous Growth Model with Inflation Targeting|This paper develops a monetary endogenous growth overlapping generations model characterized by production lags - specifically lagged capital inputs - and an inflation targeting monetary authority, and analyses the growth dynamics that emerge from this framework. The growth process is endogenized by allowing productive government expenditure on infrastructure, complementing the lagged private capital input. Following the extant literature, money is introduced by imposing a cash reserve requirement on an otherwise competitive banking sector. Given this framework, we show that multiple equilibria emerge along different growth paths, with the low-growth (high-growth) equilibrium being unstable (stable) and locally determinate (locally indeterminate). In addition, we show that convergent or divergent endogenous fl uctuations and even topological chaos could emerge around the high-growth equilibrium in the growth path where the monetary authority follows a high inflation targeting regime. Conversely, when the monetary authority follows a low inflation targeting regime, oscillations do not occur around either the low-growth or high-growth equilibrium.
O42|Long Term Validity of Monetary Exchange Rate Model: Evidence from Turkey|In this study, it was analyzed if there is a long term relationship among the nominal exchange rate and monetary fundamentals within the periods of 1998:1-2011:2 in Turkey. This relationship has been analysed by using structural VAR(SVAR) model. Besides, Granger causality test and Dolado-Lütkepohl Granger causality test were used to determine if there were a causality relationship among the nominal exchange rate and monetary fundamentals. As a result of the SVAR model, the relationship among the series related to nominal exchange rate and money supply, GDP, interest rate in Turkey in long term were not determined and at the end of causality tests, causality relationship among the nominal exchange rate and monetary fundamentals were not determined.
O42|Financial Sector Development and Economic Growth in Africa - Sviluppo finanziario e crescita economica in Africa|This paper tests the proposition that financial development promotes economic growth and the extent, focusing exclusively on Africa. Twenty countries spread over the different regions of the continent constituted the sample. Dynamic panel data analyses were conducted under an arrangement recognizing the distinction between the outcome of with and without fixed effects models. The monetary variables in the models posted clear superior performance. However, both the monetary and the financial factors appeared to be more important to growth with the less advanced countries in the sample. Generally, there was evidence supporting monetarism in the growth dynamics of the sample. - Questo studio esamina l’assunto secondo il quale lo sviluppo finanziario promuove la crescita economica, e in che misura, attraverso l’analisi del caso africano. Il campione considerato è di venti paesi di regioni differenti. Le analisi dinamiche di dati panel sono state effettuate in modo da distinguere i risultati ottenuti da modelli con e senza effetti fissi. Le variabili monetarie hanno avuto una performance chiaramente migliore nei modelli. In ogni caso sia i fattori monetari che quelli finanziari sembrano essere più importanti per la crescita nei paesi meno avanzati del campione. In generale sono emerse evidenze a sostegno del monetarismo nelle dinamiche di crescita del campione.
O42|Inflation and Economic Growth in the SADC: Some Panel Time-Series Evidence|In this paper we investigate the role of inflation rates in determining economic growth in fifteen sub-Saharan African countries, which are all members of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), between 1980 and 2009. The results, based on panel time-series data and analysis, suggest that inflation has had a detrimental effect to growth in the region. All in all, we highlight not only the fact that inflation has offset the Mundell-Tobin effect and consequently reduced, the much needed, economic activity in the region, but also the importance of an institutional framework conducive to a stable macroeconomic environment as a precondition for development and prosperity in the community.
O42|Inflation and Economic Growth: Evidence from the Southern African Development Countries|In this paper we investigate the role of inflation rates in determining economic growth in fifteen sub-Saharan African countries, which are all members of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), between 1980 and 2009. The results, based on panel time-series data and analysis, suggest that inÂ‡ation has had a detrimental effect to growth in the region. All in all, we highlight not only the fact that inflation has offset the prospective Mundell-Tobin effect and consequently reduced, the much needed, economic activity in the region, but also the importance of an institutional framework conducive to a stable macroeconomic environment as a precondition for development and prosperity in the community.
O42|The Floating World:Issues in International Trade Theory|In The Floating World , Emeritus Professor of Economics Wilfred Ethier collates 22 papers that delve deep into the study on International Trade Theory. These papers are grouped into six distinct sections. Each covers an overarching research program in trade theory ¡ª Factor-Endowments Theory, Economies of Scale, International Factor Markets, Regional Integration, the Political Economy of Trade Policy, and Administered Protection. An additional section for important papers outside of those programs is also included. With papers originally written in the 1970s all the way up to recent times, Ethier provides contemporary commentary for each section, referring to further sources, candid accounts on the state of international trade theory at the time and how each paper contributed to further improvements of their respective research program. Contents: Factor-Endowments Theory Economies of Scale International Factor Markets Regional Integration The Political Economy of Trade Policy Administered Protection Some Topics in Trade Theory Readership: Undergraduate and postgraduate students in International Trade Theory and Economics, and interested members of the general public.
O42|Hacia una nueva visión de la política económica: discusión en torno al nuevo paradigma propuesto por David Romer en “Keynesian Macroeconomics without the LM Curve”|Los nuevos keynesianos (NK) referencian una postura avanzada respecto al paradigma tradicional del equilibrio IS-LM que, como herramienta, satisfizo explicaciones de política económica para su momento. El modelo tuvo críticas como las de ser considerado simplificacionista, no contar con fundamentos microeconómicos, entre otros aspectos. Quizá en los momentos que se presentan: Keynes, en 1936, con la Teoría general; Hicks, en 1937, con Mr. Keynes y los clásicos; Samuelson, en 1948, y años subsecuentes, con su obra Economía, proveyeron elementos importantes en el equilibrio. Sin embargo, hacía falta un nuevo enfoque para el siglo XXI y es el propuesto por David Romer. El fin de este artículo es hacer una revisión inicial que permita entender de qué manera algunos aspectos de la política económica se vinculan como elementos del crecimiento económico.
O42|Anticipation of Future Consumption: A Monetary Perspective|"We adapt the (Sidrauski, 1967) monetary model to study the hypothesis of anticipation of future consumption. We assume that anticipation of future consumption affects an agent's instantaneous utility and that all effects of future consumption on current wellbeing are captured by the stock of future consumption. Monetary policy effectiveness is thereby reduced and a zero nominal lower interest rate (and thus the Friedman Rule) is destabilizing. Given this, we can derive a ""just stable"" equilibrium nominal interest rate with matching definitions for inflation and monetary growth. We demonstrate that these implied lower bounds match their historical analogues well. JEL Classification: E41, D91, O42<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
O42|Corruption, fiscal policy, and growth: a unified approach|We study the effects of bureaucratic corruption on fiscal policy and economic growth, where corruption (i) reduces the tax revenue raised from households, (ii) inflates the volume of government spending, and (iii) reduces the productivity of “effective” government expenditure. We distinguish between the policies pursued by (a) a non-optimizing, and (b) an optimizing government. For both cases, corruption leads to higher income tax and inflation rates and a lower level of government spending, thus hindering growth. In the circumstances, an activist government could allocate its resources in attempting to reduce the type of corruption that harms growth the most. Finally, the findings from our unified framework could rationalize the sometimes conflicting empirical evidence on the impact of corruption on growth in the literature.
O42|On recursive utility and the superneutrality of money|This paper investigates whether a change in the growth rate of the money supply enhances the rate of capital accumulation in a cash-in-advance monetary model with recursive utility. Although money is superneutral in the steady state, the effect of the growth rate of money supply on the speed of capital accumulation depends not only on the curvature of the felicity, but also on the slope and curvature of the discount rate function. We find that when the discount rate decreases with consumption and the elasticity of marginal utility is greater than unity, inflation yields a slower speed of capital accumulation.
O42|Indeterminacy, labor and capital income taxes, and non-linear tax schedules|Using a finance-constrained model, as in Barinci and Cheron (2001), this paper examines the role of procyclical and countercyclical tax rates on labor and capital income in aggregate fluctuations driven by the beliefs of agents. The analysis shows that the cyclicality of labor income tax rate has the monotonically negative impact on the possibility of indeterminacy, while the non-monotonic relations exist between the cyclicality of capital income tax rate and the likelihood of indeterminacy. It is shown that labor and capital income taxes have remarkably different impacts on the probability of indeterminacy for a sufficiently wide range of variability.
O42|Optimal monetary policy in a New Keynesian model with endogenous growth|We study optimal monetary policy in a New Keynesian (NK) model with endogenous growth and knowledge spillovers external to each firm. We find that, in contrast with the standard NK model, the Ramsey dynamics implies deviation from full inflation targeting in response to technology and government spending shocks, while the optimal operational rule is backward looking and responds to inflation and output deviations from their long-run levels.
O42|Financial Deepening and Monetary Growth with Endogenous Liquidity Constraints|This paper sets up a monetary growth model with an endogenous liquidity constraint on consumption, and uses it to analyze the economy's long-run response to money growth. We find that a rise in the rate of money growth will increase the consumer's financial deepening, thereby leading to a reduction in the liquidity constraint on consumption and a rise in the consumption-capital ratio. With such an adjustment, the representative household can borrow more and raise its consumption. As a consequence, a rise in the rate of money growth will deter the savings rate and the economic growth rate.
O42|Can growth-enhanced monetary policy improve welfare when people seek social status?|This paper examines the growth and welfare effects from an increase in the rate of money supply in an Ak type growth model with a relative wealth-enhanced social status motive, production externalities, and liquidity constraints. When only consumption is constrained by liquidity, fast money supply can hasten output growth unless seigniorage revenue is wasted and production externalities do not exist. We find that even though money growth normally promotes economic growth, it does not improve welfare when capital stock is over-accumulated. In general, an optimal monetary policy minimizes seigniorage. Our results also conclude that the optimal monetary policy rarely follows the Friedman rule. Copyright Springer-Verlag Wien 2013
O42|On Poverty Traps and Equilibria in Growth Models|"We show that, contrary to a widely spread error, when the savings and the population growth rates are constant, an unstable equilibrium cannot exist in a neoclassical model, because it would imply an increasing average productivity of capital and therefore a negative marginal productivity of labor. As a consequence, a poverty trap, a dire reality, cannot be explained by such an unstable equilibrium, nor cannot it be eliminated by a capital ""big-push"". We finally give necessary conditions for an economy to escape a poverty trap"
O42|Real Effects of Money Growth and Optimal Rate of Inflation in a Cash‐in‐Advance Economy with Labor‐Market Frictions|This paper studies the consequences of labor-market frictions for the real effects of steady inflation when cash is required for households' consumption purchases and firms' wage payments. Money growth may generate a positive real effect by encouraging vacancy creation and raising job matches. This may result in a positive optimal rate of inflation, particularly in an economy with moderate money injections to firms and with nonnegligible labor-market frictions in which wage bargains are not efficient. This main finding holds for a wide range of money injection schemes, with alternative cash constraints, and in a second-best world with pre-existing distortionary taxes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Financial development and Economic Growth: The Case of Cape Verde|This study empirically investigates the long-run relationship and short-run dynamics between financial development and economic growth in Cape Verde for the period 1980 - 2011. The study employs the Johansen and Juselius approach to cointegration, pairwise granger causality test for causality and the VECM approach was also explored. The analysis was carried out using three indicators to measure financial development which are the money supply as a percentage of GDP(M2), ratio of credit provided by commercial banks as a percentage of GDP(DCPB) and the ratio of domestic credit to the private sector as a percentage of GDP (DCTP). Control variables such as interest rate and population growth rate were included in the analysis. The empirical result indicates the existence of a long run relationship between economic growth and financial development variables in Cape Verde. However, no short run relationship exists between economic growth and financial development variables but between the control variables and economic growth. The study also found a unidirectional relationship running from financial development to economic growth when money supply( M2) is used as well as a bidirectional causality running from financial development to economic growth and vice versa, when domestic credit provided by commercial bank (DCPB) is used. The study found a unidirectional causality from economic growth to domestic credit to private sector (DCTP).
O42|On the Causality between Domestic Credit Aggregates and Economic Growth in a Multivariate VAR Framework: Evidence from Nigeria|The major objective of this paper is to empirically investigate the relationship between domestic credit and economic growth in Nigeria, using annual time series data from 1970 to 2012. In order to do this, the study employs KPSS unit root test, Johansen cointegration test, VAR modeling, impulse response function, variance decomposition and granger causality. Firstly, the findings reveal that there is a bi-directional causality and positive relationship between domestic credit and the economic growth in Nigeria. That is, domestic credit does not only contribute positively to economic growth in Nigeria, but the impact is strong and statistically significant. The findings have a strong implication on financial policy in Nigeria. The major implication is that an efficient financial system is one of the foundations for building sustained economic growth. Considering regulations, institutional constraints and other macro-economic factors militating against domestic credit in the economy, government should make the environment conducive and supportive so that performance is enhanced and good lending behaviour guaranteed.
O42|An R&D-based real business cycle model|Abstract The New Keynesian Real Business Cycle model with staggered price adjustment is augmented with an R&D producing sector. Two sources of economic shocks are considered, namely random participation (perturbances to the value of alternative investment opportunities in another sector) and financial intermediation (shocks to the cost of raising capital in the financial intermediation market). We find that, when compared to the baseline model, both models can explain procyclical R&D spending. Additionally, the investment oversensitivity problem is corrected. However, only the financial intermediation model is consistent with the observed finding that the volatility of R&D is larger than those of investment and output.
O42|Is volatility good for growth? Evidence from the G7|We provide empirical support for a DSGE model with nominal wage stickiness where growth is driven by learning-by-doing and money shocks and their variance are allowed to impact on long-run output growth. In our theoretical model the variance of monetary shocks has a negative effect on growth, while output volatility is good for growth as a positive relationship exists. Utilising a bivariate GARCH-M model we test the empirical conditional mean and variance relationships of nominal money and production growth rates in the G7 countries. We corroborate the theoretical model predictions with evidence from Bonferroni multiple tests across the G7.
O42|Ramsey Monetary Policy in a New Keynesian Model with Endogenous Growth|We study Ramsey monetary policy in a New Keynesian (NK) model with endogenous growth and knowledge spillovers external to each firm. We find that in contrast with the standard NK model, the Ramsey dynamics implies deviation from full inflation targeting in response to technology and government spending shocks
O42|Economic Growth, Business Cycle, Technological Change and Financing|This paper investigates the relationship between economic growth, business cycle and firms' financing in an innovative environment. The process is investigated using an agent-based model featuring 100 firms interacting with each other and the banking system, which generates hedge, speculative and Ponzi financing regimes as emergent properties of the economy. Two technological regimes are compared: low and high technological development. The emergence of cycles is not predetermined, but rather stems from the complex nature of the interactions at the agent-agent and agent-macro environment levels. The building of an integrated theory of cycle and growth, innovation and financing can be carried out by following an agent-based approach, as economic growth and business cycles are not exclusive attributes either of the agent (firm) or the macroeconomic environment alone, but rather result from the continuing interactions among all of the constituent parts of the system. The paper also carries out an econometric analysis of the data generated artificially by the simulations. It is shown that, although the model is specified with finite difference equations, which imply predetermined temporal causality relations, the emergent results generate bidirectional causality (in the sense of Granger) among innovation, financial fragility, business cycles and economic growth, as amply supported by the existing empirical evidence.
O42|Banking Competition: Implications for Welfare and Monetary Policy|The objective of this manuscript is to study the importance of banking competition in the formulation of monetary policy. While the Friedman rule can be optimal in the presence of perfect competition, it is never the case when the banking system is not competitive. Furthermore, when market power in the banking system is highly distortionary, it is optimal to impose a higher tax on money when the banking system is not competitive.
O42|Thresholds and the Welfare Cost of Inflation|The neoclassical growth model is the benchmark framework for studying the welfare effects of inflation. However, existing work likely produces misleading estimates because it does not include any mechanism for in?ation to promote capital accumulation and welfare. Such rigid assumptions do not line up with recent evidence of a Tobin e¤ect for advanced economies like the United States. Based upon empirical results, we present a model in which there are threshold e¤ects from in?ation to the reliance on cash. Our analysis makes considerable progress in determining the costs of in?ation by acknowledging a Tobin e¤ect occurs at low in?ation rates but trying to exploit a tradeo¤ at high rates distorts the e¢ ciency of the payments system with strong adverse consequences for the capital stock and welfare.
O42|Inflation and Growth: A New Keynesian Perspective|The long-run relation between growth and inflation has not yet been studied in the context of nominal price and wage rigidities, despite the fact that these rigidities now figure prominently in workhorse macroeconomic models. We therefore integrate staggered price- and wage-setting into an endogenous growth framework. In this setting, growth and inflation are linked via the incentive to innovate. For standard calibrations, the linkage is strong: as trend inflation shifts from -5 to 5 percent, the range over which the economy's steady-state growth rate varies spans 50 basis points, implying up to a 15 percent output differential after thirty years. Nominal wage rigidity plays a critical role in generating these results, and compounding of inflation's growth effects implies large welfare losses. Endogenous growth thus proves a key channel via which inflation impacts New Keynesian economies.
O42|Inflation and Growth: A New Keynesian Perspective|The long-run relation between growth and inflation has not yet been studied in the context of nominal price and wage rigidities, despite the fact that these rigidities now figure prominently in workhorse macroeconomic models. We therefore integrate staggered price- and wage-setting into an endogenous growth framework. In this setting, growth and inflation are linked via the incentive to innovate. For standard calibrations, the linkage is strong: as trend inflation shifts from –5 to 5 percent, the range over which the economy’s steady-state growth rate varies spans 50 basis points, implying up to a 15 percent output differential after thirty years. Nominal wage rigidity plays a critical role in generating these results, and compounding of inflation’s growth effects implies large welfare losses. Endogenous growth thus proves a key channel via which inflation impacts New Keynesian economies.
O42|On the Growth and Stability Effects of Habit Formation and Durability in Consumption|This paper shows that a unique balanced growth monetary equilibrium exists in a transactions-based monetary endogenous growth model with habit formation or durability in consumption. An increase in the nominal money growth rate reduces the long-run output growth rate, wherein habit formation enforces the effectiveness of monetary policy while durability in consumption reduces it. We also show that while habit formation destabilizes the macroeconomy by making the balanced growth equilibrium exhibit local indeterminacy, durability in consumption maintains saddle-path stability of the balanced growth equilibrium. We find that the mechanism through which habit formation and durability impose different effects on both the growth-effect of money and the macroeconomic stabilizing properties is such that habit formation and durability influence the elasticity of intertemporal substitution in consumption in opposite directions.
O42|Inflation And Growth In The Long Run: A New Keynesian Theory And Further Semiparametric Evidence|This paper explores the influence of inflation on economic growth both theoretically and empirically. We propose to merge an endogenous growth model of learning by doing with a New Keynesian one with sticky wages. We show that the intertemporal elasticity of substitution of working time is a key parameter for the shape of the inflation–growth nexus. When it is set equal to zero, the inflation–growth nexus is weak and hump-shaped. When it is greater than zero, inflation has a sizable and negative effect on growth. Endogenizing the length of wage contracts does not lead to inflation superneutrality in the presence of a fixed cost of wage resetting. Adopting various semiparametric and instrumental-variable estimation approaches on a cross-country/time-series data set, we show that increasing inflation reduces real economic growth, consistent with our theoretical model with a positive intertemporal elasticity of substitution of working time.
O42|Inflation and economic growth in Latin America: Some panel time-series evidence|In this paper we investigate the role of macroeconomic performance, mainly in terms of rates of inflation, in determining economic growth in four Latin American countries which suffered hyperinflationary bursts in the 1980s and early 1990s, but that also differ in terms of development levels. The data set covers the period between 1970 and 2007, and the empirical results, based on panel time-series data and analysis, confirm the anecdotal evidence which suggests that inflation has had a detrimental effect to growth in the region. All in all, we highlight the fact that excessive inflation has clearly offset the Mundell–Tobin effect and consequently the high costs that inflation has had on economic activity in the region.
O42|Financial market participation, financial intermediation, and monetary policy|It is not uncommon for the Friedman rule to be optimal in neoclassical models with money. Notably, previous studies also find that financial intermediation is not welfare improving when money is costless to hold. This paper departs from previous studies by highlighting the importance of participation costs in financial markets for the participation in financial intermediation and monetary policy. As in previous work, the Friedman rule is optimal. However, I demonstrate that the welfare gains from disinflation are much higher when savings are intermediated if direct participation costs in financial markets are significant. Consequently, financial intermediation can still be optimal at the Friedman rule.
O42|The effects of monetary policy at different stages of economic development|The effects of monetary policy vary significantly across countries. In particular, recent empirical work finds evidence of a Tobin effect in high income countries and a reverse Tobin effect in less developed economies. We present a neoclassical growth model where money is required for investment and consumption purposes. In contrast to standard cash-in-advance models, the reliance on cash is inversely related to the extent of capital formation. In this setting, we demonstrate that the effects of monetary policy depend on the level of development. In particular, inflation adversely affects capital formation at low levels of income because there is a high reliance on cash and a high cost of capital. By comparison, the financial system operates more efficiently in advanced countries. Consequently, monetary policy generates a Tobin effect.
O42|Liquidity risk and financial competition: Implications for asset prices and monetary policy|This paper studies the implications of banking competition for capital markets and monetary policy. In particular, I develop a two-sector monetary growth model in which a group of agents is exposed to liquidity shocks and money is essential. Banks insure depositors against such risk and invest in the economy's assets. In this setting, I compare an economy with a perfectly competitive banking sector to an economy with a fully concentrated financial sector. Unlike previous work, banks can have market power in both deposits and capital markets. Compared to a perfectly competitive financial sector, I demonstrate that a monopolistic banking system can have substantial adverse consequences on capital formation, assets prices, and the degree of risk sharing. Furthermore, multiple steady-states can emerge and the economy becomes subject to poverty traps. More importantly, market power in financial markets may overturn the Tobin effect present under a perfectly competitive financial sector. This necessarily happens in economies with high degrees of liquidity risk and low levels of capital formation.
O42|Looking into the black box of Schumpeterian growth theories: An empirical assessment of R&D races|This paper assesses whether the most important R&D technologies at the roots of second-generation Schumpeterian growth theories are consistent with innovation statistics. Using US manufacturing industry data, we estimate some systems of simultaneous equations modeling the innovation functions based on variety expansion and diminishing technological opportunities. Our findings indicate that the framework characterized by the increasing difficulty of R&D fits US data better. We discuss the implications of the results for the evolution of the endogenous growth literature.
O42|On model ambiguity and money neutrality|We solve for the equilibrium of a stochastic neo-classical continuous time model without and with money under model ambiguity. We show that: (i) the correction for ambiguity stemming from the money supply is nil at equilibrium; (ii) money is neutral with respect to the stock market equilibrium (the equity risk premium); (iii) money is not neutral with respect to consumption and capital accumulation, and its effect may be quantitatively substantial; (iv) the preference for model robustness affects all the real economic variables as well as the expected inflation rate and the nominal interest rate.
O42|Consumption externalities and equilibrium dynamics with heterogeneous agents|This paper explores the effect of consumption externalities on equilibrium dynamics of a standard neoclassical growth model in which there are two types of agents. To emphasize the presence of heterogeneous agents, we distinguish intergroup consumption externalities from intragroup consumption externalities. We show that if there are intragroup consumption externalities alone, then the steady state equilibrium satisfies saddle-point stability and the equilibrium path of the economy is uniquely determined. In contrast, even if the intragroup consumption externalities do not exist, the intergroup external effects of consumption may yield either instability or local indeterminacy of the steady-state equilibrium. In addition to analytical considerations, we show the relationship between the stability and the consumption externalities in numerical examples.
O42|Liquidity, innovation and growth|Many countries simultaneously suffer from high inflation, low growth and poorly developed financial sectors. In this paper, we integrate a microfounded model of money and finance into a model of endogenous growth to examine the effects of inflation on welfare, growth and the size of the financial sector. A novel feature is that the innovation sector is decentralized. Financial intermediaries arise endogenously to provide liquidity to this sector. Consistent with the data but in contrast to previous work, reducing inflation generates large growth gains. These large gains cannot be easily reproduced by imposing a cash-in-advance constraint in the innovation sector.
O42|Velocity Volatility Assessment of Monetary Shocks on Cash-in-Advance Economies|A projection method employing finite elements and a parameterized expectations algorithm is proposed for the global approximation of the equilibrium of a cash-in-advance model economy. The algorithm is shown to be accurate and efficient approximating highly nonlinear regions of the policy functions, specifically along the space of state variables where the slackness multiplier of the cash-in-advance constraint alternates between zero and strictly positive values. This favorable trait allows for a rigorous analysis on the variability of velocity of money. Velocity volatility, measured by its coefficient of variation, arises in the model on a consumption smoothing purpose by the agent at instances where the variation of expected marginal utility of consumption is relatively high due to the realization of a sufficiently low serially correlated monetary shock. In a simulation of the stochastic economic environment responding to a Markovian series of monetary growth rates and no frictions present, the equilibrium approximated via the proposed numerical solution method explains 80.3% of the velocity variability recently observed in the data; a significant improvement over previous attempts found in the literature. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2012
O42|Social status, human capital formation and the long-run effects of money|This study examines the effects of monetary policy in a two-sector cash-in-advance economy of human capital accumulation. Agents concern about their social status represented by the relative physical capital and relative human capital. We find that if the desire for social status depends only on relative physical capital, money is superneutral in the growth-rate sense. However, if the desire for social status depends on relative human capital, the money growth rate will have a positive effect on the long-run economic growth rate. Furthermore, an increase in the desire to pursue human capital will raise the long-run growth rate, but an increase in the desire to pursue physical capital will lower it.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Exchange Rate Volatility and Productivity Growth: The Role of Liability Dollarization|This paper studies how liability dollarization conditions the effect of exchange rate flexibility on growth. It develops a model with credit-constrained firms facing liquidity shocks denominated in tradables while their revenues are both in tradable and nontradables. With frictions in the reallocation between tradables and nontradables, a peg is more growth-enhancing than a float in countries with dollarized debt because it stabilizes firms' cash flows. However, this relative advantage diminishes when dollarization decreases. These theoretical predictions are confirmed by an empirical analysis on a panel of 76 countries spanning 1995-2004: the higher the degree of dollarization, the more negative the impact of exchange rate flexibility on growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|On the Short-run Relationship between the Income Distribution- and Finance-Growth Regimes| This paper examines the short-run relationship between the income distributionand finance-growth regimes using a simple post-Keynesian demand-driven model. While each mechanism of wage-led and profit-led growth has been revealed, its relationship with debt-led and debt-burdened growth, and vice versa, is yet to be clarified. This is because the argument on these growth regimes has been developed separately. By constructing a simple post-Keynesian model that generates these regimes, this paper examines their relationship. It is shown that the growth regimes transform as the regime switching parameters in the IS balance change. By way of theoretical analysis, this paper presents some important implications for the diversity of economic growth—including the complementarity of growth regimes to shocks—that are in contrast to the implications of the basic neo-classical model on income distribution and money. In addition, by doing so, this paper also validates recent empirical results.
O42|Is the Chinese Growth Model Replicable?|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Monetary Policy in a New Keynesian Model with Endogenous Growth|We study monetary policy in a New Keynesian (NK) model with endogenous growth and knowledge spillovers external to each firm. We find the following results: (i) technology and government spending shocks have different effects on growth; (ii) disinflationary monetary policies entail positive effects on growth; (iii) the optimal long-run inflation rate is zero; (iv) the Ramsey dynamics implies deviation from full inflation targeting in response to technology and government spending shocks; (v) the optimal operational rule is backward looking and responds to inflation and output deviations from their long-run levels.
O42|Cash-in-advance constraint with status in a neoclassical growth model|In this paper, we assume that a cash-in-advance (CIA) constraint itself depends on relative income, which implies status. This constraint means that agents with higher income are more creditworthy and can make purchases with fewer money holdings. Under this assumption, we construct a one-sector neoclassical growth model and show that there exists a unique steady state that has saddle-path stability without specifying each function. Furthermore, we examine the effects of money growth on capital accumulation. If the status elasticity of CIA constraint is large, the Tobin effect can arise. In contrast, if it is small, the anti-Tobin effect can arise.
O42|Future Contribution of Export and Import to GDP in Bangladesh: A Box-Jenkins Approach|The paper provides evidence of inconceivable growth of the macro-economic indicators Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Export of Goods and Services (EXPORT) and Import of Goods and Services (IMPORT) over the past three decades. The percentage of GDP occupied by each of the EXPORT and IMPORT indicator is in significant level in recent time though their contribution were little in 1981. The time series analysis by Box-Jenkins approach based on data from 1981 to 2010 indicates that the growth of the indicators will continue in the future. The forecasted GDP demonstrate the huge expansion of the different sectors within the country by 2015. The future contribution of EXPORT in GDP demanded that EXPORT will be the significant contributor in the country’s economy. On the contrary, a significant percentage of GDP will continue to be used for import of goods and services in future.
O42|Inflación y crecimiento económico: Evidencia con datos de panel para América del Sur|Se investiga el rol del comportamiento macroeconómico, principalmente en términos de tasas de inflación, como determinante del crecimiento económico en cuatro países de América del Sur que sufrieron episodios de hiperinflación en los años 1980 y principios de 1990: Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil y Perú. Los resultados empíricos, basados en la metodología de panel de series de tiempo para el periodo 1970 a 2007, confirman la evidencia que sugiere que inflaciones altas tienen un efecto perjudicial en el crecimiento económico.
O42|Políticas de Encajes y Modelos Económicos|El rol de los encajes bancarios como instrumento de control monetario ha sido constantemente discutido y modelado. En este trabajo se revisan los modelos en donde las políticas de requerimiento de encaje cumplen diferentes roles. Debido a que dicho rol es cambiante, los investigadores difieren en su efectividad. La gran heterogeneidad en la aplicación de dichos encajes por parte de los diferentes bancos centrales en el mundo, sugiere que aún no existe un consenso acerca de cuál es la estrategia óptima a seguir. Esta observación sirve de motivación a la reciente literatura teórica pues los encajes podrían tener un rol estabilizador en el sistema bancario y ayudar a que los bancos centrales alcancen sus objetivos macroeconómicos.
O42|Interbank Market and Macroprudential Tools in a DSGE Model|The interbank market helps regulate liquidity in the banking sector. Banks with outstanding resources usually lend to banks that are in needs of liquidity. Regulating the interbank market may actually benefit the policy stance of monetary policy. Introducing an interbank market in a general equilibrium model may allow better identification of the final effects of non-conventional policy tools such as reserve requirements. We introduce an interbank market in which there are two types of private banks and a central bank that has the ability to issue money into a DSGE model. Then, we use the model to analyse the effects of changes to reserve requirements (a macroprudential tool), while the central bank follows a Taylor rule to set the policy interest rate. We find that changes to reserve requirements have similar effects to interest rate hikes and that both monetary policy tools can be used jointly in order to avoid big swings in the policy rate (that could have an undesired effect on private expectations) or a zero bound (i.e. liquidity trap scenarios).
O42|Economic Development and the Welfare Costs of Inflation It has been widely observed that the role of money in the ?nancial system varies across developing and advanced countries. While the connections between economic development and the e¤ects of monetary policy on macroeconomic outcomes appear to be well understood, their consequences for living standards across the world are not. That is, existing research on the welfare costs of in?ation has focused nearly ex- clusively on the United States. In contrast to the existing literature, this paper seeks to determine the gains from eliminating in?ation across a broad section of countries. These countries vary according to their: (i) level of economic development, (ii) re- liance on cash for transactions, and (iii) average in?ation rates. Upon calibrating our model to quantify the role of money for transactions in the economy, we ?nd that there are substantial di¤erences in welfare costs across countries. Notably, the welfare costs of in?ation in advanced countries such as the United States are quite low. In particular, the cost of in?ation in countries such as Germany and the United States may be as low as 0.3%. However, the gains from eliminating in?ation in the developing world are much higher. Di¤erences in total factor productivity promote capital accumulation and reduce the reliance on cash in advanced countries so that the e¤ective tax rate on capital formation is mitigated|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Do Ak models really lack transitional dynamics?|Contrary to a popular belief, the most popular Ak growth models display transitional dynamics once the representative agent and complete markets assumptions are overturned. The class of models is identified with diminishing-returns at individual but constant-returns at aggregate due to externality effects. Under incomplete markets, the former implies that dynasties with a lower levels of initial capital grow faster. This is picked up by the aggregate economy that passes through a long transitional period before it converges to its balanced growth path. During the transition period, aggregate consumption and output grow at the same rate but higher than that of capital.
O42|Techniques for dealing with reverse causality between institutions and economic performance|This article provides a succinct review of the arguments stressing the mutual relationship between institutions and economic performance, and a scholarly account of some of the most popular econometric strategies used to minimize reversed causality problems in impact estimation. Among the techniques revisited we find the instrumental variables (IV) approach, distributed lags and vector autoregressions (VAR), quasi-experiments, and identification by heteroskedasticity (IH). Ultimately, the review is conceived as a methodological aide to researchers seeking to explore causal relationships through the use of the Institutional Profiles Database (IPD) produced by the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD).
O42|Exploring the panel components of the Institutional Profiles Database (IPD)|The Institutional Profiles Database (IPD) produced by the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) has been carried out in 2001, 2006 and 2009, and a new wave is planned for 2012. Although the structure of the surveys varies greatly between 2006 and 2009, the similarity of a substantial proportion of the questions allows for exploring and exploiting the panel components of the database. This paper presents some general patterns of short-term institutional change, aided by a conceptual classification of the institutional variables. It tests two hypotheses in a preliminary way: a) that institutions tend to score higher over time, and b) that institutions tend to converge across countries. Additionally, it explores associations between institutions and growth for the period 2001-2009.
O42|Desenvolvimento financeiro e crescimento econômico: teoria e evidência empírica para os estados brasileiros (1995-2004)|This paper aims at analyzing the relationship between economic growth and financial development on theoretical and empirical grounds. We briefly review the arguments that support the existence or not of a positive and causal relation between these two variables, as well as the arguments that outline the role and influence of financial development upon the economy. Second, an empirical exercise was undertaken using data for the 26 Brazilian states and Distrito Federal (the Brazilian District, where the capital Brasília is located). We estimate quantile regression in order to show the impact of financial development on the dependent variable (the Gross State Product, GSP). We adopted two measures of financial development, one based in the work of King & Levine (1993) and the other in the work of Marques Jr. & Porto Jr. (2004). Empirical results suggest a positive relation between financial development and economic growth.
O42|The Impact of Directed Lending on Long-run Growth in Belarus|The study deals with a specific form of financial repression peculiar to Belarus – a mechanism of directed loans. Under selective or directed credit programs, banks are required to allocate certain percentages of their asset portfolios for loans to priority sectors at subsidized loan rates of interest. In order to hedge against possible risks associated with directed loans, banks can offer higher interest rates or ration credit to non-favored borrowers. As a result, the flexibility of the financial system is decreased, while its fragility is increased. Under directed loans the economy may benefit from more rapid capital accumulation, but faces losses in efficiency. Directed lending may be justified until additional gains in capital accumulation compensate losses in. efficiency. This may be true in case of definitely high elasticity of output on capital, which might happen within a transitory period. Nevertheless, the practice of directed lending may not be recognized as effective tool for a longer time period. First, gains in capital gradually decline and losses in efficiency might exceed them. Moreover, when the economy reaches its balanced growth pass, only losses will be associated with the mechanism of directed lending. Second, the mechanism of directed lending may be a source of shocks and high-magnitude fluctuations in the economy. Finally, we show that in Belarus the mechanism of directed lending may result in the decline of growth rates of the economy in the long run.
O42|Inflation, Investment and Growth: a Money and Banking Approach|Output growth, investment and the real interest rate in long run evidence tend to be negatively affected by inflation. Theoretically, inflation acts as a human capital tax that decreases output growth and the real interest rate, but increases the investment rate, opposite of evidence. The paper resolves this puzzle by requiring exchange for investment as well as consumption. Inflation then decreases the investment rate, and still decreases both output growth and real interest up to some moderately high rate of inflation, above which increasingly low investment finally causes capital to fall relative to labor, and the real interest rate to rise.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Long‐Term Growth And Short‐Term Volatility: The Labour Market Nexus|We study the relationship between growth and variability in a DSGE model with nominal rigidities and growth driven by learning-by-doing. We show that this relationship may be positive or negative depending on the impulse source of fluctuations A key role is also played by the Frisch elasticity of labour supply and by institutional features of the labour market. Our general findings are that monetary shocks volatility will generally have a negative effect on growth, while the opposite tends to be true for fiscal and productivity shocks. These findings are somehow consistent with the existing empirical evidence: data show, in fact, a somewhat ambiguous relationship between output growth and real variability, but a generally negative relationship between output growth and nominal variability.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Causes of Corruption in Russia: A Disaggregated Analysis|This paper examines determinants of corruption across Russian regions. Key contributions include: (i) a formal study of economic corruption determinants across Russian regions; (ii) comparisons of determinants of perceived corruption versus those of actual corruption; and (iii) studying the influence of market competition and other factors on corruption. The results show that economic prosperity, population, market competition and urbanization are significant determinants of Russian corruption. The use of alternative corruption measures reveals that economic prosperity and population have a largely similar impact on corruption perceptions and corruption incidence. However, there are significant differences in the effects of competition and urbanization.
O42|The Macroeconomy and Individuals’ Support for Democracy|How important are national macroeconomic indicators for people’s satisfaction with democracy? This paper empirically explores the link from macroeconomic variables to support for established democratic systems. We combine country-level data on growth, inflation, and unemployment from the OECD with survey data from the Eurobarometer for nineWestern European countries for the period 1976-2001. We regress individual satisfaction with democracy on macroeconomic variables and individual controls. Our regressions include country-specific time trends as well as fixed effects for countries and surveyyears. Pooling observations from nine countries, we find that growth (inflation and unemployment) is positively (negatively) correlated with satisfaction with democracy. The effect goes beyond what can be explained by individual characteristics and is non-negligible if interpreted in light of the recent economic crisis. Our findings are robust to alternative specifications using logit and ordered logit models.
O42|Endogenous growth, monetary shocks and nominal rigidities|We introduce endogenous growth in a standard NK model with staggered prices and wages. We find that the source of nominal rigidities, the shock persistence and the type of Taylor rule affect the relationship between monetary volatility and growth.
O42|Corruption, inflation and growth|We present a model in which the embezzlement of tax revenues by public officials leads the government to rely more on seigniorage to finance its expenditures. This raises inflation which depresses investment and growth via a cash-in-advance constraint.
O42|Growth, volatility and stabilisation policy in a DSGE model with nominal rigidities and learning-by-doing|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Formalizing Debt-led and Debt-burdened Growth Regimes with Endogenous Macrodynamics of Minskian Financial Structure: A Long-run Analysis| In this paper, we formally derive a version of the Minskian taxonomy of the firms’ financial structure (hedge, speculative, and Ponzi types), under the economic growth context in the long run. As for the economic growth, we formalize the mechanism of debt-led (debt-burdened) growth where the economy expands as the debt variables increase (decrease). By explicitly introducing the relationship between the finance growth regime and Minskian taxonomy in a dynamic model, the model in this paper enables us to evaluate whether or not the economic growth regime is sounded in terms of the firms’ financial positions.
O42|The Necessity of the European Capital Markets Development in the Current Economic Environment|The capital market plays an important role in every modern economy, regarding both, its current state and its sustainable development. The aim of this paper is to present the main role of the capital market on all of the three levels on which they appear (the macroeconomic level, the microeconomic level and the individual level), using a comparative analysis between the European capital markets and the American ones, in order to highlight the necessity of their development. Also, the paper analyses the growing importance of the capital market in the process of financing the economy, which has become an important and essential part of any long term sustainable development strategy employed by any modern state.
O42|Consequences of Political Instability, Governance and Bureaucratic Corruption on Inflation and Growth: The Case of Pakistan|This paper presents a theoretical model with micro-foundations that captures some important features of Pakistan‘s economy which have emerged in sixty-four years of its history. A comparison of Pakistan‘s economic performance during different regimes shows that macroeconomic fundamentals tend to show an improvement during the autocratic regimes as compared with those prevailing during democratic regimes. In particular, periods of autocratic regimes are typically characterised by low inflation, robust growth and low level of bureaucratic corruption due to better governance. In contrast, the economic performance during the democratic regimes has been observed to worsen with weak governance and high levels of corruption, high inflation due partly to reliance on seigniorage to finance public spending, and lacklustre growth. Using annual data from 1950 to 2011, computational modelling is carried out by applying Markov-Regime switching technique with maximum-likelihood procedures. The estimation results based on empirical modelling setup are supportive of the above stylised-facts and also confirm the implications of the theoretical model.
O42|Money and Long-run Growth|This paper revisits the relationship between money and long-run growth when liquidity demand at the �rm level is explicitly modelled. Through a set of sensitivity analyses, I �nd that this relationship could be positive, negative, or display a hump shape depending on the size of average liquidity demand and the level of �nancial development. These results explain why existing empirical studies report mixed �ndings on the relationship.
O42|Time Preference and Interest Rate in a dynamic general Equilibrium Model|This paper reexamines the relationship between the time preference rate and the real interest rate in the neoclassical growth model by introducing Keynesian time preference. It is shown that the long-run behavior of the neoclassical growth model persists. When introduucing money by money-in-utility, money is superneutral and the optimal monetary policy is the Friedman rule.
O42|Corruption, Globalization, and Economic Growth: Theory and Evidence|We investigate, both theoretically and empirically, how the negative effects of government corruption on economic growth are magnified or reduced by capital account liberalization. Our model shows that highly corrupt countries impose higher tax rates than do less corrupt countries, thereby, magnifying the negative impacts of government corruption on economic growth in the highly corrupt countries and reducing the impacts in the less corrupt countries if capital account liberalization is enacted. Empirical evidence obtained from an analysis of the panel data collected from 111 countries supports our theoretical predictions. Our theoretical and empirical results contribute to the recent policy debates on the merits or demerits of capital account liberalization.
O42|Output Volatility and Growth in Korea, China and Japan|The existing literature has shown that the relationship between output volatility and growth depends on data and/or estimation methods. In this paper, an empirical examination is made of the link between output volatility and growth in Korea, China and Japan, using monthly data on the index of industrial product from 1990 to 2009. Specifically, a country's growth and output volatility are measured by the ratio of change in industrial product and its conditional standard error, respectively. Using EGARCH-M model, provided by Nelson (1991), to accommodate the asymmetry of economic fluctuation, estimates indicates that output volatility is negatively and significantly associated with the growth in Korea. However, the relationship between output volatility and growth is positive and statically significant in China, whereas there exists very little evidence in Japan. Moreover, unexpected positive shocks have positive impacts on growth in Korea and China, whereas the impacts are very small in Japan. Regression results also suggest that the impacts of unexpected negative shocks on growth are negative in all countries, and the magnitude is the biggest in Korea and the lowest in Japan.
O42|The unintended consequences of the debt: Will increased government expenditure hurt the economy?|In 2008, governments in many countries embarked on large fiscal expenditure programmes, with the intention to support the economy and prevent a more serious recession. In this study, the overall impact of a substantial increase in fiscal expenditure is considered by providing a novel analysis of the most relevant recent experience in similar circumstances, namely that of Japan in the 1990s. Then a weak economy with risk-averse banks seemed to require some of the largest peacetime fiscal stimulation programmes on record, albeit with disappointing results. The explanations provided by the literature and their unsatisfactory empirical record are reviewed. An alternative explanation, derived from early Keynesian models on the ineffectiveness of fiscal policy is presented in the form of a modified Fisher-equation, which incorporates the recent findings in the credit view literature. The model postulates complete quantity crowding out. It is subjected to empirical tests, which were supportive. Thus evidence is found that fiscal policy, if not supported by suitable monetary policy, is likely to crowd out private sector demand, even in an environment of falling or near-zero interest rates. As a policy conclusion it is pointed out that by changing the funding strategy, complete crowding out can be avoided and a positive net effect produced. The proposed framework creates common ground between proponents of Keynesian views (as held, among others, by Blinder and Solow), monetarist views (as held in particular by Milton Friedman) and those of leading contemporary macroeconomists (such as Mankiw).
O42|Economic Growth In The European Model|Within the European model, the macroeconomic and cohesion policies insure a good substantiation of the sustained economic growth. The achievement of the Single Market had positive effects upon the European economy as a whole, but these benefits have not been equally distributed among states, regions and social groups. The market is the most efficient mechanism of resource allocation within the economy, but it is not the tool insuring the distribution of the registered benefits. For this reason, the mechanisms of the cohesion policy can improve the tendencies of the economic activities concentration, once the economic integration process has intensified. The economic convergence consists in the very close, even identical evolutions of one variable in two different countries or regions. In this paper, the author proposes to explain the defining elements of the European model, emphasizing the connection between the convergence process and real economic growth process. In this sense, we will present the European model of regional growth, which contributes to the achievement of a real economic convergence process..
O42|Liquidity risk, economic development, and the effects of monetary policy|Empirical evidence indicates that monetary policy is not super-neutral in many countries. In particular, in high inflation economies, inflation is negatively related to economic activity. By comparison, inflation may be positively correlated with output in low inflation countries. We present a neoclassical growth model with money in which the incidence of liquidity risk is inversely related to aggregate capital formation. Interestingly, there may be multiple monetary steady-states where the effects of monetary policy vary. In poor economies, the financial system is highly distorted and higher rates of money growth are associated with less capital formation. In contrast, in advanced economies, a Tobin effect is observed. Since inflation exacerbates distortions from a coordination failure in the low-capital steady-state, individuals become much more exposed to liquidity risk. Consequently, optimal monetary policy depends on the level of development.
O42|The Government as a Promoter of Technological Change: An Endogenous Growth Model with Labor, Money and Debt|In the framework of a monetary economy with labor and debt (public and private), the effects of government as a promoting agent to boost up technological change are studied. Through a model of endogenous growth, the growth rates of all sectors are characterized in the perfect foresight equilibrium. Moreover, the impact on economic welfare of taxes and government spending to impulse technological change is assessed. Finally, in a simulation exercise, the initial optimal level of government spending (which maximizes welfare), in which the government should incur to adequately address technological change, is examined.
O42|Análisis de cointegración y valores umbrales entre la inflación y el crecimiento económico en México: 1970-2007|The aim of this paper is to estimate long run relationships and threshold effects between inflation and economic growth in Mexico. We show the existence of such relationship in a cointegrated vector on Economic Growth (log of real GDP) and Inflation rate finding a corresponding elasticity significantly negative. Moreover, the causal relationship between these two series is studied using a more robust Granger causality test, without finding any directional causality between them. The estimated threshold model suggests 9 percent as the threshold level (i.e., structural break point) of inflation above which inflation significantly slows the Mexican economic growth.
O42|Aid and remittances: their stabilizing impact compared|This paper presents a comparative analysis of the stabilizing effect of official development assistance (ODA) and migrant remittances. First, at the country level and for each kind of flows it assesses their stabilizing impact with regard to the fluctuation of exports, as distinct from their countercyclical character. Most often than the opposite, both kinds of flows appear stabilizing. Second, on a cross-country basis it appears that both aid and remittances dampen the growth volatility. While at the country level, remittances appear to dampen the instability of exports more often than aid does so, on a cross-country basis, aid more than remittances lowers growth volatility.
O42|Aid and remittances: their stabilizing impact compared|This paper presents a comparative analysis of the stabilizing effect of official development assistance (ODA) and migrant remittances. First, at the country level and for each kind of flows it assesses their stabilizing impact with regard to the fluctuation of exports, as distinct from their countercyclical character. Most often than the opposite, both kinds of flows appear stabilizing. Second, on a cross-country basis it appears that both aid and remittances dampen the growth volatility. While at the country level, remittances appear to dampen the instability of exports more often than aid does so, on a cross-country basis, aid more than remittances lowers growth volatility.
O42|Stabilité-croissance et performance économique : quelle relation selon une revue de la littérature ?|L'objectif de ce papier est de proposer une synthèse de la littérature traitant la relation entre volatilité et croissance. L'intérêt de ce papier consiste à montrer que cette littérature a évolué dans deux sens contradictoires et que la plupart des économistes retiennent les résultats d'un des courants, soit en raison d'une ignorance de la seconde théorie, soit en prenant le courant qui les arrange. La relation entre volatilité et croissance a évolué dans un premier temps dans le sens d'une relation positive, puis la littérature a évoluée vers une relation négative. Dans ce papier, nous montrons les fondements théoriques de l'évolution de cette littérature.
O42|Agent-based dynamics in disaggregated growth models|"This paper presents an agent-based model of disaggregated economic systems with endogenous growth features named Lagon GeneriC. This model is thought to represent a proof of concept that dynamically complete and highly disaggregated agent-based models allow to model economies as complex dynamical systems. It is used here for ""theory generation"", investigating the extension to a framework with capital accumulation of Gintis results on the dynamics of general equilibrium"
O42|Inflation, Volatile Public Spending, and Endogenously Sustained Growth|I construct a model of an economy whose government finances volatile public spending via money creation. The model jointly accounts for the emergence of some well-known empirical observations. Specifically, it predicts a negative correlation between output growth and policy volatility. Furthermore, given that both the mean and the variance of the inflation rate are elevated by fluctuations in public spending, the model provides a novel theoretical justification for the simultaneous negative correlation of long-run growth with both average inflation and inflation variability. The model also supports the view that policy volatility reduces social welfare.
O42|Stabilité-croissance et performance économique : Quelle relation selon une revue de la littérature ?|L’objectif de ce papier est de proposer une synthèse de la littérature traitant la relation entre volatilité et croissance. L’intérêt de ce papier consiste à montrer que cette littérature a évolué dans deux sens contradictoires et que la plupart des économistes retiennent les résultats d’un des courants, soit en raison d’une ignorance de la seconde théorie, soit en prenant le courant qui les arrange. La relation entre volatilité et croissance a évolué dans un premier temps dans le sens d’une relation positive, puis la littérature a évoluée vers une relation négative. Dans ce papier, nous montrons les fondements théoriques de l’évolution de cette littérature.
O42|Direct pricing of retail payment methods: Norway vs. US|In this paper we provide a general equilibrium model that helps explaining payment choice at the retail level: cash, electronic and paper-based instruments. In particular, it provides theoretical foundations to reconcile previous empirical evidence on this issue. The payment pattern of a given country can be shaped by the payment infrastructure, the cost of each payment instrument, the degree of technology development and the interest rate. We show that the introduction of a cheaper payment instrument, in this case electronic payments, may be welfare improving. The calibration exercise for Norway illustrates that the policy of correct pricing of checks promoted by the Norwegian authorities may imply 4% increase in the welfare of the country.
O42|Inflation and output in the long and short run in Turkey|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Inflation, Endogenous Growth, Transaction Costs, and Varying Discount Rates|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Agent-based dynamics in disaggregated growth models|"This paper presents an agent-based model of disaggregated economic systems with endogenous growth features named Lagon GeneriC. This model is thought to represent a proof of concept that dynamically complete and highly disaggregated agent-based models allow to model economies as complex dynamical systems. It is used here for ""theory generation"", investigating the extension to a framework with capital accumulation of Gintis results on the dynamics of general equilibrium."
O42|Inflation and corporate investment – a critical survey|The analysis of inflation’s effect on investment can contribute to a deeper understanding of the benefits of a monetary policy oriented towards price stability. It can also help conduct such a policy effectively. We begin with a review of conclusions about the inflation-investment relationship that can be drawn from traditional monetary models with exogenous growth and no market imperfections. As these conclusions are ambiguous, models of this type could lead economic decision-makers to fail to take proper account of inflation’s impact on investment. We then survey research which, contrary to monetary exogenous growth models, takes account of market imperfections such as the asymmetry of information, uncertainty and nominal rigidities in the tax system. The analysis of the significance of these imperfections for the direction and magnitude of the relationship between inflation and investment forms the bulk of the article. We highlight, on the one hand, the key assumptions of the particular theories (and whether they are in keeping with stylized facts), and, on the other hand, the difficulties that empirical research faces when trying to verify the conclusions from these theories. Finally, we offer some conclusions on the basis of the conducted survey.
O42|Evaluating the Welfare Cost of Inflation in a Monetary Endogenous Growth General Equilibrium Model: The Case of South Africa|This paper uses the general equilibrium monetary endogenous growth model of Dotsey and Ireland (1996), in which inflation distorts a variety of marginal decisions, to evaluate the welfare cost of inflation in South Africa – a country, where, since the February of 2000, the sole objective of the central bank has been to keep the inflation rate within the target band of 3 percent to 6 percent. Although individually none of the distortions is very large, they combine to yield substantial welfare cost estimates ranging between 0.70 percent of GDP to 1.33 percent of GDP for the lower and upper limits of the target band. More importantly, the welfare costs obtained here are at least three times more than those derived previously for the South African economy based on partial equilibrium approaches. These higher estimates, thus, tend to make a case for a possibly lower and narrower target band.
O42|Liquidity Risk and Banks’ Asset Composition: Implications for Monetary Policy|Monetary growth models in which the government is a net debtor demonstrate that inflation adversely affects capital formation through the crowding out effect. Interestingly, the results are at odds with empirical evidence. In particular, recent studies point to an asymmetric relationship between inflation and the real economy across countries. Specifically, inflation and output are negatively correlated in poor countries. In contrast, inflation is associated with higher levels of economic activity in advanced economies. I present a monetary growth model with public debt, where the exposure to risk is inversely related to the level of income. In this setting, I demonstrate that the effects of monetary policy depend on the level of capital of the economy. In poor countries, banks’ portfolios consist primarily of government liabilities. Therefore, a higher rate of money creation inhibits capital formation in these economies. In contrast, banks devote more resources toward productive uses in advanced countries. Consequently, monetary policy generates a Tobin effect.
O42|(In)determinacy, increasing returns, and the optimality of the Friedman rule in an endogenously growing open economy|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Saving less when there is more foreign lending? Foreign debt and savings in developing countries| Although literature has given considerable attention to the effects of foreign debt on growth, we still know little about its effects on the internal potential for capital formation. Literature suggests a number of channels through which the availability of foreign financing could affect domestic savings. We test empirically this relationship using data for Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean over 1975-2004. Controlling for endogeneity, we find that foreign debt adversely influences domestic savings especially in the long run. The results are not susceptible to the choice of countries, although few outliers should be noted.
O42|Saving less when there is more foreign lending? Foreign debt and savings in developing countries| Although literature has given considerable attention to the effects of foreign debt on growth, we still know little about its effects on the internal potential for capital formation. Literature suggests a number of channels through which the availability of foreign financing could affect domestic savings. We test empirically this relationship using data for Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean over 1975-2004. Controlling for endogeneity, we find that foreign debt adversely influences domestic savings especially in the long run. The results are not susceptible to the choice of countries, although few outliers should be noted.
O42|Liquidity Risk and Financial Competition: Implications on Asset Prices and Monetary Policy|Recent events in financial markets have led to a substantial decline in the number of financial institutions, which may affect the extent of financial competition. What are the implications of such outcome on the degree of risk sharing, asset markets, and monetary policy? In order to answer these questions, I develop a two-sector monetary growth in which money and financial institutions play important roles. Compared to a perfectly competitive financial sector, I demonstrate that imperfect competition in deposits and capital markets can have substantial adverse consequences on capital formation, assets prices, and the degree of risk sharing. More importantly, market power in financial markets may overturn the Tobin effect present under a perfectly competitive financial sector. This necessarily happens in economies with high degrees of liquidity risk and low levels of capital formation.
O42|The Financial Sector and Economic Growth| The Mankiw-Romer-Weil (1992) augmented Solow-Swan ( Solow 1956 ; Swan 1956 ) model is extended to incorporate the financial sector in this study. Distinguishing between financial capital, physical capital and human capital, the research attempts to identify, in particular, the effects of financial capital on economic growth. The effects of financial sector efficiency on economic growth are also examined. The financial sector augmented model is tested on a cross-section of 35 economies. Strong support is found for the model. Copyright © 2009 The Economic Society of Australia.
O42|Endogenous Specialization and Factor Substitution in a Monetary Growth Model|We study the effects of monetary policy on the choice of production technology and specialization. The level of output specialization is represented by the elasticity of substitution between capital and labor within a CES production function. A higher degree of specialization increases trading costs but also improves productivity. Money is introduced via a cash-in-advance constraint on consumption and specialization. Agents having access to a menu of production functions differing in the elasticity of substitution choose the optimal degree of specialization along with real money balances. Depending on the stage of development as measured by the initial degree of specialization both a Tobin and a reverse-Tobin effect can occur.
O42|Exchange rate volatility and productivity growth: The role of financial development|The vast empirical exchange rate literature finds the effect of exchange rate volatility on real activity to be small or insignificant. In contrast, this paper offers empirical evidence that real exchange rate volatility can have a significant impact on productivity growth. However, the effect depends critically on a country's level of financial development. The results appear robust to time window, alternative measures of financial development and exchange rate volatility, and outliers. We also offer a simple monetary growth model in which real exchange rate uncertainty exacerbates the negative investment effects of domestic credit market constraints.
O42|The Effect of Inflation on Growth: Evidence from a Panel of Transition Countries|The paper examines the effect of inflation on growth in transition countries. It presents panel data evidence for 13 transition countries over the 1990-2003 period,it uses a fixed effects, full-information maximum likelihood, panel approach to account for possible bias from correlations among the unobserved effects and the observed country heterogeniety. The results find a strong, robust, negative effect of inflation on growth, and one that declines in magnitude as the inflation rate increases. These results include a role for a normalized money demand, by itself and as part of a nonlinearity in the inflation-growth effect. And these results derive from both a baseline single equation model and one that is then expanded into a three equation simultaneous system. This allows for possible simultaneity bias in the baseline model.
O42|On the general equilibrium costs of perfectly anticipated inflation|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Consumption tax and economic growth in an overlapping generations model with money holdings|No abstract is available for this item.
O42|Long-Run Impacts of Inflation Tax in the Presence of Maintenance Expenditures|This paper examines the long-run impact of inflation tax in the context of a generalized Ak growth model in which the rate of capital depreciation is endogenously determined. We assume that the rate of capital depreciation positively depends on capital utilization rate and negatively depends on maintenance expenditures. Money is introduced via a cash-in-advance constraint that may apply to the maintenance expenditures as well as to consumption and investment spendings. We find that the long-run effects of inflation tax are more complex than those obtained in the monetary Ak growth model with a fixed capital depreciation rate. In particular, the relation between inflation and growth is highly sensitive to the specification of the capital depreciation technology as well as to the forms of cash-in-advance constraints.
O42|Inflation and investment in monetary growth models|The article contains a review of monetary growth models. We analyze the ways in which money is introduced into these models and the models’ conclusions about the impact of inflation on investment. We find that the models differ widely with respect to the ways in which they account for money and its functions in the economy as well as with respect to the “technical” assumptions, about e.g. the form of the utility function or the production function. Despite these differences most models fail to adequately capture money’s role and are highly sensitive to changes in the assumptions. Moreover, the models differ in their predictions about inflation’s impact on capital accumulation, with some models offering conclusions that are not only counterintuitive but also inconsistent with empirical evidence.
O42|Influence of Quantitative and Qualitative Factors of Banking Sector Development on Economic Growth in South East European Countries|The aim of this article is to determine the level and the nature of the quantitative and qualitative factors' influences on development of the banking sector and their influence on economic growth in South-East European countries (SEE). We used a OLS model with panel-corrected standard errors (PCSE) and panel data from six transition countries for the period 1999-2006. We measure the qualitative development in the banking sector with the margin between deposit and lending interest rates (INT). Quantitative aspects of the banking sector were measured using variables: Domestic credit to private sector as share of GDP and variable Domestic credit provided by banking sector as share of GDP. Quantitative development of the banking sector affects the economic growth in the observed period, since variable Domestic credit provided by banking sector proved statistically significant. However, the second variable, Domestic credit to private sector, did not prove to be significant in the observed period. With respect to the results obtained for the qualitative banking sector development, the INT variable did not prove significant for economic growth.
O42|Velocity and Monetary Expansion in a Growing Economy with Interest-Rate Control|We analyze the income velocity of money in an endogenous growth model with an interest-rate control rule and a cash-in-advance (CIA) constraint. We show that the long-term relationship between the income velocity of money and the nominal growth rate of money supply depends not only on the form of the CIA constraint but also on the central bank fs stance of interest-rate control rule.
O42|Habit Formation, Interest-Rate Control and Equilibrium Determinacy|We examine macroeconomic stability of a monetary economy with habit formation in consumption. We assume that monetary authority controls the rate of nominal interest in response to inflation and output gap. We show that in the presence of habit persistence not only active but also passive monetary policy can generate equilibrium determinacy under empirically plausible values of the elasticity of intertemporal substitution in felicity.
O42|Disinflation and the NAIRU in a New-Keynesian New-Growth Model (Extended Version)|"Unemployment in the big continental European economies like France and Germany has been substantially increasing since the mid 1970s. So far it has been difficult to empirically explain the increase in unemployment in these countries via changes in supposedly employment unfriendly institutions like the generosity and duration of unemployment benefits. At the same time, there is some evidence produced by Ball (1996, 1999) saying that tight monetary policy during the disinflations of the 1980s caused a subsequent increase in the NAIRU, and that there is a relationship between the increase in the NAIRU and the size of the disinflation during that period across advanced OECD economies. There is also mounting evidence suggesting a role of the slowdown in productivity growth, e.g. Nickell et al. (2005), IMF (2003), Blanchard and Wolfers (2000). This paper introduces endogenous growth via a capital stock externality into an otherwise standard New Keynesian model with capital accumulation and unemployment. We subject the model to a cost push shock lasting for 1 quarter, in order to mimic a scenario akin to the one faced by central banks at the end of the 1970s. Monetary policy implements a disinflation by following a standard interest feedback rule calibrated to an estimate of a Bundesbank reaction function. About 40 quarters after the shock has vanished, unemployment is still about 1.7 percentage points above its steady state, while annual productivity growth has decreased. Over the same horizon, a higher weight on the output gap increases employment (i.e. reduces the fall in employment below its steady state). Thus the model generates an increase in unemployment following a disinflation without relying on a change to labour market structure. We are also able to coarsely reproduce cross country differences in unemployment. A higher disinflation generated by a larger cost push shock causes a stronger persistent increase in unemployment, the correlation noted by Ball. For a given cost push shock, a policy rule estimated by Clarida, Gali and Gertler (1998) for the Bundesbank and the Federal Reserve Bank produces a stronger persistent increase in the case of the Bundesbank than of the Federal Reserve. Testable differences in real wage rigidity between continental Europe and the United States, namely, as pointed out by Blanchard and Katz (1999), the presence of the labour share in the wage setting function for Europe with a negative coefficient but it's absence in the U.S. also imply different unemployment outcomes following a cost push shock. If real wage growth does not depend on the labour share, the persistent increase in unemployment is about one percentage point smaller than when it does. To the extent that the wage setting structure is determined by labour market rigidities, ""Shocks and Institutions"" jointly determine the unemployment outcome, as suggested by Blanchard and Wolfers (2000). The calibration of unobservable model parameters is guided by a comparison of second moments of key variables of the model with Western German data. The endogenous growth model matches the moments better than a model without endogenous growth but otherwise identical features. This is particularly true for the persistence in employment as measured by first and higher order autocorrelation coefficients."
O42|Long-Run Impacts of Inflation Tax in the Presence of Multiple Capital Goods|This paper examines the long-run impact of inflation tax in the context of a generalized Ak growth model in which the production technology uses two types of capital stocks under a constant-returns-to-scale technology. We find that unless investment expenditure for each type of capital is subject to the same degree of cash-in-advance constraint, a change in the money growth rate affects the steady-state level of factor intensity. It is shown that if the balanced-growth path is uniquely given, we still have a negative longrun relationship between money growth and the growth rate of real income. However, due to the endogenous determination of the factor intensity, the negative relation between the velocity of money and the rate of inflation may not be established.
O42|The Institutionalization of Savings: A Role for Monetary Policy|A signi?cant amount of evidence highlights the important role of ?- nancial intermediaries for economic development and growth. Despite all the bene?ts from ?nancial intermediation, the level of participation in ?nancial institutions varies signi?cantly across countries. In particular, the usage of banks is much lower in less developed economies. Notably, less developed economies share many common characteristics including low-income per person, high average in?ation rates, high degrees of ex- posure to liquidity risk, and high banking fees. I present a monetary growth model with important functions of ?at money and where ?nan- cial intermediaries form endogenously to mitigate various market frictions such as liquidity risk and transactions costs. I demonstrate that all the unfavorable features of less developed economies listed above discourage people from intermediating their savings and hamper ?nancial sector per- formance.
O42|Liquidity Risk and Banks’ Asset Composition: Implications for Monetary Policy|monstrate that in?ation adversely a¤ects capital formation through the crowding out e¤ect. Interestingly, the results are at odds with empirical evidence. In particular, recent studies point out to an asymmetric rela- tionship between in?ation and the real economy across countries. Speci?- cally, in?ation and output are negatively correlated in poor countries. In contrast, in?ation is associated with higher levels of economic activity in advanced economies. I present a monetary growth model where the ex- posure to risk is inversely related to the level of income. In this setting, I demonstrate that the e¤ects of monetary policy depend on the level of economic activity and the portfolio composition of ?nancial institutions. In poor countries, banks?portfolios consist primarily of government liabili- ties. Therefore, a higher rate of money creation inhibits capital formation in these economies. In contrast, banks devote more resources towards productive uses in advanced countries. Consequently, monetary policy generates a Tobin effect.
O42|Money and Endogenous Growth in a Cash-in-Advance Model with Social Status|Motivated by the substantial increase of nominal money supply in the U.S. economy since late 2008, this paper examines the equilibrium growth effect of money/inflation within a standard one-sector AK model of endogenous growth with wealth-enhanced preferences for social status and the most generalized cash-in-advance constraint. We show that the sign for the correlation between money and output growth depends crucially on (i) the liquidity-constrained ratio of consumption to investment, and (ii) how the shadow price of physical capital responds to a change in the monetary growth rate. This money-growth correlation, as well as the growth effect of social status, turns out to be closely related to the local stability properties of the economy's balanced growth path(s).
O42|Modelling Real Gdp Per Capita In The Usa:Cointegration Tests|A two-component model for the evolution of real GDP per capita in the United States is presented and tested. First component of the growth rate of GDP represents the growth trend and is inversely proportional to the attained level of real GDP per capita, with the nominator being constant through time. Second component is responsible for the fluctuations around the growth trend and is defined as a half of the growth rate of the number of 9-year-olds. This nonlinear relationship between the growth rate of real GDP per capita and the number of 9-year-olds in the US is tested for cointegration. For linearization of the problem, the population time series is predicted using the relationship. Both single year of age population time series, the measured and predicted one, are shown to be nonstationary and integrated of order 1 ï¿½ the original series have unit roots and their first differences have no unit root. The Engel-Granger procedure is applied to the difference of the measured and predicted time series and to the residuals of a linear regression. Both tests show the existence of a cointegrating relation. The Johansen test results in the cointegrating rank 1. Since the cointegrating relation between the measured and predicted number of 9-year-olds does exist, the VAR, VECM, and linear regression are used in estimation of the goodness of fit and root mean-square errors, (RMSE). The highest R2=0.95 and the lowermost RMSE is obtained in the VAR representation. The VECM provides consistent, statistically reliable, and significant estimates of the slope in the cointegrating relation. Econometrically, the tests for cointegration show that the deviations of real economic growth in the US from the growth trend, as defined by constant annual increment of real per capita GDP, are driven by the change in the number of 9-year-olds.
O42|Inflation, Investment and Growth: a Banking Approach|Output growth, investment and the real interest rate are all found empirically to be negatively affected by inflation. But a seeming puzzle arises of opposite Tobin-like inflation effects because theory indicates a negative Tobin effect when investment falls and a positive Tobin effect when the real interest rate rises. We define inflation's Tobin effect more specifically in terms of the effect on the capital to effective labor ratio and resolve the puzzle by showing the simultaneous occurrence of all three negative inflation effects, on growth, investment and real interest rates, in a model calibrated to postwar US data. Here, investment along with consumption are exchanged for within a monetary endogenous growth economy with human capital and a decentralized credit-producing sector.
O42|Corruption, Seigniorage and Growth: Theory and Evidence|This paper presents an analysis of the effect of bureaucratic corruption on economic growth through a public finance transmission channel. At the theoretical level, we develop a simple dynamic general equilibrium model in which financial intermediaries make portfolio decisions on behalf of agents, and bureaucrats collect tax revenues on behalf of the government. Corruption takes the form of the embezzlement of public funds, the effect of which is to increase the government’s reliance on seigniorage finance. This leads to an increase in inflation which, in turn, reduces capital accumulation and growth. At the empirical level, we use data on 82 countries over a 20-year period to test the predictions of our model. Taking proper account of the government’s budget constraint, we find strong evidence to support these predictions under different estimation strategies. Our results are robust to a wide range of sensitivity tests.
O42|Openness And Economic Growth: A Comparative Study Of Alternative Trading Regimes|While common sense would indicate that trade and growth are positively correlated, it is not clear, both from theoretical and empirical perspectives, whether or not trade is a proximate determinant of economic growth. We try to elucidate the ambiguities in the literature, by studying the nexus between trade share and growth by comparing three different groups of countries: historical EEC, the extreme case of CAAEA customs union, and a group of European transitional economies (TEs) (largely now in the EU). Our main finding, by applying static and dynamic panel estimators, is that the coefficient of real openness has the incorrect sign for the former two samples but has the correct sign for the third. The positive link between openness and growth for the last group of countries is robust to changes in the empirical indicator of openness in the growth regressions (inter and infra-industry trade indicators).
O42|Free Trade Agreements and their impact on Latin American migrations: An approach|This paper aims to review the causes of internationalmigration and the potential impact of FTAs (Free TradeAgreements) on Latin American Migrations. Thefirst part describes the economic and non-economiccauses for migration. The second one shows the potentialimpact of FTAs in the economy (job creation/destruction by sectors) in CAFTA countries and Colombia.The last part shows that there is little correlationbetween the commercial openness (FTAs) andthe reduction of poverty. Poverty seems to be increasingin the studied countries -even more in thosewith the most open commercial regimens, than inthose with the most closed ones. Data proves thatopenness doesn´t reduce the poverty automatically;on the contrary, in some (regional or subregional) casesit increases and causes a major determinant of internationalmigration in Latin American countries.
O42|Balanced-Budget Rule, distortionary taxes and Aggregate Instability: A Comment|It has been shown that under perfect competition and constant returns-to-scale, a one-sector growth model may exhibit local indeterminacy when income tax rates are endogenously determined by a balanced-budget rule while government expendi- tures are fixed. This paper shows that the associated aggregate instability does not ensue from the local indeterminacy of a specific stationary equilibrium but from the multiplicity of the stationary equilibria and persists under local determinacy of all of them. We provide a global analysis of the Schmitt-Grohe and Uribe model [1997] and study specific cases that were not investigated in the original paper, when aggregate instability is inherited from the coexistence of two saddle-path equilibria on one hand and from the connection of the two steady states on the other hand.
O42|The welfare effects of government's preferences over spending and its financing|In this paper we examine the welfare effects of government's preferences over consumption and investment spending under different methods of financing in a two-period OLG model. The government has a utility function defined over the decomposition of her spending over two periods and raises funds by issuing bonds and by printing money. She allocates her funds into consumption expenditure that benefits the current population and investment expenditure which benefits the future population. The model is calibrated using data on the U.S. economy for the period 1981-2004. The findings reveal that the government's choice of financing as well as composition of spending into consumption-investment have differing impacts on the welfare of the young and old generations.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Financialisation Issues in a Post-Keynesian Stock-flow Consistent Model|"This paper presents a stock-flow consistent growth model which is set in the Post-Keynesian tradition. A key feature of the model, however, is that real government expenditures grow at a rate which is compatible over the long period with a constant rate of unemployment (at the ""natural rate of growth""). The model incorporates a detailed description of the household, production, banking and government sectors. This paper focuses on changes in parameters that are tied with financialization. The effects on the following changes are examined: the target proportion of retained earnings to investment, the proportion of profits distributed as dividends, the propensity of households to hold equities, and the propensity of households to take new loans as a proportion of their personal income. There is also a short analysis of the impact of a change in the loan repayment ratio and in the loan default ratio."
O42|Increasing Returns to Scale and Welfare: Ranking the Multiple Deterministic Equilibria|We consider a real business cycle model with a productive externality and an aggregate non- convex technology set µa la Benhabib and Farmer embodying capacity utilization, which exhibits indeterminacy of the steady state and multiplicity of deterministic equilibria under plausible values of the increasing returns to scale. The aim of the paper is to rank these different equilibria according to the initial value of consumption using both a linear-quadratic approximation, extensively explained by Benigno and Woodford [2006a, 2006b], and simulation methods. We study the implications of such a ranking in terms of smoothness of the welfare-maximizing trajectory and show that the welfare- maximizing consumption and labor paths are all the smoother since the level of increasing returns is low. At last, we show that this solution provides a good benchmark for judging the desirability of the stabilization policy proposed by Guo and Lansing [1997].
O42|Moeda endógena e progresso tecnológico induzido num modelo macrodinâmico pós-keynesiano|This article intend to analyze the process of the economic growth and income distribution in an environment where technological progress and the basic rate of interest are endogenous and the money, via credit offer, has a preponderant role in the determination of economic dynamics. In this context, we demonstrate several combinations where happen multiple equilibriums and soften flotation in the main relevant variables. Besides, for low salary portions, we observed the prevalence of a profit-led accumulation regime and, for high portions, a wage-led accumulation regime.
O42|Background Factors Facilitating Economic Growth Using Linear Regression and Soft Regression|This article attempts to explore the background factors facilitating economic growth. In this article background factors mean some set of factors that by their nature are slow to build up, but their presence is necessary to attain higher levels of aggregate income. Their presence, however, in itself does not guarantee higher levels of income; in particular if not all are present in sufficient amounts. In this study we do not claim to cover all such factors, but we will attempt to identify some of them. The purpose is to demonstrate quantitative methodology to identify such factors, so that similar methodology could be used in the future to identify additional factors facilitating growth. In this study we utilize international economic data from the data base of the World Bank.
O42|Is Volatility Good for Growth? Evidence from the G7|We provide empirical support for an analytical DSGE model with nominal wage stickiness where growth is driven by learning-by-doing and money shocks and their variance are allowed to impact on long-run output growth. In our theoretical model the variance of monetary shocks has a negative effect on growth, while output volatility is good for growth as a positive relationship exists. Using a bivariate GARCH-M model we test the empirical conditional mean and variance relationships of nominal money and production growth rates in the G7 countries. We corroborate the theoretical model predictions with evidence from Bonferroni multiple tests across the G7.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O42|Inflation and Growth: Impatience and a Qualitative Equivalence| This paper studies the role of an endogenous time preference on the relationship between inflation and growth in the long run in both the money-in-utility-function (MIUF) and transactions-costs (TC) models. We establish a qualitative equivalence between the two models in a setup without a labor-leisure tradeoff. When the time preference is decreasing (or increasing) in consumption and real balances, both the MIUF and TC models are qualitatively equivalent in terms of predicting a negative (or positive) relationship between inflation and growth in a steady state. Both a decreasing and an increasing time preference in consumption are consistent with the arguments found within the literature. While a decreasing time preference in real balances corroborates with empirical evidence, there is no evidence in support of an increasing time preference in real balances. Copyright (c) 2008 The Ohio State University.
O42|Equilibrium Determinacy of Endogenous Growth with Generalized Taylor Rule: A Discrete-Time Analysis|This paper examines equilibrium determinacy of a discrete-time AK growth model with a generalized Taylor rule under which interest rate responds to the growth rate of real income as well as to the rate of inflation. We use the standard money-in-the-utility formulation in which money is superneutral on the balanced-growth path. We show that even in such a simple environment, the generalized Taylor rule may yield indeterminacy of equilibrium easily. We also demonstrate that equilibrium determinacy depends on the timing of money holding of households as well.
O42|Progressive Taxation, Wealth Distribution, and Macroeconomic Stability|Using the standard neoclassical growth model with two types of agents, we examine how the presence of heterogenous agents affects the stabilization role of progressive income taxation. We first show that if the marginal tax payment of each agent increases with her relative income, the steady state satisfies local saddlepoint stability so that the equilibrium is determinate. However, unlike the representative agent models with progressive taxation, our model with heterogeneous agents may have the possibility of equilibrium indeterminacy. The indeterminacy conditions depend not only on the property of tax functions but also on production and preference structures.
O42|Money, Prices, Wages, and 'Profit Inflation' in Spain, the Southern Netherlands, and England during the Price Revolution era: c. 1520 - c. 1650|This is a substantially revised version of an earlier Working Paper (posted in 2002, with a different title), based on much new data and other information. It re-examines Earl Hamilton’s famous 1929 thesis on ‘Profit Inflation’ and the ‘birth of modern industrial capitalism’: namely, that the inflationary forces of the Price Revolution era produced a widening gap between prices and wages, thus providing industrial entrepreneurs with windfall profits, which they reinvested in larger-scale, more capital intensive forms of industry. Hamilton’s analyses of price and wage data for 16th- and 17th-century Spain, France, and England led him to conclude that: Spain had enjoyed virtually no ‘profit inflation’, since wages had generally kept pace with prices; and that early-modern England had experienced the greatest degree of such ‘profit inflation’. Such a contrast in their national economic experiences helps to explain, in Hamilton’s view, why Spain subsequently ‘declined’, while England became the homeland of the modern Industrial Revolution. A major reason for the significance and fame of the Hamilton thesis was its enthusiastic endorsement by John Maynard Keynes, in his Treatise of Money, published the following year, in 1930. Subsequently, the Hamilton ‘profit inflation’ thesis was subjected to severe attacks: by John Nef (1936-37) and David Felix (1956). But they had to rely on the same dubious and indeed often untrustworthy price and wage data for England and France (and of course on Hamilton’s data for Spain, which was of much higher quality). Both rightly noted that the proper comparison had to be made between industrial wages and industrial prices, not the price level in general. Since industrial prices generally rose less than did the overall price level (heavily weighted with foodstuffs), they found much less evidence for ‘profit inflation’ than had Hamilton. Nef developed a counter thesis to argue that sharply rising raw material costs, especially for wood and charcoal, forced industrialists to devise new furnace technologies to burn coal instead of wood or charcoal: changes that not inly reduced such costs but resulted in much larger-scale, more capital-intensive forms of industry. In this revised paper, I offer new data to demonstrate that neither the ‘energy’ nor the new furnace technologies took place until after the 1640s. This study is based on newer sets of price and wage indices that appeared after their publications: those by Phelps Brown and Hopkins for England (which I have modified, after using their data sheets in the LSE Archives), and for this version, additional price date for England. For the southern Netherlands, I have utilized Herman Van der Wee Consumer Price Index. My analyses of both industrial prices and industrial wages suggest that, for England, there is more evidence for potential ‘profit inflation’, in some industries, than Nef or Felix had been willing to concede. But the major discovery was that the Antwerp region continuously experienced, over the 16th and 17th centuries, the contrary phenomenon: what Keynes had called ‘Profit Deflation’ (for him, a truly negative force), in that industrial wages rose faster than industrial prices. And yet indisputably the southern Netherlands had a much more industrialized and more rapidly growing economy than did England, at least until the Revolt of the Netherlands (1568-1609). The concept of ‘profit inflation’ is not, therefore, a useful analytical tool, if based only on labour costs. This study concludes with a brief examination of the effects on inflation on two other factor costs: land, in terms of real rents, and capital, in terms of real interest rates, which did fall with inflation. In all likelihood both such costs did lag behind industrial prices in early-modern England and the Low Countries (and contrary to Eric Kerridge’s 1953 assertions on English rents), though real interest rates lagged more than did real rents. While disputing the Nef thesis, I do analyse the forms and nature of other new, larger-scale industries in this era (mining, metallurgy shipbuilding). I also provide a new appendix on the role of coinage debasements, as an another important monetary factor in determining regional differences in inflation rates; and this contradicts the almost universal assumption that debasements were irrelevant.
O42|Long-run relationship between inflation and growth in a New Keynesian framework|This study examines the steady-state growth effect of inflation in an endogenous growth model in which Calvo-type nominal rigidity with endogenous contract duration and monetary friction via wage-payment-in-advance constraint are assumed. On the balanced-growth path in this model, the marginal growth effect of inflation is weakly negative or even positive at low inflation rates because the effect on average markup offsets the negative marginal growth effect through the monetary friction, but the growth effect of inflation is negative and convex at higher inflation rates because the frequency of price adjustment approaches that of the flexible-price economy and the growth effect through the nominal rigidity is dominated by the growth effect through the monetary friction. With a plausible calibration of the structural parameters, this model generates a relationship between inflation and growth that is consistent with empirical evidence, particularly in industrial countries.
O42|Towards a sustainable Growth story: A critical analysis of the fundamentals|In this paper, I will develop an insight into the growth process of Indian Economy and will find that increased inequality due to unconventional transitions have its negative implications for future growth prospects and the overall issue of sustainability. The objective of this paper is to throw light on theoretical concepts of growth process and to suggest some policies which are in line with the conventions and at the same time are well integrated with the contemporary Indian Economy. Issues like that of consumption inequality, labor mobility etc. have been identified as inhibiting factors for a smooth flow of transitions and with a sector specific analysis, have been dealt with, so as to remove them and make the transition process free flowing, which will bring about a sustainable long-run growth strategy.
