O44|Capital Accumulation, Green Paradox, and Stranded Assets: An Endogenous Growth Perspective|The existing studies on Green Paradox and stranded assets focus on dirty exhaustible assets (fossil fuel reserves) and show that environmental regulations, by changing the costs of dirty inputs relative to clean ones, lead to replacements of the former by the latter and stranding of dirty assets due to perfect substitution. It, in turn, induces acceleration of dirty resource extractions and pollution emissions for fear of dirty assets becoming stranded - the Green Paradox effect. This paper uses an endogenous growth framework to revisit the problem of Green Paradox and stranded assets by taking a new perspective that focuses on capital accumulation with investment irreversibility. We show that if 1) direct irreversibility of investment does not rule out the indirect channel of converting dirty capital goods into clean ones through final goods allocations, and 2) interactions between dirty and clean capital as imperfect substitutes can generate reciprocal effects, then environmental regulation, through directing investment towards clean capital, does not necessarily leads to asset stranding of dirty capital. Accumulation of clean capital with a pollution-saving effect offsets the polluting impact of dirty one and leads to reversed Green Paradox. We further propose an endogenous growth mechanism through which the accumulation of both dirty and clean capital, as well as environmental improvement, can be sustained in the long run without converging to the steady state.
O44|Does China Fall into Poverty-Environment Traps? Evidence from Long-term Income Dynamics and Urban Air Pollution|This paper examines the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution using a joint distribution dynamics approach. This approach enables to estimate the transition process and long-run distribution and to examine the mechanisms behind the evolution process. The approach is applied to a unique panel data of CO2, SO2 and PM2.5 (particulate matter smaller than 2.5µm) for 286 Chinese cities over the period 2002-2014. Strong persistence in the transition dynamics suggests that this convergence process may require a long time. The distribution dynamics analyses indicate that multiple equilibria are the major characteristics in the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution in China, which implies that inter-regional technology spillover may be an important way to accelerate convergence. Our results further support the existence of poverty-environmental trap in PM2.5 concentrations. Thus, new environmental models are expected to be developed to explain this new stylized fact. The findings provide strong support for taking more aggressive measures that consider income and urban environment simultaneously to reduce poverty and air pollutions together in the Chinese cities.
O44|“Green regions and local firms’ innovation”|Technological innovation is essential to achieve simultaneously economic, environmental and social goals (i.e. the green growth). Indeed, many studies found that environmental innovation spurs overall innovation. However, this topic has not been investigated by taking into account the geographical context. Therefore, our paper seeks to investigate whether ‘green regions’, with an increased public and private commitment in environmental issues, are related to innovation of local firms. Using data on Spanish manufacturing firms and regions, we find that environmental technologies (especially in green energy), environmental investments, and environmental management at the level of regions are positively associated to local firms’ innovation.
O44|DICE-RD: An Implementation of Rate-Related Damages in the DICE model|A growing body of literature from the natural and the social sciences indicates that the rate of temperature increase is another key driver of total climate damages, next to the absolute increase in temperature compared to the pre-industrial level. Nonetheless, the damage functions employed in integrated assessment models that aim at studying the economics of climate change are usually based on the absolute temperature increase alone. Hence, these models neglect additional damag-es that will occur if the rate of temperature increase exceeds a certain threshold that overstrains the adaptive capacities of ecological and social systems. In the present paper, we implement such rate-related damages in the well-known integrated assessment model DICE-2016R. Using the resulting model variant DICE-RD we show for several different scenarios that an insufficient climate policy that ignores rate-related damages can lead to substantial economic losses.
O44|Long-term macroeconomic effects of climate change: A cross-country analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables - defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we find that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04oC per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01oC per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary significantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
O44|Wealth Management and Uncertain Tipping Points|We analyze optimal wealth management, within a global setting, where accumulation of GHGs caused by extraction of fossil resources affects the probability distribution for hitting a threshold or tipping point, indicating a climate change. We derive an optimal strategy for overall wealth management, within a Ramsey-Hotelling-framework. We have two assets; one being reproducible (reversible capital equipment) and another being non-reproducible (stock of exhaustible natural resources – fossil fuels). Resources, along with capital equipment, are inputs in the production of an aggregate output allocated to consumption and net investment. Resource extraction adds to a stock of GHGs that affects the likelihood for a catastrophic event. If, and when, such an event occurs there is a downscaling of production opportunities. We derive a first-best precautionary global tax on using fossil fuel, which internalizes the present value of (conditional) expected welfare loss of hitting a threshold, as well as a set of risk-modified optimality conditions for overall wealth management, as long as no catastrophe has occurred.
O44|Natural disasters and regional development – the case of earthquakes|We analyze the impact of earthquakes on nighttime lights at a sub-national level, i.e. on grids of different size. We argue that existing studies on the impact of natural disasters on economic development have several important limitations, both at the level of the outcome variable – usually national income or growth – as well as on the level of the independent variable, e.g. the timing of an event and the measuring of its intensity. We aim to overcome these limitations by using geophysical event data on earthquakes together with satellite nighttime lights. Using panel fixed effects regressions covering the entire world for the period 1992-2013 we find that earthquakes reduce both light growth rates and light levels significantly. The effects are persistent for approximately 5 years, but we find no long run effects. The effects are strong and robust in a small grid and gets weaker the larger the unit of observation. National institutions and economic conditions are relevant mediating factors.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O44|Discounting in the Presence of Scarce Ecosystem Services|Discounting has to take account of ecosystem services in consumption and production. Previous literature focuses on the first aspect and shows the importance of the relative price effect, for given growth rates of consumption and ecosystem services. This paper focuses on intermediate ecosystem services in production and shows that for limited substitutability and a low growth rate of these ecosystem services, the growth rate of consumption, and thus the discount rate, declines towards a low value. Using a Ramsey optimal-growth framework, the paper distinguishes three cases. If ecosystem services can be easily substituted, then the discount rate converges to the usual value in the long term. Secondly, if ecosystem services can be easily substituted in production but not in consumption, the relative price effect is important. Finally, and most interestingly, if ecosystem services cannot be easily substituted in production, the discount rate declines towards a low value and the relative price effect is less important. Another part of the previous literature has shown that a declining discount rate is the result of introducing several forms of uncertainty, but this paper reaches that conclusion from an endogenous effect on the growth rate of the economy.
O44|Demographic change and climate change|The paper uses a continuous-time overlapping-generations model with endogenous growth and pollution accumulation over time to study the link between longevity and global warming. It is seen that increasing longevity accelerates climate change in a business-as-usual scenario without climate policy. If a binding emission target is set exogenously and implemented via a cap-and-trade system, the price of emission permits is increasing in longevity. Longevity has no effect on the optimal solution of the climate problem if perfect intergenerational transfers are feasible. If these transfers are absent, the impact of longevity is ambiguous.
O44|Climate Change Expectations and Endogenous Economic Growth in the DICE Model|This paper studies the investment based growth rate effects of climate change. The analysis is based on the Integrated Assessment Model DICE by Nordhaus (2008). I depart from the original model, in that endogenous investments into a knowledge stock drive economic growth. Due to a negative capital accumulation as well as savings effect on the knowledge stock, climate change has a negative impact on gross income that lasts into the long run. In order to be able to quantify the growth rate effects, I calibrate the endogenous growth model version of DICE towards its exogenous growth counterpart. I find that in the exogenous growth model version of DICE, compared to its endogenous growth equivalent, in the social optimum, gross income is over-estimated by 2.3 % in 2100 and by 6.8 % in 2150.
O44|Growth and Long-Run Sustainability|From any state of economic and environmental assets, the maximin value defines the highest level of utility that can be sustained forever. Along any development path, the maximin value evolves over time according to investment decisions. If the current level of utility is lower than this value, there is room for growth of both the utility level and the maximin value. For any resource allocation mechanism (ram) and economic dynamics, growth is limited by the long-run level of the maximin value, which is an endogenous dynamic sustainability constraint. If utility reaches this limit, sustainability imposes growth to stop, and the adoption of maximin decisions instead of the current ram. We illustrate this pattern in two canonical models, the simple fishery and a two-sector economy with a nonrenewable resource. We discuss what our results imply for the assessment of sustainability in the short- and the long-run in non-optimal economies.
O44|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
O44|Un cuento de David y Goliat: Comercio, Tecnología y Crisis Ambiental|La heterogeniedad entre las acciones ambientales de los países es uno de los más grandes desafíos sociales y económicos globales. Este trabajo construye un modelo de comercio internacional de dos países y dos sectores simétricos (Sucio y Limpio) con cambio tecnológico dirigido que analiza si una política ambiental unilateral puede asegurar un crecimiento sostenible. La política es tomada por el Norte y, es una función del nivel del consumo y la calidad ambiental del país que la imponga. La política debe tener: (i) un impuesto a los insumos sucios domésticos para reducir el impacto ambiental del Norte; (ii) un arancel a los insumos sucios del extranjero para evitar paraísos de contaminación en los otros países y, (iii) un subsidio al sector limpio para promover la investigación en las tecnologías limpias. Cuando hay difusión tecnológica entre los países, esta política unilateral puede evitar una catástrofe ambiental global.
O44|Efectos de la digitalización y la productividad en la economía española : una comparación internacional|Los efectos de la digitalización en términos de contribución al crecimiento muestran que mientras la contribución de todos los inputs relacionados con la digitalización se sitúa entre 0,5 y 1,5 p.p. del crecimiento del valor añadido entre 1996 y 2014, la contribución de la productividad total de los factores (PTF) pesa negativamente reduciendo significativamente e incluso anulando el efecto positivo de la inversión en digitalización. Sin embargo y tal y como sucede a partir de 2015, cuando la contribución de la PTF es positiva, la digitalización, tal y como se ha medio en el estudio, es responsable de hasta un 30% del crecimiento del valor añadido. El valor acumulado entre 1996 y 2017 de los efectos agregados de la digitalización supone un 5,7% del PIB de 2016 pero, cuando se omite el valor del progreso tecnológico, se dispara hasta un 18% del PIB. El análisis del nivel de la productividad pone de manifiesto que el deterioro de la productividad del factor trabajo junto con un declive de la del capital entre 1996 y 2009, explican el bajo nivel de la PTF española. Sin duda y a pesar de la mejora del capital humano y de la inversión TIC durante el periodo observado, los niveles alcanzados no son suficientes para invertir la tendencia decreciente de la productividad de trabajo y mejorar significativamente la del capital. Sin embargo, cuando se amplía la lente del observado y se realiza el análisis desagregando por ramas de actividad, los resultados ponen de manifiesto que junto a ramas con deterioros profundos de productividad conviven ramas con tasas de crecimiento de la PTF de dos dígitos, entre las que sobresale la rama de la información y comunicación. A la luz de estos resultados, se impone un análisis en profundidad de la ineficiencia en la asignación de los recursos productivos de la economía española...
O44|Population and the environment: the role of fertility, education and life expectancy|This paper explores the interplay between population and environmental quality. After reviewing the existing literature, we set up a theoretical framework suitable to analyze two major endogenous forces of demographic change - fertility and life expectancy - and their dynamic interaction with human capital and environmental conditions. We thus revisit and encompass in a unified model some key results of the literature, and gain new insight on the consequences of policy intervention on environmental dynamics and economic development. In particular, we highlight (i) the possible perverse effects of pollution control, (ii) a demographic explanation of the environmental Kuznets curve, (iii) the opportunity of relying on educational subsidies to alleviate the pressure on natural resources, and (iv) the existence of poverty traps related to human capital and environmental quality.
O44|Reexamining the growth effects of ENSO: the role of local weather conditions|This paper examines the growth effects of ENSO events through their interactions with local weather conditions using the Standardized Precipitation and Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) from 1975 to 2014 and over a sample of 74 countries. The inclusion of SPEI in panel estimation makes it possible to control for time-varying country-specific effects of ENSO events, therefore outlining their heterogeneous effects on growth and eliminating a potential source of omitted-variable bias. By better identifying the persistence of ENSO effects on local weather conditions, we evidence that ENSO events generate heterogeneous and local effects depending not only on countries’ climate regime but also on their weather patterns. Our results suggest that examining the growth effects of ENSO events should thus explicitly account for their interaction with weather patterns to capture more precisely the heterogeneity across countries.
O44|Long-Term Macroeconomic Effects of Climate Change: A Cross-Country Analysis|We study the long-term impact of climate change on economic activity across countries, using a stochastic growth model where labour productivity is affected by country-specific climate variables-defined as deviations of temperature and precipitation from their historical norms. Using a panel data set of 174 countries over the years 1960 to 2014, we fi?nd that per-capita real output growth is adversely affected by persistent changes in the temperature above or below its historical norm, but we do not obtain any statistically significant effects for changes in precipitation. Our counterfactual analysis suggests that a persistent increase in average global temperature by 0.04° per year, in the absence of mitigation policies, reduces world real GDP per capita by 7.22 percent by 2100. On the other hand, abiding by the Paris Agreement, thereby limiting the temperature increase to 0.01° per annum, reduces the loss substantially to 1.07 percent. These effects vary signifi?cantly across countries. We also provide supplementary evidence using data on a sample of 48 U.S. states between 1963 and 2016, and show that climate change has a long-lasting adverse impact on real output in various states and economic sectors, and on labour productivity and employment.
O44|The optimal carbon tax with an endogenous chance of a tipping climate|This paper describes an integrated assessment model with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. The possibility of tipping leads to the following linked outcomes: a prolonged period of peak temperature; a rebound in emissions prior to and during peak temperature; and a fall in the optimal carbon tax as a ratio of output prior to and during peak temperature. Although tipping can occur in any period where temperature rises to a new maximum, the optimal carbon price can be calculated from future temperature outcomes conditional on no tipping. Learning that tipping has not occurred lowers the tax.
O44|Weighing cows and coal: Optimal taxes for methane and carbon from a tipping risk|Different optimal tax paths for short-lived methane and long-lived carbon arise in a cost-benefit framework with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. Tax paths are compared with a cost minimising approach where an upper-temperature limit is set. In both approaches, the weight (ratio) of methane to carbon taxes converge to the same value by the end of the peak temperature stabilisation period. Numerical results from the cost-benefit framework suggest: the optimal weight is close to the current United Nations policy of a 100-year Global Warming Potential; and the time-frame should decrease to align with the expected end of peak temperature.
O44|Optimal climate policy with directed technical change, extensive margins and a decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|This paper extends the climate model with endogenous technology of Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012). A non-energy sector is introduced which decreases the costs of abatement by more than an order of magnitude through the extensive margin of labour, as labour can move freely between sectors. An extensive margin of research, where researchers can switch between non-energy and energy research, leads to a period of intense research in the clean sector above the long-run share and increases the power of policy to avert environmental disaster. A decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean energy rises is also considered, reflecting the increasing difficulty of integrating intermittent clean energy supply in electricity. A decreasing elasticity increases the initial optimal tax on dirty energy and therefore lowers the subsidies required to direct technical change towards clean energy.
O44|"A comment on innovation in ""The environment and directed technical change"""|The framework used to endogenise technology growth by Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012), hereafter AABH, allows the existence of unstable equilibria and does not provide a rationale for specifying which equilibrium should apply when more than one exists. This paper: (i) suggests a rationale for choosing one corner solution used in AABH that constitutes a lower bound for the subsidy or tax required to direct clean research; (ii) argues against use of the other corner solution; and (iii) provides an alternative equilibrium that constitutes an upper bound to the policy required. The alternative methods can produce substantially different results when the elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs is high.
O44|Evidence for and modelling of a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|A review of the literature indicates a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean inputs rises. In the power sector, which is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, integrating intermittent clean energy supply becomes increasingly difficult as the clean share rises. This paper describes a simple structural model of electricity generation which: demonstrates how the elasticity falls as the clean share rises; can replicate the range of results from the electricity literature; considers the effects of storage, and; facilitates estimation of a suitable production function. A bimodal production function with two elasticity regimes - an elasticity above 8 up to a 50 to 70 per cent clean share and an elasticity below 3 beyond this share – can replicate results well from the structural model.
O44|Diversifying in green technologies in European regions: does political support matter?|Regional diversification is a process characterized by past and place dependence: new activities tend to emerge and develop in a region in technological or industrial fields closely related to existing local activities. Recently, the relatedness concept has also been applied successfully to studies on green diversification of regions, providing new insights to the transition literature that is primarily focused on disruptive change. What has received little attention is a systematic approach that assesses the role of political support for the ability of regions to diversify into new green activities. This paper makes a first attempt to test the impact of regional capabilities and political support for environmental policy at the national and regional scale on the ability of 95 regions in 7 European countries to diversify into new green technologies during the period 2000-2012. We find evidence that related capabilities rather than political support in a region is associated with green diversification of regions in Europe. However, political support tends to moderate the role of regional capabilities.
O44|Why Is Green Finance Important?|In 2017, global investment in renewables and energy efficiency declined by 3% and there is a risk that it will slow further; clearly fossil fuels still dominate energy investment. This could threaten the expansion of green energy needed to provide energy security and meet climate and clean air goals. Several developed and developing economies are still following pro-coal energy policies and the extra CO2 generated by new coal-fired power plants could more than wipe out any reductions in emissions made by other nations. Finance is the engine of development of infrastructure projects, including energy projects. Generally financial institutions show more interest in fossil fuel projects than green projects, mainly because there are still several risks associated with these new technologies and they offer a lower rate of return. If we want to achieve sustainable development goals, we need to open a new file for green projects and scale up the financing of investments that provide environmental benefits, through new financial instruments and new policies, such as green bonds, green banks, carbon market instruments, fiscal policy, green central banking, financial technologies, community-based green funds, etc., which are collectively known as “green finance”.
O44|Does China Fall into Poverty-Environment Traps? Evidence from Long-term Income Dynamics and Urban Air Pollution| This paper examines the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution using a joint distribution dynamics approach. This approach enables to estimate the transition process and long-run distribution and to examine the mechanisms behind the evolution process. The approach is applied to a unique panel data of CO2, SO2 and PM2.5 (particulate matter smaller than 2.5μm) for 286 Chinese cities over the period 2002-2014. Strong persistence in the transition dynamics suggests that this convergence process may require a long time. The distribution dynamics analyses indicate that multiple equilibria are the major characteristics in the long-run relationship between income and urban air pollution in China, which implies that inter-regional technology spillover may be an important way to accelerate convergence. Our results further support the existence of poverty-environmental trap in PM2.5 concentrations. Thus, new environmental models are expected to be developed to explain this new stylized fact. The findings provide strong support for taking more aggressive measures that consider income and urban environment simultaneously to reduce poverty and air pollutions together in the Chinese cities.
O44|Sustainability of an economy relying on two reproducible assets|The highest utility level that can be sustained in an economy is given by the maximin value. To be able to use this value for sustainability accounting, the corresponding maximin problem must be solved. This paper studies the sustainability of an economy composed of two reproducible assets, each producing one of two consumption goods which are substitutes in utility. We characterize the maximin path of the economy, and associated maximin shadow values. We discuss how these shadow values could be used as accounting prices for development paths that differ from the maximin trajectory. The corresponding genuine savings indicator informs on the improvement or decline of the sustainable level of utility and the prospects of future generations.
O44|Local bifurcations of three and four-dimensional systems: A tractable characterization with economic applications|We provide necessary and sufficient conditions to detect local bifurcations of three and four-dimensional dynamical systems in continuous time. We characterize not only the bifurcations of codimension one but also those of codimension two. For the sake of completeness, we give also the non-degeneracy conditions for each bifurcation. The added value of our methodology rests on its generality. To illustrate the tractability of our approach, we provide two analytical applications of dimension three and four to environmental economics, complemented with numerical simulations.
O44|The Consequences of Uncertainty: Climate Sensitivity and Economic Sensitivity to the Climate|"We construct an integrated assessment model with multiple energy sources-two fossil fuels and “green energy"" - and use it to evaluate ranges of plausible estimates for the climate sensitivity as well as for the sensitivity of the economy to climate change. Rather than focusing on uncertainty explicitly, we look at extreme scenarios defined by the upper and lower limits given in available studies in the literature. We compare optimal policy with laissez faire and we point to the possible policy errors that could arise. By far the largest policy error arises when the climate policy is “overly passive""; “overly zealous"" climate policy (i.e., a high carbon tax applied when climate change and its negative on the economy are very limited) does not hurt the economy much as there is considerable substitutability between fossil and non-fossil energy sources."
O44|Crises and emissions: New empirical evidence from a large sample|In this paper, we empirically assess by means of the local projection method, the impact of different types of financial crises on a variety of pollutant emissions categories for a sample of 86 countries between 1980 and 2012. We find that financial crises in general lead to a fall in CO2 and methane emissions. When hit by a debt crisis, a country experiences a rise in emissions stemming from either energy related activities or industrial processes. During periods of slack, financial crises in general had a positive impact on both methane and nitrous oxide emissions. If a financial crisis hit an economy when it was engaging in contractionary fiscal policies, this led to a negative response of CO2 and production-based emissions.
O44|In and beyond the locality : policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China|This article investigates the interaction process between policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China, focusing on the case of the Huai River Basin. Since the 1970s, rural communities in the basin have suffered from persistent water pollution health hazards. Through a critical review of the interactions between policy and practices, this article reveals how these two approaches coevolved in the cooperative sphere, that is, a quasi-public sphere under fragmented authoritarianism in China supported by the state, media and environmental non-governmental organizations to address the ecological disaster in and beyond the basin. Additionally, a disconnect between practices in the locality and the policy beyond it can be observed as another side of fragmentation in the field of environment and health issues. Grassroots “micropolitics” such as dialogue, negotiation, cooperation with polluters and local authorities, and innovation as an alternative to the official public work based on social and ecological knowledge are examined to overcome this fragmentation.
O44|Long-Run Environmental Accounting in the U.S. Economy|This paper estimates an augmented measure of national output inclusive of environmental pollution damage in the United States economy over a 60-year period. The paper reports two primary findings. First, air pollution intensity declined precipitously from the 1950s to the modern era. Air pollution damage comprised roughly 30 percent of output in the post WWII economy, declining to under 10 percent in 2016. Second, accounting for pollution damage significantly affects growth rates. Prior to the passage of the Clean Air Act in 1970, GDP outpaced Environmentally-Adjusted Value Added (EVA), defined as GDP less air pollution damage. Following passage of the Act, EVA grew more rapidly than GDP. Macroeconomic and environmental policies, as well as the business cycle, appreciably affect damages and EVA growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O44|Managing environmental risks in development banks and development finance institutions – what role for donor shareholders?|How and where infrastructure is built – and how environmental and social risks related to infrastructure are managed – will have a direct influence on whether developing countries pursue more sustainable development pathways or not. Development banks and development finance institutions (DFIs) serve as important channels for infrastructure finance, have adopted safeguards systems to minimise and manage the environmental and social risks associated with their projects. This paper provides an overview of these systems and discusses the role of members of the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) in influencing these, in their capacity as shareholders of these institutions. It shows that donor governments influence the policies and activities of development banks, but that the level of engagement varies between bilateral and multilateral development banks and is often determined by internal capacity. The paper argues that donor shareholder governments must continue to play an important role in encouraging development banks to strengthen the implementation of safeguards, which will require continued collaboration within governments, across countries and between development banks and DFIs. Efforts to build the evidence base on the impacts of safeguards in projects will further support this agenda.
O44|Towards Green Growth in Emerging Market Economies: Evidence from Environmental Performance Reviews|This paper provides a cross-country review of progress towards green growth in selected emerging market economies that are members or partners of the OECD. It draws on the country studies conducted within the OECD Environmental Performance Review Programme for Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Turkey between 2013 and 2019. It presents the main achievements in the countries reviewed, along with common trends and policy challenges. It provides insights into the effectiveness and efficiency of green growth policy frameworks and measures, which may provide useful lessons for other OECD and partner countries.
O44|A General Assessment of Climate Change - Loss of Agricultural Productivity in Indonesia|The changes of frequency and complexity of extreme climate events and in the variability of weather patterns will have significant impacts for stability of agricultural system. Climate change and variability are phenomena of climate anomalies that are of great concern, especially due to the agricultural sector. In Indonesia, in 30 years there have been several extreme conditions which are marked by the frequency of increasingly high climate variability. This paper investigate the impact of climate change on change of value GDP, change of wealth, Government Household Demand, Private Household Demand and real wage in Indonesia by using the dynamic Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model. This study used GTAP 9 with base year 2011. The GTAP database covers 140 regional units and 57 sectors that aggregated into eleven regions and eight sectors. There are three scenarios of climate change used in this paper that were the highest, medium and the lowest. The results shows that both GDP and wealth have a negative impact due to the scenarios. The greater of climate change is, the greater the decrease of values of GDP, Wealth, Market Price, Government Household Demand, Private Household Demand towards the scenarios of climate change in Indonesia are. The results indicate an urgent need to mainstream adaption strategies to lessen the negative impacts of any climate change-induced loss of agricultural productivity in Indonesia.
O44|Non-Renewable Resources and the Possibility of Sustainable Economic Development in a Positive or Negative Population Growth Economy|The purpose of this study is to investigate how the long-run growth rate of per capita output is determined when an economy is subject to non-renewable resource constraints and the population growth is negative by using a theoretical model. From this, we can examine the effect of population decline and the effect of depletion of natural resources on economic growth. Our results show that irrespective of whether the population growth rate is positive or negative, the long-run growth rate of per capita output can be positive depending on conditions. This result suggests that even an economy with non-renewable resources and declining population can obtain sustainable economic growth.
O44|The Determinants of Economic Growth: The Role of Infrastructure|The main objectives of the study were to examine the effect of infrastructure (i.e. railway network) on economic growth and to examine the direction of causality between economic growth and infrastructure using historical data covering the period of 1980 to 2016 and cointegration analysis. The findings from the study revealed a positive and significant effect of infrastructure on economic growth in the long-run however, the effect of infrastructure on economic growth was not significant in the short-run analysis. Also, the test of causality found a unidirectional causality running from economic growth to infrastructure. To increase economic growth in the United States, this study recommends that both the Federal and the State Government should increase its investments in infrastructure spending especially in railways.
O44|Measuring Macroeconomic Uncertainty in Zimbabwe|What matters to economic decision-making is whether the economy has become more or less predictable. People and businesses use information around them to form judgements about what might happen in the future. The rise in uncertainty might be associated with increased concern about extreme events, skewed towards worries about bad or disastrous events. The study seeks to measure macroeconomic uncertainty in Zimbabwe, using stock market indices - industrial index and mining index - for the period 2010M1 to 2019M3. Prevalence of macroeconomic uncertainty has been traced from the stock market index trend and stock market returns volatility. The squared residuals of the GARCH(1,1) regression model proxied macroeconomic uncertainty levels. The prevalence of significant macroeconomic uncertainty has been observed, with some periods highly uncertain. The study linked periods of uncertainty to some known political, social and economic events to derive meaning. The study found that some political, social and economic events have a contributing effect on the level of macroeconomic uncertainty. Good events and policies are accompanied by low levels of uncertainty while bad events and controversial policies match with high levels of uncertainty. The study recommends that to create a good economic climate, to attract investment and boost confidence in the economy, policymakers should dwell on reducing macroeconomic uncertainty. Reducing macroeconomic uncertainty require policy consistency, policy consultations, less frequent policy changes, avoiding numerous policies, avoiding policy reversals, among other measures. The observed macroeconomic uncertainty affects proper economic decision-making and is not conducive for high levels of investment for local and international investors; companies may struggle to hire labor, and employees and corporates may delay spending and saving pattern distorted.
O44|Sustainability of the transport sector during the last 20 years: evidences from a panel of 35 countries|Between 1990 and 2015, the annual global amount of CO 2 emission generated by transport has increased by 68%, from around 4.6 GtCO 2 to around 7.7 GtCO2. Technological advances towards eco friendly vehicles and policy incentives promoting environmental friendly modes of transport have thus been offset by economic growth and increasing mobility. This study questions the relationship between economic growth and sustainability performance of transport sector. It adds to the literature new insights concerning recent trends in the relationship between gross domestic product and various aspects of transport sustainability such as carbon footprint, carbon intensity and transport safety. A particular attention is given to discussing the emerging issues of “carbon inequality” and the role of political entities that contribute most to global CO2 emissions, such China, USA and the EU. Finally, this study adds to the literature a composite index of transport sustainability performance and explores between country inequalities in terms of sustainability performance.
O44|Companies characteristics and environmental quality disclosure in Indonesia|The size of the company (size) is a factor that affects quality disclosure of environmental impacts. This is related to the number of assets owned by the company where large companies need more funds in managing their operations compared to smaller companies. Companies with large sizes also tend to pay more attention to the quality of disclosure of the company's environmental impact to obtain a good impression from stakeholders. This study aims to obtain empirical evidence about the characteristics of companies that influence the quality of disclosure of the company's environmental impact.
O44|Determinants of capital structure decisions in Indonesia|The aims of this study are to examine the effect of return on equity (ROE), current ratios (CR), tangibility, non-debt tax shields (NDTS) and growth opportunities (GO) on the debt to equity ratio of the Indonesian Stock Exchange Manufacturing Sector. This study uses data analysis techniques with multiple linear regression models using a panel data analysis mechanism. The object of this research is manufacturing companies listed in Indonesia Stock Exchange with a span of observational studies is from 2008 - 2012. The sampling technique used was purposive sampling technique. In testing multiple regression models using panel data analysis used a statistical software tool namely E-views series 4. Panel data testing was carried out in 3 tests, namely Pooled Least Squared (PLS) Test, Fixed Effect Model (FEM) and Random Effect Model (REM) The results of the sample selection are based on 88 companies from the total of 125 companies. Every data from this research is collected from the sources of the Indonesian Capital Market Directory (ICMD). Multiple regression testing begins with testing the estimation of Pooled Least Square (PLS) and Fixed Effect Model (FEM) and the results of the Chow-Test test stated that FEM is better than PLS. Also, Random Effect Model (REM) testing and Hausman showed that REM is a better model in analyzing this research data, so that this study is no longer testing classical assumptions. Based on the results of the tests conducted, the results show that the research model formed from the independent variable return on equity (ROE), current ratio (CR), tangibility, non-debt tax shields (NDTS) and growth opportunities (GO) affected the debt to equity ratio (DER) in the manufacturing sector of companies listed on the Indonesia Stock Exchange in the period 2008 to 2012. Also, partially variable which has a significant effect and in accordance with the theory is only the ROE variable where the variable has a negative effect.
O44|Natural disasters and economic growth in Africa|The continent of Africa has experienced its fair share of natural disasters historically and in contemporary times. The effect of natural disasters on economic growth has generated useful but inconclusive debates in the literature. Different studies have found positive, negative or no significant effects at all in some cases of disasters on growth. This makes the question of what impacts natural disasters have on an economy’s growth a purely empirical one and more meaningful to be examined on a case by case basis. Using panel data solely for the continent of Africa from 1980-2015, our regression results show a significant negative effect of natural disasters on economic growth, growth in agricultural value-added and growth in industrial value-added. Additionally, our results also show that disaster effect appears and persists in the post-year periods. The negative relationship between economic growth and disasters is also robust to different disaster measures. We recommend the need to invest in the modernization of the agricultural sector in Africa with the goal of withstanding the negative effects of natural disasters.
O44|Homo Oeconomicus im Treibhaus Erde: Umweltpolitische Herausforderungen aus polit-ökonomischer Perspektive|"This paper draws attention to three challenges for environmental policy that are rather neglected and only rudimentary addressed in the current discourse on the topic of climate protection and environmental protection. Section 2 discusses how ""fake news"" poses a problem for environmental policy. Section 3 addresses the question of how to deal with the existing ""knowing-doing gaps"" in some environmental policy contexts. Finally, Section 4 highlights the difficulties of a global and fair environmental policy. These challenges are considered from a politico-economic perspective, more specifically, through the lens of Public Choice Theory/New Political Economy."
O44|Why is Green Finance Important ?|In 2017, global investment in renewables and energy efficiency declined by 3% and there is a risk that it will slow further; clearly fossil fuels still dominate energy investment. This could threaten the expansion of green energy needed to provide energy security and meet climate and clean air goals. Several developed and developing economies are still following pro-coal energy policies and the extra CO2 generated by new coal-fired power plants could more than wipe out any reductions in emissions made by other nations. Finance is the engine of development of infrastructure projects, including energy projects. Generally financial institutions show more interest in fossil fuel projects than green projects, mainly because there are still several risks associated with these new technologies and they offer a lower rate of return. If they want to achieve sustainable development goals, they need to open a new file for green projects and scale up the financing of investments that provide environmental benefits, through new financial instruments and new policies, such as green bonds, green banks, carbon market instruments, fiscal policy, green central banking, financial technologies, community-based green funds, etc., which are collectively known as â€œgreen financeâ€ .
O44|Structural Changes and Sustainability. A Selected Review of the Empirical Evidence|The paper offers a review of selected topics in the empirical literature on structural change and sustainability. We focus on aspects of structural change that directly affect emissions and energy intensity: changes of the sectoral composition of economies, trade and international fragmentation of production, technological change and innovation, and demand. We identify several empirical facts. First, only a few countries have experienced a decoupling between growth and emissions, due to proportionately faster growth rather than greater energy efficiency. Second, the long-term shift from manufacturing to services has not led, in all cases, to the de-materialisation of economies and a lower environmental burden. Exploitation of energy efficiency increases depends on the ability of the service sectors to incorporate technical changes to reduce energy intensity. Third, global trade and energy and emissions intensity trends support the ‘pollution haven’ hypothesis, which predicts displacement of the environmental burden from developed to emerging countries. The pursuit by developing countries of a long-term strategy of ‘trading jobs for emissions' is likely to exacerbate the asymmetry related to emissions intensities between developed and less developed economies. The review should inform debate on environmental policy within the broader context of innovation and development policies.
O44|The Circular Economy: Swings and Roundabouts?|In the last few decades the Circular Economy has increasingly been advertised as an economic model that can replace the current “linear” economy whilst addressing the issues of environmental deterioration, social equity and long-term economic growth with the explicit suggestion that it can serve as a tool for Sustainable Development. However, despite the individual prominence of the Circular Economy and Sustainable Development in the academic and wider literature, the exact relationship between the two concepts has neither been thoroughly defined nor explored. The consequent result is various inconsistencies occurring across the literature regarding how the Circular Economy can serve as a tool for Sustainable Development and an incomplete understanding of how its long-term effects differ from those of the “linear” economy. A literature review was conducted to interpret the current conceptual relationship between the Circular Economy and Sustainable Development. The review highlights numerous challenges concerning conceptual definition, economic growth and implementation that inhibit the use of the Circular Economy as a tool for Sustainable Development in its current form. The review concludes by providing suggestions for how research concerning the Circular Economy should proceed if it is to provide a potential approach for achieving Sustainable Development.
O44|The State of DSGE Modelling|This survey and assessment of the state of DSGE modelling is structured around six key criticisms levelled at the approach. The first is fundamental and common to macroeconomics and microeconomics alike - namely, problems with rationality and expected utility maximization. The second is that DSGE models examine fluctuations about an exogenous balanced growth path and there is no role for endogenous growth, either medium or long-term. The third consists of a number of concerns associated with systems estimation. The fourth is another fundamental problem with any microfounded macro-model - that of heterogeneity and aggregation. The fifth and sixth concerns focus on the rudimentary nature of earlier models that lacked unemployment and a banking sector.
O44|Diversifying in green technologies in European regions: does political support matter?|Regional diversification is a process characterized by past and place dependence: new activities tend to emerge and develop in a region in technological or industrial fields closely related to existing local activities. Recently, the relatedness concept has also been applied successfully to studies on green diversification of regions, providing new insights to the transition literature that is primarily focused on disruptive change. What has received little attention is a systematic approach that assesses the role of political support for the ability of regions to diversify into new green activities. This paper makes a first attempt to test the impact of regional capabilities and political support for environmental policy at the national and regional scale on the ability of 95 regions in 7 European countries to diversify into new green technologies during the period 2000-2012. We find evidence that related capabilities rather than political support in a region is associated with green diversification of regions in Europe. However, political support tends to moderate the role of regional capabilities.
O44|Degrowth in a neo-Kaleckian model of growth and distribution? A theoretical compatibility and stability analysis|Situated at the interface between post-Keynesian and ecological economics, this article investigates the theoretical possibilities for a degrowth transition to take place while preserving macroeconomic stability. More precisely, the objective is to find whether in a neo-Kaleckian model of growth and distribution an equilibrium with a zero or even negative rate of accumulation can coexist with the Keynesian stability condition being verified. Our results are threefold. First, we confirm that adding the rate of depreciation to the canonical model allows for such an equilibrium to exist, but argue in favor of considering animal spirits rather than the depreciation factor as a potential policy variable for the management of the degrowth transition. Second, other elements such as overhead labour, a tax on capital, an autonomous component in consumption expenditures and a budget deficit can all give this result and provide more 'space' for the equilibrium with a negative rate of accumulation. Finally, we use the mechanism of the Sraffian supermultiplier to illustrate that combined political action and adoption of a more ecological mode of living can be the drivers of a stable degrowth transition. After the transition is completed, the stabilisation of aggregate consumption maintains the economy in a stationary state, at an ecologically sustainable level.
O44|Energy Efficiency and Directed Technical Change: Implications for Climate Change Mitigation|I build a quantitative model of economic growth that can be used to evaluate the impact of environmental policy interventions on final-use energy consumption, an important driver of carbon emissions. In the model, energy demand is driven by endogenous and directed technical change (DTC). Energy supply is subject to increasing extraction costs. Unlike existing DTC models, I consider the case where multiple technological characteristics are embodied in each capital good, a formulation conducive to studying final-use energy. The model is consistent with aggregate evidence on energy use, efficiency, and prices in the United States. I examine the impact of new energy taxes and compare the results to the standard Cobb-Douglas approach used in the environmental macroeconomics literature, which is not consistent with data. When examining a realistic and identical path of energy taxes in both models, the DTC model predicts 22% greater cumulative energy use over the next century. I also use the model to study the macroeconomic consequences of R & D subsidies for new energy efficient technologies. I find large rebound effects that undo short-term reductions in energy use.
O44|Power generation and structural change: Quantifying economic effects of the coal phase-out in Germany|In the fight against global warming, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a major objective. In particular, a decrease in electricity generation by coal could contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. Using a multi-region dynamic general equilibrium model, this paper studies potential economic consequences of a coal phase-out in Germany. Different regional phase-out scenarios are simulated with varying timing structures. We find that a politically induced coal phase-out would lead to an increase in the national unemployment rate by about 0.10 percentage points from 2020 to 2040, depending on the specific scenario. The effect on regional unemployment rates varies between 0.18 to 1.07 percentage points in the lignite regions. However, a faster coal phase-out can lead to a faster recovery. The coal phase-out leads to migration from German lignite regions to German non-lignite regions and reduces the labour force in the lignite regions by 10,000 people by 2040.
O44|To Build or Not to Build? Capital Stocks and Climate Policy|We investigate how irreversibility in “dirty” and “clean” capital stocks affects optimal climate policy, from both theoretical and numerical perspectives. An increasing carbon tax will reduce investments in assets that pollute, and so reduce emissions in the short term: our “irreversibility effect”. As such the “Green Paradox” has a converse if we focus on demand side capital stock effects. We also show that the optimal subsidy increases with the deployment rate: our “acceleration effect”. Considering second-best settings, we show that, although carbon taxes achieve stringent targets more efficiently, in fact renewable subsidies deliver higher welfare when policy is more mild.
O44|Job Design and the Benefits of Private Trade|We reconsider the job design theory of Holmstrom and Milgrom (1991), to include career concerns considerations. When reputations are considered, discretion may play a more integral part of the incentive scheme. It can be a useful instrument to enhance incentives and prevent the adverse selection of low ability agents. We then show that these synergies are useful in explaining the employment of U.S. faculty members and the employment of agents in the English East India Company, an historically important firm.
O44|The Origins of the Division of Labor in Pre-modern Times|This research explores the historical roots of the division of labor in pre-modern societies. It advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that intra-ethnic diversity had a positive effect on the division of labor across ethnicities in the pre-modern era. Exploiting a variety of identification strategies and a novel ethnic level dataset combining geocoded ethnographic, linguistic and genetic data, it establishes that higher levels of intra-ethnic diversity were conducive to economic specialization in the pre-modern era. The findings are robust to a host of geographical, institutional, cultural and historical confounders, and suggest that variation in intra-ethnic diversity is the main predictor of the division of labor in pre-modern times.
O44|Electricity supply shocks and economic growth across the US states: evidence from a time-varying Bayesian panel VAR model, aggregate and disaggregate energy sources|This paper investigates spillovers between electricity supply shocks and US growth, using monthly data from 48 US States, spanning the period January 2001-September 2016, while employs a novel strategy for electricity supply shocks based on a time-varying Bayesian panel VAR model. It accounts for the decomposition of electricity supply per fuel mixture and links its possible interactions with the US macroeconomic conditions. In that sense, the methodology models the coefficients as a stochastic function of multiple structural characteristics. The findings document that GDP growth increases after a positive electricity supply shock, irrelevant to the source of energy that generates it.
O44|The Impact of Agricultural Trade on Economic Growth in North Africa: Econometric Analysis by Static Gravity Model|The contribution of this paper is investigating the influence of agricultural exports and agricultural imports on economic growth in North Africa Countries since it’s never been processed before. To endeavor this purpose annual data was collected for the period 1982 – 2016 and was tested by using correlation analysis and the static gravity model. Empirical analyses show that agricultural trade has a positive correlation with gross domestic product, but it appears that agricultural exports and gross domestic product have a weak correlation. The static gravity model estimation shows that agricultural exports have a positive on economic growth. However, agricultural imports have not any effect on economic growth. These results appear that agricultural exports are a fountain of economic growth in North Africa Countries. For this reason, it is very important to refine agricultural investment, and create more dynamic agricultural trade openness policies.
O44|Nonparametric estimates of the clean and dirty energy substitutability|In growth theory, a greater-than-one elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy is among key necessary conditions for long-run green economic growth. Using parametric specifications, Papageorgiou et al. (2017) provide first estimates of this fundamentally important inter-energy substitution elasticity. We extend their work by relaxing restrictive functional-form assumptions about production technologies using flexible nonparametric methods. We find that the technological substitutability between clean and dirty energy inputs may not be that strong, especially in the case of a final-goods sector for which the inter-energy elasticity of substitution statistically exceeds one for at most a third of industries/countries. Hence, the favorability of technological conditions for long-run green growth may not be corroborated by the cross-country empirical evidence as strongly as previously thought.
O44|Degrowth and sustainable public finance|Using well-known results from public debt dynamics, it is shown that in case of degrowth a sustainable public debt is very unlikely to achieve. Degrowth requires that negative real interest rates have to be maintained which might imply accelerated inflation, or other severe goal conflicts of public finance will result.
O44|Measuring the impact of business: Sustainability Reporting by Corporations in Emerging Asia|This study addresses the issue of sustainability reporting by corporations, and the framework(s) and guidelines used in the preparation of those annual reports. It takes as its starting point the UN Sustainable Development Goal 12: “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”, with its Target 12.6: “Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle”. And it is the Indicator 12.6.1: “Number of companies publishing sustainability reports” that provides the inspiration for the idea for doing this study. The study provides, firstly, a brief background on the group responsible for the sustainability reporting framework widely used by companies, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This is followed with another short background on a second, though newer, group with another framework, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The study presents - to the best of the author's knowledge - the first comparative study of corporate sustainability reports (and the frameworks used) across ten Emerging Asian economies. It proceeds to this core empirical contribution of the paper by explaining the process how the corporations in Emerging Asia were selected for inclusion in the study. It notes that the companies and the economies of origin were not picked directly for inclusion. The first step was to find reputable corporate sustainability rankings and ratings. Seven information sources yielded a list of 150 companies from ten Emerging Asian economies. These economies are: China, Hong Kong, India, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Singapore. It then presents the findings from a survey of the sustainability reports of the 150 corporations. Across the entire sample, almost 90 percent cite the use of the GRI guidelines. In three economies with more than just a handful of companies in the sample -- South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand -- all of their companies cite the GRI framework. However, the picture is not as one-sided in India, where less than half cite the GRI.
O44|Assessment of waste dumping practices in mountain creeks|The paper examines the exposure of mountain creeks towards illegal waste disposal practices related to the lack of waste collection services in rural areas of Romania prior to EU accession and the low waste collection efficiency following the closure of rural wild dumps in 2009-2010. The paper estimates the amounts of household waste uncollected and disposed in selected small Carpathian rivers in the North-East development region. The expansion of built-up areas along the water courses leads to waste dumping practices across mountain villages in the context of poor waste management facilities. Particular morphology of villages and hydrological characteristics of the creeks may influence the magnitude of such bad practices. The paper points out the role of flash floods in cleaning upstream catchments from debris, thus, polluting the downstream rivers and human settlements. An efficient waste collection system in mountain areas has a crucial role to play in mitigating and ultimately preventing the waste dumping practices in water bodies.
O44|Shadow price of patent stock as knowledge stock: Time and country heterogeneity|This study compares the shadow price (marginal cost) and shadow value (total cost) of patent stock (as knowledge stock) in each of 92 countries between 1992 and 2010. Two specifications are considered in the data envelopment analysis approach. One specification considers population, capital, patent stock, energy use (four inputs), greenhouse gas (undesirable output), and gross domestic product (desirable output). The other uses human capital and natural capital instead of population and energy use. Under these two specifications, respectively, the shadow price of the patent stock (on weighted average) for the whole period is −0.106 and −0.054 million US dollars per patent in the entire sample. Similarly, the shadow value of the patent stock (by the ratio of gross domestic product) in the entire sample is −5.8% and −2.9%, respectively. As the standing position of patent stock, the patent stock is less valuable than human capital and (produced) capital but more valuable than population, energy use, and natural capital. The patent stock also is likely to be valuable in developing countries. In addition, the shadow value of the patent stock is relatively high in certain large countries and nearly flat in most of the countries.
O44|Impact of sanctions on bilateral trade of agricultural products between Iran and MENA region and the EU countries|This paper uses Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimation, gravity model, and dynamic panel data to evaluate the effect of the imposed sanctions against Iran on the value of the bilateral trade of agricultural products between Iran and its trading partners among the MENA and the EU countries during 2000 to 2014. The results show that the sanctions have had no effects on the trade flows between Iran and the MENA countries. However, they have meaningful impact on the Iran’s agricultural export to the EU countries, albeit they have caused a decrease in Iran’s agricultural import from this area. The annual precipitation in Iran, as a control variable, using in this paper has positive effects on the Iran’s agricultural export to the EU countries, nonetheless has negative effects on the Iran’s import from the mentioned countries. The overall country size of two trading partners’ variable has meaningful and direct effects on the mutual trade between Iran and the EU countries. According to the above outcomes, the imposed sanctions should be considered as an opportunity to the Iranian agricultural development and diversification of exports from the agriculture sector to the EU region as a wide range of non-oil products to compensate some of the costs on the Iranian economy caused by sanctions.
O44|Environmental Risks between Conceptualization and Action|Changes in the contemporary world materialized in particular through population growth and mobility, urbanization, and economic expansion also result in an increased exposure of people and assets to extreme events and impose, implicitly, adequate management of induced risks. The occurrence of natural and anthropogenic risk phenomena, known as hazards, puts a heavy tribute on disaster-sensitive human communities regardless of their level of development. The magnitude of the disasters and their increasing frequency and severity imply the need for their approach by the entire world community and for global action. Knowledge of risks becomes a sine qua condition in carrying out impact studies, risk prevention plans, spatial planning plans, and, in general, a condition for effective management of natural resources or sustainable development projects.
O44|Decomposition analysis of sustainable green technology inventions in China|Sustainable green technology is an important contributor to creating a sustainable society by simultaneously promoting environmental protection and economic development. This study examines the determinants of sustainable green technology invention in China, with a focus on the differences in green technology development priorities in each five-year plan period. This study uses patent publication data in a patent decomposition analysis framework. We find that sustainable green patent publications increased due to efficiency improvements, the prioritization of sustainable green patents, an increased R&D expenditure share and economic growth, especially during periods of gradual economic development in China. Additionally, we find that the relative priority of R&D shifted from renewable energy technology to pollution abatement and other sustainable green technology in the 12th five-year plan. The different R&D priority trends for sustainable green technologies among the five-year plans can be used to formulate effective policies that promote sustainable green technology invention.
O44|A critical review of the main methods to treat undesirable outputs in DEA|The treatment of undesirable outputs in Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) has received great research attention recently. As such and as are presented in this work, there are four possible options to deal with those: first ignoring them from the production function; second treating them as regular inputs; third treating them as normal outputs and fourth performing necessary transformations to take them into account. Also new model propositions for their treatment are being presented. Each method brings with it, benefits and drawbacks which each researcher should take into account at every stage of their research and assess which method is more appropriate to be used.
O44|‘Waste culture’ assessment using Hofstede’s and Schwartz’s cultural dimensions – an EU case study|The issue of municipal solid waste (MSW) arisings has received great attention recently as it is a by-product of economic activity but also serves as an input to the economy through material or energy recovery. In relation to that, the main focus of this study is cultural formation and especially the current picture of waste culture and public perception across European Union (EU) Member States. Thus this study will first evaluate environmental efficiency with Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) based on five parameters: waste, gross domestic product (GDP), labour, capital, and population density for 22 EU Member States and for the years 2005, 2010 and 2015 in order to evaluate which Member States are more efficient. Then the results from the efficiency analysis are contrasted to Hofstede’s and Schwartz’s cultural dimensions on STATA with the use of regression modelling. Results show that for year 2005 no significant relationship is noticed between the efficiency scores and the cultural dimensions’ data from both researchers, whereas for years 2010 and 2015 there appears to be a significant connection with changes in the predictors also affecting the response variable. The above mentioned findings can be associated with the financial crisis that has hit Europe after 2008 making people more skeptical on environmental issues and how waste is best to be managed making sense financially but also environmentally. At the same time EU legislations have laid out some important Directives in the field of waste management. Finally, along with the factors above, EU has faced severe environmental challenges due to waste arisings, as well as accidents and injuries for people working in this sector which in turn have widely modified EU’s waste culture as supported by this study’s results.
O44|Production Technology and Carbon Emission: Long run relation with Short run Dynamics|What is the role of technological progress on reduction of CO2 emission? Question of linkage among carbon emission, income and technological progress is the main focuses on recent research area. Using vector error correction model (VECM), this paper investigates the long run relation with short run dynamics among CO2 emission, technological progress and economic growth. This study observes a specific kind of causality running from technological progress to CO2 emission in the USA during 1963 – 2010, while past income is the cause of rising carbon emission. Policy makers should emphasis on R & D for updated production technology which helps to reduce CO2 emission with raising income. Technological progress is the central force that causes income growth as well as emission reduction. Continuous change and adaption of new and updated technology is the main driving force toward sustainable development.
O44|Long-run Sustainability in the Green Solow Model|The aim is to advance in the analytical framework of green growth and to shed light on the concept of long run sustainability. We extend the Green Solow model by including a land-capital input and land degradation as a by-product of economic activity. In this framework, the effectiveness of technological progress in abatement depends on the degree of environmental stress, measured as the excess of output growth over land-capital growth. We build land-capital data at the country level using the Enhanced Vegetation Index and calibrate the model for the USA economy. In addition, we estimate the growth equation of per capita CO2 emissions over the period 2000-2011. We find convergence at the global level, statistical significance of the environmental stress parameter and a negative effect of land-capital investment on the growth rate of emissions, implying that in the long run the positive environmental effect is stronger than the production effect.
O44|The impact of public R&D investments on patenting activity: technology transfer at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency| This paper presents estimates of the impact of public R&D on patenting activity at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Using a time series of public sector agency data, we estimate the per-capita R&D elasticity of new patent applications using a knowledge production function framework model that is an expanded version of what other scholars have used with private sector data. New patent applications are an important step in the technology transfer activities of a federal agency. We estimate this elasticity to be about 2.0. This elasticity value represents an initial estimate of the impact of EPA’s R&D investments on its technology transfer activity.
O44|Agricultural Price Shocks and Business Cycles - A Global Warning for Advanced Economies|For a panel of 75 countries, we find that increases in global agricultural commodity prices that are caused by unfavorable harvest shocks in other regions of the world significantly curtail domestic economic activity. The effects are much larger than for average global agricultural price shifts. The impact is also considerably stronger in high-income countries, despite the lower shares of food in household expenditures these countries have compared to low-income countries. On the other hand, we find weaker effects in countries that are net exporters of agricultural products, have higher shares of agriculture in GDP or lower shares of non-agricultural trade in GDP; that is, characteristics that typically apply to low-income countries. When we control for these country characteristics, we find indeed that the effects on economic activity become smaller when income per capita is higher. Overall, our findings imply that the consequences of climate change on advanced economies are likely larger than previously thought.
O44|Dynamics in the Extended Neoclassical Growth Model|Presentation deals with the expansion of the Neoclassical model of economic growth with the energy sector. Firstly, the current problems presented by declining quality and limited quantity of the fossil fuels together with the properties of the new renewable energy sources are presented within the framework of EROEI (Energy Returned On Energy Invested). Next, the relationship between economic growth and energy consumption is introduced. Follows a brief description of the used modelling method, system dynamics and its advantages for an extension and analysis of economic models. The main content of this contribution is the description of the proposed expansion of the Neoclassical model of economic growth with the energy sector. The impact of the varied quality of renewable energy sources (EROEI) on the future economic performance is being studied with the use of sensitivity analysis within the proposed model which covers the time period of 1965-2065.
O44|Geographical Origins of Language Structures |This research explores the geographical origins of the coevolution of cultural and linguistic traits in the course of human history, relating the geographical roots of long-term orientation to the structure of the future tense, the agricultural determinants of gender bias to the presence of sex-based grammatical gender, and the ecological origins of hierarchical orientation to the existence of politeness distinctions. The study advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that: (i) variations in geographical characteristics that were conducive to higher natural return to agricultural investment contributed to the existing cross-language variations in the structure of the future tense, (ii) the agricultural determinants of gender gap in agricultural productivity fostered the existence of sex-based grammatical gender, and (iii) the ecological origins of hierarchical societies triggered the emergence of politeness distinctions.
O44|The Origins of the Division of Labor in Pre-modern Times|This research explores the historical roots of the division of labor in pre-modern societies. It advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that intra-ethnic diversity had a positive effect on the division of labor across ethnicities in the pre-modern era. Exploiting a variety of identification strategies and a novel ethnic level dataset combining geocoded ethnographic, linguistic and genetic data, it establishes that higher levels of intra-ethnic diversity were conducive to economic specialization in the pre-modern era. The findings are robust to a host of geographical, institutional, cultural and historical confounders, and suggest that variation in intra-ethnic diversity is the main predictor of the division of labor in pre-modern times.
O44|Geographical Roots of the Coevolution of Cultural and Linguistic Traits|This research explores the geographical origins of the coevolution of cultural and linguistic traits in the course of human history, relating the geographical roots of long-term orientation to the structure of the future tense, the agricultural determinants of gender bias to the presence of sex-based grammatical gender, and the ecological origins of hierarchical orientation to the existence of politeness distinctions. The study advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that: (i) geographical characteristics that were conducive to higher natural return to agricultural investment contributed to the existing cross-language variations in the structure of the future tense, (ii) the agricultural determinants of gender gap in agricultural productivity fostered the existence of sex-based grammatical gender, and (iii) the ecological origins of hierarchical societies triggered the emergence of politeness distinctions.
O44|Energy in Economic Growth: Is Faster Growth Greener?|An influential theoretical hypothesis holds that if aggregate productivity growth accelerates, then so does the decline in energy intensity. Whether faster growth is greener in this sense is crucial for modeling future growth and climate change mitigation, but empirical evidence is lacking. This paper characterizes the global, long-run historical relationship between changes in energy intensity and labor productivity growth rates. Basing estimates on an unbalanced panel of 180 countries for the period 1950-2014 and the world as a whole, it captures a significantly larger historical window than previous studies. The paper finds a stylized fact whereby the rate at which energy intensity changes is constant or even increases as labor productivity accelerates. Faster growth is not greener. This provides important new information for calibrating integrated assessment models, many of which make a green growth assumption in near term projections.
O44|Financing Green Growth|This paper surveys the current state of financing green growth in the energy sector, based on the insight that there are different qualities of finance. In past transformational changes in other sectors, public monies played a key role across the innovation landscape. Public financing was central also in a number of past national energy transitions, as reviewed here for Iceland (from fossil to geothermal energy), Norway (from mainly non-electricity energy to hydroelectricity), France (from oil to nuclear) and the United States (from conventional to shale gas). In the current transition to low-carbon energy supplies, there is much public activity, most directed and concerted in China, but also reasons to doubt it is enough and applied in the right places to be able to finance the transition to a low carbon sector on time scales consistent with current climate change mitigation targets. A discussion of opportunities and challenges to a more central role for public financing concludes, drawing also on insights from the recent mission-oriented innovation literature.
O44|Pollution effects on disease transmission and economic stability|In this article, we embed a model of disease spread into a Ramsey model. A stock of pollution, viewed as a productive externality, affects both the disease transmission and the consumption demand. An ecofriendly government levies a proportional Pigouvian tax on production to depollute. We show the coexistence of two steady states in the long run: a disease-free and an endemic steady state. At the endemic steady state, a higher green-tax rate always reduces the pollution level. In the short run, we show the existence of limit cycles (through a Hopf bifurcation) as well as more complex dynamics of codimension two (a Gavrilov-Guckenheimer bifurcation). We complete the study with a numerical illustration of these bifurcations and a new facet of the Green Paradox: a higher tax rate can allow more scope for cycles by lowering the critical aversion to pollution and, thus, contribute to destabilize the economy and promote intergenerational inequalities.
O44|Pollution, carrying capacity and the Allee effect|In ecology, one of the simplest representation of population dynamics is the logistic equation. This basic view can be enriched by considering two important variables : (1) the maximal population density Nature cansupport (carrying capacity) and (2) the critical density threshold under which the population disappear (Allee effect). The economic literature on biodiversity and renewable resources ignores both these variables. Evidence suggests also that these variables are affected by the pollution leveldue to economic activity. Indeed, a degraded environment is unsuitablefor wildlife and reduces the carrying capacity, while the climate change entails the habitat fragmentation and, lowering the wildlife reproduction possibilities, raises the Allee effect. The present paper aims to incorporate both endogenous carrying capacity and Allee effect in a Ramsey model augmented with biodiversity as a renewable resource. Our extendedframework enables us to study the effect of a Pigouvian tax on anthropogenic mass extinction. We find that, when the household overvalues biodiversity with respect to consumption, a higher green-tax rate is beneficial in three respects entailing: (1) a lower pollution and a higher biodiversity, (2) a welfare improvement and (3) a less likely mass extinction.
O44|From “Structural Change” to “Transformative Change”: Rationale and Implications|This paper examines the relationship between “Transformative Change,” advocated by the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, and “Structural Change,” which has been a longstanding and important concept in Development Economics. It shows that while structural change is still relevant, growing concerns for social development and environmental protection made it necessary to switch to the more encompassing concept of “Transformative Change” that provides greater space for inclusion and interaction of all three dimensions of sustainable development. The paper notes that, in the era of greater globalization, countries have followed more varied patterns of structural change, all of which are not equally suitable for sustainable development. The paper notes that Transformative Change subsumes structural change, and it discusses the modifications that structural change needs to be more compatible with sustainable development.
O44|Empirical estimates of the methane–income elasticity|We estimate the income-elasticity of methane emissions per capita derived from production, final production, and consumption in a global sample of countries for 1997–2011. We find relative decoupling between emissions and income, and evidence for a piecewise-linear relationship. The relation between economic growth and emissions improves as countries reach high levels of income, although the magnitude of the improvement is small. This points to very minor methane-efficiency gains from economic development.
O44|Measuring the impact of business: Sustainability Reporting by Corporations in Emerging Asia|This study addresses the issue of sustainability reporting by corporations, and the framework(s) and guidelines used in the preparation of those annual reports. It takes as its starting point the UN Sustainable Development Goal 12: “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”, with its Target 12.6: “Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle”. And it is the Indicator 12.6.1: “Number of companies publishing sustainability reports” that provides the inspiration for the idea for doing this study. The study provides, firstly, a brief background on the group responsible for the sustainability reporting framework widely used by companies, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This is followed with another short background on a second, though newer, group with another framework, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The study presents - to the best of the author's knowledge - the first comparative study of corporate sustainability reports (and the frameworks used) across ten Emerging Asian economies. It proceeds to this core empirical contribution of the paper by explaining the process how the corporations in Emerging Asia were selected for inclusion in the study. It notes that the companies and the economies of origin were not picked directly for inclusion. The first step was to find reputable corporate sustainability rankings and ratings. Seven information sources yielded a list of 150 companies from ten Emerging Asian economies. These economies are: China, Hong Kong, India, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Singapore. It then presents the findings from a survey of the sustainability reports of the 150 corporations. Across the entire sample, almost 90 percent cite the use of the GRI guidelines. In three economies with more than just a handful of companies in the sample -- South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand -- all of their companies cite the GRI framework. However, the picture is not as one-sided in India, where less than half cite the GRI.
O44|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
O44|Shedding Light on the Spatial Diffusion of Disasters|Climate research suggests that global warming will lead to more frequent and more extreme natural disasters. Most disasters are local events with effects on local economic growth. Hence, assessing their economic impacts with the help of econometric country-level analysis may lead to biased results. Moreover, correct identification is further complicated by the possibility that local shocks shift production and consumption to neighboring locations. In this paper, annual night-time light emission data covering about 24,000 grid cells for the years 1992-2013 are matched to geocoded information on meteorological and geological events. Spatial econometric panel methods are applied to account for interdependencies between locations. Interpreting variation in light emissions as reflecting changes in economic activity, findings convey evidence for pronounced local average treatment effects and strong spatial spillovers, particularly for weather shocks. In particular, results suggest that spatial shifts of economic activity after a natural disaster are a rather local phenomenon, stressing the importance of local adaptation policies. Moreover, substantial heterogeneity across income groups and regions is identified.
O44|Geographic Environmental Kuznets Curves: The Optimal Growth Linear-Quadratic Case|We solve a linear-quadratic model of a spatio-temporal economy using a polluting one-input technology. Space is continuous and heterogenous: locations differ in productivity, nature self-cleaning technology and environmental awareness. The unique link between locations is transboundary pollution which is modelled as a PDE diffusion equation. The spatio-temporal functional is quadratic in local consumption and linear in pollution. Using a dynamic programming method adapted to our infinite dimensional setting, we solve the associated optimal control problem in closed-form and identify the asymptotic (optimal) spatial distribution of pollution. We show that optimal emissions will decrease at given location if and only if local productivity is larger than a threshold which depends both on the local pollution absorption capacity and environmental awareness. Furthermore, we numerically explore the relationship between the spatial optimal distributions of production and (asymptotic) pollution in order to uncover possible (geographic) Environmental Kuznets Curve cases.
O44|Global warming and technical change: Multiple steady-states and policy options|In this paper we develop an economic growth model that includes anthropogenicclimate change. We include a publicly funded research sector that creates new technologies and simultaneously expands the productivities of existing technologies. The environment is affected by R&D activities both negatively, through the increase of output from productivity growth, as well as positively as new technologies are less harmful for the environment. We find that there may exist two different steadystates of the economy, depending on the amount of research spending: one with less new technologies being developed and the other with more technologies. Thus, a lock-in effect may arise that, however, can be overcome by raising R&D spending sufficiently such that the steady-state becomes unique. We derive the combinations of fiscal policy instruments for which that can be achieved and we study the implications for the economy and for the environment. In particular, the double dividend hypothesis may hold only under some specific conditions.
O44|The Double Crisis: In What Sense A Regional Problem?|We are now facing Sayer’s 'diabolical double crisis' - which encompasses both a deep financial crisis and an environmental one. The scale, scope and nature of this double-crisis is downplayed in the regional studies literature, much of which still focuses on innovative growth models often divorced from broader social and ecological contexts. To help solve both crises we call for regional studies to explore new models that allow us to focus on the most important issues of our time. We illustrate this by focusing on the contradictions in the waste produced by contemporary regional economies - waste of abundance, labour, and resources.
O44|To Build or not to Build? Capital Stocks and Climate Policy|We investigate how irreversibility in “dirty” and “clean” capital stocks affectsoptimal climate policy, from both theoretical and numerical perspectives. An increasing carbon tax will reduce investments in assets that pollute, and so reduce emissions in the short term: our “irreversibility effect”. As such the “Green Paradox” has a converse if we focus on demand side capital stock effects. We also show that the optimal subsidy increases with the deployment rate: our “acceleration effect”. Considering second-best settings, we show that, although carbon taxes achieve stringent targets more efficiently, infact renewable subsidies deliver higher welfare when policy is more mild.
O44|Agricultural Price Shocks And Business Cycles: A Global Warning For Advanced Economies|For a panel of 75 countries, we find that increases in global agricultural commodity prices that are caused by unfavorable harvest shocks in other regions of the world significantly curtail domestic economic activity. The effects are much larger than for average global agricultural price shifts. The impact is also considerably stronger in high-income countries, despite the lower shares of food in household expenditures these countries have compared to low-income countries. On the other hand, we find weaker effects in countries that are net exporters of agricultural products, have higher shares of agriculture in GDP or lower shares of non-agricultural trade in GDP; that is, characteristics that typically apply to low-income countries. When we control for these country characteristics, we find indeed that the effects on economic activity become smaller when income per capita is higher. Overall, our findings imply that the consequences of climate change on advanced economies are likely larger than previously thought.
O44|An Economic Anatomy of Optimal Climate Policy|This paper introduces geoengineering into an optimal control model of climate change economics. Together with mitigation and adaptation, carbon and solar geoengineering span the universe of possible climate policies. We show in the context of our model that: (i) a carbon tax is the optimal response to the unpriced carbon externality only if it equals the marginal cost of carbon geoengineering; (ii) the introduction of solar geoengineering leads to higher emissions yet lower tempera- tures, and, thus, increased welfare; and (iii) solar geoengineering,in effect, is a public goods version of adaptation that also lowers temperatures.
O44|Shedding Light on the Spatial Diffusion of Disasters|Climate research suggests that global warming will lead to more frequent and more extreme natural disasters. Most disasters are local events with effects on local economic activity. Hence, assessing their economic impacts with the help of econometric country-level analysis may lead to biased results. Moreover, correct identification is further complicated by the possibility that local shocks shift production and consumption to neighboring locations. In this paper, annual night-time light emission data covering about 24,000 grid cells for the years 1992-2013 are matched to geocoded information on meteorological and geological events. Spatial econometric panel methods are applied to account for interdependencies between locations. Interpreting variation in light emissions as reflecting changes in economic activity, findings convey evidence for pronounced local average treatment effects and strong spatial spillovers, particularly for weather shocks. Moreover, substantial heterogeneity across income groups and regions is identified.
O44|Precipitation and Economic Growth|As the ongoing process of global warming goes along with changes in both mean precipitation and precipitation extremes, the scientific interest in the effects of rainfall on economic prosperity has recently grown significantly. However, the few existing empirical studies of short-run growth effects of precipitation deliver inconclusive results. The medium- and long-run growth perspective is yet mostly unexplored. In this paper we deliver a systematic analysis of the short- and long-run growth effects of rainfall based on a large panel dataset covering more than 150 countries over the period of 1951 to 2013. We find strong and highly robust empirical evidence for long-lasting negative growth effects of rainfall shortages in poor and underdeveloped countries, which are not driven by the subsample of Sub Saharan African countries.
O44|Mitigación del cambio climático con un Sistema de Comercio de Emisiones en Colombia: primeros hallazgos económicos|Este artículo analiza las implicaciones económicas de un Sistema de Comercio de Emisiones (SCE) en Colombia para el cumplimiento de los acuerdos de reducción de emisiones. Para ello se diseñó un módulo de comercio de emisiones en el modelo de equilibrio general MEG4C. A partir de este análisis se logró identificar que un SCE puede tener dos efectos: i) los sectores regulados incorporan el costo marginal de las emisiones en la producción, lo que trae una reducción en la producción y ii) los sectores sustituyen los bienes intensivos en emisiones, buscando minimizar los costos asociados al valor de permiso de emisión, lo que conduce a una disminución de las emisiones por cambio en la intensidad. Finalmente, se observa que cuando el recaudo, logrado por la venta de los permisos, se usa para fomentar la demanda de capital (incentivar la inversión), los resultados son positivos ya que estos recursos contribuyen a la transformación económica, al desarrollo sostenible y a la generación de otros co-beneficios.
O44|Path creation, global production networks and regional development: a comparative international analysis of the offshore wind sector|The question of how regions and nations develop new sources of industrial growth is of recurring interest in economic geography and planning studies. From an evolutionary economic geography (EEG) perspective, new growth paths emerge out of existing economic activities and their associated assets and conditions. In response to the micro-economic and endogenous focus of much EEG research, this paper utilises a broader evolutionary perspective on path creation which stresses the dynamic interplay between four sets of factors: regional assets; key economic and organisational actors; mechanisms of path creation; and multi-scalar institutional environments and policy initiatives. Reflecting the importance of extra-regional networks and institutions, this framework is also informed by the Global Production Networks (GPN) approach, which highlights the process of strategic coupling between firms and regions and its political and institutional mediation by state institutions at different spatial scales. We deploy this framework to investigate regional path creation in the context of renewable energy technologies, focusing specifically on the offshore wind industry. We adopt a comparative cross-national approach, examining the evolution of offshore wind in Germany, the UK and Norway. Of the three cases, Germany has developed the most deep-rooted and holistic path to date, characterised by leading roles in both deployment and manufacturing. By contrast, path creation in the UK and Norway has evolved in more partial and selective ways. The UK's growth path is developing in a relatively shallow manner, based largely upon deployment and 'outside in' investment, whilst Norway?s path is emerging in an exogenous, ?inside-out? fashion around a fairly confined set of actors and deployment and supply functions. In conclusion, the paper emphasises the important role of national states in orchestrating the strategic coupling of regional and national assets to particular mechanisms of path creation.
O44|The impact of green preferences on the relevance of history versus expectations|In an OLG model with multiple steady states we analyse the impact of endogenous environmental policies on the relevance of history and expectations for the equilibrium selection. In a polluting regime environmental preferences cause an increasing energy tax which raises the risk that the economy transits to the inferior equilibrium under pessimistic expectations. However, higher environmental preferences imply an earlier switch to the clean energy regime. Then, the conflict between production and environmental preferences is resolved and the prospects to select the superior equilibrium improve, since positive expectations become more relevant. In an empirical analysis we find that people with environmental preferences tend to have more optimistic expectations about economic development. Using these findings to analyse the steady state dynamics implies that agents with environmental preferences support higher energy taxes and switch faster to clean production. Due to their optimism, the likelihood to reach the superior stable steady state increases.
O44|A dynamic model of recycling with endogenous technological breakthrough|We present a general equilibrium growth model in which the use of a non renewable resource yields waste. Recycling waste produces materials of poor quality. These materials can be reused for production only once a dedicated R&D activity has made their quality reach a certain minimum threshold. The economy then switches to a fully recycling regime. We refer to this switch as the technological breakthrough. We analyze the optimal trajectories of the economy and interpret the Ramsey-Keynes and Hotelling conditions in this specific context. We characterize the determinants of the date of the breakthrough, which is endogenous, as well as the discontinuity in the variables' paths that is induced by this breakthrough. We show, in particular, that the availability of a recycling technology leads to an over-exploitation of the resource and possibly to lower levels of consumption before the breakthrough. We also find that the breakthrough can have a negative impact on utility over a finite period.
O44|Temperature and Growth: A Panel Analysis of the United States|We document that seasonal temperatures have significant and systematic effects on the U.S. economy, both at the aggregate level and across a wide cross section of economic sectors. This effect is particularly strong for the summer: a 1oF increase in the average summer temperature is associated with a reduction in the annual growth rate of state‐level output of 0.15 to 0.25 percentage points. We combine our estimates with projected increases in seasonal temperatures and find that rising temperatures could reduce U.S. economic growth by up to one‐third over the next century.
O44|The Brazilian Amazon: a resource curse or renewed colonialism?|The aim of this paper is to highlight the effect of the endowment of resources on development through the analysis of the impact of national strategy, both at a regional and local level. The research focuses on the Legal Amazon, through the georeferenced analysis of socio-economic data from the last three censuses (1991, 2000 and 2010), in order to demonstrate how the Brazilian national energy strategy is contributing to the perpetuation of the phenomenon of the endowment trap at a regional level. Despite boosting the national growth, the concentration of sector-based projects in resource-abundant areas is unable to eradicate inequalities, which in turn perpetuates the path dependence.
O44|Natural cycles and pollution|In this paper, we study a competitive economy where a pollution externality, coming from production, impairs the renewable resource affecting the consumption demand in turn. A proportional tax, levied on the production level, is introduced to finance public depollution expenditures.
O44|CO2 intensity and GDP per capita|The relationship between CO2 intensity and GDP per capita is studied. Most rich countries show falling CO2 intensity over time and a negative correlation with GDP per capita. Many poor and medium rich countries show the opposite, a positive time trend and a positive correlation with GDP per capita. For the majority of countries with a negative correlation between CO2 intensity and GDP per capita a non-linear function fits the data better than a linear one, implying that CO2 intensity falls at a diminishing rate as countries get richer. Hence, economic growth will not by itself go very far in reconciling economic growth and reductions in CO2 emissions. There are indications that poor and medium rich countries experience a boost in CO2 intensity as they embark on industrialization. This will also make it harder to reconcile economic growth and cuts in CO2 emissions.
O44|Green Growth and Taste Heterogeneity|The recent contributions in directed technological change theory show that technological progress in clean industries (i.e. industries which do no produce CO2 emissions) lead to emission decline only if clean and dirty goods are sufficiently substitutable. The result raises a question whether a government could design a policy which increases this substitutability. In this paper I show that elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty goods increases with the number of varieties of clean good. This is shown in the theoretical model, which combines the insights from the directed technological change literature and discrete choice literature. The policy implications of the finding is that environmental policy which promotes development of clean industries should be supplemented with a policy which ensures the diversity of clean goods. For example a subsidy for R&D in clean transport should support a wide range of alternative technologies rather than selected few.
O44|Green Innovation And Economic Growth In A North-South Model|If one region of the world switches its research effort from dirty to clean technologies, will other regions follow? To investigate this question we built a North-South model that combines insights from directed technological change and quality ladder endogenous growth models. We allow researchers in the South to create business-stealing innovations. We found that (i) after the North switches from dirty to clean technologies, the growing value of clean markets will motivate technology firms in the South to follow the switch; however this result is conditional on the North being sufficiently large. (ii) If the two regions invest research effort to different sectors and the outputs of the two sectors are gross substitutes, then the long run growth rates in both regions are smaller than if the global research effort were to be invested in one sector. (iii) If the North switches to R&D in clean technologies, the benevolent central planner in the South would ensure that all South R&D switches too, unless the planner’s discount rate is high.
O44|The Economic and Ecological Impact of Natural Resource Extraction: The Case of the Camisea Gas Project in Peru|This paper presents the first rigorous empirical evidence of the impact of a large hydrocarbon project in both its economic and environmental dimension. Concentrating on Peru’s largest hydrocarbon project, the Camisea Gas Project, which began operating in the dense Amazonian jungle under strict environmental safeguards in 2004, we assess whether natural resource extraction can have beneficial economic effects without causing negative environmental externalities. The analysis relies on the synthetic control method to systematically choose comparison units (departments), which allows for precise quantitative inference in small-sample studies. Our results indicate that in six of the eight years since the Camisea gas fields began operating, local economic effects, as measured by nighttime lights data, are robustly positive. An examination of remotely-sensed vegetation data suggests that the Camisea Gas Project did not have a significant effect on deforestation, suggesting that the implementation of stringent safeguards can help mitigate environmental risks.
O44|The long-run decoupling of emissions and output: Evidence from the largest emitters|For the world's 20 largest emitters, we use a simple trend/cycle decomposition to provide evidence of decoupling between greenhouse gas emissions and output in richer nations, particularly in European countries, but not yet in emerging markets. If consumption-based emissions—measures that account for countries' net emissions embodied in cross-border trade—are used, the evidence for decoupling in the richer economies gets weaker. Countries with underlying policy frameworks more supportive of renewable energy and climate change mitigation efforts tend to show greater decoupling between trend emissions and trend GDP, and for both production- and consumption-based emissions. The relationship between trend emissions and trend GDP has also become much weaker in the last two decades than in preceding decades.
O44|Decoupling of emissions and GDP: Evidence from aggregate and provincial Chinese data|We provide a comprehensive analysis of the relationship between greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and GDP in China using both aggregate and provincial data. The trend or Kuznets elasticity is about 0.6 for China, higher than that in advanced countries but below that of major emerging markets. The elasticity is somewhat lower for consumption-based emissions than for production-based emissions, providing mild evidence consistent with the “pollution haven” hypothesis. The Kuznets elasticity is much lower for the last three decades than for the three previous decades, suggesting a longer-term trend toward decoupling as China has become richer. Further evidence of this comes from provincial data: richer provinces tend to have smaller Kuznets elasticities than poorer ones. In addition to the trend relationship, we find that there is a cyclical relation also holding in China.
O44|The Origins of the Division of Labor in Pre-modern Times Abstract: This research explores the historical roots of the division of labor in pre-modern societies. It advances the hypothesis and establishes empirically that intra-ethnic diversity had a positive effect on the division of labor across ethnicities in the pre-modern era. Exploiting a variety of identification strategies and a novel ethnic level dataset combining geocoded ethnographic, linguistic and genetic data, it establishes that higher levels of intra-ethnic diversity were conducive to economic specialization in the pre-modern era. The findings are robust to a host of geographical, institutional, cultural and historical confounders, and suggest that variation in intra-ethnic diversity is the main predictor of the division of labor in pre-modern times|No abstract is available for this item.
O44|Growth Sustainability and the Quality Dimension of Consumption|What factors shape the environmental sustainability of economic growth? This paper shows that the shift in advanced economies from quantity to quality growth (i.e., from producing more units of identical goods to producing more valuable varieties) is a potentially important mechanism favoring the decoupling of economic growth from resource use and environmental impacts. First, the paper introduces a parsimonious and tractable model that distinguishes the environmental impacts of quantity and quality growth and identifies the key parameter to be estimated empirically. Second, to estimate the quality elasticity of the environmental impacts, the paper uses the US automobile industry as an important and illustrative case. The environmental impact of quality growth is found to be significantly smaller than the impact of quantity growth. Accounting for the distinct impacts of quantity and quality growth would help improve sustainability projections and policies.
O44|Subsidizing Renewable Energy: Higher Welfare by lower depreciation costs for fossil power plants?|There is a broad agreement that renewable energy sources (RES) will play an important role to abate CO2 emissions but there is a contentious debate about the economic sense to promote RES via subsidies. Many static analyses conclude that subsidizing RES ties up capital which could have been used more efficiently by other reduction strategies with lower marginal abatement costs (MAC). Dynamic models, in contrast, emphasize learning effects which lead to lower MAC of RES. In particular a start-up funding to induce an early market entry of RES may be advantageous to benefit from reduced MAC. To our knowledge there has been no attention so far to the effects of renewables’ promotion to the necessary shut down of power plants based on fossil energy sources (FES). With respect to the achievement of a certain long-term reduction objective an early market entry of RES allows a longer transition from FES to RES. This also means more time to shut down fossil-based power plants which can reduce respective depreciation costs. We use an endogenous growth model to focus on the trade off between the described decrease of depreciation costs and the capital tie-up of a subsidization of RES. We find that subsidizing RES can indeed lead to a higher welfare solely because of reduced depreciation costs. We conclude that an optimal strategy to reduce emissions should consider both the increase of renewable and the decrease of fossil electricity generation.
O44|Climate Shocks, Cyclones, and Economic Growth: Bridging the Micro-Macro Gap|Empirical analyses of the impacts of climatic shocks on growth, while critical for policy, have found seemingly disparate results and are seldom incorporated into macroeconomic climate-economy models. This paper seeks to bridge this micro-macro gap through the case of tropical cyclones. We first present a stochastic endogenous growth model that can reconcile previous empirical findings. We then empirically estimate the impacts of cyclones on the structural determinants of growth (total factor productivity, depreciation, fatalities), instead of growth itself, facilitating direct inclusion into the seminal DICE climate-economy model. Cyclone damages are estimated to increase the social cost of carbon by 10-15%.
O44|Financing innovative business investment in Poland|Poland’s productivity has grown strongly over the past two decades. However, the public and private capital stock is weak, and investment remains focused on the adoption of existing technologies, which weighs on future productivity gains and innovation. Many micro enterprises have low productivity, and structural bottlenecks reduce start-ups' growth and their chances of survival. The EU and the government are stepping up funding for business research and development, collaboration with the public sector, entrepreneurship and innovation. This is an opportunity to improve the management of public business support, and the large new programmes should be carefully discussed with stakeholders and regularly evaluated to avoid the risks of subsidising low-productivity firms and to strengthen the take up from the most productive small and medium-sized enterprises. The sustainability of this ambitious package of measures will also require significant public revenues and promoting alternative market-based financing instruments will be critical over the medium term. Ongoing improvements in insolvency procedures and efforts to reduce the regulatory burden are set to ease reallocation of resources through the economy. However, the level of state involvement would remain important, and ensuring the independence of the network industry regulators and the Competition Authority and a level playing field between alternative technologies, as well as easing labour mobility would be good moves.
O44|Reporting on capacity-building and technology support under the Paris Agreement: Issues and options for guidance|The enhanced transparency framework for climate action and support envisaged by the Paris Agreement is to “build on and enhance” current transparency arrangements under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). This paper draws lessons from current reporting by Annex I and non-Annex I countries both within and outside the UNFCCC reporting framework to provide options that might inform the development of modalities, procedures and guidelines (MPGs) for reporting of technology transfer and capacity-building support under the Paris Agreement. The paper offers six options for consideration by Parties, with an emphasis on reporting by developing country Parties, given that very limited guidance has been available to these Parties to date. The options include how Parties might provide more guidance for reporting separately on financial, technology and capacity-building support; frame reporting of support needs and support received in the context of nationally determined contributions (NDCs); and facilitate more consistent use of key terminology and clearer reporting.
O44|Environmentally Adjusted Multifactor Productivity: Methodology and Empirical Results for OECD and G20 Countries|This paper extends the analytical framework for measuring multifactor productivity in order to account for environmental services. A growth accounting approach is used to decompose a pollution-adjusted measure of output growth into the contributions of labour, produced capital and natural capital. These indicators allow the sources of economic growth, and its long run sustainability, to be better assessed. Results presented here cover OECD and G20 countries for the 1990–2013 period, and account for the extraction of subsoil natural assets and emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gases. The main findings suggest that growth in OECD countries has been generated almost exclusively through productivity gains, while BRIICS countries have drawn largely on increased utilisation of factor inputs to generate additional growth. Regarding natural capital, in countries such as Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Chile, reliance on subsoil assets extraction has contributed to a significant share of income growth. Results also point to a shift towards more environmentally friendly production processes in many countries. In fact, most OECD countries have decreased their emissions over the last two decades, and these pollution abatement efforts result in an upward adjustment of their GDP growth rates, allowing for a more accurate assessment of their economic performance.
O44|Transition from a Linear Economy toward a Circular Economy in the Ramsey Model|"We construct a Ramsey-type model where households recycle waste generated by con- sumption and the non-recycled waste has negative externality. The aim of this paper is the following two points. Firstly, we examine a structural change process from \a linear economy"" based on consumption-disposal toward \a sound material-cycle economy"" or \a circular economy"" based on consumption-recycling. Secondly, we examine dynamics of op- timal consumption tax and recycling subsidy. Additionally, we discuss the Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC). Previous theoretical literature explains the mechanism of the EKC through changes in production sectors such as an introduction of abatement technology or technological change. In contrast, this paper tries to explain the EKC through the aforementioned structural change process."
O44|What Factors Affect the Competiveness of Power Generation Sector in China? An Analysis Based on Game Cross-efficiency|China’s unbundling reform in 2002 aimed to introduce competitiveness into the power industry, especially the generation sector, to improve its operational efficiency. Meanwhile, great concern about a range of environmental problems and global climate change increasingly calls for saving energy and abating emissions. Thus, the ability to balance the reduction of carbon emissions with economic benefits may to a great extent determine the competitiveness of power generation sector. This study first adopts the game cross-efficiency approach to evaluate the environmental efficiency of the generation sectors in China’s 30 provinces. It then employs a system generalized method of moments model to explore the determinants of their performance while eliminating the associated endogeneity problem. The results of this first study combining the two methods indicate that efficiency gaps do exist among the regions even though overall efficiency has been improved. Despite the negative correlation between environmental efficiency and the thermal power ratio, the power mix should be adjusted gradually. The average firm size and capacity utilization rates are positive factors boosting the environmental efficiency. The incentive policies for clean energy development should be differentiated across regions according to their power mix and self-sufficiency ratio.
O44|ERSs and Trade in Natural Resources: The Impact on Economic Growth and Poverty in LDCs|We study the impact on economic growth of LDCs of environmentally related standards (ERSs) adopted by such economies to bypass non-tariff-measures (NTMs) imposed as environmental regulatory requirements on their exports of natural resources to developed importing countries. In particular, we develop an empirical growth model that incorporates the impacts of resource abundance and of ERSs, the latter being measured by the number of ISO14001 certificates which a LDC holds, on per capita GDP growth. This specification allows to test for the existence of the 'resource curse' and for the effects of ERSs on growth through their interaction with the resource abundance measure. Our results suggest that ERSs can be growth promoting and in certain cases a factor mitigating the 'resource curse' in LDCs. Thus, compliance with ERSs combined with aid in institution formation or technology transfers can allow LDCs to enhance economic growth and alleviate poverty.
O44|Environmental pollution in a growing economy with endogenous structural change|In this paper we study the impact of environmental pollution in an endogenous growth model that allows for structural change. The model is based on doublydifffferentiated R&D where newer, less polluting technologies gradually replace older ones. The analysis shows that the presence of environmental externalities stimulates structural change but reduces the growth rate of the economy. Further, comparing the models with and without structural change demonstrates that the latter implies stronger environmental damages and, consequently, a lower growth rate than the ffirst one. Finally, levying a tax on the polluting output speeds up structural change, thus, reducing environmental pollution and spurring economic growth. This can give new support for the double dividend hypothesis.
O44|Green Technology Adoption and the Business Cycle|We analyze the adoption of green technology in a dynamic economy affected by random shocks where demand spillovers are the main driver of technological improvements. Firms’ beliefs and consumers’ anticipations drive the path of the economy. We derive the optimal policy of investment subsidy and the expected time and likelihood of reaching a targeted level of environmental quality under economic uncertainty. This allows us to estimate the value that should be given to the environment in order to avoid an environmental catastrophe as a function of the strength of spillover effects.
O44|La politique commerciale au service de la politique climatique|S’il constitue une avancée, l’Accord de Paris, entré en vigueur en novembre 2016, pose un certain nombre de questions, notamment quant à la responsabilité «?commune mais différenciée?» –?qui se traduit par des engagements très variables d’un pays signataire à l’autre?–, mais aussi concernant l’articulation entre politique climatique et politique commerciale. Pour réduire les émissions de gaz à effet de serre (GES), une politique commerciale ferait-elle mieux qu’une politique climatique?? À défaut, pourrait-elle inciter à des engagements plus ambitieux de réduction des émissions?? Cette Lettre montre, à partir de simulations d’un modèle dynamique de l’économie mondiale développé au CEPII, que la politique commerciale seule n’est pas un bon outil pour limiter les émissions de CO2, mais qu’elle peut venir compléter une politique plus ambitieuse.
O44|Can IPR Affect MNE’s Entry Modes? The Chilean Case|This paper analyzes the effect of stronger Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) on the entry modes chosen by MNEs in the Chilean market. MNEs can choose between exporting, introducing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and licensing to a domestic firm in Chile. We use plant-level data for the 2001–2007 and exploite the exogenous reform of IPR in Chile in 2005 to examine the effect of the change in IPR on the overall foreign presence in Chile, controlling for the activities of industries where high levels of technology transfer and imitation are important factors. The main results show that stronger IPR change the mode of entry chosen by MNEs. In this case, FDI is replaced by licensing. This is explained by Chile’s high absorptive capacity during this period. Moreover, we test whether this effect differs across high-tech and low-tech industries and conclude that the displacement of FDI is less severe in high-tech industries.
O44|Can Licensing Induce Productivity? Exploring the IPR Effect|Licensing is one of the main channels for technology transfer from foreignowned multinational enterprises (MNEs) to domestic plants. This transfer occurs within industries and across industries, which results in technology spillovers that can affect both intra- and inter-industry productivity. We propose a theoretical model that predicts that this effect can be enhanced by the implementation of stronger intelectual property rights (IPR). Using Chilean plant-level data for the 2001–2007 period and exogenous variation from a reform in 2005, we test our theoretical predictions and find positive inter-industry effects, which result in higher productivity for domestic plants. However, there are negative spillovers when licensing is implemented within the same industry. We also test for the effect of stronger IPR and find that stronger IPR reduces intra-sector spillovers but increases inter-industry spillovers. Moreover, the IPR effect is stronger on firms that are, on average, smaller and have low productivity. Our results are robust not only to a series of definitions of IPR, licensing and productivity but also to a set of different specifications.
O44|Moving on Towards a Workable Climate Regime|The Paris Agreement (PA) signed by 175 parties is now a Treaty since a quorum of signatories has been obtained. This Treaty is really the first important step taken to limit temperature increase, as pledges, if sustained and far more ambitious beyond 2030, would drastically limit the projected temperature increase from projections in the absence of measures to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. Contributions however fall short of the intentions to limit temperature increase to the +1.5° to +2° Celsius range since the onset of industrialization. Drawing on recent contributions, this paper reviews where we stand in tackling four challenges ahead: (i) taking fuller cognizance of the accumulating scientific evidence calling for urgent action; (ii) designing an architecture that will render effective the blend of ‘bottom-up’ and ‘top-down’ approaches; (iii) choosing policy options and tackling the slow transition to a low-carbon economy, and; (iv) raising finance and addressing burden sharing.
O44|Rainfall Patterns and Human Settlement in Tropical Africa and Asia Compared. Did African Farmers Face Greater Insecurity?|We explore a new dataset of annual and monthly district-level rainfall patterns to assess the longstanding idea that climatological conditions were more conducive to the development of dense rural populations in Asia than in Africa. We test whether there existed significant cross-regional differences in both the frequency and intensity of rainfall shocks (i.e. annual mean deviations exceeding one standard deviation). Our results confirm that rainfall shocks in tropical Africa were both more frequent and more severe. Second, we test the separate effects of precipitation levels and variability on district-level population densities from colonial population censuses. We hypothesize that higher mean levels of precipitation facilitate agricultural intensification and human settlement, while unpredictability of rainfall has the opposite effect. Controlling for average rainfall levels, we find a strong negative effect of rainfall variation on population densities. This study thus lends further support to a wide literature arguing that the ecological conditions of agricultural intensification were more challenging in the African than in the Asian tropics.
O44|Carbon Dioxide Emissions and Economic Growth: An Assessment Based on Production and Consumption Emission Inventories|Working with a new dataset on comparable global CO2 production and consumption inventories spanning the 1997–2011 period, we investigate the relationship between real gross domestic product (GDP) per capita and CO2 emissions per capita associated with both production and consumption activities. By including linkages between production-based emissions in one country and final consumption in another (via cross-border value chains), we focus on the entire carbon chain. We estimate polynomial and threshold models, accounting for reverse causality and identification problems. We find that the income-elasticity for both inventories is regime-dependent and reflects small carbon efficiency gains from economic development. Carbon footprints show larger income-elasticities, while national policy instruments targeting production can clearly be circumvented by carbon embodied in intermediate trade. This implies problems of environmental sustainability that may require consumption-based policy instruments.
O44|How expensive should CO2 be? Fuel for the debate on optimal climate policy|Most people are convinced that climate change is a threat and that it should somehow be dealt with. It is also clear that CO2 emissions are still too cheap and must be priced higher to sufficiently curtail emissions. Yet how high should a carbon tax be? Answering this question requires scientific insights on the costs and benefits of a carbon tax but also ethical - and thus political - judgements on how we value the damages from climate change that will happen in the near and in the far future. This paper reviews the evidence on the social cost of carbon and discusses global and unilateral policy options. It finds that a price of $77 per metric ton of carbon is defensible if we give 95% weight to damages occurring two generations (or 50 years) from now but higher if we want to further reduce the risk of catastrophic change. It is best implemented as part of trade agreements and in combination with R&D investment.
O44|Fifty shades of green: Revisiting decoupling by economic sectors and air pollutants|Using a consistent dataset for eighteen EU countries, six economic sectors, and six pollution indicators, we analyze decoupling of production–based emissions from GDP growth from 1995 to 2008. Computing decoupling factors as defined by the OECD (2002), we find that in almost all sectors and by almost all pollutants the median EU country had at least some decoupling. However, considerable heterogeneity in its magnitude can be observed across countries, sectors, and pollutants. For most pollutants and sectors, median decoupling performance improved from 2001–2008 compared to 1995–2001, while between–country disparities increased simultaneously. In a second step, we investigate country–level changes in decoupling states between the two sub–periods based on Tapio (2005). We find high diversity across countries and over time. To explain these differences across countries and sectors, we assess the impact of environmental policy stringency, and find tentative evidence that stricter policy encourages decoupling, however the effects are small and imprecise, differ by economic sector and pollutant, and take several years to materialize.
O44|Consistency and stability analysis of models of a monetary growth imperative|Is fostering economic growth ‘only’ a question of political will or ‘unavoidable’ to maintain economic stability? It is disputed whether such a ‘growth imperative’ is located within the current monetary system, creating conflicts with sustainability. To examine the claim that compound interest compels economies to grow, we present five post-Keynesian models and show how to perform a stability analysis in the parameter space. A stationary state with zero net saving and investment can be reached with positive interest rates, if the parameter ‘consumption out of wealth’ is above a threshold that rises with the interest rate. The other claim that retained profits from the interest revenues of banks create an imperative is based on circuitist models that we consider refutable. Their accounting is inconsistent, and a modeling assumption central for a growth imperative is not underpinned theoretically: Bank's equity capital has to increase even if debt does not. This is a discrepancy between the authors' intentions in their texts and their actual models. We conclude that a monetary system based on interest-bearing debt-money with private banks does not lead to an ‘inherent’ growth imperative. If the stationary state is unstable, it is caused by agents' decisions, not by structural inevitableness.
O44|Optimal Versus Sustainable Degrowth Policies|This paper introduces a natural resource and pollution in a Ramsey growth model which relies on the postulates of ecological economics. It studies the impact of voluntary degrowth policies on production and welfare. The instrument of these policies is a tax on the natural resource. These public policies are implemented after the downturn of the households' welfare following from the increased pollution.
O44|Global Climate Policy Will Have Net Benefits Larger Than Anyone Thinks (and Welfare Gains, Strangely, Are Likely To Be Much Larger Yet)|As with other public goods lacking strong special interest support, global climate policy suffers from two serious theoretical flaws. The first is failure to endogenize the labor-leisure decision when conducting benefit-cost analysis. Recognition that income generated will not remain the same pre-and-post policy results in downward bias in benefit estimation. Much more importantly, there will generally be free riding in input markets in addition to the well-known output demand revelation problem. Since even households with very high marginal values cannot individually increment public goods, too little income will be generated and too much of the income that is generated will be spent on relatively low value ordinary private goods. The ungenerated income would have all been spent on the public good, apart from general equilibrium considerations, resulting in additional—and perhaps large—downward bias in benefits of global climate policy. The reallocation of spending from relatively low value private goods to higher value public goods may further greatly increase willingness-to-pay for policies stabilizing global climate.
O44|The impact of climate change on developed economies|We use sub-national data to examine the relationship between temperature and growth within the United States and the European Union. Different from previous studies based on national data, we find that the optimal temperature is much lower. Because most of production takes place in areas with temperatures above the optimal temperature, projected temperature increases have significantly negative impact on the economic growth of the United States and the European Union. Our results suggest more proactive climate policy.
O44|Knowledge diffusion, endogenous growth, and the costs of global climate policy|This paper examines the effects of knowledge diffusion on growth and the costs of climate policy. We develop a general equilibrium model with endogenous growth which represents knowledge diffusion between sectors and regions. Knowledge diffusion depends on accessibility and absorptive capacity which we estimate econometrically using patent and citation data. Knowledge diffusion leads to a “greening” of economies boosting productivity of “clean” carbon-extensive sectors. Knowledge diffusion lowers the costs of global climate policy by about 90% for emerging countries (China) and 20% for developed regions (Europe and USA), depending on the substitutability between different knowledge types.
O44|The changing of the relationships between carbon footprints and final demand: Panel data evidence for 40 major countries|Global warming and environmental pollution have led many countries to begin to implement measures to reduce the use of fossil fuels. However, emissions reductions may have been reached because of the displacement of emissions intensive production. The objective of this study is to analyze the relationships between the emissions caused by countries from a demand point of view, the carbon footprints and the demand for goods and services in these countries, and especially in the European countries. With this aim, a two-step process was carried out. Firstly, carbon footprints were calculated during the 1995–2009 period. Secondly, the EKC hypothesis between these carbon footprints and the total final demands were tested by using panel data and a multilevel mixed-effects model. The results show that the EKC hypothesis is not supported when considering carbon footprints with respect to final demand. It is also shown that carbon footprints are slightly increasing with respect to final demand beyond proportionality. The carbon footprint elasticities are different between countries, their values increasing with the final demand per capita of countries.
O44|Testing the transport energy-environmental Kuznets curve hypothesis in the EU27 countries|Transport activities are essential for economic and social development. Nevertheless, the transport sector has also shown the fastest growth in energy consumption in the European Union and its contribution to increasing greenhouse gas emissions merits the thorough attention of academics and policy makers. In this paper we analyze the relationship of economic growth and transport activities with transport final energy consumption. Energy Kuznets curves are estimated for a panel data set covering the EU27 countries in the period 1995–2009 for total transport energy use, household transport energy use, and productive transport energy use (all three in absolute and per capita energy use terms). The productive transport energy use and gross value added relationship are further considered as per hour worked. Finally, the control variables of energy prices and differences in the economic structures are tested. Empirical results show that the elasticity of transport energy use with respect to gross value added in per capita terms decreases from a threshold for the three transport energy consumption variables, but the turning point of improved environmental quality is not reached in any instance.
O44|Measuring energy performance with sectoral heterogeneity: A non-parametric frontier approach|Evaluating economy-wide energy performance is an integral part of assessing the effectiveness of a country's energy efficiency policy. Non-parametric frontier approach has been widely used by researchers for such a purpose. This paper proposes an extended non-parametric frontier approach to studying economy-wide energy efficiency and productivity performances by accounting for sectoral heterogeneity. Relevant techniques in index number theory are incorporated to quantify the driving forces behind changes in the economy-wide energy productivity index. The proposed approach facilitates flexible modelling of different sectors' production processes, and helps to examine sectors' impact on the aggregate energy performance. A case study of China's economy-wide energy efficiency and productivity performances in its 11th five-year plan period (2006–2010) is presented. It is found that sectoral heterogeneities in terms of energy performance are significant in China. Meanwhile, China's economy-wide energy productivity increased slightly during the study period, mainly driven by the technical efficiency improvement. A number of other findings have also been reported.
O44|Can environmental innovation facilitate carbon emissions reduction? Evidence from China|Environmental innovation has been recognized as an efficient way of addressing environmental problems. However, how environmental innovation may affect carbon emissions in China and whether the effect may differ among various environmental innovation variables remain to be investigated. Therefore, based on the panel data of China’s 30 provinces during 2000–2013, we use a system generalized method of moments (SGMM) technique to estimate the effect of environmental innovation on carbon emissions in China. Also, we evaluate the effect on carbon emission reduction of China’s initial carbon emissions trading (CET) scheme. Empirical results indicate that, most environmental innovation measures in China reduce carbon emissions effectively. Among the various environmental innovation factors, energy efficiency exerts the most evident effect on carbon emissions abatement in China; meanwhile, resources for innovation and knowledge innovation also play prominent roles in this regard. However, the impact of governmental environmental policies on curbing carbon emissions reduction suffers from a lag effect, which mainly occurred during 2006–2013. Finally, despite the short time of operation and incomplete market mechanism, the pilot CET in China has appeared relatively promising with regard to carbon emissions reduction.
O44|Assessing environmental performance in the European Union: Eco-innovation versus catching-up|This paper assesses environmental performance in the European Union (EU) using Luenberger productivity indicators, directional distance functions and Data Envelopment Analysis techniques. It considers four indicators of the pressures exerted by economic activity on the environment: global warming, tropospheric ozone formation, acidification and particulate formation. The change in environmental performance from the early 2000s onwards is decomposed at the levels of country and environmental pressure, and as the result of eco-innovations and catching-up with the best available environmental technologies; furthermore, we distinguish between the periods of economic growth (2001–07) and severe crisis (2007–13). Our main finding is that environmental performance improved in both periods, mainly fuelled by advances in environmental technology. Accordingly, environmental policies aimed at boosting catching-up are highly recommended, particularly in the newer member states that joined the EU from 2004 onwards, which perform further away from their respective environmental technological frontiers. In addition, re-establishing the pre-crisis eco-innovation investment levels would also be highly advisable in order to return to the rates of environmental technical progress registered in the expansion period.
O44|Environmental policies and productivity growth: Evidence across industries and firms|This paper investigates the impact of changes in environmental policy stringency on industry- and firm-level productivity growth in a panel of OECD countries. To test the strong version of the Porter Hypothesis (PH), we extend a neo-Schumpeterian productivity model to allow for effects of environmental policies. We use a new environmental policy stringency (EPS) index and let the effect of countries׳ environmental policies vary with the pollution intensity of the industry and with the countries’ and firms’ technological advancement. A tightening of environmental policy is associated with a short-term increase in industry-level productivity growth in the most technologically-advanced countries. This effect diminishes with the distance to the global productivity frontier, eventually becoming insignificant. For the average firm, no evidence of PH is found. However, the most productive firms see a temporary boost in productivity growth, while the less productive ones experience a productivity slowdown.
O44|Energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and economic growth: An ethical dilemma|In this study we examine the dynamic interrelationship in the output–energy–environment nexus by applying panel vector autoregression (PVAR) and impulse response function analyses to data on energy consumption (and its subcomponents), carbon dioxide emissions and real GDP in 106 countries classified by different income groups over the period 1971–2011. Our results reveal that the effects of the various types of energy consumption on economic growth and emissions are heterogeneous on the various groups of countries. Moreover, causality between total economic growth and energy consumption is bidirectional, thus making a case for the feedback hypothesis. However, we cannot report any statistically significant evidence that renewable energy consumption, in particular, is conducive to economic growth, a fact that weakens the argument that renewable energy consumption is able to promote growth in a more efficient and environmentally sustainable way. Finally, in analysing the case for an inverted U-shaped EKC, we find that the continued process of growth aggravates the greenhouse gas emissions phenomenon. In this regard, we cannot provide any evidence that developed countries may actually grow-out of environmental pollution. In the light of these findings, the efficacy of recent government policies in various countries to promote renewable energy consumption as a means for sustainable growth is questioned. Put differently, there seems to be an ethical dilemma, between high economic growth rates and unsustainable environment and low or zero economic growth and environmental sustainability.
O44|Economics of climate change and green employment: A general equilibrium investigation for Turkey|This paper quests for the intrinsic complementarities among environmental pollution abatement, induced technological innovation to combat human-induced climate change, targeted expansions for green employment, and enhanced welfare through gains in private income. Utilizing data from the Turkish economy, we implement an applied general equilibrium model to study the synergies between environmental abatement instruments and policies towards sustaining green jobs. Our results are indicative that by a proper mix of environmental taxation and technological and institutional innovations, Turkey can serve as an example for a host of developing countries in setting the stage for a pro-employment and eco-friendly, sustained growth path. We further show that for the successful implementation of a carbon emissions mitigation strategy, elimination of the burden of existing labor taxes and factor market distortions are crucial. Our analysis suggests that complemented with a strategy of substitution of environmental taxes against the existing distortionary labor taxes, costs abatement on domestic income and employment could be negligible.
O44|Surfing a Wave of Economic Growth|We investigate whether the geographic determinants of growth extend to natural amenities. We combine data on spatial and temporal variation in the quality of over 5000 surf breaks globally with data on local economic performance, proxied by night-time lights. We document a strong association between natural amenity quality and local economic development. Economic activity grows faster near good surf breaks; following the discovery of new breaks, or the technology needed to ride them; and during El Niño events that generate high-quality waves. The effects are concentrated in nearby towns and emerging economies, and population changes are consistent with tourism.
O44|Features of Social and Economic Transformations in the Globalization Era|The article looks into some of the features of social and economic transformations in the globalization era. Due to a number of economic and political processes encompassing all countries, it becomes obvious that the humankind faces the beginning of the drastic historical changes and the world new integrity. The main idea of the article is the idea of principal impossibility of social and economic processes of absolute unification, averaging and simplification of the social systems in the globalization era. The authors’ conviction is based on understanding the fact that in the globalization era the social relations system is being formed, where due to essential processes the different forms of social times and socio-spatial formations interact. Even a cursory glance reveals the whole specter of social organisms represented by both present and past history: ranging from the primitive forms to the semi-feudal one, from the quite traditional relations to the industrial and post-industrial ones. Despite great difference all existing countries while interacting with each other create social context of globalization. In the frame of this process the new integrity of the modern state of the society as the universum is happening. In terms of the social philosophy this universum is understood as active non-line environment where various social spheres emerge and evolve: modern integrative production, information flows including high technology industry, business and other components where the culture is to play the leading role as the way of life of a human being and society. The authors insist, the genesis of modern social systems is extremely interesting scientific issue, its consideration may be not only significant for the science itself, but can be applied in particular for the social relations management.
O44|The Role of Human Factors in the Bank Capital Evaluation Framework|The article assesses various versions of «Bank capital» definitions, and the own bank capital definition is suggested by authors. It assumes that bank capital is a monetary value of the bank’s debts and equities. Milestones of managing the bank capital such as formation and application are provided in the paper. Two groups of bank capital users such as external and internal stakeholders are highlighted. The key-note of the paper is defining the role of human capital in evaluating the bank capital. Human capital is suggested to play positive and negative role through the whole bank capital evaluation. Both subjective pros and cons of the human factor are revealed in the paper. Typical errors such as low-skilled staff, non-flexible mind, inconsistent risk policy in decision-making, deficient analytical framework, lack of useful forecasting are defined. Authors also defined a set of advantages of the human factors such as: quality education, professional skills, professional development, and diplomatic, highly analytical and independent mind, stress tolerance, and so on. The paper highlights the concept that entities’ benefits which are in evaluating the bank capital could be structured in importance and effect of the parties concerned. The hierarchical framework of interests completely depends on the person arranging the framework. The paper stresses that interests of the parties concerned should be listed in the bank capital’s evaluation policy. A set of key indicators such as capital profitability rate, adequacy ratio to highlight stakeholders’ interests are defined. Key features of bank capital management are described. Objectives of internal and external stakeholders’ activity are defined. The set of factors indicating the impact of human factors on evaluating the bank capital are discussed.
O44|The Development of Cluster Relations within the State and Business Structures in Terms of Strategy of Non-Primary Sector Import-Substitution|The main aim of the article is to determine how the implementation of the strategy of import substitution in non-primary sector of the Russian economy can be insured. Rostov region and other Southern regions of Russia were selected as the subjects of the study by the authors. Research particularly focuses on the main areas of socio-economic development as well as the process of implementation of the import substitution policy. The authors also analyzed the possibility of solving the problems of import substitution in the non-primary sector of the regional economy, formulated algorithmic bases of realization of cluster interaction of state and business structures. The authors have presented some promising industry clusters far the South of Russia Region. This article contains suggestions for the creation of regional clusters in terms of import substitution. As a result authors concluded that within the non-primary development of regional economy the principle of cluster interaction of state and business structures allows for efficient implementation of the import substitution strategy in the industrial sector.
O44|Research and Development Intensity in Business: Russia and EU|The present study is devoted to the investigation of the intensity of research and development importance in Russian Federation and EU. The authors selected economics of EU and Russian Federation countries as the object of the study. The subject of research is the intensity of research and development in Russian Federation and EU in the context of the priority sectors: state sector, scientific sector, business sector. In the given article the authors consider the semantic definition of «the intensity of research and development», the dynamics of research intensity indicators and development in Russia and EU, the authors’ assessment of the choice of priorities for research and development sectors is also given. According to the results of the study authors indicated the problem zone, discussion points and priorities for the further research. The authors also give recommendations for the Russian practice.
O44|Temperature effects on productivity and factor reallocation: Evidence from a half million chinese manufacturing plants|This paper uses detailed production data from a half million Chinese manufacturing plants over 1998–2007 to estimate the effects of temperature on firm-level total factor productivity (TFP), factor inputs, and output. We detect an inverted U-shaped relationship between temperature and TFP and show that it primarily drives the temperature-output effect. Both labor- and capital- intensive firms exhibit sensitivity to high temperatures. By mid 21st century, if no additional adaptation were to occur, we project that climate change will reduce Chinese manufacturing output annually by 12%, equivalent to a loss of $39.5 billion in 2007 dollars. This implies substantial local and global economic consequences as the Chinese manufacturing sector produces 32% of national GDP and supplies 12% of global exports.
O44|Green tax reform, endogenous innovation and the growth dividend|We study theoretically and numerically the effects of an environmental tax reform using endogenous growth theory. In the theoretical part, mobile labor between manufacturing and R&D activities, and elasticity of substitution between labor and energy in manufacturing lower than unity allow for a growth dividend, even if we consider preexisting tax distortions. The scope for innovation is reduced when we consider direct financial investment in the lab, or elastic labor supply. We then apply the core theoretical model to a real growing economy and find that a boost in economic growth following such a carbon policy is a possible outcome. Lump-sum redistribution performs best in terms of effciency measured by aggregate welfare, while in terms of equity among social segments its progressive character fails when we consider very high emissions reduction targets.
O44|Energy Transition, Technological Spillovers and Elasticity of Substitution|Countries such as Germany and Switzerland have included the energy transition in their policy programs, setting specific targets in terms of energy production from renewables. However, the energy transition has a cost, which so far has been partly covered by subsidizing the clean production. This has produced an adverse effect, leading to overproduction in the clean sector and negative prices in the electricity spot market. An excessive subsidy, which does not takes into account technological spillovers and the elasticity of substitution, might be the cause. We use endogenous growth theory to study how the cost of the energy transition - proxied by a subsidy - is affected by these two channels. We provide a numerical solution to the model to give an insight into the magnitude of the effect considered. The main findings are: (1) technological spillovers reduce the cost of the energy transition and the subsidy becomes negative after a threshold value of relative spillover intensities; (2) a higher elasticity of substitution between the two sectors increases the cost of the energy transition.
O44|A simple method to study local bifurcations of three and four-dimensional systems: characterizations and economic applications|We provide necessary and sufficient conditions to detect local bifurcations of three and four-dimensional dynamical systems in continuous time. We characterize not only the bifurcations of codimension one but also those of codimension two. The added value of this methodology rests on its generality and tractability. To illustrate the simplicity of our approach, we provide two analytical applications of dimension three and four to environmental economics, complemented with numerical simulations.
O44|Environmental Policy and Inequality: A Matter of Life and Death|This paper analyzes the economic implications of an environmental policy when we take into account the life expectancy of heterogeneous agents. In a framework where everyone suffers from pollution, but health status depends also on individual human capital, we find that the economy may be stuck in a trap where inequalities persistently grow, when the initial level of pollution is too high. Therefore, we study whether a tax on pollution associated with an investment in pollution abatement can be used to reduce inequalities and to improve endogenous growth. We obtain that a tighter environmental policy may allow the economy to escape the inequality trap and hence to converge to a long-term equilibrium without inequality, while it enhances the long-term growth rate. However, if inequalities or pollution are initially too high, such a result does not hold for reasonable tax rates.
O44|The impact of renewable versus non-renewable natural capital on economic growth|This paper examines whether natural capital is a robust determinant of economic growth, distinguishing the contribution of direct and indirect effects in renewable and non-renewable natural capital. Our hypothesis is that renewable natural capital may have a rather indirect but more important impact on economic growth than non-renewable natural capital, particularly through human well-being. In contrast, non-renewable natural capital can be a source of immediate financial wealth, but can have adverse social and environmental effects. To test this hypothesis we use a data set on 83 countries for the period 1960-2009 to compare the relevance of proximate and fundamental theories to explain economic growth. We find some evidence of an indirect negative impact of renewable natural capital in wealth on economic growth through through human well-being and, more precisely, population growth rates and fertility. This is particularly the case for countries with higher levels of human development. In contrast, the share of non-renewable natural capital in wealth has a direct positive impact on economic growth in countries with lower income inequality and higher institutional quality. This finding reflects the effect of capital accumulation in the domestic economy, as capacity constrainst are relaxed. Finally, countries with higher income per capita, higher human development and higher institutional quality have a higher share of higher renewable natural capital per capita, although they also have a lower share of lower renewable natural capital in wealth. Such result emphasises that renewable natural capital is very necessary for people (per capita), hence isa primary concern for empowered countries, although such capital contributes less to wealth, and economic growth, in these countries . Our results question the way â€˜wealthâ€™ and economic growth are defined in economics when the effect of natural capital is examined.
O44|A simple method to study local bifurcations of three and four-dimensional systems: characterizations and economic applications|We provide necessary and sufficient conditions to detect local bifur- cations of three and four-dimensional dynamical systems in continuous time. We characterize not only the bifurcations of codimension one but also those of codimension two. The added value of this methodology rests on its tractability. To illustrate the simplicity of our approach, we provide two analytical applications of dimension three and four to environmental economics, complemented with numerical simulations.
O44|What Factors Affect the Competiveness of Power Generation Sector in China? An Analysis Based on Game Cross-efficiency| China’s unbundling reform in 2002 aimed to introduce competitiveness into the power industry, especially the generation sector, to improve its operational efficiency. Meanwhile, great concern about a range of environmental problems and global climate change increasingly calls for saving energy and abating emissions. Thus, the ability to balance the reduction of carbon emissions with economic benefits may to a great extent determine the competitiveness of power generation sector. This study first adopts the game cross-efficiency approach to evaluate the environmental efficiency of the generation sectors in China’s 30 provinces. It then employs a system generalized method of moments model to explore the determinants of their performance while eliminating the associated endogeneity problem. The results of this first study combining the two methods indicate that efficiency gaps do exist among the regions even though overall efficiency has been improved. Despite the negative correlation between environmental efficiency and the thermal power ratio, the power mix should be adjusted gradually. The average firm size and capacity utilization rates are positive factors boosting the environmental efficiency. The incentive policies for clean energy development should be differentiated across regions according to their power mix and self-sufficiency ratio.
O44|Aggregate green productivity growth in OECD’s countries|Most of previous research about Total Factor Productivity (TFP) at the macro level only emphasizes technical effect and technological progress at the country level, but it ignores structural effect for a group of countries at the aggregate level. This paper attempts to measure the green productivity evolution incorporating carbon dioxide emissions based on the Luenberger productivity indicator for a group of 30 OECD countries over the period of 1971−2011. We propose a novel decomposition for green productivity growth at the aggregate level which separates productivity changes into three components: technological progress, technical efficiency change, and structural efficiency change. The structural effect captures the heterogeneity in the combination of input and output mixes among countries that can impact productivity growth at a more aggregate level. In the literature, this effect has not been quantified for a group of nations such as the OECD countries. Our results indicate that the traditional TFP index underestimates green growth which is motivated by the effective and efficient environmental policies of the OECD. For the last two decades, the green productivity growth has been mainly driven by technology progress.
O44|The impact of FDI on regional air pollution in the Republic of Korea: A way ahead to achieve the green growth strategy?|Can FDI help to reduce regional air pollution emissions in Korea? Given the proclamation of a far-reaching national green growth strategy that requires a shift in public and private investments, this paper addresses the need for empirical estimates on the environmental consequences of FDI inflows into Korea. Using a simultaneous equations model the impacts of FDI inflows are decomposed into direct as well as indirect scale, composition, and technique effects. Thereby, the analysis utilizes panel data on six air pollutants in 16 Korean provinces and self-governing cities for the period 2000 to 2011. The estimation results show that FDI inflows concurrently stimulate regional economic growth and reduce air pollution intensities. However, the total level of air emissions mostly remains unchanged. While confirming the findings of the existing national level research on the FDI-growth relationship in Korea, the results are partly contrary to the respective earlier findings on the FDI-environment nexus. Given Korea's high level of development paired with the aforementioned impact on economic growth and air pollution intensities, foreign investments are, therefore, regarded as one potential pillar to achieve the goals of the green growth strategy.
O44|Knowledge accumulation from public renewable energy R&D in the European Union: Converging or diverging trends?|Bottom-up processes of policy convergence are increasingly discussed as a substitute for the absence of supranational energy policy coordination and harmonization in the EU. The overall objective of this paper is to analyse the development of government support to renewable energy R&D across EU countries over time: does the empirical evidence suggest bottom-up convergence? In order to answer this question, we first construct country-specific R&D-based knowledge stocks, and then investigate whether the developments of these stocks tend to converge or diverge across EU countries. A data set covering 12 EU Member States over the time period 1990-2012 is employed to test for the presence of conditional â-convergence using a bias-corrected dynamic panel data estimator. The empirical results are overall robust and suggest divergence in terms of public R&D-based knowledge build-up in renewable energy technology. This finding is consistent with free-riding behavior on the part of some Member States, and the presence of industrial policy motives in other States in combination with agglomeration effects in the renewable energy sector. Energy import dependence and electricity regulation are found to influence the growth of the R&D-based knowledge stock, and the deregulation of the EU electricity markets has tended to contribute to a lower speed of divergence.
O44|An Econometric Analysis of Divergence of Renewable Energy Invention Efforts in Europe|The objective of this paper is to investigate the presence of convergence (or divergence) of invention efforts per capita in the renewable energy field across European Union (EU) countries. Divergence may imply a risk of a lower level of goal fulfilment regarding the share of renewable energy in the EU energy mix. This is due to free-rider issues and sub-optimal investment levels, in turn making it more expensive and cumbersome to expand renewable energy production. Convergence suggests a possible faster renewable energy goal achievement. The econometric analysis is based on patent application counts per capita for 13 EU Member States over the time period 1990–2012. The methods used draw on the economic convergence literature. First, we rely on a panel data set to test for conditional β-convergence. Moreover, a distributional dynamics approach is employed to test for σ- and γ-convergence, and analyse the intra-distributional dynamics. The results indicate conditional β- and σ-divergence in renewable energy invention capabilities across the 13 countries, thus suggesting that some EU countries tend to free-ride on the development efforts of other Member States.
O44|How Tight are Malthusian Constraints?|We provide a methodology to estimate the elasticity of agricultural output with respect to land - the Malthusian constraint - using variation in rural densities across different locations. We use district-level data from around the globe on rural densities and inherent agricultural productivity to estimate the elasticity for various sub-samples. We find the elasticity is highest in areas that are suitable for temperate crops such as wheat or rye, and loosest in areas suitable for (sub)-tropical crops such as cassava or rice. We show theoretically that a higher elasticity results in greater sensitivity of non-agricultural employment and real income per capita to shocks in population size and productivity, and confirm this with evidence from the post-war mortality transition.
O44|Human Resource Management In Hotels From Puebla (Mexico) And From Bogota (Colombia): A Comparative Analysis Using Migsa, Administracion Del Recurso Humano: Estudio De Caso En El Sector Hotelero De Puebla (Mexico) Y De Bogota (Colombia) Mediante El Modelo De Indicadores De Gestion Sostenible Y Asociatividad (Migsa)|This article undertakes a comparative analysis. The analysis involves application of the Modelo de Indicadores de Gestión Sostenible y Asociatividad (MIGSA) to two representative hotels. One hotel is in the city of Puebla Mexico and the other in Bogota Colombia. The aim is to assess the extent that practices and HR policies in the two countries are developed, to show how human resource are practiced. The results are the product of measuring 22 “indexes” and 5 “indicators” that make part of the MIGSA model. After obtaining different quantitative and qualitative results we find that the Colombian practices improve working conditions more than other alternatives.
O44|Instrument Choice and Stranded Assets in the Transition to Clean Capital|To mitigate climate change, some governments opt for instruments focused on investment, like performance standards or feebates, instead of carbon prices. We compare these policies in a Ramsey model with clean and polluting capital, irreversible investment and a climate constraint. Alternative instruments imply different transitions to the same balanced growth path. The optimal carbon price minimizes the discounted social cost of the transition to clean capital, but imposes immediate private costs that disproportionately affect the current owners of polluting capital, in particular in the form of stranded assets. A phased-in carbon price can avoid stranded assets but still result in a drop of income for the owners of polluting capital when it is implemented. Second-best standards or feebates on new investment lead to higher total costs but avoid stranded assets, preserve the revenues of vested interests, and smooth abatement costs over individuals and time. These results suggest a trade-off between political feasibility and cost-effectiveness of environmental policies.
O44|The Origins and Long-Run Consequences of the Division of Labor|This research explores the deep historical roots and persistent effects of the division of labor in pre-modern societies. It advances the hypothesis, and establishes empirically that population diversity had a positive causal effect on the division of labor. Based on a novel ethnic level dataset combining geocoded ethnographic, linguistic and genetic data, this research exploits the exogenous variation in population diversity generated by historical migratory patterns to causally establish that higher levels of population diversity were conducive to economic specialization and the emergence of trade-related institutions that, in turn, translated into differences in pre-modern comparative development. Additionally, this research provides suggestive evidence that regions historically inhabited by pre-modern societies with higher levels of economic specialization have higher levels of contemporary occupational heterogeneity, economic complexity and development.
O44|The Expansion of Modern Agriculture and Global Biodiversity Decline: An Integrated Assessment|The world is banking on a major increase in food production, if the dietary needs and food preferences of an increasing, and increasingly rich, population are to be met. This requires the further expansion of modern agriculture, but modern agriculture rests on a small number of highly productive crops and its expansion has led to a significant loss of global biodiversity. Ecologists have shown that biodiversity loss results in lower plant productivity, while agricultural economists have linked biodiversity loss on farms with increasing variability of crop yields, and sometimes lower mean yields. In this paper we consider the macro-economic consequences of the continued expansion of particular forms of intensive, modern agriculture, with a focus on how the loss of biodiversity affects food production. We employ a quantitative, structurally estimated model of the global economy, which jointly determines economic growth, population and food demand, agricultural innovations and land conversion. We show that even small effects of agricultural expansion on productivity via biodiversity loss might be sufficient to warrant a moratorium on further land conversion.
O44|Gender Gap in Entrepreneurship and Firm Performance in Developing Countries|This paper uses firm-level data from the World Bank Enterprise Surveys (WBES) to investigate productivity gaps between female and male-managed companies in developing countries. We depart from the previous literature by using the gender of the top manager as target variable, which is newly available in the 2016 version of the WBES. The main results indicate that it is crucial to distinguish between female management and female ownership and also the confluence between both. We find that when the firms are managed by females and there are not female owners, they show a higher average labour productivity and total factor productivity. However, if females are among the owners and a female is the top manager, then their productivity is lower than for other firms. These results are very heterogeneous among regions. In particular, results in South Saharan Africa, East Asia and South Asia seems to be driving the general results
O44|Human Development at Risk: Economic Growth with Pollution-Induced Health Shocks|Abstract Risks to human health stemming from polluted air, water, and soil are substantial, especially in the rapidly growing economies. The present paper develops a theoretical framework to study an endogenously growing economy which is subject to pollution-induced health shocks with the health status being an argument of the welfare function. Pollution, arising as a negative externality from production, adversely and randomly affects the regeneration ability of a human body leading to a decline in the overall health status of the population. We include two types of uncertainty surrounding the health status: continuous small-scale fluctuations, driven by the Wiener process, and large-scale shocks or epidemics, driven by the Poisson process. We derive closed-form analytical solutions for the optimal abatement policy and the growth rate of consumption. Devoting a constant fraction of output to emissions abatement delivers the first-best allocation. This fraction is an increasing function of total factor productivity, polluting intensity of production, and damage intensity of both continuous and jump-type shocks. A higher frequency of jumps also calls for more vigorous abatement policies. By contrast, the optimal growth rate of the economy is decreasing in the frequency and intensity of shocks and in the polluting intensity of output. The efficiency of abatement technology has, in general, an ambiguous bearing on both the growth rate and on the abatement share due to the opposing forces of the direct and indirect effects.
O44|Will Technological Change Save the World? The Rebound Effect in International Transfers of Technology|Abstract Technological change and its transfer to developing countries is often portrayed by policy-makers as a critical part of the solution to a resource problem such as climate change, based on the assumption that the transfer of resource-conserving technologies to developing countries will result in reduced use of natural capital by those countries. We demonstrate here, in a capital conversion based model of development, that the free transfer of resource-conserving technologies to developing countries will increase the options available to those countries, but that the way that they expend these options need not be in the direction of conserving resources. This is another example of the potential for a rebound effect to determine ultimate outcomes, here in the context of international technology transfer policy. The transfer of technologies is as likely to simply move developing countries more rapidly down the same development path as it is to alter the choices they make along that path. For this reason, the transfer of resource-conserving technologies, without incentives provided to alter development priorities, may not result in any resource-conservation at all.
O44|Innovation-Led Transitions in Energy Supply|I generalize a benchmark model of directed technical change in order to reconcile it with the historical experience of energy transitions. I show that the economy becomes increasingly locked-in to the dominant energy source when machines and energy resources are substitutes, but a transition away from the dominant energy source is possible when machines and energy resources are complements. Consistent with history, a transition in research activity leads any transition in resource supply. A calibrated numerical implementation shows that innovation is critical to climate change policy. A policymaker uses a temporary research subsidy to permanently redirect innovation towards low-emission resources, avoiding much more warming than would a policymaker restricted to an emission tax instrument.
O44|Engaging the Private Sector for Green Growth and Climate Action: An Overview of Development Co-Operation Efforts|The private sector plays an important role in supporting green growth in developing countries. As a result, there is increasing emphasis for development co-operation providers to integrate private sector engagement (PSE) approaches into their programmes on green growth and climate change. This paper provides an overview of activities in this area, estimating that 22% of climate-related development finance supported PSE activities in 2013. It also presents a stock-taking of efforts to: mobilise private climate investment, promote green private sector development and harness skills and knowledge of private actors. The paper highlights some challenges and lessons learned, such as the need for PSE to target a wider range of environmental issues, the importance of investing in integrated approaches to enable the development of pipelines, and the need to align private sector approaches with national contexts. The findings in this paper contribute to the discussion on how development co-operation providers can improve the effectiveness of PSE approaches to promote green growth and climate action, and may be a useful starting point to guide evidence-based policy relevant research.
O44|Fostering innovative business investment in Spain|Spain has chronically low productivity growth, which undermines its ability to generate higher living standards. Important contributors to low productivity growth are the misallocation of capital to low productivity firms and under-investment in knowledge-based capital. To foster a better allocation of capital a first priority is to better tune bank, capital market and government financing to the needs of new innovative firms. This could be done through better small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) bond and loan securitisation tools, reallocating public financing to early stage finance and making it easier for firms to access public innovation funding by shifting some funding from loans to grants for research and development (R&D) projects. Attracting more foreign capital and improving the regulatory framework to increase the return on investment would also help. This could be done by reducing regulatory barriers that hold back competition, improving the neutrality of the tax system, improving pricing signals and reforming insolvency laws.
O44|Sustaining nature-based tourism in Iceland|Iceland has been experiencing a tourism boom. The number of tourists visiting annually quadrupled between 2010 and 2016 and shows continued strength. The tourism sector is now the major export earner and is also creating new jobs and supporting new businesses. The government budget has also benefitted from high tax revenues. The surge in tourism supported growth after the crisis and the sector has become a major pillar of the economy. But, the breakneck growth of tourism has created a number of challenges. Growing pains have emerged as accommodation supply has lagged in the wake of unexpectedly large number of tourists, contributing to pressure on the local housing market. The environment, particularly in some popular sites, has also come under pressure. The government has reacted to these environmental and social impacts and has worked with the industry to agree on a path forward. Sustaining a nature-based tourism for Iceland will require more coordinated policy across government and a long-term strategic plan that builds on Iceland's strengths. Protecting the unique environmental attractions of Iceland - while mitigating adverse social impacts - will lay the basis for the healthy development of a new important sector. This working paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of Iceland (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-iceland.htm).
O44|Enhancing transparency of climate finance under the Paris Agreement: Lessons from experience|An enhanced transparency framework will be a central component of the post-2020 international climate policy regime under the Paris Agreement. This paper explores the issue of transparency of climate finance information in the context of climate finance goals under the United Nations’ Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The transparency framework of the Paris Agreement covers only a subset of climate finance, i.e. finance provided and mobilised by developed countries for developing countries, climate finance provided and mobilised by “other” countries for developing countries, as well as climate finance received by developing countries. This paper focuses on data collection, reporting and review of these elements, and explores how the transparency of information on climate finance provided and mobilised could be improved from current arrangements in order to meet the aims set out in the Paris Agreement.
O44|Accounting for mitigation targets in Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement|Accounting for Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement is needed to allow Parties to track individual progress towards their own mitigation-related NDC targets, understand others’ NDC targets and their progress toward them, and assess collective progress towards the long-term mitigation goal. This paper aims to assist Parties and stakeholders in framing thinking around the nature of accounting for mitigation targets given the diversity of target types in NDCs, and also to discuss how accounting guidance could be applied at various stages in the NDC cycle. It provides a summary and unpacking of the key accounting provisions under the Paris Agreement and Decision text, discusses the implications of the range of NDC target types, then discusses the particular issues of accounting for co-operative approaches and for the land sector. It then explores how accounting guidance may be applied within the NDC cycle.
O44|Enhancing mitigation and finance reporting: Building on current experience to meet the Paris Agreement requirements|The future enhanced transparency framework outlined in the Paris Agreement and its accompanying Decision is to build on, enhance and eventually supersede the existing measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) system established under the Cancún Agreements. This paper explores the issues of “building on” and “enhancing” as they relate to the biennial reporting of information on mitigation and finance, by drawing lessons from the existing MRV system and examining the Paris Agreement’s provisions. It examines four areas: greenhouse gas (GHG) inventories, reporting on progress with the mitigation component of nationally determined contributions (NDCs), finance provided and mobilised, and financial support received and needed. The paper also highlights the challenges met by Parties while reporting information for these areas to date, and provides suggestions on how forthcoming modalities, procedures and guidelines (MPGs) might reduce these difficulties.
O44|International trade consequences of climate change|"This report provides an analysis of how climate change damages may affect international trade in the coming decades and how international trade can help limit the costs of climate change. It analyses the impacts of climate change on trade considering both direct effects on infrastructure and transport routes and the indirect economic impacts resulting from changes in endowments and production. A qualitative analysis with a literature review is used to present the direct effects of climate change. The indirect impacts of climate change damages on trade are analysed with the OECD’s ENV-Linkages model, a dynamic computable general equilibrium model with global coverage and sector-specific international trade flows. By building on the analysis in the OECD (2015) report ""The Economic Consequences of Climate Change"", the modelling analysis presents a plausible scenario of future socioeconomic developments and climate damages, to shed light on the mechanisms at work in explaining how climate change will affect trade."
O44|Environmental Problems and Policies in Kazakhstan: Air pollution, waste and water|We provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of environmental governance concerning air pollution, water problems and waste generation in Kazakhstan. The overview of the environmental and institutional framework in these fields reveals that major environmental problems exist in the country. Some steps have already been taken to ensure a proper management of air, waste and water. However, more coordinated cross-sectoral actions, both on the regional and the national level, need to be undertaken to ensure a productive cooperation between state institutions, business and the society.
O44|Socio-economic and enviromental effects of bioenergy based on wood ine the development of remote areas|Traditional energy sources based on oil, coal, and natural gas have proven to be highly effective, but at the same time they have many negative environmental effects. Also by technical and economical points traditional energy sources are not available in many remote areas. In this paper, the authors have been discussed the alternative approach in energy supply, which also has positive social-economic and environmental effects. This paper provides a new solution for energy supply in remote areas by implementing bioenergy based on woodchips, which has multi-sector effects. Bioenergy generation based on woodchips has multi-sector effect that is why authors offer to combine forest cleaning cutting and forest thinning with bioenergy based on woodchips in one project which will have social, economic and ecological effects. The situation with forest fires makes the authors idea more attractive because after forest fires the problem of cleaning cutting in forest became very important and urgent by ecological and economical points: after cleaning cutting there are a lot of low quality wood which by author’s idea can be recycled into chips for bioenergy. This methodology has been applied to bioenergy and regional development decisions in remote areas which mainly have a problem with energy provision; it is suitable for applications to infrastructure development projects in any remote forested region of the world. Mobile bioenergy generation based on woodchips in remote areas settle the complex of environmental, social, economic problems and can become the driver of development of the region.
O44|The Ant and the Grasshopper: Seasonality and the Invention of Agriculture|During the Neolithic Revolution, seven populations independently invented agriculture. In this paper, I argue that this innovation was a response to a large increase in climatic seasonality. In the most affected regions, hunter-gatherers abandoned their traditional nomadism in order to store food and smooth their consumption. Their new sedentary lifestyle greatly simplified the invention and adoption of agriculture. I present a model that captures the key incentives for adopting agriculture, and I test the resultant predictions against a global panel dataset of climate conditions and Neolithic adoption dates. I find that invention and adoption were both systematically more likely in places with higher seasonality. The findings of this paper imply that seasonality patterns 10,000 years ago were amongst the major determinants of the present day global distribution of crop productivities, ethnic groups, cultural traditions, and political institutions.
O44|Natural Capital Depletion: the Impact of Natural Disasters on Inclusive Growth|Abstract The impact of natural disasters on inclusive growth has received little attention from empirical analyses compared to the attention focused on other growth parameters. Thus, this study considers country-level panel data (108 countries over 25 years) and estimates three econometric models to explore the nexus of natural capital depletion and climate-related natural disasters. The results indicate that the impact is nonlinear: there is an inverted ‘U’ shape for small-to-medium level disasters in which natural capital depletion is increasing. The impact of natural disasters is higher when the magnitude of resource depletion is lower or higher. Similarly, trade openness, FDI and GDP growth rate are other important determinants of natural capital. This paper provides insights into how sustainable development can be pursued by means of conserving natural resources in the face of frequent climate-related disasters. It particularly emphasizes the importance of considering small-to-medium size disasters and the threat of disaster in countries with low levels of natural capital depletion.
O44|Why Countries Shouldn't Sell Their Natural Resources To Foreigners|Years ago, I recommended that my City, my Polis, Gloucester, MA, never sell its natural resources to any outsider. Last year, with the passing of Fidel Castro, I saw a possibility for Cuba to become finally free. Naturally, I urged Cubans not to repeat the errors made by Russia and China at the collapse of communism; I urged Cubans not to sell their natural resources to the oligarchs, whether local or foreign. This time around, I also urged Cubans not to repeat the political errors of the past, namely trying to correct horrors of the left with horrors of the right; this time around I urged Cubans and anyone else who might want to hear to achieve a revolution from the center of the political system. With the forthcoming elections in Kenya, in the hope of averting the bloodshed that followed the 2007 elections there, I recently felt impelled to enlarge my focus to appeal to every nation in Africa, and the rest of the world for that matter, not to sell their natural resources to foreigners. The financial resources to achieve this goal are the same the world over: One must organize local financial resources, through: 1. Any such instrument as a Local Interdependence Fund; and 2. A reform of central bank operations to issue a) loans only to create real wealth; b) loans at cost; c) loans to benefit as many people as possible, hence loans to individual entrepreneurs, cooperatives, corporations with ESOPs and/or CSOPs, and to public agencies with taxing power to fund public works projects.
O44|Are population and international trade the main factors for environmental damage in China?|This paper investigates whether population and international trade, along with energy consumption, are the main factors for environmental damage in China during the period 1971-2011. The stationary analysis is examined by the Zivot–Andrews unit root test and the ARDL bounds testing approach is used for a long run relationship between the series in the presence of structural breaks. The causality between CO2 emissions, energy consumption, economic growth, population and international trade is examined by the VECM Granger causality technique. Our results show that the selected variables are cointegrated; it means that the long run relationship exists in the presence of structural breaks. The empirical findings indicate that in long run, energy consumption and population increase CO2 emissions, while in short run, energy consumption and international trade decrease CO2 emissions. The VECM causality analysis shows that CO2 emissions Granger cause energy consumption, while energy consumption and population Granger cause trade. The VECM analysis also indicates the feedback hypothesis between trade and CO2 emissions. Policy recommendations are made following the obtained results.
O44|Energy Conservation, Fossil Fuel Consumption, CO2 Emission and Economic Growth in Indonesia|This paper discusses the relationship between fossil fuel consumption, carbon dioxide emissions and economic growth for the period of 1965-2012 in Indonesia by applying Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) Granger causality. This paper also estimate the effect of energy conservation policy that has already adopted the National Energy Conservation Master Plan (RIKEN 2005) by Indonesian Government to the pattern of energy consumption in Indonesia from 2014 until 2030. Empirical results show that in the short-run there are unidirectional Granger causalities running from coal consumption to economic growth (growth hypothesis) and from economic growth to oil consumption (conservation hypothesis). However, in the long run the results suggest unidirectional Granger causality only running from oil consumption to economic growth and CO2 emissions. Thus, Indonesia should adopts different policies for each type of energies in order to maintain the economic growth while the effort of reducing fossil fuel consumption is in progress. The projection results imply that Indonesia government should revise the energy efficiency targets in RIKEN 2005 since the result of LEAP Projection based on RIKEN target shows a lower energy saving rate (17.32 percent) compared to the target (18 percent).
O44|Global marine fisheries with economic growth|This study explores the state of global marine fisheries and empirically analyzes its relationship to economic factors. We apply the pooled mean group estimator method to examine 70 fishing countries for the period of 1961–2010. We use both catch and the estimated size of stock as proxies for marine ecosystems. Our results confirm that economic growth initially leads to the deterioration of marine ecosystems. However, for a per capita income level of approximately 3,827 USD for the catch model and of 6,066 USD for the biomass model, we found beneficial impacts of economic growth on the sustainability of marine fisheries. Over the next two decades, we expect to see a decline in catch and indications of stock recovery.
O44|Do Incidences of Contamination Hurt Tunisian Economic Flourishing?|The design of this dissertation consists of shortening the nuance of pollution on Tunisian economic growth, taking into account domestic investment, energy consumption and trade openness. From 1971 to 2015, this impact is tested using the error correction model (ECM). The final consequences of estimating the long-run equilibrium relation show that pollution has a negative effect on economic growth in Tunisia but this facet is insignificant. This means that during this period pollution did not result in a reduction in economic growth, however, this result indicates that after an interval of years indeterminate pollution will negatively affect economic growth, The Tunisian State to demonstrate economic policies and instruments to protect it against the worsening of the future effects of pollution.
O44|Substituting fossil energy sources: the role of the climate funds and effects on the economic growth|The Green Climate Fund (GCF) is a fund within the framework of the UNFCCC founded as a mechanism to assist developing countries in adaptation and mitigation practices to counter climate change. In this paper, we analyze the flow of funds among countries and investigate, through a counterfactual analysis, their effectiveness. The results show that as result of the receipt of the funds, countries reduced their GHG emission and have been incentivized in the replacement of fossil sources with renewable sources. Finally, also a leverage effect of the funds for economic development of the recipient countries comes into the light.
O44|Analysis of the Sustainable Growth Indicator in the Area of Climate Change from the Point of View of Europe 2020 Strategy Performance|The objective of this paper is to present the results of an analysis of the indicator Greenhouse gas emissions (GGE). The GGE is one of the headline indicators tracked under the EU’s main socioeconomic strategy until the year 2020 - the EUROPE 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. In the area of sustainable growth, the Resource-efficient Europe initiative was established. For 2020, the EU has made a unilateral commitment to reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions from its 28 member states by 20 % compared to 1990 levels. The GGE indicator shows total man-made emissions of the so-called Kyoto basket of greenhouse gases. It presents annual total emissions in relation to those observed in 1990. The aggregate greenhouse gas emissions are expressed in units of CO2 equivalent. The development of the GGE indicator in the EU and in the Czech Republic from 2000 to 2014 from the point of view of the ability to achieve the Strategy objectives is analyzed. In terms of the level of the analyzed indicator, the set of the EU countries can be divided into two significantly different groups - the euro area and the non-euro area; or into groups by the year of their joining the EU. Analyses of the dependency between the growth of GGE and the GDP growth for both the set of the 28 EU countries and the Czech Republic are presented as well.
O44|Impact and distribution of climatic damages: a methodological proposal with a dynamic CGE model applied to global climate negotiations|Abstract The UNFCCC Paris Agreement, entered into force on 4 November 2016, represents a step forward in involving all countries in mitigation actions, even though it is based on a voluntary approach and lacks the active participation of some major polluting countries. The underinvestment in mitigation actions depends on market and policy failures and the absence of price signals internalizing the economic losses due to climatic damage. This contributes to underestimating potential benefits from global action. In this paper we discuss how crucial is the assessment of the vulnerability of a country to climate change in defining the threat and action strategies. A dynamic climate-economy CGE model is developed that includes a monetary evaluation of regional damages associated with climate change. By considering alternative damage profiles, results show that internalizing climatic costs might change the bargaining position of countries in climate negotiations. Consequently, damage costs should be given greater importance when defining the implementation of a global climate agreement.
O44|Dirty Little Secrets: Inferring Fossil-Fuel Subsidies from Patterns in Emission Intensities|I develop a unique database of international fossil-fuel subsidies by examining country-specific patterns in carbon emission-to-GDP ratios, known as emission-intensities. For most - but not all - countries, intensities tend to be hump-shaped with income. I construct a model of structural-transformation that generates this hump-shaped intensity and then show that deviations from this pattern must be driven by distortions to sectoral-productivity and/or fossil-fuel prices. Finally, I use the calibrated model to measure these distortions for 170 countries for 1980-2010. This methodology reveals that fossil-fuel price-distortions are large, increasing and often hidden. Furthermore, they are major contributors to higher carbon-emissions and lower GDP
O44|To Grow or Not to Grow? That is the Question: Lessons for Social Ecological Transformation from Small-Medium Enterprises|While research on alternatives to growth at the level of the economy as a whole is accumulating, few studies have related the criticism of growth to the business level. This paper starts to address this gap by investigating mechanisms of growth for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), presenting a case study that applies Q methodology and interviews with owner-managers of both growing and non-growing SMEs in Austria. Some mechanisms stimulating growth are identified across SMEs including contributing to innovativeness and motivation of employees. Others are only of relevance for some SMEs: competition, financial stability and a desire for market power. The owner-managers of non-growing SMEs hold values and pursue goals that free them from mechanisms of growth or prevent them from being triggered. Moreover, they exhibit a strong identification with their SME, operate in niche markets and strive for financial independence. This illustrates that a growth imperative is neither inevitable nor are growth mechanisms always operative, but depend upon structures and institutions.
O44|Sustainable Development - The Premise of Economic Growth in Conditions of Globalization|Sustainable development is a relatively new concept applied to economic growth, in order to take into account, primarily, ecological aspects at the level of the Planet. This new concept was imposed because the conventional economy progress cannot ensure the needs of millions of people and undermining the possibility of future generations and ensure. Vision on sustainable development strategies starts from the understanding that a countryâ€™s economy is more than the sum of components, that changes into a subsystem or another is liable to changes, overview by virtue of interdependence existing between its dynamic components. We need to market values, to serve the interests of the people, finding that paths that contribute to sustainable development. A sustainable economy will reconsider the important activities, which should be supported at the level of markets, those profitable both for employees and for the economy.
O44|Drivers of international shipments of hazardous waste: the role of policy and technology endowment|Using a gravity model for trade, this work analyzes the factors influencing the patterns of international hazardous waste flows, relying on newly available data reported in the E-PRTR (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry) for EU-OECD countries over the period 2007 to 2014. Exploiting a consolidated empirical framework (Kellenberg, 2012), we test two empirical hypotheses: firstly, we explicitly assess if, according to the pollution heaven hypothesis (PHH), the relative levels of environmental policies across countries are an important determinant of hazardous waste trade, and secondly, we test if technological specialization, proxied here by a technology-specific patent stock, can be considered as a pull factor capable to influence the patterns of international trade of hazardous waste.
O44|Environmental Disasters and Electoral Cycle: An Empirical Analysis on Floods and Landslides in Italy|Abstract The aim of this paper is to analyse potential drivers of land use policy, in the form of building permits issued in Italian provinces. We first derive testable implications on the basis of a standard political agency framework, augmented to account for the impact of past environmental disasters (floods, landslides and earthquakes) and for the relevance of “building permits intensive” sectors in determining voters’ support to an incumbent politician. We then perform an empirical analysis that tests theoretical predictions using a unique dataset covering Italy in the period 2001–2012. Our main conclusions show that the occurrence of floods and earthquakes decreases building permits, implying that a bad history in terms of these phenomena strengthens the importance of voters affected by past disasters. No corresponding evidence seems to emerge with reference to landslides. On the other hand, the relevance of the construction sector increases the number of building permits issued. Finally, when elections approach, the number of building permits issued grows, suggesting that incumbent politicians may distort land use policies in order to favour “brown” voters in periods close to elections.
O44|Optimal Growth with Resource Exhaustibility and Pollution Externality|This paper investigates a problem of optimal growth with resource exhaustibility and pollution externality, based on a unified framework that explicitly considers augmentable man-made capital, exhaustible resource reserves, and accumulative environmental pollutants as three stock variables for optimal control analysis. Characterizations of the social optimum show that for any given man-made capital and resource reserves, resource extraction flows generated in optimal growth with both resource exhaustibility and pollution externality are smaller than those with only resource exhaustibility, and taking account of pollution externality resulting from resource extraction reduces the growth rate of consumption if man-made capital and natural resources are complements in final goods production. Existence, uniqueness and comparative statics of the steady state are analyzed. Conditions for transitional dynamics stability of optimal growth with resource exhaustibility and pollution externality are established. Expositions are made on whether allocations in a market equilibrium are consistent with the social optimum outcomes.
O44|Surfing a wave of economic growth|We investigate whether the geographic determinants of growth extend to natural amenities. We combine data on spatial and temporal variation in the quality of over 5000 surf breaks globally with data on local economic performance, proxied by night-time lights. We document a strong association between natural amenity quality and local economic development. Economic activity grows faster near good surf breaks; following the discovery of new breaks, or the technology needed to ride them; and during El Niño events that generate high-quality waves. The effects are concentrated in nearby towns and emerging economies, and population changes are consistent with tourism.
O44|An economic model of metapopulation dynamics|In this paper, we aim to model the impact of human activities on the wildlife habitat in a general equilibrium framework by embedding the Levins model (1969) of metapopulation dynamics into a Ramsey model (1928) with a pollution externality. In the long run, as in Levins (1969), two steady states coexist: a zero one with mass extinction and another one with positive wildlife when the migration rate of the metapopulation exceeds the rate of extinction. A green tax always increases the wildlife and lowers the consumption demand. It is welfare-improving if and only if agents overweight the wildlife. In the short run, we show that a sufficiently negative effect of wildlife habitat on consumption demand can lead to the emergence of a limit cycle near the positive steady state through a Hopf bifurcation. We show also that the negative pollution effect on wildlife habitat works as a destabilizing force in the economy by promoting limit cycles.
O44|Biodiversity, infectious diseases and the dilution effect|Biologists point out that biodiversity loss contributes to promote the transmission of diseases. In epidemiology, this phenomenon is known as dilution effect. Our paper aims to model this effect in an economic model where the spread of an infectious disease is considered. More precisely, we embed a SIS model into a Ramsey model (1928) where a pollution externality coming from production affects the evolution of biodiversity. Biodiversity is assimilated to a renewable resource and affects the infectivity of the disease (dilution effect). A green tax is levied on production at the firm level to finance depollution according to a balanced budget rule. In the long run, a disease-free and an endemic regime are possible. We focus only on the second case and we find that the magnitude of the dilution effect determines the number of steady states. When the dilution effect remains low, there are two steady states with high and low biodiversity respectively. Conversely, when the dilution effect becomes high, the steady state is always unique. Moreover, under a low dilution effect, a higher green-tax rate always impairs biodiversity at the low steady state, while this green paradox is over under a high dilution effect. In the short run, limit cycles can arise in both the cases even if only a low dilution effect can lead to the occurrence of Bogdanov-Takens and generalized Hopf bifurcations.
O44|The difficult path to a sustainable economic growth|Economic growth since the industrial era has reduced poverty and increased societies’ quality of life, but it also has implied negative environmental effects. There is an urgent need to correct this structural unbalance. The open issue is whether this correction implies sacrificing the perspective of economic growth or if it can be achieved by maintaining economic growth though changing its nature in a more environment oriented direction. In the following I argue that this second strategy is preferable and also more realistic, but it requires an appropriate combination of conditions and policies to be implemented. Environmental regulation, particularly through the use of appropriate price signals correcting negative environmental externalities, is necessary, but not sufficient to promote the required radical environment oriented innovations, particularly to build a low-carbon economy less and less dependent on fossil fuels. Environment oriented innovation policies are required, supported by a system of social norms and by a polycentric system of governance.
O44|A replication of Pindyck’s willingness to pay: on the sacrifice needed to obtain results|We present a verification, an extension and a reanalysis of “Uncertain outcomes and climate change policy”, R. Pindyck, Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 2012. As far as verification is concerned, we are able to reproduce the results provided in Pindyck’s work in many cases and convincingly confirm the quality of the work. Some discrepancies are present, they are due to rounding or related to specific sets of parametric values and do not change the economic interpretation or significance of the results. The re-estimation of the model with more recent data on climate change made available in 2014 shows that temperature increments are now deemed to be higher in mean but less dispersed. As a consequence, the willingness to pay doesn’t vary much with respect to the original paper. We also modify the functional form describing the impact of temperature increase on the growth rate of consumption and obtain much bigger and potentially problematic increments of the willingness to pay. Finally, the paper demonstrates that the numerical results are sensitive to a variety of technical settings used in the computations and suggests that great care is needed in obtaining estimates and employing results in policy discussions.
O44|To Grow or Not to Grow? That is the Question: Lessons for Social Ecological Transformation from Small-Medium Enterprises|While research on alternatives to growth at the level of the economy as a whole is accumulating, few studies have related the criticism of growth to the business level. This paper starts to address this gap by investigating mechanisms of growth for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), presenting a case study that applies Q methodology and interviews with owner-managers of both growing and non-growing SMEs in Austria. Some mechanisms stimulating growth are identified across SMEs including contributing to innovativeness and motivation of employees. Others are only of relevance for some SMEs: competition, financial stability and a desire for market power. The owner-managers of non-growing SMEs hold values and pursue goals that free them from mechanisms of growth or prevent them from being triggered. Moreover, they exhibit a strong identification with their SME, operate in niche markets and strive for financial independence. This illustrates that a growth imperative is neither inevitable nor are growth mechanisms always operative, but depend upon structures and institutions.
O44|Wachstumszwänge: Ressourcenverbrauch und Akkumulation als Wettbewerbsverzerrungen|Gibt es „Wachstumszwänge“? Wir definieren den Begriff relativ eng, strukturieren die diskutierten Mechanismen in sechs Gruppen und analysieren sie. Technischer Fortschritt erweist sich mit seiner Kostendynamik und „technologischer Arbeitslosigkeit“ als Hauptursache für das „grow or die“ des Kapitalismus sowie für staatliche Wachstumspolitik. „Bestehen im Wettbewerb“ bedeutet heute im Wesentlichen, teure menschliche Arbeit durch preiswerten Ressourcenverbrauch zu ersetzen. Akkumulation (Reichtum und große Unternehmen) als unwiderstehlicher Anreiz führt „fast zwangsläufig“ zu vergleichbaren gesellschaftlichen Defekten. Damit begründen wir zwei Politikmaßnahmen, nämlich die direkte gesellschaftliche Deckelung von Ressourcenverbrauch und von Vermögen. Diese Maßnahmen sind voll kompatibel mit den normativen Grundlagen und praktischen Erfordernissen von Marktwirtschaft.
O44|Supporting the UN SDGs transition: Methodology for sustainability assessment and current worldwide ranking|This analysis lies in the stream of research related to the quantitative assessment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations at the end of September 2015. We assemble a composite multi-dimensional index and a worldwide ranking of current sustainability. This makes it possible to assess the strengths and weaknesses of today's socio-economic development, as well as environmental criticalities worldwide. The methodology goes through the following steps: screening of indicators capable of addressing the UN's SDGs; data collection from relevant sources; organization into three pillars of sustainability (economy, society, and environment); normalization to a common metrics; aggregation of the 26 indicators into composite indices by pillars as well as in a multi-dimensional index. The final ranking includes 139 countries. Sweden, Norway and Switzerland are at the top of the ranking.
O44|Approaches to the implementation of the sustainable development goals: Some considerations on the theoretical underpinnings of the 2030 Agenda|The paper discusses the theoretical underpinning of the concept of sustainable development, especially in relation to follow-up and review, including ex post evaluation of progress. The purpose is to explore methodological aspects of applied approaches to the implementation process, e.g. ways to unravel possible interactions among the numerous SDGs and targets, and to assess trade-offs between interventions. The aim is to go beyond various sustainable development interpretations, by exploring how they perceive and approach implementation of the goals, taking the complexity of this substantial task into account. The paper surveys the theoretical economic underpinning of the 2030 Agenda and the role of neoclassical economic theory in this context. Implementation routes for sustainable development interpretations based on other theoretical frameworks are briefly sketched for comparison. The analysis leads to the claim that it is questionable whether interpretations of sustainable development founded on neoclassical economic theory - as the 2030 Agenda - are applicable in relation to every aspect of sustainability.
O44|Knowledge Accumulation from Public Renewable Energy R&D in the European Union: Converging or Diverging Trends?|Bottom-up processes of policy convergence are increasingly discussed as a substitute for the absence of supranational energy policy coordination and harmonization in the EU. The overall objective of this paper is to analyse the development of government support to renewable energy R&D across EU countries over time: does the empirical evidence suggest bottom-up convergence? In order to answer this question, we first construct country-specific R&D-based knowledge stocks, and then investigate whether the developments of these stocks tend to converge or diverge across EU countries. A data set covering 12 EU Member States over the time period 1990-2012 is employed to test for the presence of conditional -convergence using a bias-corrected dynamic panel data estimator. The empirical results are overall robust and suggest divergence in terms of public R&D-based knowledge build-up in renewable energy technology. This finding is consistent with free-riding behavior on the part of some Member States, and the presence of industrial policy motives in other States in combination with agglomeration effects in the renewable energy sector. Energy import dependence and electricity regulation are found to influence the growth of the R&D-based knowledge stock, and the deregulation of the EU electricity markets has tended to contribute to a lower speed of divergence.
O44|How imperative are the Joneses? Economic growth between individual desire and social coercion|Worldwide, economic growth is a prominent goal, despite its severe conflicts with ecological sustainability. Are 'growth policies' only a question of political or individual will, or do 'growth imperatives' exist that make them 'inescapable'? And why do people consume ever more, even in 'rich' countries? These questions are of political relevance, discussed since long - and essentially contested, especially along the dimensions free will vs. social coercion, and 'socio-cultural' influences vs. 'economic' reasons. We carefully derive definitions of the key terms 'social coercion' and 'growth imperative', referring to the concept of methodological individualism. Based on the assumption derived elsewhere that an economic growth imperative actually exists, we analyze some socio-cultural influences on individual behavior, dividing the debate in three subgroups. On the demand side, we study why people seemingly consume beyond basic needs to compare with others for social and cultural reasons, or to increase opportunities, while on the supply side, we analyze why people work more than needed given their consumption plans. When socio-cultural influences are truly forceful, they are usually based on economic pressure. Also, accumulation and certain consumption decisions can be traced back to quite 'rational' motives, making an often demanded 'cultural transformation' towards sufficiency a difficult project. Reproductive considerations (mating) and technology as households' investment may be considerably underestimated as consumption motives, the second probably causing a positive feedback loop. We conclude that, with regard to inescapability, socio-cultural mechanisms are secondary, compared with economic pressure on individuals.
O44|Fear of stagnation? A review on growth imperatives|Worldwide economic growth is fostered, despite its severe conflicts with sustainability and despite the tendency of secular stagnation. To study whether this fostering is 'only' a question of political and individual will or 'unavoidable' to maintain economic stability, we deliver a rather narrow micro level definition of a 'growth imperative'. We divide the many alleged growth imperatives into five categories and review them, thereby reducing several reasonings to few core arguments. We conclude that neither commercial competition, nor profit expectations, nor the monetary system are stand-alone growth imperatives. Instead, when technological innovations (based on resource consumption) are introduced, market forces lead to a systematic necessity to net invest due to the interplay of creative destruction, profit maximization, and the need to limit losses. Unemployment is substantially caused by productivity gains, and the societal and political necessity of high employment explains why states 'must' foster economic growth. This explanation is culturally and normatively parsimonious and empirically substantiated.
