O56|LDC Graduation: Challenges and Opportunities for Vanuatu|"Vanuatu will graduate from the least developed country (LDC) category on 4 December 2020. This will be a momentous occasion, heralding a new era in the nation’s development journey. However, it will be essential to carefully manage the transition leading up to, and following graduation. A smooth transition will be dependent on improving institutional and productive capacity; providing the stimulus for the private sector to flourish; ensuring inclusive, culturally sensitive development; and working to mitigate the country’s deep-seated vulnerabilities. Transition strategies should be led by, and continue to inform, the implementation of Vanuatu 2030 | The People’s Plan - the national sustainable development plan - and be integrated into sector strategies and action plans. Overcoming the challenges and maximizing the opportunities associated with graduation will require collaborative partnerships between government, community leaders, businesses, civil society, and the country’s development and trading partners. Working together, these partnerships should honour the global commitments made by the international community and serve to deliver the development aspirations articulated by the people through Vanuatu 2030. This background paper is intended to build awareness and increase understanding of the key issues associated with Vanuatu’s graduation to help inform national consultations, and the formulation of strategies that guide the smooth transition. It is based on a synthesis of the existing knowledge base, analysis and shared learning that exists on the topic, and has benefited from an initial round of consultations with key stakeholders. While it concludes with a series of recommendations in support of the formulation of appropriate transition strategies, this paper is not presented as a final strategy document. Rather, it is envisaged that it will provoke the necessary further thinking, discussion, research and analysis that will be guided by the National Coordinating Committee for LDC graduation in the lead up to December 2020."
O56|Preparing to graduate: Issues, challenges and strategies for Kiribati’s LDC graduation|This paper outlines the recent development trajectory of Kiribati in relation to the least developed country (LDC) categorisation and the prospect of Kiribati’s graduation out of LDC status. In particular, the paper discusses the economic vulnerability of Kiribati’s economic and fiscal position due to recent increases in fishing license revenue, and presents a framework for policies moving forward. The framework aims to mitigate the fishery revenue as a source of risk by (1) making the most of current resources (through public financial management reform and prudent fiscal management), (2) ensure the sustainability of the key resource (protect fish stocks), and (3) create an environment for new opportunities through establishing the precursors to tourism-orientated development (through deregulation and investment in public infrastructure). More broadly, the paper advocates for a risk-averse approach to policymaking in Kiribati through broad-based improvements in public financial architecture and investment rather than targeting higher-level interventions.
O56|An Empirical Analysis of the Time Pattern of Remittances and Tongan Migrants in New Zealand|Altruistic motivation of sending remittances is a decentralised decision of the migrants. A phenomenon known in the literature as remittances decay hypothesis suggests that the pattern of remittances follows an inverted U shape. We examine whether remittances have declined based on the length of absence of Tongan migrants in New Zealand (NZ). Results from a survey analysis for 309 households indicate that at the early stages of migration remittances increase and it declines over the length of stay in NZ. The time period at which remittances reach the maximum point after which it starts to decline is about 17 years.
O56|Australian Exceptionalism? Inequality and Living Standards 1821-1871|Although the Australian historical literature covering the colonies' first century from the initial convict settlement in 1788 at Botany Bay to the post-gold rush census of 1871 is packed with assertions about Australian living standards and inequality exceptionalism - compared with western Europe and America, there has been very little evidence offered to confirm them. This paper will establish the Australian facts about living standards and inequality trends between the 1820s and the 1870s. Where do we find exceptionalism, compared with the United States, and where not? And can exceptionalism be readily explained by the fact that the US was undergoing a dramatic industrial revolution while Australia was following its commodity-exporting comparative advantage? We start by exploring the end-period benchmark, 1871, where previous literature (since Michael Mulhall in 1892) has reported a big Australian income per capita and living standard lead. We ask whether 1871 is a poor choice for making these comparisons, and whether 1861 would be better. The US had just fought a Civil War and underwent a 'lost growth decade'ï¿½ and southern destruction in the 1860s (Lindert & Williamson 2016b). In addition, both countries had to deal with a mineral rent bust, one in Victoria and the other in California and Nevada. The result for 1861 without the devastated American south or the mineral-rich Victoria, California, and Nevada is a smaller Australian living standard lead, but a significant lead nonetheless. Next we ask whether Australia was born (relatively) rich or grew (relatively) rich by commodity-export-led (relatively) fast growth. It was the latter, a conclusion reached in two ways, indirectly ï¿½ la Angus Maddison backcasting and directly ï¿½ï¿½ la historic purchasing-power- parity living standard estimates for the early years. Our new purchasing-power-parity estimates of working class living standards in the 1820s and 1830s place Australian towns below London. This not-born-relatively-rich conclusion is confirmed indirectly by an exceptionally fast growth performance between 1821 and 1871. In addition, we ask whether the convicts had similar living standards as free urban unskilled in the 1830s (the convicts were still nearly half of the labor force). We follow this with two additional questions: Was the 1871 Australian distribution of income as unequal as it was in the US and Western Europe then? Or was it exceptionally equal? If the latter, was it also as equal in the 1820s as it was in America in 1800? While we cannot yet answer either question, we can document inequality trends between those two dates by exploiting various proxies. Here we find exceptionalism since there is little evidence supporting rising income inequality over the half-century prior to 1871.
O56|Australian Squatters, Convicts, and Capitalists: Dividing Up a Fast-Growing Frontier Pie 1821-1871|Compared with its nineteenth century competitors, Australian GDP per worker grew exceptionally fast, about twice that of the US and three times that of Britain. This paper asks whether the fast growth performance produced rising inequality. Using a novel data set we offer new evidence supporting unambiguously the view that, in sharp contrast with US, Australia underwent a revolutionary levelling in incomes between the 1820s and the 1870s. This assessment is based on our annual estimates of functional shares in the form of land rents, convict incomes, free unskilled incomes, free skill premiums, British imperial transfers and a capitalist residual.
O56|Australian Squatters, Convicts, and Capitalists: Dividing Up a Fast-Growing Frontier Pie 1821-1871|Compared with its nineteenth century competitors, Australian GDP per worker grew exceptionally fast, about twice that of the US and three times that of Britain. This paper asks whether the fast growth performance produced rising inequality. Using a novel data set we offer new evidence supporting unambiguously the view that, in sharp contrast with US, Australia underwent a revolutionary leveling in incomes between the 1820s and the 1870s. This assessment is based on our annual estimates of functional shares in the form of land rents, convict incomes, free unskilled incomes, free skill premiums, British imperial transfers and a capitalist residual.
O56|Creating good conditions for innovation-driven productivity gains in Australia|Innovation is key to boosting Australia’s productivity and inclusiveness. This paper examines the policies that create good conditions for innovation, not only in science and technology but also wider forms, such as business-model innovation. Competition and flexible markets are particularly important in the Australian context. Also there is room to improve the environment for firm entry and exit, and intellectual property arrangements. However, the returns to public spending on Australia’s numerous innovation-related SME support schemes are uncertain. Federal and state governments are taking a positive approach to the new wave of “disruptive” service-sector innovations, such as those underway in personal transport, accommodation, legal and financial services. Harnessing the full benefits of today's innovation requires household and business have access to high-speed ICT; and there is room for improvement on this front in Australia. In education, Australia’s STEM-oriented strategy could be strengthened. Innovation in public-services should receive considerable attention as this can raise aggregate productivity and improve living standards.
O56|Estimates of Net Capital Stock and Consumption of Fixed Capital for Australian States and Territories, 1990–2013|Being an important input for many economic models and being widely used in economic decision making by the federal and regional government, capital stock data are not readily available at the sub-national level for most countries, including Australia. The study closely follows the methodology of the Australian Bureau of Statistics and presents a complete set of capital stock data for the states and territories of Australia for the period 1990–2013. The robustness of the method is assessed by comparing the aggregated data by type of asset estimates for the states, with the capital stock data by type of asset for Australia as a whole published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
O56|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
O56|Are Democratic Regimes Antithetical to Globalization?|In this study we have made an attempt to investigate into the relationship between political regime type (that ranges from authoritarian to democratic) and the extent of globalization, which of late has been considered as a path to development. We have made use of the Democracy index (and its constituent indicators) provided by the Economist Intelligence Unit and the globalization index (and its constituent indicators) of the KOF. Applying canonical correlation analysis on the data we have made an attempt to look into the response of globalization to the quantitative measures of democratic (versus authoritarian) practices of the governments in 116 countries distributed over Asia, Africa, Australia/Oceania, Europe and the Americas. We have also tested the Lee thesis in the context of globalization as a path to development. Our findings indicate that the empirical support to Lee’s thesis if extended to globalization as a path to development is superficial and does not withstand critical analysis. Contrary to Lee’s thesis, democracy promotes globalization. In African countries political discordance (at the national as well as international level) is not much favourable while in the Asian countries, political will, irrespective of regime type, is more or less in concordance with globalization. Therefore, rather illusively, it so appears that democracies thwart development as well as globalization as a means to development by implication, while the reality is very different.
O56|Labour market institutions in small Pacific island countries: Main guidelines for labour market reforms|This report consists of a comprehensive overview of labour market institutions in the small Pacific island countries in order to propose recommendations to improve the performance of their labour markets. We pay particular attention to three countries: Fiji, Palau and Papua New Guinea. We focus on the main pillars of labour market institutions, as employment protection legislation, minimum wage, and labour organization. The analysis considers the possibilities for institutional change in the next future. The main guidelines for eventual reforms are discussed, for the region as a whole and for the above three countries.
O56|Australian Emissions Reduction Subsidy Policy under Persistent Productivity Shocks| The implementation of emissions reduction policies in Australia has experienced significant volatility over the last decade and remains in doubt due to different attitudes towards such policies by policy makers. One of the critical concerns of policy makers is that the costs of these policies would adversely affect economic activity and result in larger economic volatility. This paper investigates how business cycle fluctuations of the Australian economy, arising from productivity shocks, would be affected under an abatement reduction subsidy policy in which the regulator supports abatement efforts in each period. To answer this question, a real business cycle (RBC) model is applied. The responses of economic and environmental variables to unexpected productivity shocks are presented and compared. The results indicate that the regulator should adjust the abatement subsidy to be pro-cycle, i.e. increase during expansion and decrease during recessions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O56|Australian Emissions Reduction Subsidy Policy under Persistent Productivity Shocks| The implementation of emissions reduction policies in Australia has experienced significant volatility over the last decade and remains in doubt due to different attitudes towards such policies by policy makers. One of the critical concerns of policy makers is that the costs of these policies would adversely affect economic activity and result in larger economic volatility. This paper investigates how business cycle fluctuations of the Australian economy, arising from productivity shocks, would be affected under an abatement reduction subsidy policy in which the regulator supports abatement efforts in each period. To answer this question, a real business cycle (RBC) model is applied. The responses of economic and environmental variables to unexpected productivity shocks are presented and compared. The results indicate that the regulator should adjust the abatement subsidy to be pro-cycle, i.e. increase during expansion and decrease during recessions.
O56|Estimating the effects of global oil market shocks on Australian merchandise trade|In this paper, we examine the dynamic responses of Australian merchandise trade to global oil market structural shocks. The analysis employs monthly data over the period June 1986 to January 2013 and vector generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (VGARCH), structural vector autoregression (SVAR), and parametric nonlinear models. We find that an increase in the oil price driven by shocks in global economic activity exerts a significant influence on Australian merchandise exports, and thereby merchandise trade as a whole, for periods of more than one year. However, the responses of merchandise imports to oil price shocks are more modest and persist for only a few months. Finally, uncertainty in future global oil prices, as measured by volatility in the 3-month-ahead price, strongly and negatively affects Australian international commodity markets.
O56|Rethinking development in the Pacific Islands Forum countries|"Islands of the Pacific Ocean number in the many thousands. This essay focuses on a subset of islands, namely those â€” save Australia and New Zealand â€” belonging to the independent political entities gathered in the Pacific Islands Forum (PIF). With a handful of economic concepts and indicators I show that, as a conventionally conceived economic proposition, the islands have to be ""written off."" Modern expectations in regard to cost competitiveness in production and high standards of living in consumption are incompatible goals for the islands to reach. The islands are not viable economies, and its peoples are likely to remain the permanent economic dependents they are, relying on fickle aid from well-off peoples and their policymakers located far away from the islands. Nonviable economies invite unstable polities and ruptured cultures. Strangely, in all this there lies hope in that rethinking the nature, meaning, and practice of development may offer feasible alternatives to reconstitute otherwise failing societies. Potentially, the islands could become a unique laboratory for trying out new ideas of what it means to live a dignified, self-reliant, self-sustaining, satisfied, and happy human life."
O56|Financial Education Policies in Asia and the Pacific|A number of factors and trends have driven the development of financial education policies in Asia and the Pacific in recent years. In some countries and economies, the development of financial education policies has been mostly spurred by high levels of financial exclusion, both among households and small businesses, in a context of low financial literacy, low general education and high poverty. In others, current or anticipated population ageing is also playing an important role. Various countries and economies in the region have engaged in the development of financial education and financial consumer protection policy responses to help address these issues. This report provides an overview of the recent trends and developments on financial education in Asia and the Pacific. It describes the status of national strategies for financial education and highlights financial education programmes targeting different audiences and through a variety of delivery channels. Based on the analysis of these initiatives, the report offers policy and practical suggestions for policy makers and other stakeholders.
O56|Foreign Investment into Australia|Despite the essential contribution of foreign investment to Australia’s economic growth and prosperity, the benefits of foreign investment are not well understood. This paper aims to provide further insights into foreign investment in Australia by examining the trends, the sources and the positive effects of foreign investment into Australia. The available data on foreign investment in Australia suggests a fairly consistent trend over time despite increases in the number of foreign investment applications received by the Foreign Investment Review Board.
O56|Productive capacity and trade in the Solomon Islands|Economic growth, environmental sustainability and human development in the Solomon Islands have lagged much of the Pacific region since independence in 1978. Trade contributes insufficiently to development, partly because of the dominance of the logging industry but also due to the lack of emphasis on building productive capacities with a view to economic transformation toward higher productivity activities. Targeted soft industrial policies may help address these shortcomings, in the form of sectoral prioritisation; linkages policies; joint government-donor support to build appropriate infrastructure; and the development of human resources in specific areas. Government institutional capacity will only be allowed to improve if policymakers are permitted true ownership over policies and if they are allowed to make mistakes.
O56|Business environment and investment potentials in selected Pacific island countries|Recent literature on foreign direct investment (FDI) indicates increasing levels of FDI inflows can benefit the recipient countries such as through the absorption of domestic labour, transfer of useful technology and improved long-term growth. This phenomenon is noticeable in the Pacific Island countries in recent times. Official statistics on FDI in the Pacific Island countries reveals an increasing level of inflows particularly in the post-2005 period. A contributory factor to this trend is likely to be an improved business environment, amongst others. Long-term Investors usually give priority to choosing investment locations where ease of doing business favours their investment objectives. This study provides an assessment of Pacific Island countries business environment in terms of attracting foreign direct investment (FDI). Several measures of business indicators for the period 2003-2011 are used to assess the attractiveness of the Pacific Island countries business environment. Numerical data for the period 2003-2011 on several business indicators from the World Bank: starting a business, building a warehouse, enforcing contracts, registering a property, paying taxes, trading across borders, and investor protection are chosen in order to qualitatively assess the achievements in the business environment. This study also attempts to empirically ascertain if the business environment matters for FDI inflows on the basis of Dunning’s (1988) theoretical framework. The estimation phase pools the data across nine Pacific Island countries. The estimation framework based on panel data estimation methodology is formulated so that key influences on FDI are unfolded. Our findings show that Pacific Island countries have a business environment that is much better than the average for the low and middle-income category of countries but falls short to that of New Zealand. Our analysis reveal some significant achievements in various countries. For example, the cost of business start-up procedures is many times lower in Samoa than those of the other Pacific Island countries and that Kiribati, Samoa, Solomon Islands and Vanuatu made the most significant progress in terms of reducing their cost of business start-up procedures. The study also provides empirical support that the time required to resolve insolvency; the time required to build a warehouse; and the strength of legal rights are important determinants of FDI. The implication of this study is that policy makers should formulate strategies to facilitate several improvements in the business environment so as to continue attracting investments from abroad. The reform of the business environment can deliver positive payoffs in the long-run.
O56|The Lucky Country: Has it Run out of Luck?|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|The Fish is the Friend of Matriliny: Reef Density Predicts Matrilineal Inheritance|Reef density predicts the prevalence of matriliny in a sample of 186 societies across the world and in a sample of 59 small-scale horticultural fishing communities in the Solomon Islands. We show that this result holds even controlling for common descent by relying on variation within ethno-linguistic groups in our Melanesian micro-sample, where matriliny is ancestral. Reef density explains as much as 20% of the variation in inheritance rule across villages in the Solomon Islands. We thereby establish that reef density and, indirectly, reliance on fishing, is a robust predictor of the persistence of matrilineal inheritance. Explanations based on the sexual division of labor and on inclusive fitness arguments support our results. We also document some of the demographic consequences of matrilineal inheritance, including smaller household and village population siz.
O56|Le Coût Du Protectionnisme Dans Une Petite Économie Insulaire : Le Cas Extrême De La Polynésie Française|Cet article montre que le protectionnisme en Polynésie française provoque des pertes de bien-être importantes. Dans l’hypothèse d’élasticité unitaire de la demande d’importation, la perte nette due aux taxes à l’importation est de 47% de la valeur ajoutée de l’industrie (hors construction et énergie), soit 23333 euros par an et par employé de l’industrie. Nous mon-trons aussi que la substitution d’importation n’a pas eu d’effet positif significatif sur la croissance à long terme et pénalise la compétitivité et les exportations.
O56|Financing sustainable development â€“ What can we learn from the Australian experience of reform?|Finance is fundamental to supporting sustainable development. It drives investment and jobs, which is the way most people escape poverty. Countries in the developing world face significant financing needs as they seek to modernize their economies, hence the importance of mobilizing all forms of finance (domestic, international, public and private) and ensuring they are put to their most effective use.
O56|Climate Change Mitigation, Economic Growth and the Distribution of Income|In October 2008, the Australian Government released a major report: Australia's Low Pollution Future: The Economics of Climate Change Mitigation. In that report, various scenarios are used to explore the potential economic effects of climate mitigation policy in Australia. One of the scenarios, designated CPRS-5, a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme (CPRS) aims to reduce emissions to 5 per cent below 2000 levels by 2020. It is consistent with stabilisation at around 550 parts per million of carbon dioxide equivalent (ppm CO2-e) in the atmosphere by 2100. In assessing the likely effects these policies on the future growth of output and employment by industry, the Government's report relies mainly on economic modelling using the MMRF applied general equilibrium model of the Australian economy. Results are reported for 58 industries. This paper begins by using the same model to closely reproduce the analysis of the CPRS-5 scenario conducted for the report. However, this time the MMRF model is enhanced by a labour market extension MLME which allows the employment results to be extended to 81 occupations and 64 skill groups. The enhanced model is then used in a top-down configuration with an income distribution extension MIDE and a microsimulation extension MMSE to generate changes in income. In MIDE, income redistributions between households (taken collectively), corporate trading enterprises, financial trading enterprises, the government and foreigners (the 'institutions') are modelled by the inclusion of the associated current and capital accounts from the Australian System of National Accounts. Within the household sector, changes in disposable income from unincorporated enterprises (differentiated by 17 industries), compensation of employees (differentiated by 81 occupations), property income, and net transfers from other institutions are separately modelled. On the income side, one hundred types of recipient are identified corresponding to personal income percentiles. On the expenditure side, six hundred types of household are identified, this time differentiated by household income and the ages of its members. This arrangement allows changes in real income to be computed using household specific CPIs. The microsimulation extension MMSE uses MIDE results to update the incomes of more than 13,500 persons. The effects of the climate change mitigation policies on the incomes of various socio-economic groups are then be obtained by aggregation.
O56|Econometric Model Of Manufacturing, Investment And Development In 30 Countries Of Asia-Pacific|We analyse the evolution of economic development of countries of Asia and Pacific for the period 2000-2010, and present the estimation of a cross-section model of 30 countries in year 2010, in order to relate economic development with manufacturing and investment. We compare the results of Asia-Pacific with the estimation of similar equations with a World sample of 132 countries in the same year. The results are very alike and show the great importance of international cooperation to increase investment per head in low income countries in order to foster the degree of industrialization necessary for sustained development. Both domestic investment and foreign investment show positive impact on industrial production and industry shows a significant and positive impact on non industrial sectors.
O56|World Development, 2000-2010: Production, Investment And Savings In 21 Areas Of America, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe And Eurasia|In this study we present a comparison of investment and production per head in 21 areas of the World, and we find that in many poor areas there has been little improvement during the period 2000-2010. One of the main causes of this disappointing result has been the stagnation in many countries, of investment and production per capita during this decade. We present a comparison of the levels of industrial development in those areas, and we find that they are too much low in many countries. We analyze the evolution of investment and savings in 132 countries of America, Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe and Eurasia, and we notice that it is important to foster international cooperation in order to avoid the negative consequences of low levels of investment and production per head on poverty. We include some econometric models relating investment, manufacturing and economic development with a sample of 132 countries.
O56|Croissance agricole et options d’investissement pour la réduction de la pauvreté en R.D.CONGO : une analyse en équilibre général calculable<BR>[Agriculture Growth and Investments Options for Poverty reduction in D.R. Congo]|This paper examines the implications of agricultural growth on poverty reduction during the period 2013 - 2020. It also poses the problem of the level of investment required to support such growth effort. A dynamic computable general equilibrium model, applied to the case of the DRCongo.
O56|Financial Reform in Australia and China|This paper describes the Australian experience of domestic financial deregulation, capital account liberalisation and the float of the exchange rate, and provides a comparison to China's current efforts to reform its own financial system. In doing so, it considers similarities and differences in the circumstances facing the two economies. Australia's financial reforms were essential, in the longer term, for building a stronger economy and more robust financial system, but the paper does not interpret the Australian experience as a prescription for financial reform in China. Indeed, the specific sequencing of deregulation that occurred in Australia might not be optimal in a Chinese context, although it is likely that the reforms themselves, pursued with appropriate caution, would have long-run benefits for the Chinese economy.
O56|On Productivity: The Influence of Natural Resource Inputs|The production function underlying standard estimates of multifactor productivity (MFP)typically restricts the list of explicitly measured inputs to capital, labour and intermediate inputs (energy, materials and services). These inputs are measured in the national accounts, and in most industries are the most important or significant inputs to production. All other influences on output are captured by the MFP ‘residual.’ However in some industries – mining, agriculture, and utilities – output can also depend significantly on unmeasured inputs of natural resources. Rainfall in agriculture is an obvious example, but so too is the issue of mineral resource deposits in the mining sector, particularly where mining is a mature industry and the richest and most accessible deposits have already been developed. In this article we attribute a substantial part of recent large negative changes in MFP growth in the mining, agriculture and utilities industries in Australia to unmeasured natural resource input changes. As MFP growth estimates derived from the application of the usual production function are generally interpreted as measuring improvements in the ‘technology’ used to convert standard inputs into output, where there are significant changes in natural resource dependent industries this interpretation of MFP needs to be adjusted.
O56|A reassessment of energy and GDP relationship: the case of Australia|This paper investigates the long- and short-run relationships between energy consumption and economic growth in Australia using the bound testing and the ARDL approach. The analytical framework utilized in this paper includes both production and demand side models and a unified model comprising both production and demand side variables. The energy–GDP relationships are investigated at aggregate as well as several disaggregated energy categories, such as coal, oil, gas and electricity. The possibilities of one or more structural break(s) in the data series are examined by applying the recent advances in techniques. We find that the results of the cointegration tests could be affected by the structural break(s) in the data. It is, therefore, crucial to incorporate the information on structural break(s) in the subsequent modelling and inferences. Moreover, neither the production side nor the demand side framework alone can provide sufficient information to draw an ultimate conclusion on the cointegration and causal direction between energy and output. When alternative frameworks and structural break(s) in time series are explored properly, strong evidence of a bidirectional relationship between energy and output can be observed. The finding is true at both the aggregate and the disaggregate levels of energy consumption. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
O56|A provincial perspective on income inequality in urban China and the role of property and business income|This paper tries to investigate the role of non-wage income in explaining the income inequality in urban China. Our findings show that the contribution of income sources to inequality is different between the provinces with different extents of inequality. We find that in the coastal provinces, the contribution of wage income to inequality is decreasing, while the contribution of business and property income is increasing and getting more important; in contrast, in the western provinces, the role of wage income is larger than the other provinces, while the role of business and property income is smaller and remains unchanged. Our empirical results also suggest that the provinces with higher share of business and property income have high income inequality.
O56|Changes in energy efficiency in Australia: A decomposition of aggregate energy intensity using logarithmic mean Divisia approach|This paper provides an empirical estimation of energy efficiency and other proximate factors that explain energy intensity in Australia for the period 1978–2009. The analysis is performed by decomposing the changes in energy intensity by means of energy efficiency, fuel mix and structural changes using sectoral and sub-sectoral levels of data. The results show that the driving forces behind the decrease in energy intensity in Australia are efficiency effect and sectoral composition effect, where the former is found to be more prominent than the latter. Moreover, the favourable impact of the composition effect has slowed consistently in recent years. A perfect positive association characterizes the relationship between energy intensity and carbon intensity in Australia. The decomposition results indicate that Australia needs to improve energy efficiency further to reduce energy intensity and carbon emissions.
O56|Impact of Natural Disasters on Production Networks and Urbanization in New Zealand|New Zealand’s history of natural disasters and its vulnerability to various types of disaster are outlined briefly. A summary description of the country’s arrangements for preparing for natural disasters and managing the response to, and recovery from, them is provided. The series of earthquakes that affected Christchurch, New Zealand’s second largest city, between September 2010 and early 2012 is considered as a case study. The direct and indirect tangible costs of the events are estimated as $NZ 30.9 billion (approximately $US24.5billion), or 15.8% of the country’s GDP, on a replacement cost basis. Approximately 78% of this cost will be covered by insurance. On a depreciated replacement cost basis the damage is estimated at $NZ18.7 billion. The significant effects of the events on the population, labor market, reported crime, urbanization and location of businesses and production of the region are also described. The case study suggests that New Zealand’s arrangements for natural disasters worked well in most regards. The case study also highlights the advantage of international co-operation in the response to natural disasters. It also suggests that while high rates and levels of disaster insurance ameliorate the financial impact, they can complicate achieving effective recovery. This is because insurance funds increase the alternatives available to the affected population and investors in respect of reinvestment and rebuilding the damaged region. The lag before insurers will accept new risks can also create delays and impede the momentum to recovery. The final section of the paper draws from New Zealand’s recent disaster experience in Christchurch to present some policy recommendations relevant to New Zealand and the East Asia region.
O56|Income Inequality In Urban China And The Role Of State Sector|We tried to develop a two sector model to investigate the role of state sector on the urban income inequality in China.We showed that the state sector in the coastal provinces rather than the state sector in the interior provinces plays an important role in the income inequality in urban China.The findings of empirical analysis imply that the income inequality for urban households in China is mainly related to the coastal provinces with relatively higher return to capital, capital intensity, and thus capital income in the state sector.The Chinese government should redirect their policy that emphasizes the role of large enterprises in the state sector and subsidizes the capital in the capital-intensive state sector.The main reason for shifting from emphasizing the capital-intensive state sector to the labor-intensive private sector is to reduce inequality in the urban China.
O56|The Papua Niugini Paradox. Land property archaism and modernity of peasant resistance?|"After Papua New Guinea's society has been presented in a first part of this paper, the second part focuses on traditional land institutions and relationships to land – often considered to be ""archaic"". The third part exposes the process of lanf registration during the colonial and since the independence, in order to examine finally the modernity of peasant resistance forms in this country (fourth part)"
O56|Decomposing differences in employment outcomes between Kanak and other New Caledonians - how important is the role of school achievement?|New Caledonia, the largest French Territory in the South Pacific, enjoys a high level of standard of living but is marked by huge social inequalities as a result of geographic and ethnic origin. This study highlights the differences in school achievement and labour market outcomes between Kanak (indigenous people) and non-Kanak. Using data from the four most recent censuses (1989, 1996, 2004 and 2009), we show that though dramatic progress has been made in the area of school achievement, employment rates still differ widely across ethnic groups. We decompose the gap in labour market attachment between Kanak and non-Kanak using the Blinder–Oaxaca decomposition for non-linear regression models. The decomposition shows that at least three-quarters of the gap can be attributed to differences in observed characteristics between Kanak and non-Kanak women. For men, the differences in observed characteristics of the two populations account for 55 per cent of the gap.
O56|The growth effects of education in Australia| In this article, we estimate the growth effect of human capital with country-specific time series data for Australia. In doing so, we extended the Solow (1956) growth model by using educational attainment as a measure of human capital developed by Barro and Lee (2010). The extended Solow (1956) model performs well after allowing for the presence of structural changes. Our results, based on alternative time series methods, show that educational attainment has a small and significant permanent effect on the growth rate of per worker output in Australia.
O56|Le paradoxe Papua Niugini . Archaïsme de la propriété de la terre, modernité des résistances paysannes ?|After a general presentation of the Papua New Guinea’s society (in the first part), this article studies the traditional land institutions and the relationships to land – often considered to be « archaic » – (second part); then the process of registration of land during the colonial period and since the independence (third part), in order to examine finally the modernity of the peasant resistances in the country (fourth part).
O56|Investment, Poverty And Development In Asia-Pacific Countries: Econometric Models And Evolution, 2000-2010|To achieve the United Nations MDGs (Millennium Development Goals) in less developed Asian countries it is required to increase international cooperation to reach higher educational level of population and investment per head. In this article we analyze the evolution of economic development and poverty count in 30 countries of Asia and Pacific, and estimated the positive effect of education and investment on development. Poverty count is very high in several Asian countries and we recommend international cooperation to eradicate poverty and increase investment and development. International cooperation to development should have into account that trade deficits should be sustainable and economic policies should avoid financial crisis, both in developing and developed countries, derived from strong and unsustainable trade balances.
O56|A Dynamic Model for Road Gasoline and Diesel Consumption: An Application for Spanish Regions|This paper analyzes the factors explaining the aggregate fuel consumption for road transport in Spain in a dynamic panel data framework. Three features on this study are the use of a balanced panel using regional data, the distinction between gasoline and diesel and the specification of a dynamic panel data (DPD) model and estimate it by system Generalized Methods of Moments (GMM). Our results show that most explanatory variables are significant in explaining the evolution of gasoline consumption, while diesel consumption is found to be independent of most of these factors. The differences between the markets of the gasoline (most for passenger transport use) and the diesel (passenger and freight transport are important) could explain the results for the diesel model. Moreover, the intensive dieselization process that has taken place in Spain over the last decade, which has resulted in diesel consumption being exposed to factors - i.e., regulatory - which are not of a strictly economic nature. This finding highlights the need to consider different explanatory variables and models for gasoline and diesel consumption, and to go further in the research. Finally, we find that traditional estimation procedures, such as fixed and random effect estimators, produce important differences with respect to system-GMM, which may even change policy recommendations.
O56|Caribbean Integration – Lessons for the Pacific?|The 15 members of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) are digesting a critical review of the structure and performance of its Secretariat, which describes the overall CARICOM integration initiative as being in crisis. This paper describes elements of the CARICOM integration project, and draws lessons for the Pacific Island Countries. It suggests that the CARICOM experience puts into question elements of the logic and overall approach to integration being pursued in both regions (and being urged by external partners).
O56|Hold Your Breath: A New Index of Air Quality|Environmental quality and climate change have long attracted attention in policy debates. Recently, air quality has emerged on the policy agenda. We calculate a new index of air quality using CO2and SO2 emissions per capita as indicators and provide a ranking for 122 countries from 1985 to 2005.The empirical analysis supports the EKC hypothesis and shows a significant influence of determinants such as energy efficiency, industrial production, electricity produced from coal sources, and urbanization on air quality. According to our index, Luxemburg, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, and Japan are among the top 5 countries in terms of air quality performance. The Democratic Republic of Congo, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Togo, and Nepal performed worst in 2005.
O56|Pollution, Economic Development and Democracy: Evidence from the MENA countries|The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries are among the world's top emitters of CO2 and SO2 in per capita terms. The objective of this paper is to analyze whether investing in the democratic development of these countries is an e ective tool to make the economic growth in this region more environmentally compatible. Arguing on the basis of the Environmental Kuznets Curve hypothesis and using panel data on the income-emissiondemocracy nexus, we nd evidence that improvements in the democratic development of the MENA countries help to mitigate environmental problems. Our results clearly show, that the quality of democratic institutions has a greater in uence on local environmental problems than on global environmental issues in the MENA region.
O56|Commodity Price Shocks And The Australian Economy Since Federation|Even though Australia has experienced frequent and large commodity export price shocks like the Third World, it seems to have dealt with the volatility better. Why? This paper explores Australian terms of trade volatility since 1901. It identifies two major price shock episodes before the recent mining-led boom and bust. It assesses their relative magnitude, their de-industrialization and distributional impact, and policy responses. In what way has Australia been different from other commodity exporters experiencing volatile prices?<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O56|Labour Market Forecasting, Reliability and Workforce Development|A primary motivation for providing education and training is to equip the workforce with the skills it requires to meet the needs of industry. Furthermore, as training takes some time to accomplish, the training that is provided today must be targeted at the needs of industry at some time in the future. Hence workforce development requires access to a labour market forecast of some kind. Formal labour market forecasts produced using an economy-wide model have several features which ought to make them attractive to policy makers. For example, they embody modern economic theory and large amounts of relevant economic data, they are comprehensive and coherent, and they can be updated regularly at reasonable cost. Yet many training professionals are reluctant to avail themselves of formal forecasts, preferring instead to rely on more informal methods such case studies, graduate destination surveys and surveys of business opinion. Formal forecasts are held to be too unreliable for most policy purposes. It is argued in this paper that the reluctance is misplaced and, indeed, that it constitutes an unnecessary barrier to efficient workforce development. The discussion draws on a detailed analysis of the performance of a labour market forecasting system built around the MONASH applied general equilibrium model of the Australian economy. Using forecasts published over the last thirteen years, the paper reviews their accuracy for industries, occupations and regions, and compares them with forecasts derived from time series extrapolation. The paper also reviews various qualitative arguments concerning reliability that have been advanced in the literature. Finally it considers the system adopted for allocating training resources in Australia, noting particularly that it fails to deliver a suitably articulated view of the future state of the economy which it is designed to service. The paper also reviews various qualitative arguments that have been advanced against the use of formal labour market forecasts in workforce development. It suggests five propositions which should guide such considerations, but which are often ignored by the education and training community.
O56|Reâ Designing Financial Systems: A Review of the Role of Stock Markets in Developing Economies|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|New Zealand’s perfect storm of entrepreneurship and economic development|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|Does better local governance improve district growth performance in Indonesia?|A large literature suggests that countries with better governance have higher growth rates. We explore whether this is also true at the sub-national level in Indonesia. We exploit a new dataset of firm perceptions of the quality of economic governance in 243 districts across Indonesia to estimate the impact of nine different dimensions of governance on district growth. Surprisingly, we find relatively little evidence of a robust relationship between the quality of governance and economic performance. However, we do find support for the idea that structural variables, such as economic size, natural resource endowments and population, have a direct influence on the quality of local governance as well as on economic growth. This suggests that efforts to improve local governance should pay greater attention to understanding how such structural characteristics shape the local political economy and how this in turn influences economic performance.
O56|Responding to Shocks: Australia's Institutions and Policies|The current economic crisis has taught another generation of Australians that their economy remains vulnerable to negative external shocks, as it has been since the depression of the early 1840s. So it is unsurprising that shocks and crises figure prominently in the economic history literature, with most attention given the depressions of the 1890s and 1930s. Less attention has been given to other negative shocks, or to a comparative treatment of shocks. In particular, the implications for long-run https://media.adelaide.edu.au/economics/ to shocks have not received the scrutiny given their short run consequences.
O56|The Implications Of European Union Sugar Price Cuts, Economic Partnership Agreement, And Development Aid For Fiji|The objective of this paper is to use a set of varied scenarios related to the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) and the loss of European Union (EU) sugar preferences (in the form of partial and full price liberalization) in combination with the recently committed EU development aid to examine the impact on Fiji using a dynamic computable general equilibrium model. It is shown that without aid, the loss of sugar preferences has devastating impact on real output, exports, rural employment, and other macroeconomic indicators. Without aid, the EPA scenarios, on the other hand, lead to some growth in real output but depress rural employment and non‐sugar agricultural exports. Although improvements are observed across the scenarios with aid, it is argued that aid would be more effective if it directly addresses the supply‐side constraints in Fiji instead of focusing on the sugar sector. (JEL C68, D58, F17, O56)
O56|Cliometrics And Time Series Econometrics: Some Theory And Applications| The paper discusses a range of modern time series methods that have become popular in the past 20 years and considers their usefulness for cliometrics research both in theory and via a range of applications. Issues such as, spurious regression, unit roots, cointegration, persistence, causality, structural time series methods, including time varying parameter models, are introduced as are the estimation and testing implications that they involve. Applications include a discussion of the timing and potential causes of the British Industrial Revolution, income 'convergence' and the long-run behaviour of English real wages 1264-1913. Finally some new and potentially useful developments are discussed including the mildly explosive processes; graphical modelling and long memory. Copyright © 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
O56|The Determinants of Firm-Level Export Intensity in New Zealand Agriculture and Forestry |This paper investigates the determinants of firm level export intensity in New Zealand’s agriculture and forestry over the period 2000-06. Applying a random effects model, it is uncovered that export intensity is driven by firm productivity and export market diversification. Firm size is found to have a negative effect on export intensity. Sector characteristics do not have an empirically discernible influence.
O56|The surprising vulnerability of New Zealand manufacturing to CO2 emissions pricing: the lessons of an international comparison|This paper compares the cost impact of emissions pricing in NZ manufacturing with the evidence available for United States, United Kingdom, European Union, Germany, Netherlands and Australia. It is observed that, relative to the comparator economies, a much larger share of NZ GDP is potentially at risk as a result of emissions pricing (even excluding the direct and indirect effects of agriculture). Possible reasons for this unexpected finding include: dissimilarities in industry structure, applicable emission factors for indirect emissions, level of aggregation at which industries are evaluated across countries and concentration of emissions in a small number of firms/industries. The paper identifies manufacturing activities are most emission intensive in NZ and in comparator economies. While some emission intensive activities are common to all examined economies, the food processing cluster is found to be at risk of losing competitiveness only in NZ and Australia.
O56|La conjoncture économique dans la région Asie-Pacifique après la crise des subprime<BR>[The economic tendency in the Asia-Pacific area after the subprime crisis]|This article offers elements to assess the effects of the world economic crisis in the Asia-Pacific region. The mechanisms and development of the subprime crisis are briefly recalled in order to examine how far they reach in the area. Examining the situation of the area’s economies, with a distinction between developed economies, emerging countries and developing economies highlights how the transmission of the crisis grows with the level of development. Being vulnerable due to their important dependency on revenues from outside (tourism, raw materials export, private transfers, aid…) the Pacific small developing economies have been indirectly affected by the crisis. Indeed the world economic crisis has increased the economic difficulties which the governments and populations of the Pacific already had to face when the oil and food prices rose, which seriously undermined them. Focus is laid on the three French Pacific territories. As they have hardly integrated international exchanges and rely mainly on transfers from the metropolis, their characteristics have somehow protected them from the crisis. The macroeconomic indicators of the Pacific industrialising countries are rather favourably-oriented yet the slowdown of economic growth has further weakened the most vulnerable populations.
O56|La conjoncture économique dans la région Asie-Pacifique après la crise des subprime<BR>[The economic tendency in the Asia-Pacific area after the subprime crisis]|This article offers elements to assess the effects of the world economic crisis in the Asia-Pacific region. The mechanisms and development of the subprime crisis are briefly recalled in order to examine how far they reach in the area. Examining the situation of the area’s economies, with a distinction between developed economies, emerging countries and developing economies highlights how the transmission of the crisis grows with the level of development. Being vulnerable due to their important dependency on revenues from outside (tourism, raw materials export, private transfers, aid…) the Pacific small developing economies have been indirectly affected by the crisis. Indeed the world economic crisis has increased the economic difficulties which the governments and populations of the Pacific already had to face when the oil and food prices rose, which seriously undermined them. Focus is laid on the three French Pacific territories. As they have hardly integrated international exchanges and rely mainly on transfers from the metropolis, their characteristics have somehow protected them from the crisis. The macroeconomic indicators of the Pacific industrialising countries are rather favourably-oriented yet the slowdown of economic growth has further weakened the most vulnerable populations.
O56|Managing manna from below: sovereign wealth funds and extractive industries in the Pacific|A key challenge for developing countries endowed with natural resources is to transform those resources into sustained improvements in living standards. A number of Pacific island countries have utilised sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) to manage government revenue from exhaustible natural resources with the aim of improving development outcomes. Experience in the region has been mixed — some SWFs have aided intergenerational equity and macroeconomic stability while others have struggled to bring about improvements in wellbeing. This paper examines the past and present SWFs of Kiribati, Nauru, Timor–Leste and Papua New Guinea. In doing so, it draws out some lessons for policymakers considering the use of SWFs in managing resource revenue in developing countries. Principles for successful SWFs are identified, including strong transparency, public support for the SWF, integration with the national budget and professional investment management.
O56|Monetary and exchange rate policy issues in Pacific Island countries|Against the backdrop of the global economic crisis, this paper reviews the recent application of monetary and exchange rate policies for a group of Pacific island countries that have their own currencies. These countries are Papua New Guinea, Fiji, Solomon Islands, Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu.
O56|The New Global Crisis Makers: Economic Intervention and the Loss of Strategic Leadership|The “crisis exaggerators” are telling us that current economic conditions amount to an “unprecedented” global economic recession. This is historically incorrect. What is unprecedented is the degree to which economic commentators and political leaders are talking up economic downturn. What is their agenda? Could it be an attempt to prepare the way for an “unprecedented” degree of government intervention in the economy? The “new interventionists” – some of whom, like Kevin Rudd, are now calling themselves “social democrats” – have attacked neoliberalism – the prevailing philosophy of Western governments over the past three decades – for failing to provide the direction and regulation needed to prevent the emergence of global financial crisis. But this misses the real point. Neoliberal governments have in fact been dangerously interventionist. Owing to the inflation-targeting policies they have championed, the dynamic mechanism of modern society has been disrupted, economic growth has slowed dramatically, and unemployment has risen – just as I warned in The Global Crisis Makers in 2000. The new global crisis makers are these new interventionists, who, ironically, not only accept neoliberal policies of inflation targeting but also intend to launch massive Keynesian and climate-mitigation programmes of intervention that will throw our strategic life-system into a downward spiral from which we will recover only with great difficulty and cost. Modern governments have lost the age-old art of strategic leadership, which once facilitated the effective operation of humanity’s dynamic life-system.
O56|Normalisation et développement durable|This paper aims to show that the organizations of standardization participate to an institutional dynamics which contributes to sustainable development. It is based on economic approaches and on an analysis of the project of ISO 26000 ‑ guidance standard for social responsibility. Standards and labels appear as institutional innovations which enhance the performance of companies in the context of sustainable development. Codes JEL: L15, L23, O19, O56
O56|Education, Health And Economic Development: A Survey Of Quantitative Economic Studies, 2001-2009|We analyse the relationships of health, education and income per capita in developed and developing countries in year 2005, as well as the main conclusions of more than sixty studies published by our Association for the period 2001-2009, applied to OECD countries, Latin America, Africa, Asia and World comparisons. We analyse the relationship between Years of Potential Life Lost (YPLL) and health expenditure per capita in OECD countries and the conclusions show that the initiatives to increase coverage of health care to all the population in the United States is an important step to lower the relatively high value of YPLL in this country in comparison with other developed countries of Europe and other areas. Regarding developing countries we call attention to the role education to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and thus recommend to increase international cooperation.
O56|Case Study: Australia's Computer Games Audience and Restrictive Ratings System|"Computer and video games are big business in Australia, just as they are in many other developed economies. However, Australia is unique among developed states because there is no R18+ or ""Adult"" rating for computer game content in Australia. The present case study represents a snapshot of a larger national audience study of 1614 homes and 4852 individuals within those homes. The research presents demographic, behavioural and attitudinal data by which the largely functioning ratings system may be judged. The data show that the typical gamer is 30 years of age, often a parent and actively engaged in content selection and exposure. By presenting these data in the context of the unique regulatory regime in Australia, this report seeks to demonstrate that consumer power exceeds the control of the state and such control may function to enhance rather than stifle the health of the computer games industry."
O56|Structural Policies to Overcome Geographic Barriers and Create Prosperity in New Zealand|New Zealand’s living standards remain well below the OECD average. This is entirely attributable to persistently low labour productivity, which in turn is related to economic geography as well as structural policy factors. The small size and remoteness of the economy diminish its access to world markets, the scale and efficiency of domestic businesses, the level of competition and proximity to the world’s technology frontier. This points to the need for a “New Zealand policy advantage”, that is, a set of structural policies attractive and welcoming enough to overcome the geographic handicap and attract the drivers of prosperity – investment, skills and ideas – to New Zealand. The reforms of the 1980s and 1990s laid much of the groundwork for creating this advantage and for a pick-up in productivity growth. But in recent years, New Zealand has lost ground relative to its OECD peers. The reform focus shifted away from growth and the government introduced much often poor quality regulation. Policies should be refocused around the productivity goal in a number of areas, beginning with those covered in this paper, namely international trade, the business climate for domestic and foreign investment, public sector efficiency, infrastructure, innovation and natural resources management. This paper also evaluates the recently legislated emissions trading scheme through a productivity lens. This Working Paper relates to the 2009 OECD Economic Survey of New Zealand (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/nz). Les politiques structurelles requises pour surmonter les obstacles géographiques et promouvoir la prospérité en Nouvelle-Zélande Les niveaux de vie en Nouvelle-Zélande restent bien inférieurs à la moyenne de l’OCDE. Cet écart est entièrement attribuable à une croissance durablement faible de la productivité du travail, qui s’explique pour sa part par la géographie économique ainsi que par des facteurs liés à la politique structurelle. La petite taille et l’éloignement de l’économie limitent son accès aux marchés mondiaux ainsi que l’échelle et l’efficacité des entreprises intérieures, et influent sur le degré de concurrence et la situation par rapport à la frontière technologique mondiale. Il faut, dans ces conditions, élaborer des politiques qui représentent un avantage pour la Nouvelle-Zélande, c’est à dire un ensemble de politiques structurelles suffisamment attrayantes pour surmonter le handicap géographique et attirer dans le pays les moteurs de la prospérité – investissements, compétences et idées. Les réformes des années 80 et 90 ont largement préparé le terrain à la mise en oeuvre de telles politiques et à un redressement de la croissance de la productivité dans les années à venir. Ces dernières années, cependant, les autorités ont grignoté une partie des progrès réalisés durant la période de réformes, notamment en introduisant de nombreuses réglementations, souvent mal conçues. Les politiques devraient être recentrées autour de l’objectif de productivité dans plusieurs domaines, à commencer par ceux couverts dans la présente étude, à savoir le commerce international, les conditions de l’investissement national et étranger, l’efficacité du secteur public, l’infrastructure, l’innovation et la gestion des ressources naturelles. Le système d’échange de droits d’émissions, qui a récemment fait l’objet d’un texte de loi, est aussi examiné ici dans l’optique de la productivité. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE de la Nouvelle-Zélande 2009 (www.oecd.org/eco/etudes/nz).
O56|L'ombre de la crise<BR>[The shadow of the global crisis]|This book aims to study the consequences of the subprime crisis for New Caledonia, a French overseas Pacific territory. The situation of New-Caledonia is specific in many ways, since this territory is undergoing an institutional process of emancipation from France. On the first hand, New Caledonia is protected from the consequences of the crisis thanks to the financial transfers from France which slow down the external constraint. But, on the other hand, New Caledonia is also weakened by many factors: • Its main resources, nickel exportations, have experienced a sharp price fall due to the crisis. • New-Caledonia's indirect taxation highligts under-development (New-Caledonia has not implemented a value-added tax yet). Consequently, tariffs are a major tool to collect tax revenue thus making New-Caledonia a protectionist country with small markets and high prices. • The social inequalities are a serious problem. Theses weaknesses make unlikely for New Caledonia not to suffer from the global crisis. In the first part of the book, the formation and spreading of the subprime crisis are presented with a pedagogical concern. The second part presents the consequences of the crisis for the New Caledonia (and more generally for a small island country), especially from the financial point of view, but also considering the risks induced by a fall of the purchasing power and the rise of social inequalities. The book concludes with the possibility and opportunity of a fiscal policy in the specific context of a small island territory.
O56|La conjoncture économique dans la zone Asie-Pacifique après la crise des subprimes<BR>[The economic tendency in the Asia-Pacific area after the subprime crisis]|This paper presents some aspects of the consequences of the global crisis in the Asia-Pacific area. In a first section, the mechanisms and the development of the subprime crisis are briefly recalled. In a second section, the effects of the crisis concerning the countries of the region are presented (making the distinction between rich countries, emerging countries and developing countries). In a third section, the economic situation of New Caledonia (a French Pacific territory) is evoked, notably through the most recent economic tendency.
O56|Have newer cardiovascular drugs reduced hospitalization? Evidence from longitudinal country-level data on 20 OECD countries, 1995-2003| This study examines the effect of changes in the vintage distribution of cardiovascular system drugs on hospitalization and mortality due to cardiovascular disease using longitudinal country-level data. The vintage of a drug is the first year in which it was marketed anywhere in the world. We use annual data on the utilization of over 1100 cardiovascular drugs (active ingredients) in 20 OECD countries during the period 1995-2003. Countries with larger increases in the share of cardiovascular drug doses that contained post-1995 ingredients had smaller increases in the cardiovascular disease hospital discharge rate, controlling for the quantity of cardiovascular medications consumed per person, the use of other medical innovations (computed tomography scanners and magnetic resonance imaging units), potential risk factors (average consumption of calories, tobacco, and alcohol), and demographic variables (population size and age structure, income, and educational attainment). The estimates also indicate that the use of newer cardiovascular drugs has reduced the average length of stay and the age-adjusted cardiovascular mortality rate, but not the number of potential years of life lost due to cardiovascular disease before age 70 per 100 000 population. The estimates indicate that if drug vintage had not increased during 1995-2004, hospitalization and mortality would have been higher in 2004. We estimate that per capita expenditure on cardiovascular hospital stays would have been 70% ($89) higher in 2004 had drug vintage not increased during 1995-2004. Per capita expenditure on cardiovascular drugs would have been lower in 2004 had drug vintage not increased during 1995-2004. However, our estimate of the increase in expenditure on cardiovascular hospital stays is about 3.7 times as large as our estimate of the reduction in per capita expenditure for cardiovascular drugs that would have occurred ($24). Copyright © 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
O56|The Irrational “War on Inflation”: Why Inflation Targeting is Both Socially Unacceptable and Economically Untenable|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|Australia'S Long-Run Economic Strategy, Performance, And Policy: A New Dynamic Perspective|This essay attempts to quantify and explain the economic performance of Australia from the first European settlement to the present, and beyond. A general dynamic theory – the ‘dynamic-strategy’ theory – has been employed to provide a new interpretation of ‘dynamics Downunder’. It is shown, among other things, that the bold attempt from the 1910s to the 1960s to turn aside from the traditional development policy of exogenously driven natural-resource exploitation in order to embark on an endogenously determined dynamic process, has broken down during the course of the present generation. This was mainly due to a failure of ‘strategic leadership’ on the part of recent Australian governments that have, quite rightly, dismantled the framework of protection, but have failed to replace it with the infrastructure of strategically relevant technological ideas. Once again Australia’s economic prosperity depends heavily on the fluctuating fortunes of the global economy. While in the nineteenth century this took the form of reliance on the prosperity of Britain, today it centres on the continuing growth of Japan and China. This critical problem has been exacerbated by the misconceived policy of inflation targeting that is damaging the central endogenous dynamic mechanism. What then of the future? It all depends on whether strategic leadership can ever be rediscovered, and a new dynamic economic strategy be adopted.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O56|Physical stature and its interpretation in nineteenth century New Zealand|During the late nineteenth century the physical stature of New Zealandborn men stagnated, despite an apparently beneficial public health environment and growth in per-capita incomes. Stature varied by social class, with professionals and men in rural occupations substantially taller than their peers. There is not enough evidence to show that the indigenous Maori population differed in height from men of European descent.
O56|Manufacturing and Economic Development: Inter-sectoral relationships in Europe, America, Africa and Asia-Pacific, 1999-2006|This study presents a comparative analysis of the evolution of manufacturing real value-added per capita in the countries of Europe, Eurasia, America, Africa, Middle East, South Asia, East Asia and Pacific for the period 1999-2006, and its positive impact on the real value-added of services and economic development. We analyze the results of several econometric models that emphasize the important positive role of manufacturing in inter-sector relationships. The main conclusions show that OECD countries have experienced the highest increases in manufacturing real value-added per capita, as well as a few countries in East Asia and other areas. Unfortunately economic policies did not give enough priority to manufacturing activities in other countries, including many of Latin America, where to foster the real value-added of this sector is of uppermost importance to improve socio-economic development. In the poorest countries of Africa, and other areas, increase of manufacturing activities focused to development of domestic markets, should be included in the main strategies for international cooperation to development together with other socio-economic factors.
O56|Assessing the Importance of National Economic Reform Ã¢â‚¬â€œ Australian Productivity Commission Experience|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|Pharmaceutical innovation and the longevity of Australians: a first look|We examine the impact of pharmaceutical innovation on the longevity of Australians during the period 1995-2003. Due to the government's Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, Australia has much better data on drug utilization than most other countries. We find that mean age at death increased more for diseases with larger increases in mean drug vintage. The estimates indicate that increasing the mean vintage of drugs by 5 years would increase mean age at death by almost 11 months. The estimates also indicate that using newer drugs reduced the number of years of potential life lost before the ages of 65 and 70 (but not before age 75). During the period 1995-2003, mean age at death increased by about 2.0 years, from 74.4 to 76.4. The estimates imply that, in the absence of any increase in drug vintage, mean age at death would have increased by only 0.7 years. The increase in drug vintage accounts for about 65% of the total increase in mean age at death. We obtain a rough estimate of the cost per life-year gained from using newer drugs. Under our assumptions, using newer drugs (increasing drug vintage) increased life expectancy by 1.23 years and increased lifetime drug expenditure by $12,976; the cost per life-year gained from using newer drugs is $10,585. An estimate made by other investigators of the value of a statistical Australian life-year ($70,618) is 6.7 times as large as our estimate of the cost per life-year gained from using newer drugs. We discuss several reasons why our estimate of the cost per life-year gained from using newer drugs could be too high or too low.
O56|Editor’s Overview|THIS 18TH ISSUE OF THE International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains seven articles. Topics covered are the relationship between education, productivity and economic growth, new estimates of multifactor productivity for the Canadian provinces, the World Productivity Database developed by the United National Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and a symposium on the recently released Council of Canadian Academies Expert Panel report on business innovation in Canada.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This twelth issue of the International Productivity Monitor, published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards, differs from past issues. Five of the six articles address one topic, namely the impact of the Boskin Commission after one decade on price measurement. A final article discusses the role of information technology in the US growth resurgence.
O56|Editor's Overview|This seventh issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains seven articles. Topics covered include the long-run economic performance and prospects in Canada, the impact of capital accumulation on productivity growth in Canada, differences between Gross Domestic Product and Net Domestic Product, future productivity growth in Canada, and the OECD growth study.
O56|Editor's Overview|The second issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards (CSLS) contains six articles largely related to the general theme of productivity growth in the new economy. Topics covered are the determinants of trends in the living standards of Canadians in the 1990s; the role of innovation in productivity growth; the role of information technology in driving the productivity revival in the United States; the characteristics of the new economy; the new OECD productivity manual; and two important recent contributions to the productivity literature in Canada.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This eighth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains eight articles. Topics covered are: a progress report on endogenous growth theory; recent productivity developments in Canada and the United States; monetary policy in the new economy; the effect of information and communications technologies (ICTs) on UK productivity growth; the choice of the business sector versus the total economy for assessing aggregate productivity trends; the measurement of productivity growth in services industries; and a review article of a recent book, Why Economies Grow.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This sixteenth issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standard contains five articles. Topics covered are: multifactor productivity growth and innovation in the Canadian business sector;an analysis of Canadian labour productivity growth since 2000; measurement of total factor productivity; service sector productivity measurement in the United States; and data quality for market services in Europe.
O56|Editor’s Overview|THIS FIFTEENTH ISSUE OF THE International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standard contains five articles. Topics covered are: product market regulation and productivity convergence in OECD countries and implications for Canada; the impact of interprovincial migration on productivity and output in Canada; the relationship between productivity and sustainable consumption in OECD countries; productivity growth in Chinese industries; and the measurement of intangible capital.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This 13th issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains five articles. In contrast to the last issue on the Boskin Commission Report after a decade, this issue has a strong Canadian flavour. Topics covered are the benchmarking of Canadian economic performance, policies for improving productivity growth in Canada, Canada-U.S. differences in hours worked, the impact of terms of trade on Canada, and the measurement of government output and productivity.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This eleventh issue of the International Productivity Monitor, published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards, contains seven articles on a range of topics: policies to improve productivity growth in Canada; the causes of lower information and communications technology investment in Canada relative to the United States; the impact of fiscal policy on employment and productivity; productivity growth in manufacturing in Sweden, and service sector productivity measurement.
O56|Editor's Overview|This the inaugural issue of the International Productivity Monitor, a new publication produced by the Ottawa-based Centre for the Study of Living Standards (CSLS). The objective of the Monitor is to focus atttention on the importance of productivity for improving living standards and quality of life. We will be publishing twice a year articles from leading researchers on productivity issues, trends and developments in Canada and other countries. The Monitor will also serve as a vehicle for an international exchange of ideas and information on productivity topics. The first issue of the Monitor contains eight articles on a wide range of productivity topics. There are the new economy and trend productivity growth in Canada, the renaissance of service sector productivity in the United States, a regional comparison of U.S-Canada standards of living, the postwar productivity convergence experience among OECD countries, price cap regulation and productivity growth, and finally a symposium of three articles on the measurement and interpretation of total factor productivity. In addition to the hard-copy version of the Monitor, which is available in English and French, all articles are available on-line at the CSLS website (www.csls.ca). Moreover, unabridged versions of many of the articles are also posted.
O56|Editor's Overview|This sixth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains seven articles. Topics covered are lessons for Canada from the U.S. growth resurgence; the factors explaining higher productivity levels in the United States than in Canada; patterns in annual work hours in Canada and the United States; trend productivity growth in Canada; the contribution of ICT-producing and using industries to productivity growth in Canada, the United States and Europe; data sources for international productivity comparisons; and a review article on the book Towards a Social Understanding of Productivity.
O56|Editor's Overview|The fourth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains five articles. Topics covered are: recent productivity developments in the United States and Canada and implications for the Canada-U.S. productivity and income gaps; the importance of skills for innovation and productivity; the diffusion of ICTs and growth of the French economy over the past two decades; a structural perspective on the roots of the new economy; and a review of a recent NBER volume on new developments in productivity analysis.
O56|Editor’s Overview|The ninth issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are: the magnitude of the Canada-U.S. productivity gap at the industry level; productivity puzzles facing researchers; the link between technology use, human capital, productivity and wages; the effect of organization innovation and information and communications technologies on firm performance; the effect of adjustment costs on aggregate productivity in Canada; and the role of micro-institutions in fostering productivity growth and reducing poverty in developing countries.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This tenth issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are: the puzzling recent behaviour of labour productivity in Canada; an international perspective on Canada's productivity performance since the 1990s; the role of population growth in shaping productivity growth; the effect of hours of work and the employment rate on labour productivity levels in European countries; productivity growth and its contribution to economic growth since 1980 in Asia; and a review of two recent and comprehensive volumes on the importance of productivity and on its drivers, The Power of Productivity and Transforming the European Economy.
O56|Editor's Overview|The fifth issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are: the Canada-US manufacturing productivity gap; trends in Canadian living standards; the impact of economic reform on British productivity growth; productivity and policy reform in Australia; the measurement of government productivity; and a review of a recent volume on productivity issues in Canada.
O56|Editor's Overview|The third issue of the International Productivity Monitor produced by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles that deal with a wide range of issues in the productivity area. Topics covered are the contribution of the information and communications technology sector to productivity growth in Canada and the United States; the Irish economic boom and lessons for other countries; productivity trends in OECD countries; international comparisons of labour productivity levels in manufacturing; productivity trends in the construction sector in Canada; and a review of Angus Maddison's recent book on the world economy.
O56|Editor’s Overview|This 14th issue of the International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains five articles. Topics covered are recent productivity developments in the United States; lessons for Canada from international productivity experience; India’s productivity performance; measurement error and productivity growth in the Canadian construction industry; and the recently released EU KLEMS productivity and growth accounts.
O56|Editor’s Overview|THIS 17TH ISSUE OF THE International Productivity Monitor published by the Centre for the Study of Living Standards contains six articles. Topics covered are the effect of labour market regulation on productivity in OECD countries; the relationship between the growth in labour productivity and real wages in Canada; the importance of higher education and market rigidities for the diffusion of information and communications technology (ICT) in OECD countries; the importance of the ICT-producing sector for productivity growth in Finland and Sweden; the appropriate measurement of total factor productivity (TFP) in unstable economies with an application to Argentina; and recent and proposed changes to US National Accounts.
O56|International Migration in a Sea of Islands: Challenges and Opportunities for Insular Pacific Spaces|Our contribution to the International Conference “Connecting Worlds: Emigration, Immigration and Development in Insular Spaces”, held in the Azores between 28 and 30 May 2008, examines contemporary mobility of Pacific peoples in a transnational context with reference to processes of out-migration, return, re-migration and the complex systems of circular mobility between island countries as well as to and from countries on the Pacific rim. There are some significant differences between parts of the Pacific region in terms of the access their peoples have to work and residence opportunities outside their island countries. These are reviewed with reference to some major challenges for development in the region: rapid growth of youthful populations; high levels of unemployment; limited markets for local produce; unsustainable levels of extraction of timber, fish and mineral resources; changing climates; and unstable governance systems in some countries.
O56|Determinarea gradului de penetrare in cadrul agentilor economici a tehnicilor de imbunatatire a productivitatii|The present article intends to point out in which degree a series of factors such as the growth of physical capital, the improvement of labour force qualification, the promotion of new input organizer technologies and modalities are perceived and consequently adopted by the economic agents of various sizes as factors for increasing productivity.
O56|Aid and Dutch Disease in the South Pacific|The impact of aid inflows on relative prices and output is ambiguous. Aid inflows that increase domestic expenditure are likely to cause real exchange rate appreciation, ceteris paribus. However, if this expenditure raises the capital stock in the traded goods sector, then output in this sector might not contract, at least in the steady state. Moreover, if investment in the nontraded goods sector is relatively high and/or productive, then there is not necessarily any real exchange rate appreciation in the steady state. We use time-series data to examine the impact of aid inflows on output and real exchange rates in ten South Pacific island states, and find aid inflows to produce a variety of outcomes in economies of different kinds.
O56|Tariff-Growth Nexus in the Australian Economy, 1870-2002: Is there a Paradox?|This paper investigates the relationship between tariff and growth in the Australian economy over the period from 1871 to 2002. The study is motivated by the debate on the apparent 'tariff-growth paradox', a sign switch in the link between tariff rate and growth between the first and second episodes of globalization in world history, established from cross-country growth regressions. The long annual time series together with the recent developments in time series econometrics allows us to establish an unambiguous and stable negative relationship between tariff rates and economic growth. It is of course not possible to generalize from a single country case, but our results do cast significant doubts on the 'tariff-growth paradox' reported in recent cross-country studies.
O56|Dynamic linkage between Macroeconomic Activities and Stock Prices in Fiji|This paper seeks to investigate whether there is any causal relationship between capital stock prices and macroeconomic activities in Fiji. Empirical results show that all the time series data are nonstationary and cointegrated with a single vector. All the explanatory variables have been found to contribute to the long-run equilibrium relationship. The estimation of error-correction model further confirms that stock price index is cointegrated with real economic activities in the long run, and it adjusts rather fast from short-run deviations towards the long-run equilibrium level. Except for interest rate, real output, M2 and exchange rate do Granger cause stock prices in the short-run.
O56|Estimating aid-growth equations: the case of Pacific Island countries|The seminal and controversial work of Burnside and Dollar (2000) has been the basis for many subsequent empirical works on the growth effects of overseas development aid. This paper argues that the specifications used in these works are not consistent with the data and techniques used. We propose a modified production function in which total factor productivity depends on time as well as the aid ratio. Our empirical results show that the effect of aid on the steady state growth rate is insignificant in the selected Pacific Island countries. These countries are of interest because they receive the largest aid in per capita terms.
O56|The financial sector in Papua New Guinea — A good case of reform|This paper contains a review of the institutions, markets and regulation involved in the financial sector in PNG. An assessment is made of recent reform in the sector and some conclusions are drawn from this case regarding further reform in public policy.
O56|Aid and Dutch Disease in the South Pacific|The impact of aid inflows on relative prices and output is ambiguous. Aid inflows that increase domestic expenditure are likely to cause real exchange rate appreciation, ceteris paribus. However, if this expenditure raises the capital stock in the traded goods sector, then output in this sector might not contract, at least in the steady state. Moreover, if investment in the non-traded goods sector is relatively high and/or productive, then there is not necessarily any real exchange rate appreciation in the steady state. We use time-series data to examine the impact of aid inflows on output and real exchange rates in ten South Pacific island states, and find aid inflows to produce a variety of outcomes in economies of different kind.
O56|Desarrollo económico mundial en 1980-2005 y retos de la cooperación internacional|En este estudio presentamos una síntesis del desarrollo económico mundial en el período 1980-2005, incluyendo un análisis comparativo de la producción sectorial, el crecimiento demográfico e indicadores de educación, atención a la salud y calidad de vida, de 21 grandes áreas del mundo. Analizamos los principales factores y políticas que pueden impulsar el desarrollo socio-económico y contribuir a la disminución de la pobreza en los países con niveles más bajos de renta por habitante, especialmente en los que están situados por debajo de la media mundial. También se analizan los retos que afrontan los distintos agentes de cooperación internacional al desarrollo y se sugieren nuevas vías de cooperación entre los distintos agentes con objeto de lograr un impulso sustancial al desarrollo. Se present a summary of world development in the period 1980-2003, including a comparative analysis of production by sector, population growth and other selected indicators in 21 major areas of the world. We analyze the main factors and economic policies able to foster educational development, financing of health expenditure, quality of institutions and environment and to diminish poverty in developing countries, particularly in those with income per inhabitant below world average. We analyze the challenges faced up by the different agents of international cooperation to development and suggest new ways of cooperation among different agents with the aim to reach a substantial increase of development.
O56|A smooth ride: Terms of trade, volatility and GDP growth|International evidence indicates that higher terms of trade levels and lower terms of trade volatility contribute to enhanced growth outcomes, especially for commodity-export and developing countries. New Zealand's terms of trade have been high and remarkably stable since the early 1990s compared with past experience. We analyse the proximate reasons behind these high, stable terms of trade and then examine whether this terms of trade behaviour explains growth outcomes since 1960. Attention is paid to growth outcomes over a variety of economic regimes. Approximately half the variance in annual GDP growth over 45 years can be explained by the level and volatility of the terms of trade. The relationship is robust across four economic regimes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
O56|Migration and Economic Growth: a 21st Century Perspective|While there is extensive literature on the determinants of migration and its microeconomic effects, the New Zealand theoretical or empirical literature specifically examining the effects of migration on economic growth is not as comprehensive. In New Zealand there has been an implicit underlying assumption that immigration is good for economic growth, as evidenced by the attempted use of immigration to resolve particular labour market problems. This paper uses the growth accounting policy framework to discuss the mechanisms through which immigration can impact economic growth. It reviews the contemporary literature with a view to identifying how immigration policy may be adjusted to improve the potential returns to growth from immigration in New Zealand.
O56|An extension to the neoclassical growth modelto Estimate Growth and Level Effects|The neoclassical growth model was extended by Mankiw, Romer and Weil (1992) to estimate the level effects of additional factors like human capital. We suggest a further extension to capture their permanent growth effects. Time series data from Fiji are used to show that the growth effect of human capital, although small, is significant. Furthermore, in our sample the specifications with a permanent growth effect performed better than specifications with only level effects.
O56|The Concept of Competitiveness|A number of concepts of 'competitiveness' are applied to national economies, not always clearly or helpfully. This paper suggests a possible taxonomy of these concepts, and applies them to Australian data. Australia performs well on the internal competitiveness of its markets. It also does well in measures of competitiveness based on other fundamental drivers of economic growth. Other indices of competitiveness, comparing prices and costs in Australia with those overseas, suffer from conceptual and measurement problems and are therefore of limited value.
O56|Education and Economic Growth: A Case Study of Australia|The purpose of this paper is to measure the contribution of education to growth in per capita real GDP in Australia over the period 1969-2003 using the growth accounting method. Also estimated is the contribution of total factor productivity to growth. Over the period, per capita real GDP in Australia increased by 1.9 percent per annum. Of this, about 31 percent was contributed by education. This finding has important implications for policy makers in Australia. For example, in order to promote economic growth in coming years, access to post compulsory education, particularly vocational education and training and higher education, for all Australians should be made easier and cheaper. This contradicts recent trends at the federal level towards increasing the student share of education costs.
O56|Le débat sur la croissance économique en Suisse Quelles conclusions ? (text in French)|""" Switzerland is the growth laggard in the industrial world "" - this dismal view has become part and parcel of today's conventional wisdom in Switzerland and elsewhere. We show it to be but partially true : accurate when judged by the trend growth rate of officially recorded real GDPs in 1970-2003, but not when considering what we call ""adjusted real gross national incomes"" ; i.e. a better measure of the populations' material wellbeing than real GDPs, although less correlated with employment and unemployment. The adjustment has to do with how to deflate the balance of goods and services as well as the balance of factor income. More important, and perhaps novel, is that there appears to be no statistically significant difference between the estimated trend growth rate of Switzerland's corrected gross national income and that of most other European countries : almost all tend to grow at a rate of about 2% p.a. There is however a significant long-term growth differential between these European countries, including Switzerland, and overseas ones such as Australia, Canada and the USA. This is because most of Europe suffers from well-known and weighty structural problems, not necessarily the same everywhere, but which should be addressed urgently and efficiently everywhere. The paper also includes a ""parable"" on the economic impact of oil price shocks, which may be useful for didactical purposes."
O56|New Zealand: A Typical Australasian Ecomony?|"We examine trend economic developments in New Zealand and in each of Australia's six states and two territories (i.e. nine regions) in order to inform issues regarding economic policy harmonisation across Australasia. Our focus is on trend developments in GDP, population, GDP per capita and employment (each at regional level), and in sectoral industry shares within each region. By comparing New Zealand developments with those in the eight Australian regions, we infer whether New Zealand's developments have been typical of those experienced elsewhere in Australasia. Examination of development trends also indicates the nature of the development process across Australasian regions. For instance, we examine the extent to which certain regions are experiencing growth in high-value industries (such as business and financial services), and examine the degree to which some are dependent on primary industries, including agriculture and mining. Analysis of all the data indicates that, while New Zealand has some idiosyncratic features, it is reasonable to regard it as a ""typical"" Australasian economy in many respects."
O56|SEEA Revision: Accounting for Sustainability?|"The 1993 United Nations System for integrated Environmental and Economic Accounting (SEEA) aimed at measuring the - environmental - sustainability of economic performance and growth in terms of produced and natural capital maintenance. To this end it advanced ""greened"" economic indicators, notably Environmentally-adjusted net Domestic Product (EDP) and Capital Formation (ECF). A revised (draft) version of the 1993 handbook, entitled ""Integrated Environmental and Economic Accounting 2003"" (IEEA), is now available on the web site of the United Nations Statistics Division. Despite its extensive discussion of sustainable development, the IEEA 2003 fails in measuring overall sustainability as it shuns monetary valuation of environmental impacts in a modular framework for physical, hybrid and - selective - monetary accounts. The revision thus missed an opportunity to bridge the persisting dichotomy between ecological and economic sustainability analysis. Future work should explore and test the capability of material flow and environmentally adjusted economic indicators to capture the elusive notions of strong and weak sustainability of economic activity."
O56|Export-Led Growth, Growth-Driven Export, Both or None? Granger Causality Analysis on OECD Countries|This paper investigates the possibility of export-led growth and growth-driven export by testing for Granger causality between the logarithms of real exports and real GDP in twenty-five OECD countries. Two complementary testing strategies are applied. First, depending on the time series properties of the data, causality is tested with Wald tests within finite-order vector autoregressive (VAR) models in levels and/or in first-differences. Then, with no need for pre-testing, a modified Wald procedure is used in augmented level VAR systems. In both cases we experiment with alternative deterministic trend degrees. The results indicate that there is no causality between exports and growth (NC) in Luxembourg and in the Netherlands, exports cause growth (ECG) in Iceland, growth causes exports (GCE) in Canada, Japan and Korea, and there is two-way causality between exports and growth (TWC) in Sweden and in the UK. Although with less certainty, we also conclude that there is NC in Denmark, France, Greece, Hungary and Norway, ECG in Australia, Austria and Ireland, and GCE in Finland, Portugal and the USA. However, in the case of Belgium, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, Spain and Switzerland the results are too controversial to make a simple choice.
O56|A VAR Analysis of US and Japanese Effects on Malaysian Aggregate and Sectoral Output|The paper analyzes the relative influences of US, Japanese and domestic disturbances on domestic fluctuations for the case of Malaysia. Utilizing VAR framework and quarterly data from 1978 to 1999, we focus on their influences on aggregate fluctuations as well as on sectoral cycles. Our results suggest that aggregate and sectoral output fluctuations originate principally from domestic sources. However, the importance of the US and Japanese business cycles can not be ignored as they exert quite substantial influences on domestic output variability. Comparatively, the Japanese influences seem to be larger. However, from sectoral perspectives, there are disparities in the responses of sectoral output to US and Japanese disturbances. While some sectors are affected more by disturbances in Japan, other sectors seem to be more vulnerable to the US shocks. From a policy point of view, policy designs that ensure predictable domestic macroeconomic environment are most important and they need to be aligned more to those of Japan for curbing output variability. Which sectors should be given focus, however, depends crucially on the sources of disturbances.
O56|Quantifying creative destruction: Entrepreneurship and productivity in New Zealand| This paper (a) provides a framework for quantifying any economy's flexibility, and (b) reviews the evidence on New Zealand firms' birth, growth and death. The data indicate that, by and large, the labour market and the financial market are doing their job. Creative destruction “revolutionizes the economic structure from within,” Joseph Schumpeter famously said, “incessantly destroying the old one, incessantly creating a new one” (Schumpeter, 1975, p. 83). Innovation in business - bringing new goods, new markets, new methods of production, new ways of organizing firms - is the “fundamental impulse that sets and keeps the capitalist engine in motion.” Does the economy have enough flexibility? Are there barriers in the way of entrepreneurship? This paper develops a framework for quantifying creative destruction. Applying the framework to New Zealand, I conclude that the sluggish productivity growth of the past fifteen years cannot be blamed on economic rigidities. The data depict an economy with ample creative destruction. Ascribing New Zealand's slow growth to a business-unfriendly culture is a misdiagnosis.
O56|Labour Force Participation and GDP in New Zealand|New Zealand's participation rates are high relative to the OECD, and similar OECD countries. However, there is scope for increasing participation, particularly among young women. Increases in labour force participation could make a contribution towards closing the income gap between New Zealand and wealthier OECD countries. In this paper we calculate the effect on GDP of hypothetical increases in employment from increased participation, taking into account the differences in productivity between new and existing workers. The results suggest that increasing the labour force participation of women aged 25-34 to the average, adjusted for paid maternity leave, of the top 5 OECD nations increases employment by 28,800 and generates an additional $1,215 million of GDP, making GDP 1.0% higher than it actually was in the baseline year 2001. Raising participation overall to the average of the top 5 OECD countries increases employment by 142,600 and generates additional $6,101 million of GDP, an increase of 5.1% more than it would otherwise have been.
O56|Education, Industry, Trade and Development of Asia-Pacific countries in 1980-99|We compare the economic development of Asia-Pacific countries in the 20th century with world average, and analyse the evolution of education, fertility, population and economic growth in Asia-Pacific countries at the end of the 20th century, showing that, after centuries of slow economic development, many Asian countries have experienced an important take-off during the last two decades of that century, mainly thanks to the increase in the educational level of population and industrialization. It is important to remark the positive role of education in economic development as it contributes to moderate population growth, industrial investment per inhabitant and real income per inhabitant.
O56|Has the rate of economic growth changed? Evidence and lessons for public policy|New Zealand's recent rate of economic growth has remained strong despite a worldwide recession. Policymakers, the press, and the public have nonetheless been concerned that New Zealand's economic performance has lagged along some important dimensions. This paper presents some new estimates of the rate of technological change in New Zealand and compares them to similar measures for the United States and elsewhere. New Zealand has not participated in the increased pace of technological progress seen elsewhere since the mid-1990s. Technological change creates sustainable increases in income and wages. Hence, it should be an important focus of policy discussions surrounding economic growth. The paper also addresses how public policy should take into account technological change, especially given uncertainty about future prospects for its growth and the difficulties of public policy in changing its growth.
O56|Productivity and Policy Reform in Australia|Australia has historically been Canada's poorer cousin. But a pick-up in productivity growth in the 1990s has raised Australian living standards to Canadian levels. In this article, Dean Parham of the Australian Productivity Commission provides an overview of Australian economic performance and the policy reforms that turned around Australia's laggard productivity growth. He first points out that during the first half of the 20th century Australia enjoyed one of the highest levels of labour productivity in the world. But Australia never experienced productivity convergence in the postwar period up to the 1990 and saw its productivity and GDP per capita ranking decline over this period. Productivity growth then picked up in the 1990s, with output per hour advancing 2.3 per cent per year in 1990-2001 compared to 1.5 per cent in 1973-1990. It was increased multifactor productivity growth, not capital deepening, that drove this acceleration. Parham makes the case that policy reforms explain much of Australia's improved productivity performance. He identifies three broad areas of policy reform as particularly important in fostering productivity growth: sharper competition; greater openness to trade, investment and technology; and greater flexibility for businesses to adjust production and distribution processes. These reforms spurred the Australian economy to to embark upon a much delayed productivity catch-up.
O56|When the Invisible Hand Rocks the Cradle: New Zealand children in a time of change|This paper investigates the impact of economic and social reforms on the well-being of children in New Zealand. These reforms were among the most sweeping in scope and scale in any industrialized democracy, but have not led to an overall improvement in the well-being of children. There has been widening inequality between ethnic and income groups which has left many Maori and Pacific children, and children from one parent and poorer families, relatively worse off. The New Zealand experience illustrates the vulnerability of children during periods of social upheaval and change and the importance of having effective mechanisms to monitor, protect and promote the interests of children.
O56|Implications of reform and WTO accession for China’ agricultural policies|While China’s trade policies in most areas have been transformed in the reform era, trade in many agricultural goods remains under relatively non‐transparent state trading arrangements. Accession to the WTO will be a critical turning point, increasing transparency and introducing disciplines on protection even for the commodities remaining under state trading. While China’s tariff bindings for the most sensitive products seem unlikely to require substantial short‐term reductions in protection, they rule out substantial increases in the future, provide the opportunity to develop an efficient agricultural sector, and highlight the need for effective policies to reduce rural poverty. WTO membership provides an opportunity for China to improve market access opportunities for its agricultural exports, which face much higher barriers than its exports of industrial products. JEL classification: D58, F13, O13, O56, P33, Q17.
O56|Cost, Benefits and Distributional Consequences of Inmate Labor|We estimate that permitting inmate labor would likely increase national output, but by less than 0.2 percent of Gross Domestic Product. The largest social benefits from inmate labor are likely to come about from decreased recidivism, although the effect of inmate labor on subsequent crime and recidivism rates has not been adequately studied. The potential inmate workforce is low skilled. We estimate that permitting inmate labor could reduce wages of high school dropouts in the private workforce by 5 percent. To improve the economic contribution of inmate labor, we propose that private firms be allowed to bid for inmate labor, and that inmate workers be subject to all relevant labor legislation, including the right to collective representation. Alternative strategies for reducing recidivism and integrating offenders into mainstream society upon release, such as education and training, should also be considered, perhaps in conjunction with inmate labor.
O56|Accounting for Growth in Australia’s Grape and Wine Industries, 1986 to 2003| This paper seeks first to quantify the relative importance of the different factors contributing to growth in Australia’s wine industry over the ten years to 1996. This growth accounting exercise uses an economy-wide model for Australia that separately distinguishes nonpremium from premium red and premium white grapes and wine. Around half the premium wine output growth in that period is attributed to export demand growth. Other important contributors to growth include upgrading of domestic preferences, increases in national income, input-saving technological changes and (negatively) increases in domestic consumer taxes on wine. Looking forward, recent and intended vine plantings ensure wine output in 2003 will be about twice that of the mid-1990s. Our model is used to examine how that vineyard expansion might affect the market, especially grape and wine prices and wine exports early next century.
O56|Ninth Annual Colin Clark Memorial Lecture – Economic Nationalism and Performance: Australia from the 1960s to the 1990s|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|Terms of Trade Shocks and the Current Account|This paper examines the relationship between terms of trade shocks, private saving, and the current account position. The relationship between these variables is theoretically ambiguous: an adverse transitory terms of trade shock can either induce a deterioration or an improvement in the current account, depending on whether the resulting income effects are greater or less than the resulting substitution effects. The substitution effects involve both intertemporally substituting consumption and intratemporally substituting consumption between importables and nontradables. The relative strength of these substitution effects is estimated using data for five OECD countries during 1970/95; both are found to exert large and significant effects on the current account balance.
O56|Householders’ Inflation Expectations|Inflation expectations have wide-reaching effects on the macroeconomy and are an important part of the transmission of monetary policy. This paper analyses the Melbourne Institute survey of householders’ inflation expectations. Householders’ average inflation expectations vary with personal characteristics. People with better access to information or more developed information-processing skills – such as professionals, those with more education, or older people – tend to have lower and more accurate inflation expectations. While inflation expectations are not correlated with the structural determinants of inflation (like the output gap, exchange rate movements or wages growth), tighter monetary policy does appear to reduce expected inflation. People also associate ‘good times’ with strong growth, low unemployment and low inflation. It is shown that householders’ inflation expectations do not appear to fully incorporate information about past inflation and exchange rate movements.
O56|Disparities in Australian Regional Incomes: Are They Widening or Narrowing?|In this study we examine Australian census data on regional incomes for the period 1976–91. Following a discussion of theories and empirical evidence regarding regional income adjustment, the regional dispersion of per capita income is analysed for the six Australian states and at the sub‐state level (statistical divisions, SDs). The coefficient of variation is used as the measure of dispersion, and Gini coefficients are also calculated to analyse income equality within regions. For Australia, the cross‐state dispersion of per capita incomes increased over the period, whereas there was neither convergence nor divergence of incomes among Australia’s 57 SDs. In addition, the intrastate dispersion of per capita incomes across SDs remained largely unaltered over the period. Gini coefficients indicated that across income strata, the distribution of incomes both within states and within SDs has become more equal.
O56|Estimating Output Gaps|The output gap, defined as actual less potential output, is an important variable in its own right and as an indicator of incipient changes in inflation. This paper reviews five methods of estimating it for Australian GDP data, including linear time trends, Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter trends, multivariate HP filter trends, unobservable components models and a production function model. Estimates of the gap vary with the method used and are sensitive to changes in model specification and sample period. While gap estimates at any particular point in time are imprecise, the broad profile of the gap is similar across the range of methods examined. Inflation equations are substantially improved when any measure of the gap is included, and output gaps generally explain innovations in inflation better than output growth.
O56|Malaisie: Secteur de l'equipement medical de haute technologie|Aujourd'hui dotee d'une forte base industrielle diversifiee, la Malaisie est l'une des economies en plus forte croissance et detient la 18e position parmi les puissances commerciales du monde. Le sixieme plan malais (1991-1995) a mis la priorite sur les depenses de sante, afin de permettre la construction de nouveaux hopitaux et l'amelioration des services existants. Dans le but de concentrer ses efforts sur les soins de sante de base, le gouvernement a privatise ces dernieres annees les secteurs medicaux secondaires, tels que les pharmacies.
O56|Australie: Secteur de vetements de sport|Les principales activites sportives en Australie, les occasions d'affaires dans le secteur des vetements de sport et les facteurs concurrentiels sont presentes dans cette etude. Le style de vie sportif des Australiens peut offrir des occasions d'affaires pour les designers et les fabricants de vetements sportifs et de plein air canadiens.
O56|Consumption and Liquidity Constraints in Australia and East Asia: Does Financial Integration Matter?|One of the recurring themes in the literature on financial systems is whether financial integration – that is, openness in the domestic and international financial system – has real, structural economic effects. This paper examines the effect of financial openness on the consumption of non-durables in Australia and selected East Asian economies. A range of variables, some of which explicitly represent financial regulation, are used to proxy the shadow price of the liquidity constraint. Non-durable consumption in Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand can be modelled as the outcome of constrained optimisation, in some cases with time-varying real interest rates and demographic change, while that in Australia is liquidity unconstrained, at least from the 1980s. The constraint appears constant but very weak in Hong Kong and declining in Singapore, consistent with the extent and timing of domestic and international financial reforms in these economies. It appears unchanged for Japan and Korea. For Taiwan and Thailand, there is strong evidence that domestic financial regulation and control have constrained the intertemporal optimisation of consumption, although the constraint may be expected to unwind with recent liberalisation. The experience of Australia and the selected East Asian economies suggests that the liberalisation of the capital account, combined with deregulation and expansion of the domestic financial sector, eases the constraints on consumption smoothing. Financial integration does matter. The experience of these countries also indicates that there is no simple connection between the openess of a country’s financial system and its saving and investment performance.
O56|Australia's Retirement Income System: Implications for Saving and Capital Markets|"Australia is in the early stages of introducing a system of self-provision for retirement through mandatory contributions to"" private superannuation funds. For most employees, the scheme will eventually replace, either fully or partially, the government age pension, currently relied upon by a large majority of retirees. The scheme has been implemented reasonably smoothly by building on existing financial infrastructure for voluntary superannuation. This paper summarizes the historical background of mandatory superannuation in Australia, reviews its potential impact on saving and capital markets, and highlights some remaining policy issues. Perhaps the most important of these is the impact of the system on retirement decisions. A number of features of the system contribute to incentives favouring early retirement and continued reliance on the government pension. Also important is the increasing complexity of the system, a result of the layering of rule changes and grandfathering of existing rights at each stage of the process."
O56|Issues in Modelling Monetary Policy|This paper reviews issues in the econometric modelling of monetary policy in the light of recent experience and research. Two main sets of issues are covered: first, the operation of policy including the specification of the instrument and objectives; and second, the transmission of monetary policy effects to the wider economy. There is also a discussion of the inherent limitations on the ability to quantify the role of monetary policy in econometric models.
O56|Towards an Understanding of Australia’s Co-movement with Foreign Business Cycles|This paper identifies two transmission mechanisms which might contribute to explaining the well-documented correlation between Australian and foreign business cycles. The first is through exports. We find that the US and Japan have a high output elasticity of demand for Australia’s exports. Consequently, their business cycles have a larger impact on Australia’s exports than that suggested by their market shares. The second mechanism is through the share market. Both the US and Australian share markets appear to have a significant impact on Australian activity. Evidence is also found that the responses of investment to the share market in the two countries are remarkably similar. Given that the share markets are highly correlated, the similarity in response lags may help to explain the correlation in business cycles.
O56|A Markov-switching Model of Inflation in Australia|This paper applies the methodology of Markov-switching models to describe the inflation process in Australia in the period since the early 1960s. In contrast to conventional modelling, the approach makes explicit allowance for the possibility of structural change: inflation is modelled within a framework that allows endogenous switching between simple inflation equations. The approach may be relevant to understanding shifts in inflation expectations if the public also uses relatively simple forecasting rules in formulating expectations. The results suggest that inflation is reasonably well represented by relatively simple functions of past inflation and an output gap term, with major regime changes occurring in the early 1970s and early 1990s.
O56|External Influences on Output: An Industry Analysis|The correlation of Australian output with that of the OECD, and the United States in particular, has been well documented. This paper explores foreign linkages by looking at the production side of the national accounts for Australia and the United States, which is often characterised as the country at the technological frontier. Industrial structures in the two countries are broadly similar, and about two-thirds of Australian output is found to be linked to that of the United States. The US links in the agricultural and mining sectors seem to be related to aggregate demand in the United States, in both the short and long run. But in manufacturing – and notably in goods for which production is technology intensive and changing over time – there are persistent, long-run links with the corresponding sector in the United States. Combined with other evidence, the conjecture is that the US links in manufacturing are driven by the supply-side: technological change, innovation and new products are transmitted from the United States and elsewhere to Australia, mostly within two to three years. Domestic demand seems to dominate service sectors, although US aggregate demand can be relevant, as, for example, in the finance and property sector. While links with the United States are pervasive, domestic events and policies are shown to be important to economic outcomes, particularly in the short to medium term.
O56|Paradise Lost? Growth, Convergence, and Migration in the South Pacific|This paper examines the growth experience of nine South Pacific countries during the period 1971-93, using the analytical framework of the Solow-Swan neoclassical growth model, panel data, and Chamberlain's Î-matrix estimator. The speed of convergence of South Pacific countries to their respective steady-state levels of per capita GDP, after controlling for the important regional effects of net international migration, is estimated at a relatively fast 4 percent per year. In addition, private and official transfers emanating from regional donor countries have kept the dispersion of real per capita national disposable income constant over the period, despite a significant widening in the regional dispersion of real per capita GDP.
O56|Economic distress and unemployment in Australia since 1850|No abstract is available for this item.
O56|British imperialism in microcosm: the annexation of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands|No abstract is available for this item.
