P00|Trajectories of Knowledge Economy in SSA and MENA countries|In the first critical assessment of knowledge economy dynamic paths in Africa and the Middle East, but for a few exceptions, we find overwhelming support for diminishing cross-country disparities in knowledge-based economy dimensions. The paper employs all the four components of the World Bank’s Knowledge Economy Index (KEI): economic incentives, innovation, education, and information infrastructure. The main finding suggests that sub-Saharan African (SSA) and the Middle East and North African (MENA) countries with low levels of KE dynamics and catching-up their counterparts of higher KE levels. We provide the speeds of integration and time necessary to achieve full (100%) integration. Policy implications are also discussed.
P00|The Unfinished Business of State-owned Enterprise Reform in the People’s Republic of China|This paper examines the progress of state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform in the People’s Republic of China. After defining SOEs and considering their scope of operation within the PRC economy, the focus of the paper is on the major reform waves that followed the deterioration of SOE profitability in the early 1990s. The oil industry serves to illustrate industry-specific SOE reform trends as well as the latest reform developments. Until today, a stable, successful, long-term arrangement of state ownership has remained elusive. SOE reform is incomplete as long as a number of fundamental governance issues are not resolved. But these are difficult to resolve in the context of Party-controlled state-owned enterprises.
P00|Strategic Interdependence in Political Movements and Countermovements|We study participation in right-wing rallies and counterrallies in Germany to examine strategic interactions in political movements. In the leadup to two right-wing rallies, we exogenously shift potential participants’ beliefs about the turnout at the right-wing rally and left-wing counterrally, and then measure activists’ intentions to protest. For right-wing activists, own participation and participation of peers exhibit strategic substitutability. For left-wing activists, own participation and participation of peers are strategic complements. Both groups do not, however, react to changes in competitor effort. Our evidence highlights substantial heterogeneity in the nature of strategic interactions in political movements.
P00|Protests as strategic games: experimental evidence from Hong Kong's antiauthoritarian movement|Social scientists have long viewed the decision to protest as strategic, with an individual’s participation a function of their beliefs about others’ turnout. We conduct a framed field experiment that recalibrates individuals’ beliefs about others’ protest participation, in the context of Hong Kong’s ongoing antiauthoritarian movement. We elicit subjects’ planned participation in an upcoming protest and their prior beliefs about others’ participation, in an incentivized manner. One day before the protest, we randomly provide a subset of subjects with truthful information about others’ protest plans and elicit posterior beliefs about protest turnout, again in an incentivized manner. After the protest, we elicit subjects’ actual participation. This allows us to identify the causal effects of positively and negatively updated beliefs about others’ protest participation on subjects’ own turnout. In contrast with the assumptions of many recent models of protest participation, we consistently find evidence of strategic substitutability. We provide guidance regarding plausible sources of strategic substitutability that can be incorporated into theoretical models of protests.
P00|Trajectories of Knowledge Economy in SSA and MENA countries|In the first critical assessment of knowledge economy dynamic paths in Africa and the Middle East, but for a few exceptions, we find overwhelming support for diminishing cross-country disparities in knowledge-based economy dimensions. The paper employs all the four components of the World Bank’s Knowledge Economy Index (KEI): economic incentives, innovation, education, and information infrastructure. The main finding suggests that sub-Saharan African (SSA) and the Middle East and North African (MENA) countries with low levels of KE dynamics and catching-up their counterparts of higher KE levels. We provide the speeds of integration and time necessary to achieve full (100%) integration. Policy implications are also discussed.
P00|Trajectories of Knowledge Economy in SSA and MENA countries|In the first critical assessment of knowledge economy dynamic paths in Africa and the Middle East, but for a few exceptions, we find overwhelming support for diminishing cross-country disparities in knowledge-based economy dimensions. The paper employs all the four components of the World Bankâ€™s Knowledge Economy Index (KEI): economic incentives, innovation, education, and information infrastructure. The main finding suggests that sub-Saharan African (SSA) and the Middle East and North African (MENA) countries with low levels of KE dynamics and catching-up their counterparts of higher KE levels. We provide the speeds of integration and time necessary to achieve full (100%) integration. Policy implications are also discussed.
P00|Exploitation, Human Nature, and Social Institutions|Exploitation exists where some gain advantage at others' expense. Its root force is found in human biology, the fact that as a socially-reproducing species, humans compete for mates and the exploitation of others can generate a competitive advantage. Social institutions direct and channel this competitiveness. Thus, during 97-98 percent of our species existence, competitiveness was not expressed by accumulating material wealth and political power, but by being good warriors and foragers, being cooperative, and being generous. However, with the rise of civilization and the state, elites gained ownership and control over the means of production, thereby subjugating all others and appropriating their surplus. Although violence stood behind this exploitation, ideology served as the principal political tool for its maintenance. It is the force of ideology that clarifies why, even with free speech, free press, free assembly, and the franchise, exploitation continues to exist.
P00|International Inequality Dynamics: Issues and Evidence of a Redistribution Kuznets Curve|We consider the main international inequality dynamics and identify new challenges plus empirical findings for OECD countries and the world economy. The focus is on key elements of income inequality in rich and poor countries – and on the drivers of international and national inequality. The econometric results presented show crucial new insights about the role of individuals’ redistribution preferences and the impact of other variables. The findings herein indeed suggest the existence of an Income Redistribution Kuznets Curve for a broad group of countries from the World Value Survey. Key conclusions concern the willingness of countries to cooperate. The economic control variables suggest that education and postmaterialism weaken the interest in redistribution while other variables reinforce the support for redistribution policy. Regional cooperation and benchmarking could be useful as well as applying the golden rule in poor countries. The analysis also explains US populism and argues that this will be a structural problem, related to inequality, for years to come.
P00|An ecosystem in the air? The instance of start-ups and the arrival of the LGV SEA in Bordeaux|"According to the economic, institutional and political agents, the arrival of the High Speed Line South Europe Atlantic LGV SEA in Bordeaux would trigger or boost a \""Bordeaux regional entrepreneurial ecosystem\"". This present paper examines this concept of ecosystem and offers to show its main characteristics, stressing the part played by start-ups, and assessing the economic and spatial logics involved. In a first part, the point is to understand to what extend the start-ups that politicians claim to be the spear-heads of those ecosystems, would constitute new stakes of operating in ecosystems. The survey enables to re-examine the concepts of ecosystem and of entrepreneurial system, to place them into prospect in the frame of regional science and of models of regional development. In a second part, we highlight the characteristic elements of this bordelais ecosystem, using what we call its fundamental DNA: the bordelais entrepreneurial ecosystem is grounded on numerous start-ups whose nature as well as personal and spatial components put into question the emergence of new forms of organization and relationships with the major companies and research laboratories."
P00|Curriculum and Ideology|We study the causal effect of school curricula on students’ political attitudes, exploiting a major textbook reform in China between 2004 and 2010. The sharp, staggered introduction of the new curriculum across provinces allows us to identify its causal effects. We examine government documents articulating desired consequences of the reform and identify changes in textbooks reflecting these aims. A survey we conducted reveals that the reform was often successful in shaping attitudes, while evidence on behavior is mixed. Studying the new curriculum led to more positive views of China’s governance, changed views on democracy, and increased skepticism toward free markets.
P00|Инвестирование Денежных Средств В Условиях Экономического Кризиса В 2017 Году|In the conditions of the economic crisis, one of the most urgent aspects is the investment of funds. The choice of the most optimal directions for investing is rather complicated, since there are many alternative options. The purpose of this study is to determine the most profitable directions for investing money in 2017.
P00|Institution shocks and economic outcomes: Allende's election, Pinochet's coup and the Santiago stock market|To study the effect of political and institutional changes on the economy, we look at share prices in the Santiago exchange during the tumultuous political events that characterized Chile in the early 1970s. We use a transparent empirical strategy, deploying previously unused daily data and exploiting two largely unexpected shocks which involved substantial variation in policies and institutions, providing a rare natural experiment. Allende's election and subsequent socialist experiment decreased share values, while the military coup and dictatorship that replaced him boosted them, in both cases by magnitudes unprecedented in the literature. The most parsimonious interpretation of these share price changes is that they reflected, respectively, the perceived threat to private ownership of the means of production under a socialist government, and its subsequent reversal.
P00|Different Behavioral Explanations of the Neolithic Transition from Foraging to Agriculture: A Review|This article examines how well two parallel behavioral approaches, one in economics and the other in anthropology, explain the economic evolution of Neolithic societies, particularly their transit from foraging to agriculture. Both assume rational optimizing behavior. It is argued that satisficing theories provide a superior explanation of transition (and non-transition) by some hunter-gatherers. Furthermore, many of the concepts associated with neoclassical economics are shown to be inadequate for analyzing the choice problems involved. Moreover, it is argued that all behavioral theories considering the relationship between human behavior and economic evolution need to pay attention to the way that decision-making is embedded in social structures. It is unlikely that a single theory will be able to explain the economic evolution of all societies when social structures and other relevant variables differ between communities.
P00|Preparing for the Future - The OECD-Countries in Comparison|"In modern growth or development theory innovation is a crucial factor which pushes the dynamics of an economy and determines its success in the future. Out of innovations, created in the presence, the potentials for the future of a country are prepared, deciding how its economic fitness and competitiveness will emerge. So, future-orientation is in a natural way connected with innovativeness of a firm, a region or a country and shapes the strength and the specifics of the process of development. Looking around the world economy, one can observe a variety of countries which exist at different levels of development. Each of them has to master its economic future, choosing an own specific development strategy. How the various countries, belonging to different continents and cultures, will succeed in this endeavor is surely one of the most exciting and important issues of coming decades. In this global context our study is focusing on ""future preparedness"" of a specific group of countries, the so called OECD- countries. The origin of this group dates back to 1960, when 18 European countries and the United States as well as Canada created in Paris an organization dedicated to global development. Today the group consists of 34 member countries which span the globe from North to South America, to Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. They include many of the worldâ€™s most advanced countries but also emerging ones like Mexico, Chile and Turkey. The concept of ""future preparedness"" gets its analytical and empirical relevance when it is placed and investigated within a specific development model. Such a model determines the theoretical basis of the study and provides the necessary ingredients for an empirical application. In our study we will use ""Comprehensive Neo-Schumpeterian Economics"" (CNSE) as an analytical framework (Hanusch and Pyka, 2007). This approach is based (a) 2 on the notion of future-orientation penetrating all spheres of socio-economic life in developed as well as in developing countries; (b) on the principle of innovation as the main driving force and the engine of future-orientation and development. Based on the concept of CNSE the central aim of our study is to gain new insights and findings concerning the ""future preparedness"" of the OECD-countries. To meet this target we (a) rely on the notion of ""future-orientation"" as a basic prerequisite for being prepared to master the future; (b) try to bring this concept of ""future preparedness"" on a concrete basis by using indicator analysis embedded in the framework of CNSE; (c) investigate patterns of similarities in the set of indicators; (d) show how these patterns look like by applying cluster analysis; (e) draw some conclusions from the patterns concerning the status and variety of future-orientation in the group of OECD-countries. Future-orientation will be described and characterized in total by 45 indicators, focusing on the real (16), the public (21) and the financial sector (08) of an economy. The indicators reflect many different activities in the various countries related to innovation and the ""emerging future"" within the concept of CNSE. Dependent on data availability, the indicator sets comprise different years mainly in the period between 2006 and 2012."
P00|Pension Capital Investment in the Context of a Private Pension Fund|An analysis of the pension legislation has been performed, particularly in the field of restrictions on asset allocation into various funds, and a model for real investment profile has been proposed that secures minimal risk at the given profitability and satisfies legal requirements, as well as immunizes the sub-portfolio of risk-free securities from changes in the market interest rate. The numerical experiment has been carried out with and without regard to transaction expenses. It has been estimated that frequent renegotiation of the portfolio leads to a decrease in profits from investing as a result of transaction expenses.
P00|The visible hand: the role of government in China’s long-awaited industrial revolution| China is undergoing its long-awaited industrial revolution. There is no shortage of commentary and opinion on this dramatic period, but few have attempted to provide a coherent, in-depth, political-economic framework that explains the fundamental mechanisms behind China’s rapid industrialization. This article reviews the Embryonic Economic Development theory put forth by Wen (2016a). This article reviews the Embryonic Economic Development theory put forth by Wen . It illuminates the critical sequence of developmental stages since the reforms enacted by Deng Xiaoping in 1978: namely, small-scale commercialized agricultural production, proto-industrialization in the countryside, a formal industrial revolution based on mass production of labor-intensive light consumer goods, a sustainable ‘industrial trinity’ boom in energy/motive power/infrastructure, and a second industrial revolution involving the mass production of heavy industrial goods. This developmental sequence follows essentially the same pattern as Great Britain’s Industrial Revolution, despite sharp differences in political and institutional conditions. One of the key conclusions exemplified by China’s economic rise is that the extent of industrialization is limited by the extent of the market. One of the key strategies behind the creation and nurturing of a continually growing market in China is based on this premise: The free market is a public good that is very costly for nations to create and support. Market creation requires a powerful ‘mercantilist’ state and the correct sequence of developmental stages; China has been successfully accomplishing its industrialization through these stages, backed by measured, targeted reforms and direct participation from its central and local governments.
P00|The Visible Hand: The Role of Government in China’s Long-Awaited Industrial Revolution|China is undergoing its long-awaited industrial revolution. There is no shortage of commentary and opinion on this dramatic period, but few have attempted to provide a coherent, in-depth, politicaleconomic framework that explains the fundamental mechanisms behind China’s rapid industrialization. This article reviews the New Stage Theory of economic development put forth by Wen (2016a). It illuminates the critical sequence of developmental stages since the reforms enacted by Deng Xiaoping in 1978: namely, small-scale commercialized agricultural production, proto-industrialization in the countryside, a formal industrial revolution based on mass production of labor-intensive light consumer goods, a sustainable “industrial trinity” boom in energy/motive power/infrastructure, and a second industrial revolution involving the mass production of heavy industrial goods. This developmental sequence follows essentially the same pattern as Great Britain’s Industrial Revolution, despite sharp differences in political and institutional conditions. One of the key conclusions exemplified by China’s economic rise is that the extent of industrialization is limited by the extent of the market. One of the key strategies behind the creation and nurturing of a continually growing market in China is based on this premise: The free market is a public good that is very costly for nations to create and support. Market creation requires a powerful “mercantilist” state and the correct sequence of developmental stages; China has been successfully accomplishing its industrialization through these stages, backed by measured, targeted reforms and direct participation from its central and local governments.
P00|On the Economic Returns From a Global Program of Social Capital: A Trillion Dollar Agenda for Growth|For the economy to grow, the actors in the marketplace need to expand the overall output rather than jostle each other for bigger shares of the available output. To this end, the productivity level may be boosted through a comprehensive program of social capital. Based on the experience of the 20th century, the rich countries of the world could afford to commit US$1 trillion per year for a couple of decades. According to a compelling scenario, the total investment of $20 trillion in nominal terms will comprise $13.6 trillion in current dollars since the funds will be disbursed over time rather than spent at once. Based on conservative estimates, the present value of the benefits will exceed $3.39 quadrillion which represents a payback of 249 times the original investment. In this way, the windfall from a global program of social capital should far surpass the outlay required for its implementation.
P00|Rögnvaldur Hannesson, Debt, Democracy and the Welfare State: Are Modern Democracies Living on Borrewed Time and Money|This book deals with the accumulation of government debt in twenty-two of the richest countries of the world, which has been ongoing since about the mid-1970s. All these countries are welfare states with a large government sector that provides services and transfers purchasing power to the perceived needy, although some countries are more ambitious in this respect than others. The build-up of debt is due to maintaining welfare expenditures beyond what tax revenues allow. But indefinite debt accumulation is not an option. The question is whether the governing elites in democratic countries will shrink from doing what is necessary in fear of losing their electorate, in the end opening the way to unenlightened populists and potential usurpers.
P00|New Wine in Old Flasks: the Just Price and Price-Controls in Jewish Law|The halakhah (Jewish law) includes legislation aiming at might be called “social justice.” These halakhot (pl.) include the laws of ona'ah and hafka'at she'arim / hayyei nefesh – roughly analogous to the famous Medieval “just price” laws – as well as legal restrictions on middlemen and speculators. In the light of modern economics, these Jewish laws, like all attempts at price-fixing, are shown to be self-defeating; the means conflict with the ends sought. The conflict between religion and science is not limited to cosmology and biology, but may include economics as well. It is proposed that the halakhah be modified in such a way as to preserve – as much as possible – the integrity of both the halakhah and economic science alike; when an ethical system makes certain scientific presuppositions, it is sometimes possible to preserve the ethical system by disentangling it from its non-essential scientific presuppositions.
P00|Negative Interest Rate and Mudarabah Investment Deposits Rate: A Short Essay|Negative interest rate is quite a new phenomenon and many economists are quite puzzled by this new development after the global financial crisis of 2008/2009 and warned about its negative consequences. Whether negative interest rate can be considered as a Riba, literally interest rate, in Islamic finance is not settled yet. According to the classical text, the logic behind prohibition of interest rate, Riba, is actually inherent injustice; it may be to borrower or lender. There is no ruling or fatwa regarding negative interest rate. However, by following the analogy of injustice in Riba, we can argue that negative interest rate should be equated wtih Riba. One of the most controversial issues in current Islamic banking practice is that the return on Mudarabah investment deposits and interest rate on savings accounts are quite identical if not the same. Three key reasons for this paradox are briefly explained and number of measures has been recommended which might help delinking interest rate from profit rate.
P00|Redundancy, Unilateralism and Bias beyond GDP – results of a Global Index Benchmark|Eight out of ten leading international indices to assess developing countries in aspects beyond GDP are showing strong redundancy, bias and unilateralism. The quantitative comparison gives evidence for the fact that always the same countries lead the ranks with a low standard deviation. The dependency of the GDP is striking: do the indices only measure indicators that are direct effects of a strong GDP? While the impact of GDP can be discussed reverse as well, the standard deviation shows a strong bias: only one out of the twenty countries with the highest standard deviation is among the Top-20 countries of the world, but 11 countries among those with the lowest standard deviation. Let’s have a look at the backsides of global statistics and methods to compare their findings. The article is the result of a pre-study to assess Social Capital for development countries made for the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. The study leaded to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) project World Social Capital Monitor.
P00|Review on Various Ideal System Models Used to Improve the Characteristics of Practical Systems|Ideal properties of a device or a system can be used to upgrade or improve its properties towards reaching 100% efficiency. By comparing the properties/characteristics of a practical device/system with its ideal counterpart, one can find out the possible modifications in that device /system towards reaching the objective of achieving such an ideal system. Even though ideal systems are hypothetical systems, which cannot be realized completely in practice, gives a broad idea on how the practical systems can be improved continuously to reach ideal system characteristics. The ideal system characteristics of technology, business, education, banking, electrical energy, software, computing and strategy, discussed in this review, under input characteristics, system characteristics, output characteristics, and external characteristics shows an opportunity to the scientists and engineers to develop such practical systems further with an objective to reach the goal. Based on the review, we have also discussed the possible characteristics of some of the future anticipated systems like ideal automobiles, ideal library, ideal home, ideal human being, ideal organization, ideal city, and even, ideal world.
P00|The spectrum of Azerbaijan’s increasing economy|This paper aims to underline the key measures that Azerbaijan took during the past 20 years in regards to sustainable development. Although the country broke up from the Soviet Union in the 1990s, there has been a particular and precise preoccupation regarding its evolution as a nation. It is important to underline the fact that, in present time, Azerbaijan is an important country in the South Caucasus, which has economic relations with other parties such as the European Union, Turkey, Russia, and others. These relationships are based, mostly, on the fact that Azerbaijan is a reach resource country that supplies many countries with oil and gas.
P00|Determinants of efficiency of economic systems in Latin America|This paper investigates the determinants of efficiency of economic systems across Latin American countries during recent periods of economic liberalization. The empirical analysis considers fourteen Latin American countries representing different varieties of capitalism. The indicators relate to the period between 1995 and 2014. Consistent with extant literature, the empirical analysis of the sample economic systems suggests that the source of inefficiency is regulatory. The most resounding conclusion is that higher economic role of the state tends to be associated with lower efficiency of the economic system. The results also shows that one of the most important positive factors in economic systems? efficiency is competition. The quality of institutions and demographic factors are the other influencing determinants in efficiency of economic systems. Moreover, the analysis of the indicators shows that richer countries exhibit better efficiency. Strategies for better quality of institutions and competition, and better level of education may help to increase the efficiency of economic systems in Latin America.
P00|Problems of Quantifying Public Goods in the Healthcare Sector|A market system does not automatically lead to an optimum allocation of public goods. Market-based exchange will always lead to a deficit of a public good compared with the socially optimal level. We argue that public goods in each sector of the economy constitute an isomorphic, socioeconomic system that is not a “black box.” Thus, in order to determine the deficit of public goods, it is first necessary to investigate the available quantities versus the quality of those goods, because their performance is not only a function of public spending. There is no generally accepted methodology for doing this and there are no universal methods for quantifying public goods. The aim of this work is to develop a universal methodology for the quantification of public goods in ordinal categories, taking into account both the amount and quality of a good and budgetary valuing. In the empirical part, the authors identify various models (assets structures) of healthcare financing, using a set of OECD countries as an example. The authors also investigate to what extent these models influence the value of public goods in that sector. Composite measures have been computed for both the amount and quality of public goods. Subsequently, an agglomerative cluster analysis and a multifactorial analysis of variance are performed. Although the studied systems are diverse and reflect different social choices, the analyses show that the effectiveness of a healthcare system depends not only on the level of public financing, but also on its structure.
P00|No country for neoliberalism: a topic modeling approach to protean discourses to resist privatizations in Italy|This paper analyzes the resistance to the neoliberal discourse supporting privatizations in the Italian sociopolitical field: we address the change from a state control over economy to a situation where most of the state owned enterprises are sold and neoliberal principles are widely adopted and accepted. We focus on resistance, which builds on two frames that differ according to the period when they arise, the words they are composed of, the meanings they bear upon. The first one, which is more prevalent in the period 1984-2000, and that we called Òvalues of developmental stateÓ, opposes privatizations from a technical point of view: it is used in quotes that rationally support state intervention in economy. The second frame, that we called Òstigma privatizationsÓ, becomes prevalent starting in 2000 and appears mainly in articles that deal with societal issues, literature, movies and the wider sociocultural debate. Here influential speakers blame privatizations as something that eroded societal cohesion. To explain the transformation, we mobilize the concept of capital as described by Bourdieu: as economic capital attached to delegitimized institutions erode, discourse on resistance does not disappear but is framed within the fields that are less dependent on economic capital. As a connected contribution, the key role played by cultural capital in preserving areas of resistances revives the debate on the role of intellectuals within power dynamics as described by Antonio Gramsci. From a technical point of view, we study the evolution of the vocabulary of privatizations by analyzing almost 70.000 articles in the period 1984-2014. we use Topic Modeling, that is an automated text analysis technique that elicits topics, which are the sets of words that constitute discourses. We then reconstruct frames starting from these topics.
P00|Trajectories in Knowledge Economy: Empirics from SSA and MENA countries|In the first critical assessment of knowledge economy dynamic paths in Africa and the Middle East, but for a few exceptions, we find overwhelming support for diminishing cross-country disparities in knowledge-base-economy dimensions. The paper employs all the four components of the World Bank’s Knowledge Economy Index (KEI): economic incentives, innovation, education, and information infrastructure. The main finding suggests that sub-Saharan African (SSA) and the Middle East and North African (MENA) countries with low levels in KE dynamics and catching-up their counterparts of higher KE levels. We provide the speeds of integration and time necessary to achieve full (100%) integration. Policy implications are discussed.
P00|The Failure of Neoclassical Economics Modelling and Human Behavioural Ecology to Satisfactorily Explain the Evolution of Neolithic Society|Examines two parallel approaches, one in economics and the other in anthropology, intended to explain the behaviours of Neolithic societies, particularly their transit from foraging to agriculture. Both approaches assume that human behaviour is a response to rational human decisions to optimise. The application of microeconomic theory by a Danish professor to explain the transition of foragers to agriculture and the corresponding complementary views of some American anthropologists about this transition are outlined and discussed. While these approaches provide valuable insights into the evolution of Neolithic societies, it is also important to be aware of their limitations, several of which are identified in this article. Such approaches are unlikely to provide a general theory of the evolution of Neolithic societies. Because of the diversity of human behaviours, a range of theories are required.
P00|Economics of paternalism: the hidden costs of self-commanding strategies|The paper proposes an economic assessment of paternalism by comparing different alternative responses to dynamically inconsistent behaviors consecutive to hyperbolic discounting. Two main types of action are possible, self-commanding strategies and paternalism The first category includes personal rules and pre-commitment The second can be subcategorized between coercive and non-coercive forms of paternalism, which are respectively associated (although it is debatable) with legal paternalism and with ‘nudges’. Despite being self-inflicted, self-commanding strategies are actually not cost free and can result in a dramatic cutback of people’s freedom of choice. Likewise, legal paternalism can, on occasion, be less harmful than personal rules or pre-commitment; similarly, nudges can be more invasive and less effective than their proponents want us to believe. The aim of this paper is not to propose any standardized form of response to irrational behavior (whatever that may mean) but to argue, on the contrary, that every case should be individually appraised. Individual situations can be remedied by self-commanding strategies or by paternalistic policies, either in isolation or in combination.
P00|México: tan cerca de Estados Unidos como de Asia Pacífico|Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior [Bancomext]. (2014). Misión, visión y objetivos. Ciudad de México: Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público Disponible en: http://www.bancomext.com/Bancomext/secciones/conoce-bancomext/quienes-somos/vision-mision-y-objetivos.html Baño Rivas, ME. (2012). Reflexiones sobre la diplomacia pública en México. Una mirada prospectiva. En Revista Mexicana de Política Exterior, 137-195. Disponible en: http://www.sre.gob.mx/revistadigital/images/stories/numeros/n85/banos.pdf Bernal Rodríguez, JL. (2012, Noviembre-Junio). Política exterior y promoción económica internacional: hacia una nueva diplomacia económica. En Revista Mexicana de Política Exterior (62-63), 7-27. Disponible en: http://www.sre.gob.mx/revistadigital/images/stories/numeros/n62-63/bernal.pdf Bustelo, P. (2007). El ascenso económico de China: implicaciones estratégicas para la seguridad global. Universidad Complutense de Madrid. Disponible en: http://pendientedemigracion.ucm.es/info/eid/pb/Bustelo%20-%20CESEDEN09china.pdf Consejo de Relaciones Internacionales [CORI] (2012). Pacifico: La inserción aplazada. La relación de Colombia con el Asia-Pacífico en el contexto de América Latina. Bogotá: Ed. Panamerica Disponible en: http://www.urosario.edu.co/urosario_files/c9/c9effd5f-4a5f-4ca4-b509-a0b2bb2b36c7.pdf Covarrubias, A. (2008). La política exterior “activa”... una vez más. En Foro Internacional, XLVIII, (1-2), 13-34. Disponible en: http://www.redalyc.org/articulo.oa?id=59916819002 Entrevista realizada por NHK a Falck, M. (2013, 19 de abril). Entrevista sobre la industria automovilística y la inversión extranjera en México. Kyoto, Japón. Disponible en: http://www.mexicoylacuencadelpacifico.cucsh.udg.mx/ecos_del_pacifico/la_industria_automovilistica_y_la_inversion_extranjera_en_mexico Espinosa, A. (2012). La proyección de imagen a partir de Soft Power, mediante Nation Branding y la diplomacia pública en el caso de Japón, durante el periodo 2002 – 2010. Estudio de Caso Presentado como requisito para optar al título de Internacionalista. Facultad de Relaciones Internacionales. Universidad Colegio Mayor de Nuestra Señora del Rosario. Disponible en: http://repository.urosario.edu.co/bitstream/handle/10336/4380/1094900655%20-%202012.pdf?sequence=1 Flores Salgado, J. (2010). Crecimiento económico e indicadores de bienestar social en México, 1950-2008. En (Coordinador) J, Flores Salgado, Pensar el futuro de México. Crecimiento y desarrollo económico de México (61-90). Cuidad de México: Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana. Disponible en: http://dcsh.xoc.uam.mx/pensarelfuturodemexico/libros/crecimiento_desarrollo.pdf García, M. (2006). Balance de la política exterior de México bajo el mandato del Presidente Vicente Fox. Disponible en: http://www.mexicodiplomatico.org/lecturas/politica_exterior_sexenio_fox.pdf González, G. (2005). Las bases internas de la política exterior: realidades y retos de la apertura económica y la democracia. En Centro de Investigación y Docencia Económicas. (131), 1-55. Disponible en: http://mexicoyelmundo.cide.edu/2010/dtrabajo gonzalezbasesinternasdelapoliticaexterior.pdf Green, R. (2011). Reflexiones sobre la política exterior de México. En. Revista Examen, XXI (201), 8-11. Disponible en: http://www.pri.org.mx/bancoinformacion/files/Archivos/Pdf/4695-1-20_10_36.pdf Guajardo Villareal, I. (discurso) (enero 10 de 2014). Versión estenográfica del mensaje del Secretario de Economía, durante la ceremonia inaugural de la Vigésima Segunda Reunión Anual del Foro Parlamentario Asia-Pacífico. Puerto Vallarta: Dirección General De Comunicación Social. Disponible en: http://www.economia.gob.mx/eventos-noticias/sala-de-prensa/discursos/10061-discurso14-0113 Larraín, F. (2010). La necesidad de un programa Asia Pacífico en la PUCV. En Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaiso. Disponible en: http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=4&ved=0CDgQFjAD&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.asiapacifico.ucv.cl%2Fupload%2FAsia%2520Pacifico.1.doc&ei=b2_7VJ_YIqHfsASSvYJo&usg=AFQjCNE7k49BOEs92XXuu1k2bPq9DksVkw&sig2=z6lgc9G9rIhcGkiXB4S6aw Laverde, A. (2011). Asia: oportunidades de diversificación comercial. En Tecnológico de Monterrey portal informativo. Disponible en: http://www.itesm.mx/wps/wcm/connect/snc/portal+informativo/ opinion+y+analisis/firmas/cdr.+adolfo+a.+laborde+carranco/op(23abr13)adolfolaborde Levy, C. (2009). Crisis y retos de la política exterior de México: 2006-2012. En Revista Mexicana de Ciencias Políticas y Sociales, LI (205), 119-141. Disponible en: http://www.redalyc.org/articulo.oa?id=42112421007 López, M., Martínez, P. y León, R. (2014). El PRI: consolidación, pérdida y regreso al poder presidencial. En Tlatemoani, 16, 222-248. Disponible en: http://www.eumed.net/rev/tlatemoani/16/politica.pdf Marcusen, M. (agosto 19-29 de 2014). Economic Diplomacy – the “new black” in interstate relations? An Economic Diplomacy Course. (Department of Political Science, University of Copenhagen). Disponible en: http://polsci.ku.dk/uddannelser/summer_schools/bilag/Revideret_kursusbeskrivelse_Economic_ Diplomacy200314.pdf Okano-Heijmans, M. (2012) Japan’s New Economic Diplomacy: Changing Tactics or Strategy?. En AsiaPacific Review, 19 (1), 62-87. Disponible en: http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13439006.2012.678628 Okano-Heijmans, M. (2011). Conceptualizing economic diplomacy: The crossroads of international relations, economics, IPE and diplomatic studies. En (Eds) P., van Bergeijk, M., Okano-Heijmans y J., Melissen, Economic diplomacy. Economic and political perspectives (págs. 7-36). La Haya: The Hague Journal of Diplomacy. Disponible en: http://books.google.com.co/books?id=zHl1LUZUcu0C&pg=PA3&dq=A+larger+role+of+the+states+in+international+economics+is+seen+as+necessary+condition+to+success&hl=es&sa=X&ei=C2pqU4uAAsu1sATY7YG4AQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=A%20larger%20role%20of%20the%20states%20in%20international%20economics%20is%20seen%20as%20necessary%20condition%20to%20success&f=false Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2001-2006. (Mayo 30 de 2001). Diario Oficial de la Federación. Presidencia de la República. Mayo de 2001. Disponible en: http://www.sagarpa.gob.mx/ganaderia/Publicaciones/Lists/Otros/Attachments/4/PND0106.pdf Rivera Ángel, N. (2003). La evolución de las relaciones diplomáticas a las sustantivas: la diplomacia económica entre México y la república de China en Taiwán. Tesis de grado presentado como requisito para obtener el título de Maestro en Relaciones Económicas Internacionales en la Cuenca del Pacífico. Facultad de Economía. Universidad de Colima. Disponible en: http://bvirtual.ucol.mx/url.php?u=http~3A~2F~2Fdigeset.ucol.mx~2Ftesis_posgrado~2Fresumen.php~3FID~3D1622 Romero Ortíz, M.E. (2011). El acercamiento de México a Asia Pacífico. Hacia la firma de un Acuerdo con la República de Corea y un balance del Acuerdo de Asociación Económica con Japón. En Asian Journal of Latin American Studies, 24 (1), 29-52. Disponible en: http://www.ajlas.org/v2006/paper/2011vol24no102.pdf Sánchez Pérez, P. (2013). La diplomacia comercial en el centro de la diplomacia económica española. En Anuario Jurídico y Económico Escurialense, 46, 345-362. Disponible en: http://www.rcumariacristina.net:8080/ojs/index.php/AJEE/article/view/159/140 Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores. (2012). Memoria Documental. Nuevos espacios para México en Asia-Pacifico. Cuidad de México:. Dirección General para Asia-Pacífico Disponible en: http://www.sre. gob.mx/images/stories/doctransparencia/rdc/memodoc/3mddgap.pdf Scarone, C. y Scarone, E. (2004). Fundamentos de una base de datos cualitativos sobre estrategias y políticas de desarrollo productivo. Santiago de Chile: Unidad de Desarrollo Industrial y Tecnológico de la División de Desarrollo Productivo y Empresarial. Programa Modernización del Estado, desarrollo productivo y uso sostenible de los recursos naturales. CEPAL. Disponible en: http://www.cepal.org/ddpe/noticias/paginas/9/23739/ScaroneBasededatos.pdf Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia [UNED] (2008). La política comercial. Facultad de ciencias económicas y empresariales. Madrid: España. Disponible en: http://www.uned.es/deahe/doctorado/gescribano/polica%20comercial.pdf Uscanga, C. (2002) Mexican economic diplomacy in the Pacific Rim. En. Portes. Revista mexicana deestudios sobre la Cuenca del Pacífico, 2 (4), 3-24. Disponible en: http://www.portesasiapacifico.com.mx/?p=articulo&id=129 Van Bergeijk, P., Okano-Heijmans, M. y Melissen, J. (2011). Introduction. Economic diplomacy: the issue. En (Eds) P., van Bergeijk, M., Okano-Heijmans y J., Melissen, Economic diplomacy. Economic and political perspectives (págs. 1-6). La Haya: The Hague Journal of Diplomacy. Disponible en: http://books.google.com.co/books?id=zHl1LUZUcu0C&pg=PA3&dq=A+larger+role+of+the+states+in+international+economics+is+seen+as+necessary+condition+to+success&hl=es&sa=X&ei=C2pqU4uAAsu1sATY7YG4AQ&redir_esc=y#v=onepage&q=A%20larger%20role%20of%20the%20states%20in%20international%20economics%20is%20seen%20as%20necessary%20condition%20to%20success&f=false Vega Cánovas, G. (2001). La política comercial de México en el sexenio 1994-2000: crisis financiera y recuperación económica. En Foro Internacional, (1), 694-729. Disponible en: http://biblio-codex.colmex.mx/exlibris/aleph/a21_1/apache_media/BD8AVFA9TYNQUK2KNARL1GGJYMVPPI.pdf Velázquez Flores, R. (2006). Una propuesta de política exterior 2006-2012. En Nueva Visión Socialdemócrata. 3 (4), 41-52. Disponible en: http://www.fusda.org/rafaelvelazquez-rev3-4.pdf
P00|Credit market disequilibrium in Greece (2003-2011) - a Bayesian approach|Motivated by the linkage between credit and growth in the Greek economy, and the deceleration of credit since the financial crisis, this paper studies the evolution of credit demand and supply in Greece. A disequilibrium model of demand and supply is estimated spanning the period 2003M1-2011M3. The adopted specification allows for stochastic shocks on both supply and demand. A Bayesian estimation methodology with data augmentation for the latent variables is used. The analysis is carried out separately for each type of loan (short- and long-term business loans, consumer loans and mortgages) enabling the comparative study of the credit rationing and supply constraint effects among loan categories. The results indicate that, for all loan categories, excess demand characterized the boom period. After the intensification of the debt crisis, evidence is provided for the existence of excess demand due to binding constraints on supply. However, demand for short-term business loans has slowed down more than supply, reflecting businesses JEL Classification: D50, E44, E42, C32, G21, G28, P00
P00|Review of the theoretical and empirical literature of consumer ethnocentrism|This article presents an analysis of the concept of consumer ethnocentrism measured by the researchers with the use of the Consumer Ethnocentric Tendencies Scale (CETSCALE) developed by Shimp and Sharma in 1987. The communication campaigns promoting the consumption of goods produced in Romania were revised together with the European legislation regarding this type of campaigns. While country-of-origin and ethnocentrism have been extensively researched, the link between CE and the attitude toward locally made products, as well as the link between CE and the attitude toward a buy local campaign has not been fully explored. The results will be useful for marketers, policy makers and businessmen to find what is especially important in consuming local products in Romania, why consumer ethnocentrism is relevant and what is influenced by consumer ethnocentrism. Such information could help them in taking strategically decisions.
P00|Caught between theory and practice: Government, market, and regulatory failure in electricity sector reforms|Electricity sector in many developing countries since the early 1990s have revealed the complexities of introducing market-based reforms in network and infrastructure industries. This paper reflects on the experience to date with the process and outcomes of electricity reforms in smaller electricity systems of less-developed and transition economies. In particular, we use case studies of Belarus and Nepal, two countries that in many respects reflect the current state of reform efforts but have not received much scrutiny in the literature. The evidence suggests similarities in the electricity sectors of less-developed and transition economies, even though the contexts vary significantly. The need to balance economic efficiency, sustainability and social equity, and to maintain adequate investment, remains challenging despite more than two decades of experience with reforms. The dynamics of the electricity supply industry and policy objectives imply that reforms evolve continuously and thus remain work in progress, and their success or failure is a complex function of micro- and macro-economic as well as institutional factors.
P00|Les distances linguistiques et leurs effets sur les comportements économiques|Après avoir défini différentes manières de calculer les distances entre les langues (méthode lexico-statistique, distances de Levenshtein, distances basées sur les arbres linguistiques ou encore distances phonétiques) et entre groupes de population, ce chapitre propose d'explorer comment ces distances linguistiques ont été récemment utilisées par les économistes et permettent d'améliorer notre compréhension de certains comportements macro et microéconomiques dans des domaines tels que celui de la mesure de la diversité des populations, du commerce international, des migrations, de la traduction littéraire, de l’apprentissage des langues, ou encore des résultats du concours Eurovision. Ce chapitre montre également comment les distances linguistiques peuvent aider à analyser de réformes linguistiques, notamment dans la gestion des langues dans un pays ou une région où coexistent plusieurs langues.
P00|Les distances linguistiques et leurs effets sur les comportements économiques|Après avoir défini différentes manières de calculer les distances entre les langues (méthode lexico-statistique, distances de Levenshtein, distances basées sur les arbres linguistiques ou encore distances phonétiques) et entre groupes de population, ce chapitre propose d'explorer comment ces distances linguistiques ont été récemment utilisées par les économistes et permettent d'améliorer notre compréhension de certains comportements macro et microéconomiques dans des domaines tels que celui de la mesure de la diversité des populations, du commerce international, des migrations, de la traduction littéraire, de l’apprentissage des langues, ou encore des résultats du concours Eurovision. Ce chapitre montre également comment les distances linguistiques peuvent aider à analyser de réformes linguistiques, notamment dans la gestion des langues dans un pays ou une région où coexistent plusieurs langues.
P00|DEONTOLOGICAL GUIDE MARKS IN THE COMMERCIAL COMPETITION? Challenges and perspectives concerning competition under economic crisis conditions?|"The competitiveness of products on the European State Members' market was and still is an issue for all the players involved in the good functioning of the single EU market. Any alteration of the competitiveness is rapidly sanctioned by the habilitated bodies applying the regulations in the matter, taking on the role of the guardian for the European consumer. The global nature of the current economic and financial crisis, has forced the new Member States to adopt a prudent behavior since small countries' economies are engaged in a process of economic catch?up. This feature creates a ""virtuous circle"" ... rather than ""vicious"", especially in times of general economic growth, but makes them more vulnerable to exogenous shocks. The crisis also represents the strongest shock that become apparent. Potential threats are magnified by the fact that their status as European Union Member States do not allow them to adopt protectionist measures. This would be considered a breach of European competition rules in the single market being penalized as such."
P00|Rules, Organizations, and Governments|Social scientists generally accept a Hobbesian conception of government as a coercive rule enforcer. This paper challenges the idea that the essential feature of government is its ability to coerce, and argues instead that the essential feature of government is its ability to coordinate. Governments are defined as organizations that publicly signify agreements. The utility of the new perspective is demonstrated by reconsidering how societies acquire the ability to create and enforce impersonal rules, rules that treat everyone the same, as the process of modern political and economic development gets under way. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
P00|Political Economy of Crony Capitalism: The Prospect and the Bane|The world over, capitalism had encroach the economy of nations turning governments against the people, employers against the workers all in the name of surplus values and profiteering motives. Although capitalism had made economies of nations to boom without much stress due to the fluid faces of its operations, nevertheless, it has more havocs than good. The review of most government policies has shifted to accommodate the growing bane of cronies of capitalism. This research shows the tactics employed by bourgeoisies in colliding with the government. What are the implications of these profiteering motives on the economy? The methodology adopted is the survey analysis of institutional data base. The theoretical framework of deprivation theory coupled with Marxian theory were used to x-tray the prospect and the bane of crony capitalism in the economy of polities.
P00|A Note on Income Inequality in East Europe|This short essay examines the proposition that the transition process to a capitalist economic system in Eastern and Central European nations has introduced greater income inequality than in long-time capitalist nations at similar stages of development. In the empirical analysis I use comparable inequality data from the Luxembourg Income Study, hold constant a number of general causal determinants of inequality, and show that such inequality in Eastern and Central Europe is significantly less than in nations where capitalism has long held sway.
P00|Reinvestigating the Reciprocal Relationship between Democracy and Income Inequality|Few social science relationships have spawned as much interest -- or as many elaborate theoretical models and arguments -- as that between democracy and income inequality. However, the empirical literature has generally employed statistical models based on problematic assumptions, and has produced quite mixed results. Hence, this paper makes an important empirical contribution by applying models that, for instance, account for endogeneity biases and control for country-specific effects. Despite being correlated, there is very little evidence of any effect of income inequality on level of democracy once employing appropriate model specifications. Furthermore, there is no robust evidence that inequality systematically affects either democratization prospects or democratic stability. In contrast, there is evidence that democracy reduces income inequality when inequality is proxied by share of income going to wages. However, also this effect is sensitive to choice of inequality measure. Democracy does, for instance, not reduce inequalities in disposable household incomes.
P00|Перспективы Инвестиций В Аптечную Франшизу В России<BR>[Investment prospects in retail franchises in Russia]|В настоящее время аптечный бизнес набирает оборот. Данная статья показывает возможность открытия аптеки с помощью франшизы. Рассматриваются преимущества и недостатки открытия франчайзингового бизнеса, а так же ситуация на аптечном рынке города Омска. Currently, pharmaceutical business is gaining momentum. This article shows the possibility of opening a pharmacy by a franchise. The advantages and disadvantages of opening franchising business, as well as the situation on the pharmacy market of the city of Omsk.
P00|Trajectories in Knowledge Economy: Empirics from SSA and MENA countries|In the first critical assessment of knowledge economy dynamic paths in Africa and the Middle East, but for a few exceptions, we find overwhelming support for diminishing cross-country disparities in knowledge-base-economy dimensions. The paper employs all the four components of the World Bank’s Knowledge Economy Index (KEI): economic incentives, innovation, education, and information infrastructure. The main finding suggests that sub-Saharan African (SSA) and the Middle East and North African (MENA) countries with low levels in KE dynamics and catching-up their counterparts of higher KE levels. We provide the speeds of integration and time necessary to achieve full (100%) integration. Policy implications are discussed.
P00|Bitcoin Mission Statement. Or What does it mean Sharing Economy and Distributed Trust?|Technological advancements in the means of production are the driving force behind the changes in the prevailing system of socio-economic relations. Feudalism was transformed into capitalism as a result of such advancements. While man obtained physical freedom, the financial freedom remained under the control of the centralized authority. A deep level of collaboration is required to attain the next level of productivity provided by new technological advancements. However, the present system with a centralized control of governance and finance appears to constrain and restrain the value producing economy. This constriction becomes especially evident when the business environment requires collaboration to create, as it underlines the inherent conflict of centralized control. The most recent tech sector innovations, such as smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, are poised to disrupt the system of centralized control. The removal of a centralized authority from the position of control will change the fabric of the society to reflect the mesh network of shared resources. The society will transform to the new form of socio-economic relations – the era of Crypto-Socialism.
P00|Designing Security Policies for Complex SCADA Systems Protection|The management and protection of these SCADA systems must constantly evolve towards integrated decision making and policy driven by cyber security requirements. The current research stream in this domain aims, accordingly, to foster the smartness of the field equipment which exist through the generic concept of SCADA management and operation. Those components are governed by policies which depend on the components roles, as well as on the evolution of the crisis which also confer to the latter the latitude to react based on their own perception of the crisis evolution. Their latitude is calculated based on the component smartness and is strongly determined by, and depending on, the cyber safety of the component environment. Existing work related to crisis management tends to consider that components evolve and are organized in systems but as far as we know, no systemic solution exists which integrates all of the above requirements. This paper proposes an innovative version of ArchiMate® for the SCADA components modelling purpose to enrich their collaborations and, more particularly, the description of their behavior endorsed in the cyber-policy. Our work has been illustrated in the frame of a critical infrastructure in the field of petroleum supply and storage networks.
P00|التوظيف الفقهي المعاصر لأدوات الاجتهاد في التمويل الإسلامي<BR>[Deployment of tools of Ijtihad in Islamic finance]|Islamic law covers all aspects of human dealings, including Islamic financial law and its Shariah nominated contracts, which represent the bases for all Islamic banking and finance transactions. These contracts are either readily found in the classic books of Islamic law or modified versions adopted to suit the modern transactions of Islamic finance. In some cases they are a combination of more than one contract designed to serve a particular financing purpose, like the contract of financial lease where the transaction starts with lease and ends with sale. This paper comes to discuss the most important Ijtihad instruments that can be used by the scholar to evaluate and endorse products in Islamic finance. It then elaborates on the instruments that are in use in the modern Islamic finance and which reflect a departure from Shariah rules and tools for Ijtihad. The objective of this paper is to shed light on the contemporary Ijtihad in Islamic law of Finance in light of the guidelines provided by the Shariah in an attempt to draw the outlines of what constitutes a proper use of proper Ijtihad instruments in Islamic finance.
P00|Position of the Polish economy in the international ranking of competitiveness|The aim of the herein paper is to present the level of competitiveness of the Polish economy against the background of the chosen countries in accordance with the standards of the world economic organizations. Such a defined aim determines the scope of the issues of the said paper, which consists of three sections. In the first section, the fundamental notion associated with the essence of competitiveness is explained, whereas in the second section a description has been provided of the economic situation of Poland, while in the third section the position and competitive capacity of Poland has been illustrated against the background of the chosen countries. Furthermore, in this section the rating of Poland in the particular rankings prepared by international economic institutions is presented, which classify countries from the viewpoint of their level of competitiveness, as well as attractiveness in terms of investment.
P00|The Impact of Formal Institutions on Knowledge Economy|Using Kauffman, Kraay, and Mastruzzi governance indicators, this article analyzes the impact of formal institutions on the knowledge economy by assessing how the enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) through good governance mechanisms affects the knowledge economy. The article also employs the World Bank’s four components of the knowledge economy index characteristic of its knowledge for development framework. We estimate panel data models for 22 Middle Eastern and North African and Sub-Saharan African countries over the period 1996–2010. The results show that for this group of countries the enforcement of IPR laws (treaties), although necessary, is not a sufficient condition for a knowledge economy. The results also suggest that other factors are more likely to determine the knowledge economies of these nations. Overall, these findings have important implications for both policy and further research. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P00|Financial Sector Competition and Knowledge Economy: Evidence from SSA and MENA Countries|The goal of this paper is to assess how financial sector competition plays out in the development of knowledge economy (KE). It contributes at the same time to the macroeconomic literature on measuring financial development and response to the growing field of KE by means of informal sector promotion, microfinance, and mobile banking. It suggests a practicable way to disentangle the effects of various financial sectors on different components of KE. The variables identified under the World Bank’s four knowledge economy index (KEI) are employed. Three hypotheses based on seven propositions are tested. Results show: (a) the informal financial sector, a previously missing component in the definition of the financial system by the IMF significantly affects KE dimensions; (b) disentangling different components of the existing measurement of the financial system improves dynamics in the KE–finance nexus, and (c) introduction of measures of sector importance provides relevant new insights into how financial sector competition affects KE. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P00|Motivations for Bilateral Aid Allocation in Korea: Humanitarian, Commercial, or Diplomatic?|This study investigates Korea's motivations for foreign aid allocation, analyzing panel data from over 180 countries for the last 20 years. The results show that Korea's aid allocation reflects both recipient needs and Korea's own national interests but does not consistently consider aid effectiveness. Korean aid is also characterized by its use as an instrument of both summit diplomacy and resource security. In addition, its commercial motivations appear to have shifted over time, from export promotion to overseas investment support. Despite internal and external pressures, there is no obvious evidence that Korea's allocation rule converges with international guidelines that recommend greater consideration of recipient needs and aid effectiveness and less consideration of donor interests. © 2015 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
P00|Streamlining Non-Tariff Measures in ASEAN: The Way Forward|Findings show that the incidence of non-tariff measures (NTMs) in ASEAN is moderate in comparison with other regions of the world. The econometrically estimated ad valorem equivalents also seem comparable with other countries. The challenge is to design NTMs so as to maximize their effectiveness in responding to consumer concerns while minimizing the induced economic inefficiency and the interference from self-interested lobbies. This paper proposes that the way forward is not to follow traditional “notify-negotiate-eliminate” approaches but instead to bring the issue to the country level and imbed them in regulatory-reform agendas in the efforts to improve trade and investment climate. © 2015 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
P00|Entry and Competition in Differentiated Products Markets|We propose a methodology for estimating the competition effects from entry when firms sell differentiated products. We first derive precise conditions under which Bresnahan and Reiss’s entry threshold ratios (ETRs) can be used to measure competition effects. We then augment the traditional entry model with a revenue equation. This serves to adjust the ETRs by the extent of market expansion from entry, giving unbiased estimates of the competition effects. We apply our approach to seven local service sectors. We find that entry typically leads to significant market expansion, implying that traditional ETRs may substantially underestimate the competition effects from entry. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
P00|Automatic Bill Payment and Salience Effects: Evidence from Electricity Consumption|The introduction of automatic bill payment (ABP) programs in 2005 eliminated the need for consumers to view recurring bills. If those enrolled in ABP programs offered by utilities and other service providers forgo inspection of their recurring bills, then price salience declines, prices perceived by boundedly rational agents fall, and consumption increases. This paper considers the impact of such programs on consumer demand and welfare and empirically tests whether enrollment in such programs increases demand. Results show ABP enrollment increases residential electricity consumption by 4.0% and commercial electricity consumption by as much as 8.1%. Enrollment in programs designed to smooth seasonal variation in monthly utility bills of low-income customers results in 6.7% greater electricity use. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
P00|The Subprime Crisis: Is Government Housing Policy to Blame?|Some have suggested that housing policy, embodied by the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and affordable housing goals of the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), caused the subprime crisis. We examine if these programs led to worse mortgage outcomes using two approaches. The first examines whether more activity by CRA-covered lenders, or more loan sales to the GSEs, was associated with worse outcomes. The second uses regression discontinuity to determine if outcomes were worse at the geographic thresholds used by each program. Our results suggest that neither program played a significant role in the subprime crisis. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
P00|World Development and Economic Systems:Theory and Applications|Mainstream economics generally assumes a universalistic market-oriented economic behavior that drives countries to adopt one economic system, with marginal variations. This book extends the scope of theory and applications by asserting that other distinct behaviors evolve and dominate in other economic systems. Systemic differences arise from distinct social, political and economic behavioral-motivational types that associate with intensive agent activity in household, state and firm settings. External conditions, historical events, and agent interactions ultimately result in domination of one motivational type over others; thus determining distinct profiles of structure, conduct, and performance in different economic systems, that are generally observed in the adopting countries. The book validates the theory empirically, traces the historical evolution of the respective economic systems in the world regions and evaluates their responses to various systemic failures such as monopoly, uncertainties, externalities and collective needs. The evaluation is extended to structural changes and system performance regarding growth and distribution. This book draws on microeconomics, welfare economics, development economics and the international economy. The book projects the influence potential of leading countries/systems, and treats effects of displacement of incumbent leaders (US, Japan) by newcomer leaders (China, India) on system competition and on world governance.
P00|Introduction|The following sections are included:OBJECTIVEPAST AND CURRENT STUDIES OF ECONOMIC SYSTEMSBUILDING BLOCKS OF AN INTEGRATIVE THEORY OF ECONOMIC SYSTEMSOUTLINEENDNOTES
P00|An Integrative Theory Of Economic Systems|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONCOMPONENTS OF THE ECONOMIC SYSTEMSETTINGS: HOUSEHOLD, h, FIRM, f AND STATE SETTINGS, sTHE SUBSYSTEMS OF HOUSEHOLDS (H), FIRMS (F) AND THE STATE (S)INFLUENCES AND DOMINANCE OF ONE SUBSYSTEM OVER OTHER SUBSYSTEMSInteractive influenceRegulative influenceDOMINANT SUBSYSTEMS AND RELATED PROTOTYPE SYSTEMS: HIS, FIS, SISEXPLORING PATHS OF DOMINANCE FROM A COMMON STARTING SITUATIONThe historical institutional timeline approachAnalytical modelling of evolutionary changesEXPLORING ABSENCE OF DOMINANCE: THEMULTI-POLES SYSTEM (MPS)MORE DYNAMICS: INTERACTIONS BETWEEN WORLD DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC SYSTEMSTHE EVALUATION FRAMEWORK FOR ECONOMIC SYSTEMSCONCLUDING REMARKSAPPENDIXENDNOTES
P00|Empirical Validations|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONPOSITIONING OF COUNTRY GROUPS ALONG PROTOTYPE SYSTEMSDEDUCTIVE INDICATORS ON AGENT ATTITUDES IN DIFFERENT ECONOMIC SYSTEMS AND RELATING COUNTRY GROUPSDEDUCTIVE INDICATORS ON INSTITUTIONAL CONDUCTOUTCOME PERFORMANCECONCLUDING REMARKSAPPENDICESENDNOTES
P00|Evolution And Evaluation Of The Firm Intensive System In Fis-Centred Countries|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONHISTORICAL DEVELOPMENTSFocusThe period of 1000 to 1400The Papal revolution and crusade warsThe feudal–lordship–manorial subsystemUrban communesTrade guildsThe period of 1400 to 1700The RenaissanceThe Reformist RevolutionsThe world discoveriesThe colonial conquestThe rise of nation statesThe rise of business metropolisThe period of 1700 to 1900Enlightenment and the constitutional revolutionsEconomic thought and the IRThe period of the 20th century and recent yearsWorld War IWorld War IIGreat DepressionFinancial crisesIntegration of the FISGlobalizationA summary illustration of the changed relative powers of main subsystems in FIS countriesEVALUATION OF CHALLENGES AND RESPONSES IN FIS-CENTRED COUNTRIESThe free market economy model, market failures and policy responsesProduction indivisibilitiesNatural monopolyImperfect competitionThe trade-off between perfect competition and technological advanceImperfect governanceIncomplete informationAsymmetric informationExternality effectsCollective needsEndowments distribution: Income and wealthTHE POLITY SYSTEMIN FIS COUNTRIESPRIVATE AND PUBLIC SHARES IN FIS COUNTRIESCONCLUDING REMARKSENDNOTES
P00|Evolution And Evaluation Of The State Intensive System In Sis-Oriented Countries|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONDEVELOPMENT OF THE STATE INTENSIVE SYSTEM: FROM ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMUNISM TO ITS BREAKDOWNTimelineDevelopment of the communist regime: Contradictions between the control and real worldsThe state's ideologyThe state's partyState ownership of propertyThe central planning system (Gosplan level, ministry level, Enterprise managers, Individual consumers, Informal dealers, Bureaucratic bias).Pursued policies and reform strategiesPursued policiesReform strategiesEconomic performance of the communist regimeBreakdown of the communist regime and the SU 1989–1991: Different interpretationsRECESSION AND RECOVERYTHE SHORT TRANSITION AND THE LONG TRANSITIONSTRENGTHENING COMPETITIVENESS IN MARKETS AND STATERAISING CONFIDENCE IN MARKETS AND STATEINTERNALIZATION OF EXTERNALITY BACKLOGSTHE BALANCED PROVISION OF PUBLIC GOODSTHE INCOME DISTRIBUTION PROBLEMCONCLUDING REMARKSENDNOTES
P00|Economic Systems In The Development Regions|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONTIMELINE OF DEVELOPMENT EPOCHSPolitical and economic epochsColonial ruleNation buildingDemocratic reformsHousehold-led demographic transitionState-led economic developmentFirm-led economic developmentGlobalization-led and firm-led integration with the world economyREASSESSMENT OF STRUCTURAL CHANGE AND DEVELOPMENT PERFORMANCE IN TERMS OF SYSTEM ECONOMICSIndicators and dataStructural changeEconomic performanceCOUNTRY VARIATIONS WITHIN REGIONSIntroductionEast Asia Pacific (EAP)South Asia (SA)Central Asia and Caspian (CAC)Middle East and North Africa (MENA)Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA)Latin America and Caribbean (LAC)Sum up on variation resultsPATTERNS OF CONVERGENCE AND DIVERGENCECONCLUDING REMARKSAPPENDICESENDNOTES
P00|Focus On China And India As Upcoming Global Leaders|The following sections are included:DISPLACEMENT CALCULUSCHINA AND INDIA: BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMENTChinaHistorical backgroundEconomic developmentAgricultural mobilizationIndustrial structuringOutward orientationRestrained tasks for the public sectorIndiaHistorical backgroundEconomic developmentAgricultural mobilizationIndustrial structuringOutward orientationFiscal budgetCHINA AND INDIA: ECONOMIC GROWTH AND ECONOMIC ORIENTATIONCHINA AND INDIA: ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INCOME INEQUALITYCONCLUDING REMARKS: CHINA AND INDIA AS EXAMPLES OF MULTI-POLES ECONOMIC SYSTEMSENDNOTES
P00|System Competition And World Governance In The Near Future|The following sections are included:INTRODUCTIONLEADING REGIONS AT THE WORLD LEVELLEADING COUNTRIES AT THE REGIONAL LEVELDeveloped regionsDevelopment regionsLEADING COUNTRIES AT THE WORLD LEVELLEADING COUNTRIES IN THE NEAR FUTUREECONOMIC SYSTEMS, WORLD DEVELOPMENT AND WORLD GOVERNANCE IN THE NEAR FUTUREEXPLORING DESIGNS FOR WORLD GOVERNANCECONCLUDING REMARKSAPPENDICESENDNOTES
P00|Knowledge Economy and Financial Sector Competition in African Countries|" type=""main"" xml:lang=""en""> The goal of this paper is to assess how knowledge economy (KE) plays out in financial sector competition. It suggests a practicable way to disentangle the effects of different components of KE on various financial sectors. The variables identified under the World Bank's four knowledge economy index (KEI) are employed. An endogeneity robust panel instrumental variable fixed-effects estimation strategy is employed on data from 53 African countries for the period 1996–2010. The following findings are established. First, education and innovation in terms of scientific and technical publications broadly bear an inverse nexus with financial development. Second, the incidence of information and communication technologies is positive on all financial sectors but increases the non-formal sectors to the detriment of the formal sector. Third, economic incentives have positive implications for all sectors though the formal financial sector benefits most. Fourth, institutional regime is positive (negative) for the semi-formal (informal) financial sector. The findings contribute at the same time to the macroeconomic literature on measuring financial development and respond to the growing fields of informal sector importance, microfinance and mobile banking by means of KE promotion. Policy implications and future research directions are discussed."
P00|Hunter-Gatherer Societies: Their Diversity and Evolutionary Processes|It is argued that attributes which have been widely used to typify hunter-gatherer societies are inadequate for several reasons. One is that they fail to capture the full extent of the diversity of these societies. We suggest some additional attributes which should be taken into account in characterizing these societies. Linear (unidirectional) models of the development of prehistoric societies are criticized and multi-linear models are discussed. Currently, three main stereotypes of the nature of hunter-gatherer societies exist. While these indicate that they were diverse, they fail to capture the full extent of their diversity. It is suggested that this diversity increased with the passage of time and was shaped by the varied local eco-geographic conditions (local resource endowments) in which these societies existed. This raises the question of whether this development had the same basis as speciation in the biological theory of natural selection. This is discussed and then particular attention is given to Adam Smith's vision of the evolution of human societies. In conclusion, it is suggested that the evolutionary path of modern societies has diverged from that of prehistoric societies.
P00|Theories About the Commencement of Agriculture in Prehistoric Societies: A Critical Evaluation|The commencement of agriculture in the Holocene era is usually seen as heralding the beginning of a chain of events that eventually resulted in the Industrial Revolution and in modern economic development. The purpose of this paper is to outline and critically review theories about why and how agriculture first began. It also classifies these theories according to whether they are based on agriculture's development as a response to food deprivation, to a food surplus, or neither of these factors. Because agriculture began independently in several different geographical centres, it seems unlikely that the switch of early societies from hunting and gathering to agriculture was the result of the same cause in all of these locations. Moreover, the paper provides some new suggestions as to why hunters and gatherers were motivated to commence or increase their dependence on agriculture in some locations. Views about the role of natural resources and institutions in the development of agriculture are also discussed.
P00|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective: Part 1|This is Part 1 of a two-part paper which surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth. The paper provides a critical scrutiny of a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favourable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system. Part 1 of the paper discusses public-order institutions, parliaments, the distinction between generalized and particularized institutions, and property rights.
P00|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective: Part 2|This is Part 2 of a two-part paper which surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth. The paper provides a critical scrutiny of a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favourable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system. Part 2 of the paper examines how institutions are situated in wider institutional systems, explores alternative approaches to explaining institutions, and applies the arguments established in earlier sections to the institution of serfdom. It concludes by drawing the implications of both parts of the paper for institutions and economic growth in historical perspective.
P00|Ist die Marktwirtschaft noch sozial?|In seinem Vortrag setzt sich Martin Zeil, Bayerischer Staatsminister a.D., mit der »Sozialen Marktwirtschaft« auseinander. Er stellt ihre Wurzeln und ihr Konzept vor und beschreibt ihren stabilisierenden Einfluss in der zurückliegenden Wirtschafts- und Finanzmarktkrise.
P00|Institutional choices for low-income countries: state capacity, property rights and development paths in Tanzania|I am using the North Wallis Weingast (2009) framework to analyse the nature of the basic Limited Access Order (LAO) in Tanzania. Looking at Tanzania historically in terms of the creation of state capacity, I use Levy’s (2013) categorisations to place Tanzania in weighing up centralized state capacity vs strength of checks and balances and state dominance vs competitive clientelism models and identifying who the dominant elites have been, particularly since independence in 1961. Tanzania has strong state capacity compared with Zambia and various other Low Income countries but relatively weaker checks and balances to constrain state power; Tanzania fits better with a state dominance model than a competitive clientelism model in relation to dominant elites and nature of institutions. I combine this with an analysis of the history of property rights in Tanzania and following Boone (2007) outline the tensions between three types of property rights: communal, customary rights vs private individualized rights vs state user rights. Despite considerable debate within Tanzania (the Shivji Commission and other bodies), state user rights have won out over both customary and to a lesser extent private rights. I outline how the dominance of state user rights over property combined with strong centralized state capacity via its bureaucracy and patronage over jobs has underpinned Tanzania’s development path, in line with Bates (1982,2014) analysis for many SSAs. In the 1960s and 1970s this path was to redistribute resources away from small farmer agriculture towards a monopolistic nascent industrial sector in a push to develop industry, absorbing surpluses from agriculture in exportable crops (eg coffee, sisal) via state-controlled structures such as Marketing Boards. Other supports such as extension officers, inputs, training shaped which farmers were supported and controlled prices paid to farmers to subsidize urban wage goods and control urban unrest. Since liberalization in the 1990s constraints on agriculture have been loosened, but in practice the power of District Commissioners and Marketing Boards remain in force. Land, backed by state user rights, is redistributed for the purposes of urban and rural/industrial enterprise away from smallholder farming and away from communal rights. More recent enterprise development has been in agribusiness, manufacturing and construction, diversified across industries but concentrated in relatively few firms. (Sutton 2012). There is a tension between the combined forces of strong centralized state capacity, weaker checks on the state plus property rights that give the state ultimate power to determine land use, and the fostering of bottom-up agricultural enterprise, either through cooperatives or through individual private enterprise. Liberalization has favoured private industrial enterprise, although difficulties over clarity of land rights, availability of land and administrative issues over transferring land continue to be obstacles.
P00|¿Es México un Estado reproductor de las desigualdades regionales?|Resumen En este artículo se analiza cómo el Estado mexicano en lugar de haber aminorado los grados de desigualdad, estos se han promovido e, incluso, de cierta manera, han sido fomentados para generar un desarrollo regional más desequilibrado y desarticulado en función únicamente de los intereses sectoriales predominantes, sean agrícolas, industriales y de servicios; pues solo se buscan espacios económicos que permitan reproducir capitales espurios (enclaves económicos), sin una contribución a las comunidades locales; incluso, muchas veces, se han generado externalidades negativas que socavan el tejido social de las poblaciones locales. A lo largo de los siguientes párrafos, se explica cómo el Estado mexicano en estos últimos treinta años se ha mostrado solo como instancia regulativa y promotora de un crecimiento económico excluyente a favor del capital y en contra del trabajo. Además, es un Estado incapaz de sostener o asegurar las condiciones mínimas (económicas y sociales) para que los espacios nacionales y locales reproduzcan su tejido productivo y se permita que estos muestren un trayecto histórico consolidado; por el contrario, han surgido espacios con sinergias negativas irreversibles.******This article analyzes how the Mexican State has promoted inequality levels instead of decreasing them. These levels have also been promoted to generate a more unbalanced and disassembled regional development just in favor of the prevailing sectorial interests whereas in agriculture, the industries or the service sector, because these just look for economical spaces that allow to reproduce spurious resources (economic enclaves) without a contribution to local communities. Negative externalities indeed affect many times and undermine the social network of local populations. Throughout the following paragraphs, it will be explained how the Mexican State, in these last thirty years, has shown itself just as regulatory and sponsoring instance of an increasingly exclusive economic growth, in favor of capital and against work. Besides that, this State is unable of holding or guaranteeing minimum conditions (economic and social) for national and local spaces to recreate their reproductive network so they could show a historical and consolidated route; on the contrary, spaces with irreversible negative synergies have emerged.
P00|Institutions and Economic Growth in Historical Perspective|This chapter surveys the historical evidence on the role of institutions in economic growth and points out weaknesses in a number of stylized facts widely accepted in the growth literature. It shows that private-order institutions have not historically substituted for public-order ones in enabling markets to function; that parliaments representing wealth holders have not invariably been favorable for growth; and that the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England did not mark the sudden emergence of either secure property rights or economic growth. Economic history has been used to support both the centrality and the irrelevance of secure property rights to growth, but the reason for this is conceptual vagueness. Secure property rights require much more careful analysis, distinguishing between rights of ownership, use, and transfer, and between generalized and particularized variants. Similar careful analysis would, we argue, clarify the growth effects of other institutions, including contract-enforcement mechanisms, guilds, communities, serfdom, and the family. Greater precision concerning institutional effects on growth can be achieved by developing sharper criteria of application for conventional institutional labels, endowing institutions with a scale of intensity or degree, and recognizing that the effects of each institution depend on its relationship with other components of the wider institutional system.
P00|Unbundling democracy: Political rights and civil liberties|Much recent political economy and political science literature views democracy in terms of political rights. This view, often referred to as electoral democracy, is particularly pronounced in the empirical literature. We reincorporate the role of civil liberties, which are at the core of modern democracy, in two ways. We identify four fundamental sources of potential differences in the evolution of political rights and civil liberties. We present systematic, robust and varied empirical evidence on the direct impact of two of these potential sources of differences using cross-national panel data and accounting for the modernization hypothesis. We obtain two noteworthy empirical results: civil liberties exhibit greater persistence than political rights in affecting subsequent outcomes; and, our main result, civil liberties are complementary to political rights when affecting subsequent outcomes, while the reverse is not the case. Consequently, one must incorporate civil liberties as a determinant of electoral democracy. More generally, both dimensions must be considered to understand the setbacks recently experienced by many democracies, despite their holding of free and fair elections.
P00|The “knowledge economy”–finance nexus in SSA and MENA countries|Purpose - – This paper aims to assess dynamics of the knowledge economy (KE)–finance nexus using the four variables identified under the World Bank’s (WB’s) Knowledge Economy Index (KEI) and seven financial intermediary dynamics of depth, efficiency, activity and size. Design/methodology/approach - – Principal component analysis is used to reduce the dimensions of KE components before dynamic panel generalized method of moments (GMM) estimation techniques are employed to examine the nexus. Findings - – Four main findings are established. First, education improves financial depth and financial efficiency but mitigates financial size. Second, apart from a thin exception (trade’s incidence on money supply), economic incentives (credit facilities and trade) are not consistently favorable to financial development. Third, information and communications technology improves only financial size and has a negative effect on other financial dynamics. Finally, proxies for innovation (journals and foreign direct investment [FDI]) have a positive effect on financial activity; journals (FDI) have (has) a negative (positive) effect on liquid liabilities, and journals and FDI both have negative incidences on money supply and banking system efficiency, respectively. Practical implications - – As a policy implication, the KE–finance nexus is a complex and multidimensional relationship. Hence, blind and blanket policy formulation to achieve positive linkages may not be successful unless policy-making strategy is contingent on the prevailing “KE-specific component” trends and dynamics of financial development. Policy makers should improve the economic incentive dimension of KE that, overwhelmingly and consistently, deters financial development, owing to surplus liquidity issues. Originality/value - – As far as we have reviewed, this is the first paper to examine the KE–finance nexus with the plethora of KE dimensions defined by the WB’s KEI and all the dynamics identified by the Financial Development and Structure Database.
P00|The Dragon Is Flying West: Micro-level Evidence of Chinese Outward Direct Investment|Outward direct investment (ODI) from the People's Republic of China (PRC) is surging. A common perception is that it was driven by the country's resource-seeking and technology-seeking motives. Using a new, unique, and comprehensive dataset that covers close to 10,000 Chinese ODI deals from 1998 to 2009, we find that in contrast to the common perception, over half of the ODI deals are in service sectors, with many of them appearing to be export-related. In addition to documenting the pattern and trend of the PRC's ODI, we empirically examine both the determinants and effects of ODI at the firm level. We find that ex ante larger, more productive, and more export-intensive firms are more likely to start investing abroad. Using matching estimation techniques, we find that ODI is associated with better firm performance, including higher total factor productivity, employment, and export intensity, and greater product innovation. To assess the relative contributions of technology transfer, export promotion, and resource seeking to the positive effects of ODI, we use ODI data merged with customs transaction-level trade data. We find that firms’ ODI participation is associated with significantly better trade performance, measured by export and import volumes, export and import unit values, and number of export destinations. Contrary to perceived technology-seeking and resource-seeking motives, we find no evidence that ODI firms import more capital or intermediate inputs compared to non-ODI firms. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
P00|U.S.-China Economic and Political Relations: Youths’ Perceptions|This paper is a study of the perceptions of young adults in the U.S. and China on the relations between the two nations. We conducted a case study by distributing a 17 question survey to 201 American undergraduate students (NYC) and 164 Chinese undergraduate students (Shanghai). The questions probed their views of U.S. and China’s economic and political systems, the future economic growth and political power in the world of the two nations, and the future political and economic relations between the two powers. The results of our study reveal a number of important perceptions that both U.S. and Chinese students have, some being similar and others being in sharp contrast. Most students in both countries view future political and economic relations between the U.S. and China predominantly as cooperative but only based on each nation’s self-interests. Both Chinese and American students agree that China is gaining political strength and economic influence among the advanced and the emerging nations of the world. While most of the U.S. students believe that China has been and will continue to grow at a much faster rate than the U.S., Chinese students are more likely to believe that this rate of growth is unsustainable. The results from our survey are compared and contrasted to the findings of national surveys for both countries. We believe that the study provides valuable insights into the similarities and differences in viewpoints of the next generation of adults in both nations about future U.S.-China relations. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
P00|Ownership and Allocation of Capital: Evidence from 44 Countries|In an efficient economy, capital should be quickly (re)allocated from declining firms and sectors to more profitable investment opportunities. This process is affected by the concentration of corporate control, which in turn is affected by market institutions. We employ a panel of 11,984 firms across 44 countries to estimate the functional efficiency of capital markets. We adapt a measure for the efficiency of capital allocation using the accelerator principle. Our empirical results show weak property rights and highly concentrated ownership reduce the functional efficiency of capital markets.
P00|Beyond Extended Phenotype Evolution of extended identity in order to reconcile study of humanity with biological evolution|The question: “How much of biological evolution based theories, as they are understood presently, apply to human behaviour?” is highly controversial and perhaps highly politicized as well. The inference that human beings are evolutionarily programmed to have urges toward aggression, rape, murder, adultery, genocide and so on is a politically rejected idea within the social sciences. To be politically correct those who use evolutionary framework do claim that people can learn or have capacity for self restraint. However it is not clearly understood, how such restraint can possibly evolve within the evolutionary framework. This paper argues that the missing link that explains such behavior is the concept of extended identity. How extended identity can evolve, following the framework of selfish gene, is explained by integrating theories related to selfish gene, institutional analysis, information economics and social capital literature. Archaeological evidence from evolutionary cognition is also used to show that such evolution could happen 4 million years ago (MYA).
P00|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Предисловие<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Preface]|"A new heterodox theory of market and capitalism is suggested. Its key moments and general logic are presented. The theory is based on the distinction between two market types – the simple commodity market and the capitalist one. Disequilibrium and ""imperfect competition"" are admitted to be a functional norm of capitalist market. Respectively, an equilibrium and ""perfect competition"" are admitted to be a functional anomaly; crises are considered as the result of such an anomaly. General principles and concrete measures of crisis-proof policy and crisis-proof behavior are suggested. The theory consists of three interconnected parts – a theory of market, a theory of value and a theory of capitalism. Every part is shaped as a separate text (with its abstract, introduction, conclusions and other attributes). Comparison with alternative theories is made in each part. This text contains a common preface and common references only."
P00|Новая Теория Рынка И Капитализма. В 3-Х Частях. Часть 1. Рынок<BR>[A New Theory of Market and Capitalism. In three parts. Part 1. Market]|A new heterodox theory of market is suggested. Its key moments are presented. The theory is based on the distinction between two market types – the simple commodity market and the capitalist one. Definitions of market and of each of its types are given. Internal logic of transition from the former to the latter is considered. Comparison with alternative theories is made.
P00|Reforming the methodolgoy of product development in Islamic finance|It is commonly observed that the current methodology of product development in Islamic finance has failed to reflect the productive nature of Islamic economics. This is evidenced by a number of current products being substantially indistinguishable from their conventional counterparts according to the commonly-held views. Reform in this regard, if to be undertaken, must not overlook the positive and sound aspects of the current methodology used for product development, since this methodology has undoubtedly yielded some good products and helped fulfill basic Sharia requirements in transactions. As such, the following methodology needs to be adopted. First is to identify the necessary Sharia elements in any product structuring in terms of both form and substance, with a special emphasis on the ones that reflect the special constructive nature of Islamic finance. Second is to group these elements according to their observance in the current structured products. Having identified the neglected Sharia elements, the article will then examine the reasons behind their negligence, whether it is for necessary and unavoidable factors or just for ease pursuance. In light of the findings, the article will either consolidate the current methodology adopted for product development, or propose and lay down the basics of a new one that upholds the unjustifiably neglected Sharia requirements.
P00|Workday, holiday and calendar adjustment: Monthly aggregates from daily diesel fuel purchases|Most data sets used by economists are collected with after-the-fact surveys and the time aggregation is done by the survey respondents who produce, for example, monthly aggregates not actual transactions. 21st century digital transaction technologies will increasingly allow the collection of actual transactions, which will create an important new set of opportunities for forming time aggregates. This paper uses a transaction-by-transaction data set on purchases of diesel fuel by over-the-road truckers to form a monthly diesel volume index from 1999 to 2012 purged of weekday, holiday and calendar effects. These high-frequency data allow new and more accurate ways to correct for (1) the variability in the weekday composition of months and (2) the drift of holiday effects between months. These corrections have substantial effects on month-to-month comparisons.
P00|Workday, holiday and calendar adjustment: Monthly aggregates from daily diesel fuel purchases|Most data sets used by economists are collected with after-the-fact surveys and the time aggregation is done by the survey respondents who produce, for example, monthly aggregates not actual transactions. 21st century digital transaction technologies will increasingly allow the collection of actual transactions, which will create an important new set of opportunities for forming time aggregates. This paper uses a transaction-by-transaction data set on purchases of diesel fuel by over-the-road truckers to form amonthly diesel volume index from 1999 to 2012 purged of weekday, holiday and calendar effects. These high-frequency data allow new and more accurate ways to correct for (1) the variability in the weekday composition of months and (2) the drift of holiday effects between months. These corrections have substantial effects on month-to-month comparisons.
P00|Formation and (Re)Formation of Spatial Identities under Globalization|Present essay tries to discuss the process of formation and reformation of spatial identities in the aftermath of globalization. The basic premise of the paper is that identities are more often remain attached to space and these are direct outcome of the culture if the culture is taken as sum total of one’s interaction with the given surroundings. Then it is but natural to presume that both space and time one belongs to have a limit in opted approach. The local patterns and designs grow and have their uniqueness and identity considerably recognizable in creativeness, reflections, in formation of ideologies and so on. Further the article seeks to analyze the role of knowledge as a deciding force in the formation of such identities as second premise of the paper is that it is knowledge of different kinds ‘local’ and ‘global’; ‘tacit’ and ‘explicit’ that is basis of culture. People with dominating tendency if organized themselves as power-unit use the raw products of information, ideas, and ideologies by innocent but sincere people as roots in their intentional aims to dominate and produce cultural hegemony through creation of so-called ‘knowledge society’ and ‘knowledge economy’. It is in this context that the paper argues that dispersed/fragmented concentration of knowledge has led to formation of different kinds of spatial identities that are transnational and at the same time sub-national.
P00|Guidelines in the Adaptation of Business Models to Different Markets in the Context of Globalization|In the Dynamic environment of the 21st century the vast majority of companies, that expand their operations into new markets, face the challenge of adapting their operations and brand to the particularities of a different region. This adjustment develops in respect to their usage of capital, local talent, institutional culture and the way they are conducting their business altogether. This clash between business culture and the cultural background of a foreign market may have a huge impact on the financial success of a newcomer. Under this pressure, the challenges of harmonizing the internal business philosophy to the geopolitical, economic, social and cultural realities of new markets are raised. In this paper, we propose a theoretical structure that evaluates the main areas in which a change in approach is required, so the business dynamics and focus points (that may trigger maladjustment from the market) of an organization are developed in accordance with the environment. As it is a bi-univocal relation, we will analyze the economic, social and the cultural degrees of influences a company should exert in the context of aligning its activities with the local history, geopolitical influences and cultural identity of the new market. As each company is a bearer of values from a different culture and region, we will also analyze the transfer of national identity. Furthermore, we will analyze the shifts in perception that are required by an emerging market (with strong cultural background) from an organization so it may minimize its image of an economic colonizing force, or to emphasize the organization’s own values, if they are viewed as an economic civilizing force (in markets with a permissive cultural background).
P00|Legitimierung, oder das demokratische Dilemma der Euro-Rettungspolitik|European policies imposed in the euro crisis have disabled democratic policy choices at the national level, while the present European euro-rescuing regime lacks democratic legitimacy. But policy choices might now become politicised in the Europe-wide competition of partisan candidates for the Presidency of the European Commission. In that case, voters might indeed be mobilised for or against radically opposed policy options — the continuation of the present austerity regime and the move to a transfer union. The risk is, however, that the escalation of transnational conflict might further divide rather than democratise Europe. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P00|Fußball-Bundesliga: Zentralvermarktung und Beihilfen fördern Dominanz einzelner Clubs|In order to maintain competitive balance and uncertainty of outcome, professional sports leagues have developed several kinds of distribution mechanisms. For example, in Germany one of these is the collective selling of television rights for football matches by the league organisation, which enables the league to share television revenues. In this article it is argued that central marketing and sharing of television revenues in German football does not enhance competitive balance among members of the Bundesliga but rather leads to a lesser degree of competitive balance and thus less uncertainty of outcome in the league. Because public broadcasting stations pay for television rights from which some clubs profit more than others, it can be seen as illegal state aid for these clubs. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P00|The More Divergent, the Better? Lessons on Trilemma Policies and Crises for Asia|This paper investigates the potential impacts of the degree of divergence in open macroeconomic policies in the context of the trilemma hypothesis. Using an index that measures the extent of policy divergence among the three trilemma policy choices—monetary independence, exchange rate stability, and financial openness—we find that emerging market economies have adopted trilemma policy combinations with the smallest degree of policy divergence in the last 15 years. We then investigate whether and to what extent the degree of open macro policy convergence affects the probability of a crisis and find that a developing or emerging market economy with a higher degree of policy divergence is more likely to experience a currency or debt crisis. We also compare the development of trilemma policies around the crisis period for the groups of Latin American crisis countries in the 1980s and the Asian crisis countries in the 1990s. We find that Latin American crisis countries tended to close their capital accounts in the aftermath of a crisis, while that is not the case for the Asian crisis countries. The Asian crisis countries tended to reduce the degree of policy divergence in the aftermath of the crisis, which possibly meant they decided to adopt open macro policies that made their economies less prone to a crisis. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
P00|Modeling the future of knowledge economy: evidence from SSA and MENA countries|This paper projects the future of knowledge economy (KE) in SSA and MENA countries using the four components of the World Bank's Knowledge Economy Index (KEI): economic incentive, education, ICTs and innovation. The empirical evidence provides the speeds of integration as well as the time necessary to achieve full integration. Findings broadly indicate SSA and MENA countries with low levels in KE will catch-up their counterparts with higher levels in a horizon of 4 to 7.5 years.
P00|Economic - Financial And Social Crisis: Between The Functions Of The State And Nature‘S Laws|The paper analyses some of the challenges that economic sciences face during theglobal crisis. Ideologically, the crisis caused a fierce debate between the adherents of theultraliberal theory regarding Adam Smith‘s ‘invisible hand‘ and the supporters of stateinterventionism suggested by John Maynard Keynes in order to overcome recession. The crisistherefore, generated a change in the post-WW II development paradigm. Due to the functionsassumed, in order to respond best to an economic model considered to be infailible and immuable,based on growth, a model that ignored nature‘s laws, the state pushed to moral hazard bothentrepreneurs and consumers. The new generations can be characterized with one word -ignorance. Whether we cultivate or not this ignorance, this is another story. It is however certainthat the ‘prosperity generations‘ have their sense of measure atrophied. They cannot conceive theworld outside the comfort they have been used to. The conclusion is that the existing paradigm ledto increased instability in the economic system, which led to a crisis.
P00|Caught Between Theory and Practice: Government, Market, and Regulatory Failure in Electricity Sector Reforms| The world-wide electricity sector reforms of the early 1990s have revealed the considerable complexities of making market driven reforms in network and infrastructure industries. This paper reflects on the experiences to date with the process and outcomes of marketbased electricity reforms across less-developed, transition and developed economies. The reforms outcomes suggest similar problems facing the electricity sector of these countries though their contexts vary significantly. Many developing and developed economies continue to have investment inadequacy concerns and the need to balance economy efficiency, sustainability and social equity after more than two decades of experience with reforms. We also use a case study of selected countries that in many respects represent the current state of the reform though they are rarely examined. Nepal, Belarus and Ireland are chosen as country-specific case studies for this purpose. We conclude that the changing dynamics of the electricity supply industry (ESI) and policy objectives imply that analysing the success and failure of reforms will indeed remain a complex process.
P00|El euro y el consumidor como fenómenos políticos en el actual desarrollo de Europa|El sistema económico capitalista no levanta cabeza en elmundo entero desde 2008. Pareciera que por lo mismo las instituciones políticas deben procurar encontrar un nuevo marco jurídico para las relaciones económicas. Una pregunta que queda flotando en el ambiente es si las garantías jurídicas se someterán a lo económico o si, por el contrario, la economía se permeará por la prevalencia de los derechos y libertades del sujeto. Para poder hacer una primera aproximación a eventuales respuestas, debe ponderarse el entendimiento del nuevo patrón económico de un mercado trasnacional, por ejemplo el euro, con el de la nueva concepción del sujeto jurídico inmerso en el mismo mercado, esto es, el consumidor. A esa tarea se contrae este artículo en el marco de la Unión Europea
P00|Why don't banks lend to Egypt's private sector?|Bank credit to Egypt's private sector decreased over the last decade, despite a recapitalized banking system and high rates of economic growth. Recent macro-economic turmoil has reinforced the trend. This paper explains the decrease based on credit supply and demand considerations by 1) presenting stylized facts regarding the evolution of the banks' sources and fund use in 2005 to 2011, noting two different cycles of external capital flows, and 2) estimating private credit supply and demand equations using quarterly data from 1998 to 2011. The system of simultaneous equations is estimated both assuming continuous market clearing and allowing for transitory price rigidity entailing market disequilibrium. The main results are robust to the market clearing assumption. During the global financial crisis, a significant capital outflow stalled bank deposit growth, which in turn affected the private sector's credit supply. At the same time, the banking sector increased credit to the government. Both factors reduced the private sector's credit supply during the period under study. After the trough of the global crisis, capital flowed back into Egypt and deposit growth stopped being a drag on the supply side, but bank credit to the government continued to drive the decrease in the private sector's credit supply. Beginning in the final quarter of 2010, capital flows reversed in tandem with global capital markets, and in January 2011 the popular uprising that ousted President Hosni Mubarak added an Egypt-specific shock that accentuated the outflow. Lending capacity dragged again, accounting for 10% of the estimated fall in private credit. Credit to the government continued to drain resources, accounting for 70–80% of the estimated total decline. Reduced economic activity contributed around 15% of the total fall in credit. The relative importance of these factors contrasts with that of the preceding capital inflow period, when credit to the government accounted for 54% of the estimated fall, while demand factors accounted for a similar percentage.
P00|Institutions as cognitive media between strategic interactions and individual beliefs|This volume collects 22 articles by Masahiko Aoki, selected from writings published over the course of his 45-year academic career. These fascinating essays cover a range of issues, including mechanism design, comparative governance, corporate governance, institutions and institutional change, but are tied together by a focus on East Asia and a comparative institutional framework.
P00|Institutions as cognitive media between strategic interactions and individual beliefs|This paper begins with contested issues among various approaches to institutions and seeks an analytical/conceptual framework for integrating them. Based on fundamental studies of knowledge theory and epistemic game theory, it discusses the role of institutions in substantive forms as societal artifacts that cognitively mediate agents' strategic interactions and their individual beliefs in societal games. This approach is termed as the institutions-as-cognitive-media-view and its implications to the role of culture, institutional complementarities, and policy in the institutional process are discussed. It concludes with a proposal for a three-level approach to institutions: generic-ontological, comparative-substantive, and policy-design levels.
P00|Institutions as cognitive media between strategic interactions and individual beliefs|This paper begins with contested issues among various approaches to institutions and seeks an analytical/conceptual framework for integrating them. Based on fundamental studies of knowledge theory and epistemic game theory, it discusses the role of institutions in substantive forms as societal artifacts that cognitively mediate agents’ strategic interactions and their individual beliefs in societal games. This approach is termed as the institutions-as-cognitive-media-view and its implications to the role of culture, institutional complementarities, and policy in the institutional process are discussed. It concludes with a proposal for a three-level approach to institutions: generic-ontological, comparative-substantive, and policy-design levels.
P00|Methodological issues in theorising the financial, economic and social system: realistic and systematic abstraction|The global financial and economic crisis, and in particular the perceived failure of economics to predict the crisis, has led to questioning of the methodology of economics. Some have championed the methodological approach of ‘critical realism’ as fostering a more realistic economic theory than that currently predominant. This paper will argue that, whilst critical realism correctly poses the need for realistic abstraction, critical realism fails to deliver because it does not offer any aid towards systematic abstraction (despite proponents’ claims to the contrary). The application of critical realism can readily identify myriad relevant aspects of the crisis (financial, economic, political, social, psychological, local, national, international, short-run, medium-run, long-run and so on). Yet, critical realism precludes any adequate comprehension of how these myriad aspects cohere to constitute the capitalist system as a whole. The paper goes on to argue that critical realism corrupts an approach (appropriately termed ‘system abstraction’) which can genuinely aid the development of economic theory that is both realistic and systematic. This superior approach aids system-wide theory by offering a step-by-step method that begins with an abstract conception of ‘value’ and moves towards a concrete comprehension of the world market.
P00|Does Social Cohesion Really Promote Reforms?|This paper investigates whether social cohesion makes economic reforms more likely. First, we investigate whether social cohesion is a coherent concept by using a principal-component factor (PCF) analysis covering 16 indicators used to measure social cohesion in the previous literature for 40 different countries. The results suggest that in fact social cohesion is a multidimensional concept, consisting of no less than five orthogonal components or distinct dimensions, which we label social divisions, modern values, traditional nationalism, institutional commitment, and fairness as merit. These dimensions are then examined in relationship with economic reform in a panel regression framework. Results show that most dimensions of social cohesion do not in fact influence reform capacity. However, views of fairness based on merit, in contrast to equality, and to some extent social divisions, are found to have a positive effect on economic reforms. The results go against the previous literature, challenging the prevailing view of social cohesion as being unambiguously beneficial to economic reform.
P00|The Evolution of German Historical School in Bulgaria (1878-1944)|In this paper we present one possible historical reconstruction of the German historical school in Bulgaria for the period 1878 – 1944. The main postulates of the historical school which claimed to be a general theoretical model for newly emerging and backward economies suited well the interests of the basic social groups and the intellectual views of the newly formed Bulgarian elites. In Bulgaria the main dominating components of the historical school followed its own evolution (old, young and youngest historical school) while also intermingling with other major components of other theoretical schools. Thus, for instance, right after the Liberation, in the theoretical views of the Bulgarian economic scholars a specific synthesis emerged with the ideas of the classical liberal thought (G. Nachovich, Ivan Evstatiev Geshov), after WWI with the postulates of monetarism and conservative public finances (?. Lyapchev, G. Danailov), and during the 1930s with the ideas of organic and directed economy (?. Tsankov, ?. Bobchev). This eclectic interaction, within which the influence of the historical school increased, brought about evolution of the character of the “Bulgarian economic nationalism” (liberal, monetary-conservative and integral, corporate). Especially significant for the Bulgarian economic thought was the warm receipt of the Russian economic historical school even if only for the fact that this school came from a Slavic and Orthodox country.
P00|Legal origin and financial development: new evidence for old claims? The creditor rights index revisited| The 'law and finance theory' predicts that the common law system provides the best basis for financial development and economic growth, followed by Scandinavian and German origin civil law and finally French origin civil law. This paper summarises the key points and a number of sceptical views. It outlines an identification problem, since the majority of common law countries have a market-based financial system, whereas the majority of civil law countries have a bank-based one. Furthermore, the conclusion that a common legal tradition implies a similar set of legal rules and procedures to protect financial investors does not hold empirically. Also, later additions to the theory's creditor right indicators data pool are eliminating the (weak) correspondence between business law and legal family that could be found in the original data set. The claim that creditor protection is largely determined by legal tradition has thus to be reconsidered.
P00|Do KIBS make manufacturing more innovative? An empirical investigation for four European countries|The paper aims at estimating the innovation impact of the vertical integration of knowledge intensive business services (KIBS) into manufacturing. Referring to the vertically integrated sectors of an economy allows innovative knowledge, which is transferred directly and indirectly from KIBS to manufacturing in an embodied way, to be measured. Its impact on manufacturing innovation is then estimated. By merging OECD data on sectoral R&D and input-output tables with sectoral patent applications from the Pastat dataset, a panel of 18 manufacturing sectors is built up for the four largest European countries – France, Germany, Italy and the UK – spanning from the mid-90s to the mid-00s. The more innovative sectors are actually those making more intensive and extensive use of R&D embodied into KIBS production flows. In policy terms, strengthening the bridge between KIBS and manufacturing appears to be as crucial as supporting KIBS activities and service innovations.Length: 29 pages
P00|Rotating the Necker cube: A bioeconomic approach to cooperation and the causal role of synergy in evolution|The paradox of widespread cooperation in an intensely competitive natural world has been a major focus of theory and research in evolutionary biology and related disciplines over the past several decades. While much of the earlier work in this vein was gene-centered and grounded in inclusive fitness (or kin selection) theory, more recent developments suggest that it might also be useful to view cooperation (and biological complexity) from a bioeconomic perspective. Here I will briefly explore the case for a paradigm shift, with special reference to the role of functional synergy as a distinct class of interdependent causal influences in evolution. I will argue that synergies of various kinds have been important drivers for cooperation in living systems at all levels. From this perspective, inclusive fitness and other factors may be enablers for cooperation, but the many exceptions show that genetic relatedness is neither necessary nor sufficient for the emergence of cooperative phenomena. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
P00|Hierarchy of Ideals in Market Interactions: An Application to the Labor Market|This paper argues that a hierarchy of ideals exists in market interactions that sets the benchmark on the norm of fairness associated with these interactions, thus affecting pricing decisions associated with market exchange. As norms emerge, an ideal determines the criteria of optimal behavior and serves as a basis for market exchange. Norms homogenize the diversity of commodities in market interactions according to a hierarchy of norms and values. The paper then goes on to illustrate how this hierarchy of ideals works in the labor market, leading to inequality of access to jobs and wages between groups of individuals. Groups socially perceived to be diverging from the context-dependent dominant ideal are likely to suffer most in market interactions.
P00|A Random Walk to Economic Freedom?|Given the wide use of economic freedom in economic literature it is imperative to understand how economic freedom evolves. Results suggest that levels of economic freedom are dominated by random shocks. Using a test for stationarity devised by Westerlund and Larsson (2012) we are unable to reject the null hypothesis of a random walk. The changes to economic freedom also are mostly driven by random shocks with only a minor role played by country specific characteristics. Additionally, changes to economic freedom are partially reversed as increases (decreases) in one year are partially offset by decreases (increases) in the next year.
P00|Foundations of the economic and social history of the United States: Theoretical|In sum, in these essays I explore the self-similarity between levels, the fractal structure of reality, through an investigation of an inherent and unavoidable uncertainty which is unique to each level. These essays will demonstrate that as each level struggles to resolve its own inherent uncertainty, a new and higher structure is forced to emerge. This new level largely resolves the problems generated by the inherent uncertainty of the lower level, but evolves its own inherent uncertainty, one which is unique to itself as a new and higher level. By identifying and describing clearly these inherent uncertainties we trace the chain of being mentioned above. We may also outline the basic structure of each new level for in the effort to confront inherent uncertainty the new level must and will mimic the structure of lower level which gave it birth. Considering the levels above, we discover therein numerous and random sorts of change. Our question then becomes, “How might evolution be structured throughout all reality? How might the development of each of the ten levels of order be coordinated in a common law, a universal set of principles? And how might this organization be demonstrated as useful?”
P00|Foundations of the economic and social history of the United States: Metaphysical|"""Oppositional Analysis"" - the name I give to the metaphysics presented in this volume - proposes a number of dichotomies through which one may analyze and understand systematically the structure of every level of reality. Macroeconomic theory, as well as social research, are two excellent stages upon which we may search for clues and insights to the interaction of oppositions. This is so particularly in connection with an analysis of the precepts of the ""Austrian School"" of macroeconomics as presented by Ludwig von Mises in his well-known and highly influential book Human Action. Based upon the circuit given for a musical note (see the Apologia and the Introduction to Volume 2, as well as the more extensive treatment herein) and the ""Circuit of Being"" which will be introduced in this final volume, I propose a model of economics which may correlate with a view of the physical universe of five dimensions as suggested by Theodor Kaluza. I suggest that these dichotomies may underlie the unity created by Kaluza’s work between General Relativity and Maxwell’s equations for electro-magnetism. If this is so, Oppositional Analysis and the economic and social history of the United States may provide a starting point from which we may learn important insights as to the inner workings of these economic and social oppositions as well oppositions of a more physical nature."
P00|Does Criticisms Overcome the Praises of Journal Impact Factor?|Journal impact factor (IF) as a gauge of influence and impact of a particular journal comparing with other journals in the same area of research, reports the mean number of citations to the published articles in particular journal. Although, IF attracts more attention and being used more frequently than other measures, it has been subjected to criticisms, which overcome the advantages of IF. Critically, extensive use of IF may result in destroying editorial and researchers’ behaviour, which could compromise the quality of scientific articles. Therefore, it is the time of the timeliness and importance of a new invention of journal ranking techniques beyond the journal impact factor.
P00|Consideraciones Sistémicas en Economía: Reflexión y nuevas herramientas|La economía es un sistema dinámico y complejo. Millones de variados agentes interactúan dando origen a regularidades macro como el empleo, instituciones, crecimiento y otras. Estas a su vez retroalimentan a los individuos quienes toman esta información y la usan para tomar nuevas decisiones. El resultado es una complicada red de círculos de feedback donde interactúan dinámicamente muchísimas variables. No obstante lo evidente de esta definición, el marco teórico generalmente usado para estudiar la economía ignora las características sistémicas de la economía, concentrándose en reducir el problema en partes más pequeñas y dóciles. Esta simplificación es algo común al método científico y a priori no presenta un problema; el mundo es demasiado complejo para intentar abarcarlo en su totalidad en un solo modelo. Lo que si resulta extraño es que la manera predominante de pensar en la economía sea la lógica Walrasiana, cuyo fin era dilucidar si una asignación de recursos óptima era posible a través de precios en un mercado descentralizado. Nada dice de cómo las acciones económicas de intercambio e interacciones ocurren en el mundo real, ni las implicancias de estas interacciones. Tampoco reconoce la heterogeneidad de los individuos y su posible impacto. En ignorar este hecho se pierde potencialmente gran parte de la riqueza de la economía. El estudio de los sistemas complejos ya ha producido algunas enseñanzas que la economía debería estar dispuesta a incorporar.
P00|Innovative Transformation and Transformational Potential of Socio-Economic Systems|The article reveals the specific character of the study and management of innovation of transformation and transformational potential of socio-economic systems in contemporary conditions, which are characterized by the presence of turbulent changes that cause necessity to find new forms, methods and ways to ensure the sustainable development of these systems and their balanced socio-economic growth. The ability of the socio-economic system towards sustainable development is defined by a set of parameters, factors and conditions, though the most important characteristic of the system is the availability of its transformational potential, which in a formalized form is a set of local indicators that are considered integrally.
P00|Performativity of economic systems: approach and implications for taxonomy| The paper proposes to ground the taxonomy of economic systems on the identification of strongly performative institutions as distinctive features. I analyse performativity on the basis of the Aoki model of institutions, enriched by current approaches to performativity, which I combine with Searle's notion of a status function. Performativity is conceived as resulting from the conjunction of public representations (sign systems) and behavioural dispositions which channel strategic interactions among actors such that certain sets of institutions are reproduced recurrently. I apply this approach to the case of ‘financial capitalism’ and analyse three strongly performative institutions, the accounting standards (International Financial Reporting Standards), managerial incentive systems and intellectual property rights.
P00|La insuficiencia de las actuales políticas de fomento de cooperativas y sociedades laborales frente a la crisis en España<BR>[The insufficiency of current policies to foster cooperatives and labour companies against economic crisis in Spain]|El objeto del presente artículo es analizar las políticas de fomento de cooperativas y sociedades laborales durante este periodo de crisis, identificando los principales dispositivos existentes y los de nueva implantación, evaluando su alcance y valorando su nivel de eficacia. Se han distinguido tres grupos de políticas de fomento, las políticas tradicionales de fomento, las políticas de nuevo cuño, incluyendo en estas últimas las medidas urdidas por los gobiernos regionales y la nueva ley de economía social y finalmente las políticas de austeridad. Se concluye, en primer lugar, que las cooperativas y sociedades laborales no constituyen un sector muy subvencionado dado que el alcance de estas políticas ha sido muy reducido. En segundo lugar, contrariamente a lo que cabría esperar en un periodo de crisis, ni los dispositivos tradicionales ni los de nuevo cuño han conocido un mayor despliegue en estos últimos años, al objeto de combatir los problemas de desempleo y de fortalecimiento del sector de la economía social. Al contrario, las políticas de austeridad implantadas han afectado duramente a las políticas de economía social, las cuales han visto reducirse los presupuestos asignados de modo muy acusado.
P00|The new stage of the states concept evolution: example of Russia|The article is dedicated to the state's concept evolution. Here is the author's vision of the state as an abstract notion that describes specific governmental relations, formatted in a result of a long evolution process. The special attention is attracted to the Russian political system and features of the new stage of the state's evolution.
P00|Politics and Consumer Prices in Africa|The motivations of the Arab Spring that have marked the history of humanity over the last few months have left political economists, researchers, governments and international policymakers pondering over how the quality of political institutions affect consumer welfare in terms of commodity prices. This paper investigates the effect of political establishments on consumer prices in the African continent. Findings suggest that in comparison with authoritarian regimes, democracies better provide for institutions that keep inflationary pressures on commodity prices in check. As a policy implication, improving the quality of democratic institutions will ameliorate consumer welfare through lower inflation rates. Such government quality institutional determinants include, among others: voice and accountability, rule of law, regulation quality, control of corruption and press freedom.
P00|To what extent are knowledge-intensive business services contributing to manufacturing? A subsystem analysis|The rise of knowledge-intensive business services (KIBS) may be considered as one of the decisive trends of economic evolution of industrialised countries in recent decades. This paper uses the concept of vertical integrated sectors and the subsystem approach to input-output matrix analysis to study the vertical integration of knowledge-based business services into manufacturing sectors. To date, companies increasingly rely on outside innovation for new products and processes and have become more active in licensing and selling results of their innovation to third parties. At the same time, they may rely on the marketing and financial consulting offered by third parties. As a consequence, considering manufacturing and KIBS as vertically inter-related sectors, the hypothesis of a virtuous circle can be expressed in the following way: the higher the degree of integration between KIBS and manufacturing sectors along what we could define as a ‘knowledge-based value chain’, the easier the knowledge diffusion and the competitiveness of the economic system as a whole. The study covers Germany, France, Italy, and the United Kingdom over the period 1995-2005. Results decisively support both the existence of structural differences among the countries considered, and a significant heterogeneity to the extent to which manufacturing outsources to knowledge-intensive business services.
P00|To what extent are knowledge-intensive business services contributing to manufacturing? A subsystem analysis|The rise of knowledge-intensive business services (KIBS) may be considered as one of the decisive trends of economic evolution of industrialised countries in recent decades. This paper uses the concept of vertical integrated sectors and the subsystem approach to input-output matrix analysis to study the vertical integration of knowledge-based business services into manufacturing sectors. To date, companies increasingly rely on outside innovation for new products and processes and have become more active in licensing and selling results of their innovation to third parties. At the same time, they may rely on the marketing and financial consulting offered by third parties. As a consequence, considering manufacturing and KIBS as vertically inter-related sectors, the hypothesis of a virtuous circle can be expressed in the following way: the higher the degree of integration between KIBS and manufacturing sectors along what we could define as a ‘knowledge-based value chain’, the easier the knowledge diffusion and the competitiveness of the economic system as a whole. The study covers Germany, France, Italy, and the United Kingdom over the period 1995-2005. Results decisively support both the existence of structural differences among the countries considered, and a significant heterogeneity to the extent to which manufacturing outsources to knowledge-intensive business services.
P00|Diversity and Uniformity in Economic Theory as an Explanation of the Recent Economic Crisis|Market economies and command economies have long been differentiated by the presence of alternative choice in the form of diversity. Yet most mainstream economic theory is premised on the existence of uniformity. This paper develops the implications of this contradiction for the theory of prices, income creation, and the analysis of the recent financial crisis, and provides a critique of traditional theory from an institutionalist perspective developed by J. Fagg Foster.
P00|Politics and Consumer Prices in Africa|The motivations of the Arab Spring that have marked the history of humanity over the last few months have left political economists, researchers, governments and international policymakers pondering over how the quality of political institutions affect consumer welfare in terms of commodity prices. This paper investigates the effects of political establishments on consumer prices in the African continent. Findings suggest that in comparison with authoritarian regimes, democracies better provide for institutions that keep inflationary pressures on commodity prices in check. As a policy implication, improving the quality of democratic institutions will ameliorate consumer welfare through lower inflation rates. Such government quality institutional determinants include, among others: voice and accountability, rule of law, regulation quality, control of corruption and press freedom.
P00|Libertad y desempeño económico<BR>[Freedom and economic performance]|"From a broad philosophical framework, this paper addresses the relation between freedom and economic performance. It argues for the thesis that, although a liberal system does not guarantee absolute harmony, is the only ""convenient"" and morally valid for a modern society. The core of this argument is the acceptance of the permanent uncertainty about the great results of the world and the inability of a central entity to control them."
P00|Going forward financially: credit unions as an alternative to commercial banks|The global financial meltdown brought to light a number of weaknesses in the U.S. financial system. Not all financial institution types will be taking large sums of taxpayer money to address their crippling decisions. Credit unions in the U.S. represent a type of financial cooperative that will probably not take any taxpayer money directly due to their structure and prudential oversight. Commercial banks, especially the megabanks, are likely to see even more bailouts in the future unless structural weaknesses are addressed in the clarifications as part of the enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act. Using a unique panel data set on U.S. commercial banks, thrifts and credit unions from 1994 through 2010 (over 300,000 observations) performance metrics on a number of dimensions point to strengths and weaknesses of the various financial institutional forms. Credit unions also have had far fewer adjustable rate mortgages and mortgage backed securities as a percent of their portfolio. Robust estimators to correct for potential endogeneity are used to analyze the ROA differentials between different institutional forms and portfolios. When controlling for size, region and portfolios credit unions are often estimated to have a better ROA. Institutions of under 50 million dollars, about 50 percent of the total sample, show credit unions having higher efficiency in that they control more assets per dollar spent on salaries than commercial and savings banks.
P00|Customs duty or duty ?|The topicality of the study “The concept of a customs debt” is useful to the substantiation of customs policy as a component of commercial community policy and of domestic fiscal policy, so that the customs tax should provide the three functions: fiscal, protectionist and negotiation. The efficiency and transparency of implementation could be partially compromised by the current artificial legislative parallelism maintained between the directly applicable Romanian and community legislations. In the last years no less than four customs codes and three implementation regulations have succeeded.
P00|Inequality in democracy: Insights from an empirical analysis of political dynasties in the 15th Philippine Congress|This paper presents metrics to estimate the size of political dynasties in the 15th Congress of the Republic of the Philippines and analyze the relationship between political dynasty and socio-economic outcomes. Results show that political dynasties comprise 70 percent of jurisdiction-based legislators in the current Congress. They possess higher net worth and win elections by larger margins of victory compared to not political dynasties. Jurisdictions of political dynasties are characterized by lower standards of living, lower human development, and higher levels of deprivation and inequality.
P00|The long diverfence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
P00|Book review: The long divergence: how Islamic law held back the Middle East by Timur Kuran|This is a critical evaluation of the book entitled The Long Divergence:How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East by Timur Kuran.
P00|A meso-level representation of economic systems: a theoretical approach|Some theoretical problems and methodology of meso-economic systems were analysed in this article. For this purpose, systems analysis, synergetic and homeostatic approaches, the basic principles of the theory of logical inference, and research operations were utilised. Meso-systems (including economic ones) were analysed as ways (methods) to reach the macro-goal (in the selected scale). The essence and structure of mezzo-economic systems were shortly discovered.
P00|Coordination in Political Machinery under Dictatorship: Signals, Shirking and Repression|This paper is devoted to the explanation of selected bureaus' behavior patterns in the soviet type of totalitarian dictatorships with the command economic model. It is a proven fact that the plan figures in the soviet economy were fabricated as a consequence of intrigues and secret negotiations between different interested parties. Generally, bureaus, as rational agents that minimize risk and maximize slack, should have been interested in reducing the plan figures, nevertheless, they strived to increase them. As examples, mass repression under dictatorships and overexpenditure of an administrative leverage at elections in non-democratic and quasi- democratic countries can be observed. In the article we develop a simple model of coordination between principal (dictator) and his agents (bureaus), which explain the mentioned paradoxical situation.
P00|Food prices and political instability|We examine the effects that variations in the international food process have on democracy and intra-state conflict using panel data for over 120 countries during the period 1970-2007. Our main finding is that in Low Income countries increases in the international food prices lead to a significant deterioration of democratic institutions and a significant increase in the incidence of anti-government demonstrations, riots and civil conflict. In the High Income countries variations in he international food prices have no significant effects on democratic institutions and measures of intra-state conflict. Our empirical results point to a significant externality of variations in the international food prices on Low Income Countries social and political stability.
P00|Threshold transitions in a regional urban system|In this paper we analyze the evolution of city size distributions over time in a regional urban system. This urban complex system is in constant flux with changing groups and city migration across existing and newly created groups. Using group formation as an emergent property, transition probabilities across the different groups were calculated. While short-term transition appears chaotic in the intermediate and lower rank groups, long-term transition across all rank groups reveals striking system structure over time.
P00|Threshold transitions in a regional urban system|In this paper we analyze the evolution of city size distributions over time in a regional urban system. This urban complex system is in constant flux with changing groups and city migration across existing and newly created groups. Using group formation as an emergent property, transition probabilities across the different groups were calculated. While short-term transition appears chaotic in the intermediate and lower rank groups, long-term transition across all rank groups reveals striking system structure over time.
P00|Heterogeneidad en la fijación de precios en Colombia : análisis de sus determinantes a partir de modelos de conteo|Se estudian los determinantes de la heterogeneidad observada en la flexibilidad de precios, empleando los resultados encontrados en una encuesta. Para esto se utilizan los modelos de conteo y se diseñan e implementan un conjunto de pruebas de especificación y de selección de modelos que garantizan una correcta inferencia estadística. Los determinantes más significativos para explicar el grado de flexibilidad de los precios, son las características del producto, los acuerdos contractuales y el sector económico al que pertenece la firma.
P00|Count, trade, venture and desire: why money is at the core of decentralized economies|This paper defends two related ideas: pure market and capitalist economies are different economic societies; neither can be adequately represented by theories of value but both can be accurately distinguished by a monetary approach. Within the framework of a simple modeling, we propose a conceptual clarification in four points. Firstly, market and capitalist economies are instituted by a principle of social quantification: money as the unit of account. Secondly, both economies are set in motion by a medium of circulation: money as the general equivalent. Thirdly, pure market society homogeneity is based on generalized access to money as the vehicle of autonomous expense (the carrier of unilateral action), while capitalist society heterogeneity is based on direct access to money reserved only to entrepreneurs and closed to monetarily dependent wage earners. Fourthly, if independent workers (integrated in a social division of labor) can be seen as motivated by the individual pursuit of utility, capitalists (engaged in an objective logic of capital accumulation) are driven by the subjective desire for money.
P00|Learning the Wealth of Nations|We study the evolution of trade policies over time and across countries. We consider a model in which own and neighbors' past experiences influence policy choices, through their effect on policymakers' beliefs. We estimate the model using a large panel of countries. We find that there is a strong geographical component to learning, which is crucial to explain the slow adoption of liberal policies during the post-war period. Our model also predicts that there would be a substantial reversal to protectionism if nowadays the world was hit by a shock of the size of the Great Depression.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P00|Rational dictators and the killing of innocents: Data from Stalin's archives|We posit a rational choice model of dictatorship to explain the tendency of dictators to repress innocent citizens. This model demonstrates that, when the quality of information about regime enemies is low, a rational dictator will knowingly kill and imprison citizens who are not real enemies. We use the formerly secret Stalin archives to test this proposition against the stylized facts of Stalin's three major repressions.
P00|Economic Systems and Economic Growth|In a planned economy, state monopoly ensures that economies of scale are exploited. However, state monopoly could not commit to reward its workers. Anticipating this, individuals will exert less effort. In a market economy, competition among firms ensures that higher effort from workers will be rewarded. However, competition means that economies of scale are not fully exploited. Per capita output growth is generated by continuous adoption of new technologies substituting labor for capital. Growth rate in a market economy is higher than that in a planned economy when the incentive to exert effort is relatively more important. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2011
P00|Methodical Approach To Corporate Sustainability Planning|The aim of this article is to present some methodical aspects of CSF. Corporate Sustainability Planning (CSP) can be defined as “the process of specific strategies and action plan development to help ensure the long-term goals”. In generally, this presents a complex process and task which includes considering the full range of resources and competencies such as financial, political, administrative and managerial.
P00|Vertrauen als Legitimation fuer die Betriebsratsarbeit (Trust as a Source of Legitimacy for Works Councils)|In vielen Betrieben nimmt man eine Verschiebung der Betriebsratsfunktion von der konventionellen Interessenvertretung (‘Schutz’) hin zu einem Co-Management (‘Gestaltung’) wahr. Die Frage der Legitimation bleibt dabei weiterhin aktuell. Neben periodischen Wahlen kann durch die Miteinbeziehung des (Waehler-)Vertrauens eine kontinuierliche Legitimation erfasst werden. Vertrauen kommt innerhalb der Beziehungen zwischen Betriebsrat und Belegschaft eine wesentliche Stabilisierungsfunktion zu. Diese Sicht wurde in bisherigen Betriebsratsstudien nur wenig beruecksichtigt. Unter Miteinbeziehung mehrerer Vertrauenstheorien wurde eine quantitative Studie konzipiert. Durch ein theoretisches Sampling wurden zwei Tochterbetriebe der Voestalpine AG fuer eine Befragung ausgewaehlt. Neben der Unternehmensgeschichte, der Unternehmensbranche, der Unternehmenskultur und betriebsspezifischen Gegebenheiten seitens der Betriebsratsgremien nimmt der Aspekt des Vertrauens in den Betriebsrat einen wesentlichen Einfluss auf die Wahrnehmung der Betriebsratsarbeit. Dieses Vertrauen bedarf der Transparenz und der Praesenz des Betriebsrats. Wissenschaftlich gesehen bewaehrt sich der Begriff ‘Vertrauen’ als zentrales theoretisches Konzept bei Betriebsratsthemen, wenngleich er naeher an die alltagsweltlichen Bedeutungsfelder herangefuehrt werden sollte. (In many companies there has been a noticeable shift in the function of works councils from more conventional interest representation (‘protection’) towards co-management (‘shaping’). Nevertheless, the question of legitimacy remains an issue. Besides recurrent elections, continuous legitimacy can be created through the trust of the electorate. Trust is important to stabilise the relationship between the works council and employees. However, this need has been downplayed so far in studies of works councils. Partially inspired by different theories of trust, we designed a quantitative study on the subject. Through theoretical sampling we selected two subsidiaries of the Voestalpine AG for the survey. Besides the history of the company, the relevant sector, the entrepreneurial culture and characteristics specific to the workplace, trust in the work council is important to how its work is perceived. This trust requires transparency and the presence of the works council. From a scientific point of view ‘trust’ is confirmed as a pivotal theoretical concept, even though it should be brought closer to its meaning in daily life.)
P00|Role of the State in Developing Countries: Public Choice versus Schumpeterian Approach|It is obvious that even though modern public choice theories, which were first developed for Western pluralistic societies (society-centred), might have highlighted many hidden subjects in developing countries such as rent-seeking, corruption, strong state tradition, undemocratic decision mechanisms, etc, however, they still cannot hold and explain all the dynamics of these countries since they need to adopt a state-centre approach. In that sense, we propose that the Schumpeterian approach can help us in understanding the dynamics of developing countries even better. Therefore, our main objective in this paper is to provide a synthesis of public choice approach and the Schumpeterian approach to understand the role of the state in developing countries. We know the fact that this study still remains incomplete and not enough to cover all the needs of the subject, but at least it highlights some hidden issues for developing countries and starts a new discussion on this path.
P00|Inflation and Relative Price Variability|This paper explores the nature of relationship between inflation and relative price variability (RPV). It finds a U-shape relationship between the two that not only fits the overall data well but also different inflationary regimes as identified by Bai-Perron multiple structural break tests. It was also found that threshold level of inflation, in terms of RPV, varies with general inflationary phases, i.e., in period of low inflation, the threshold inflation is also low and vice versa. It suggests a cautious monetary policy during different phases of inflation.
P00|: Power, Profits and Inflation: A Study of Inflation and Influence in Pakistan|Our analysis seeks to look at inflation as a political economic phenomenon, based on a framework devised by Jonathan Nitzan and christened differential accumulation. The theory of differential accumulation rejects the conventional definitions of capital and draws upon Veblenian economics to integrate the definitions of power and capital by describing the ownership of capital as differential power claims over social processes. In order to maximize capital accumulation, businessmen allocate resources, in response to the socio-political environment, to beat a certain benchmark rate of return in their pursuit of maximizing capital accumulation. We find evidence for the existence of this phenomenon in Pakistan by assuming that a certain group of businessmen seeks to maximize power by maximizing relative profit, which in turn affects overall inflation. However, we have not established proof through a scientifically rigorous process due to incomplete datasets. We believe that these findings merit further investigation and propose that the maximization of relative profit as opposed to absolute profit, may, in fact, be a behavioral phenomenon. Such a finding will merely be the doppelganger of the maximization of relative utility, as opposed to absolute utility, in consumer decision-making models.
P00|Cointegrating Institutions: The Time-Series Properties of Country Institutional Measures|A country's political and economic institutions are critical for economic prosperity. The literature abounds with institutional measures, precisely because institutions are multidimensional. We use panel unit root and cointegration tests to examine the time-series properties of several institutional measures to answer two questions. First, do institutional changes tend to be permanent? Second, which subsets of institutions tend to converge or move together? These answers have important implications for whether permanent institutional reform is possible and whether reforms can be undertaken one institutional area at a time or instead must simultaneously encompass multiple institutional areas.
P00|Theory, General Equilibrium, and Political Economy in Development Economics|I discuss the role of economic theory in empirical work in development economics with special emphasis on general equilibrium and political economy considerations. I argue that economic theory plays (should play) a central role in formulating models, estimates of which can be used for counterfactual and policy analysis. I discuss why counterfactual analysis based on microdata that ignores general equilibrium and political economy issues may lead to misleading conclusions. I illustrate the main arguments using examples from recent work in development economics and political economy.
P00|Critiques and developments in world­systems analysis: an introduction to the special collection|From its inception, the world-systems perspective was not only enormously influential in long-term, large-scale social research; it also attracted a set of serious critiques. These fell into the general areas of the emergence of the capitalist world-economy; reductionism in the mode of argument; surplus appropriation and accumulation, including the question of class; and the general exclusion of an analysis of any role for “culture.” It is concrete developments in world-systems analysis over the past three decades, although not to the exclusion of explicit responses to critiques, that have gone a long way in addressing these concerns. They fall most notably into the areas of commodity chains, households, world-ecology, and the structures of knowledge.
P00|Ordnungstheorie – Ordnungspolitik: Was ist Neoliberalismus?|Der Begriff Neoliberalismus ist angesichts der Finanzkrise in Misskredit geraten. Aber was bedeutet eigentlich Neoliberalismus? Viktor J. Vanberg, Walter Eucken Institut, Freiburg, definiert Ordnungstheorie als das wirtschafts- und rechtswissenschaftliche Forschungsprogramm der Freiburger Schule und ihr verwandter Denkansätze, das das Augenmerk auf die Steuerungswirkungen richtet, die die rechtlich-institutionellen Rahmenbedingungen auf die in ihnen stattfindenden wirtschaftlichen Prozessabläufe ausüben. Ordnungspolitik ist der angewandte Zweig dieses Forschungsprogramms. Die ordoliberale Ordnungsökonomik richte ihr Forschungsinteresse auf die Frage, wie die institutionellen Rahmenbedingungen, unter denen Individuen agieren und kooperieren, in einer Weise gestaltet werden können, die ihnen bestmögliche Aussichten biete, in wechselseitig kompatibler Freiheit ihre eigenen Zwecke zu verfolgen. Für Wernhard Möschel, Universität Tübingen, ist eine marktwirtschaftliche Ordnung nicht denkbar ohne inhaltliche Normierungen. Auch bei einem neoliberalen Ansatz bleibe Raum für ergänzende und für korrigierende Politiken. Heiner Flassbeck, UNCTAD, und Friederike Spiecker sehen dagegen den Neoliberalismus »mit seiner undifferenzierten Vorstellung, den Staat auf ein ordnungspolitisches Minimum zur Organisation des freien Wettbewerbs auf freien Märkten zu reduzieren«, als gescheitert an. Der Wirtschaftspolitik sollte ein klares Primat gegenüber spekulationsanfälligen Märkten eingeräumt werden. Peter Hampe, Technische Universität Dresden und Münchner Hochschule für Politik, betrachtet die Entstehungsgeschichte des Neoliberalismus und erläutert die Differenz zwischen Neo- und Paleoliberalismus. Hans-Werner Sinn erklärt die Position des Neoliberalismus anhand eines Fußballspiels: Gute Spieler und ein Ball allein sind noch keine Garantie für ein gelungenes Spiel. Damit das Spiel fair verläuft und nicht im Chaos endet, müssen feste Regeln gelten, und ein Schiedsrichter muss darüber wachen, dass diese Regeln eingehalten werden.
P00|State Business Relations and Performance of Manufacturing Sector in Andhra Pradesh|In this paper, an attempt is made to enquire into the politics of the government and business relation and how it affects the industrial development in general and expansion of manufacturing sector in particular in the state of Andhra Pradesh. [CESS WP 82].
P00|Causes of corruption: History, geography and government|This paper adds to the extant literature by using cross-country data for about 100 nations to examine the role of historical factors, geographic influences and the government on corruption. Important innovations include considering a wide set of historical, geographical and government determinants of corruption and examining some of the previously considered determinants at a finer level of detail. Two key questions addressed are: What are the effects of the size and scope of government on the incidence of corruption across countries? How important are historical and geographic influences in affecting corruption? Overall, the answer to the first question is that government does matter in important ways in its impact on corruption. Both the size and scope of government matter. Regarding the second question, the historical inertia of institutions that induce corruption persists, as do rent-seeking opportunities in new countries. Some geographic factors, on the other hand, can mitigate corruption. Policy implications are discussed.
P00|State Business Relations and Performance of Manufacturing Sector in Andhra Pradesh|In this paper, we make an attempt to enquire into the politics of the government and business relation and how it affected the industrial development in general and expansion of manufacturing sector in particular in the state of Andhra Pradesh. In AP State Business Relations (SBR) have evolved gradually under different political regimes - from 'indifferent' SBR's during initial decades, passing through critical junctures in the form of 'active' and 'pro-active' phases and finally SBRs reaching its zenith during Chandrababu Naidu regime and there after continuing in the Congress regime. The SBRs in AP seen evolving through different political regimes and their impact on the performance of manufacturing sector is captured through both qualitative and quantitative sources. Examination of the secondary data reveals the dominance of registered manufacturing in the total manufacturing output of the state. Firm level perceptions reveal that the business associations play a major role in dissemination of information rather than lobbying the government. The small firms are at a disadvantage compared to large and medium firms.
P00|Maximizing the Wealth of a Nation: A Paradigm for Political Economy|Politics and economics are inextricably linked. Government establishes and enforces the rules of the game for the economy, thereby determining not only how much wealth is created, but also how wealth is distributed across society. The primary question of political economy is easily stated: for whose benefit does government set the rules? This paper examines the fundamental conflict of interest between maximizing the wealth of a nation, versus maximizing the wealth of particular interests. The same distortions and deceptions have been used for centuries to obscure how government sets the rules of the game to benefit particular interests.
P00|The Walrasian Distribution of Opportunity Sets : An Axiomatic Characterization|Economic systems generate various distributions of opportunity sets for individuals to choose consumption bundles. This paper presents an axiomatic analysis on distributions of opportunity sets. We introduce several reasonable properties of distributions of opportunity sets, and characterize the distributions of opportunity sets in the market economy by these properties.
P00|The Walrasian Distribution of Opportunity Sets: An Axiomatic Characterization|Economic systems generate various distributions of opportunity sets for individuals to choose consumption bundles. This paper presents an axiomatic analysis on distributions of opportunity sets. We introduce several reasonable properties of distributions of opportunity sets, and characterize the distributions of opportunity sets in the market economy by these properties.
P00|L'Europe Saint-Simonienne|"Many people have been preoccupied with Europe ever since the beginnings of time. Their ideas can be traced back as far as ancient mythology, as attempts to explain the world. But as of the 18th century, they looked at it differently, as an organized, unified, political institution. Numerous essays have influenced the history of the ""European"" idea, among them the work of Saint-Simon who, in 1814, thought of a European Parliament governing the national parliaments. In his essay on reorganizing the European society he brought forth ideas such as Europe rebuilt as a confederation, the establishment of a ""general parliament"" responsible for making decisions concerning the common interests of the whole European society. He strongly believed that putting the great political issues to the test is the aim of all contemporary efforts. If the previous century's philosophy was revolutionary, the 19th's century's philosophy had to be organizing."
P00|Slsp - Simultaneous Lotsizing And Scheduling In A Job Shop Environment|This paper provides an application oriented analysis of a multiple constraint scheduling procedure called SLSP, which is designed to batch and sequence production orders simultaneously. The Simultaneous Lotsizing and Scheduling Procedure (SLSP) is easy to implement in a Shop Floor Control System and leads to good results for finite loading problems. Dependent on the data available and the goal of production control SLSP can be used to minimize production costs or any other objective function, like minimizing the mean flow time or tardiness of the jobs. The approach is primarily based on a combination of regular dispatching rules and local search heuristics, such as Simulated Annealing, Threshold Accepting or Tabu Search. Additionally the procedure contains a special routine to calculate lot sizes using the Aspired Machine Time (AMT) as a control parameter.
P00|Quality Management System As The Basiss Of Quality Assurance At Vsb-Technical University Of Ostrava|VŠB – Technical University of Ostrava (VŠB-TUO) is the first and heretofore only public university in Czech Republic that has ISO 9001 certification. The Faculty of Mechanical Engineering was the one Faculty of VŠB-TUO awarded the Czech Republic National Quality Award 2007 in the public sector category. The contribution describes the path of VŠB-TUO in implementation of a quality management system to implementation of EFQM Excellence Model as step beyond ISO 9001certification.
P00|Effective Implementation Of E-Crm Strategy|In the era of digital economy customer satisfaction and loyalty are key factors for the establishment of good relations with customers and partners in the supply chain. For customers to be satisfied data protection and privacy are prerequisite for obtaining quality information. Information gathered may be transformed through a system of business intelligence into a complete enterprise resource planning system. This results in creation of integrated business systems. Using the innovative solutions enables integration of customers, partners and suppliers in a virtual network that is oriented to the end users. The challenge for the companies in the future is introducing the concept of electronic customer relationship management - CRM to increase productivity and profits of the company and thus gain a sustainable competitive advantage. Companies are increasingly exploring the market and searching the best ways to meet needs and requirements of their customers. In order to adapt to digital economy and accept new business philosophy many companies will implement modern technology and software solutions like e-CRM to their information systems.
P00|Does Speed Really Matter When It Comes To Alliance Performance?|This paper explores the long-term partnership benefits of local strategic alliances in the software industry. A structural model of the value continuum is formulated and tested on data from small and midsize enterprises in Germany. Partial Least Squares Analysis is used to investigate the effect-casual-relations between foundation values, i.e. efficiency and effectiveness, and the innovation value. The results of our empirical study show that the innovation value of localized inter-firm networks originates from costs savings and quality improvements. On the contrary, alliance-induced ´speed´, measured by an acceleration of the R&D process, improved flexibility and/or shortened delivery time, has no significant impact on the market-based performance. Time-related benefits of alliances stated in literature may be important to maintain competitive parity, but they do support competitive advantage, market development and market penetration. Instead, value is created, among others, via exchange of tacit knowledge and reduction of transaction costs, particularly by a reduction of customer service costs.
P00|Prospects of liberalization for S&T policies in Russia: institutional analysis|The objective of the paper is to define the trajectory of economic institutional reforms in Russia as a framework of S&T policies. The methodology of this research is based upon the institutional matrices theory (Кирдина, 2001; Kirdina, 2003). The hypothesis claims that the “institutional nature” of Russia defines its prospects of liberalization and needs the active implementation of liberal market institutions policy only within a framework of modernization of redistributive state economic system. Modern S&T policy in Russia demonstrates the implications of such kind of development. The new institutional form of State Corporation that is non-profit organization under government regulation has been widely developed for last 3 years. The main sphere of State Corporations activity is high-tech development. The share of State Corporations in the state budget is more than 20% and it is constantly increasing.
P00|Post-global financial crisis: The measure of the “Beijing consensus” as a variety of capitalisms|In order to explore the prospective effects of what hails as the Beijing consensus, a conceptualization arguably near-synonymous with Beijing’s export-oriented strategy, the Article first discusses the state of the Chinese economy in the post-global financial crisis era. After reviewing some key indicators of the country’s economy, the Article presents a comparison between a Washington and Beijing consensus, contrasting ideological meanings between these two consensuses, and then explores the measure of the Beijing consensus as a variety of capitalisms. By doing so the Article reveals the broader role of Beijing’s export-oriented strategy and its eventual relation to international capital’s industrial transformation and the prospective effects of a Beijing consensus. The Article concludes by presenting a prospectus of the Beijing consensus as a variety of capitalisms in the post-global financial crisis era. By presenting the Beijing consensus or even export-oriented strategy as an evolving model in this new era, China’s trade and finance models prospectively present a distinctive modeling of capitalism and its tools of trade and finance models.
P00|What’s wrong with the world? Rationality! A critique of economic anthropology in the spirit of Jean Gebser|Jean Gebser (1905-1973) was a multidisciplinary thinker whose ideas about human consciousness and the future inspire the following five vantage points for the heterodox critique of contemporary economic anthropology: (1) Characteristic attributes of consciousness and those of the environment surrounding the individual are equivalent, eliminating the possibility of single-minded, seamless, rational control, especially during macrohistoric phase transitions; (2) Diaphaneity as a mode of deep and comprehensive understanding (an approach that excludes latching on to any selectively focused explanation) will be needed to deal effectively with emerging global resource and environmental problems; (3) Costs in the form of irreversibly accumulating inaccessible energy shadows our evolving civilization, which our cultural conditioning portrays as pure progress; (4) Rationality, as the most laudable motivation for individuals, business firms and nations, has led to an unfounded techno-fetish; and, for various reasons, it fuels accelerated movement toward collective self-destruction; (5) Signs of chaos (not the harmless and controllable kind found in standard economic literature) corroborate the notion that we have entered a new period of macrohistoric phase transition as interpreted by the thermodynamic comprehension of universal history.
P00|Industrialization, economic and employment structure changes in Vietnam during economic transition|This paper presents the effects of industrialization on economic and employment structure during the economic transition in Vietnam. Although Vietnam has made a significant progress in changing economic structure in which the share of agricultural contribution in GDP has dramatically decreased over the last two decades, the employment structure changed slowly. Consequently, majority of labour force is still in the agricultural sector. The economic reform has failed to shift redundant workers away from agricultural sector since most of the country’s investment has been allocated to capital-intensive industries. Therefore, policy adjustments are needed to absorb more redundant workers from agricultural sector and improve living standards for rural households.
P00|Poverty, Population, Inequality, and Development: the Historical Perspective|Seen in historical perspective the main economic predicaments of the present world (such as poverty, inequality, backwardness) appear in a somewhat different light than in many current discussions, especially by sociologists, radical economists and political scientists. In the present paper the achievements of the modern age, and in particular of the post- World War II period, are considered in the perspective of economic and demographic history, and in their connection with the systems of production and of international relations. Some considerations concerning future possible developments conclude the paper.
P00|The Beat of Visions :The challenging features of a new global mode of production|This paper explores how the visions of a future global political economy might shape its actual emergence. The emergence of powerful visions themselves seems to follow a pattern of discrete steps in historical time; it follows a beat of emancipation. In Europe the fundamental note was provided by the vision of enlightenment after the Dark Ages, which were kept in an ideological stalemate by religions. The beat of Luther’s early protestant secularization, Smith’s paleo-liberalism, Marx’ communism, micro-theological marginalism (Walras, Menger, Jevons), and Keynes’ collection of singular outposts of a more global design – this succession of forceful visions enabled and accompanied the explosion of population, output, and thus of possible visions of the last 60 years. Indeed the most terrible drawback of the 20th century, Hitler’s 3rd Reich, was explicitly based on a vision too: It envisaged 1000 years of dominance of the Arian race. But Hitler failed, and a new step of emancipative evolution could start to unfold. After the bi-polar visions of the bi-polar US-SU world collapsed in 1990, the last 20 years were characterized by an accelerating divergence of contradictions between visions and realities they address. The dominating vision - a footloose, privately accumulating (i.e. capitalist) entity growing in a crudely specified market environment – rather produced less social glue, less integration. And that contradicted the enormously refined, increasing interdependence of socio-economic relations within and across all social strata. The current crisis indicates that the next discrete step towards a common consciousness, anticipated by common visions, knocks at the door. The paper highlights features of this next beat of visions, which are already visible. To name a few examples: • Take the essential features of large scale financial institutions back into the realm of democratically legitimized politics. • Design the proper places for well-specified (different) market-mechanism to do their job as scarcity indicating devices rather than to be misused as dubious element of an even more dubious religion. • Invent and implement advanced bureaucracy control mechanisms that meet the challenges of global administration. In the conclusion the dangers of constructing such a large ship at sea are discussed. The threat of fascist visions conquering considerable parts of populations is eminent – in a sense the forces of WW2 have not disappeared yet. So while the positive and creative side of vision building has to be expanded, the same intellectual project also has to defend what historically has already been achieved – to avoid the barbarism of ‘tabula rasa’, fascist visions.
P00|Les petites et moyennes entreprises au Mexique « capitalisme aménagé » et réseaux sociaux (small and medium enterprises in Mexico a contemporary analysis of j. m. Keynes’ approach of capitalism)|Pendant les années 1960-1970, pour les pays industrialisés et en développement une économie moderne était une économie de grandes entreprises. Dans les pays en développement plus particulièrement, les grandes entreprises étaient soit des entreprises publiques, soit des multinationales. Les petites et moyennes entreprises étaient considérées comme des survivances d’un âge antérieur du capitalisme. Mais, la crise économique des années 1980-1990 a au contraire montré l’étroite dialectique entre grandes et petites entreprises. Depuis cette période, l’objectif des Etats est de créer les conditions propices au développement de l’entrepreneuriat pour innover et créer des emplois. Ce schéma d’analyse est ici illustré par l’exemple de l’économie mexicaine. During the 1960-1970s, for industrialized and developing countries, a modern economy was an economy of big entreprises. Particulary in developing countries, big entreprises were State-owned entreprises or multinational corporations. Small and medium entreprises were considered as survivors of an earlier period of capitalism. But, the economic crisis of 1980- 1990 has show an narrow dialectic relation between big and small entreprises. Since this period, the purpose of governments has been to create good conditions to develop entrepreneurship to promote innovation and to create jobs. This scheme of analysis is illustred by the example of the Mexican economy.
P00|Toward a New Political Economy for the U.S|The U.S. economy faces a fundamental structural and institutional crisis that requires major changes in economic policy and far reaching programs including: a) a federally funded permanent living wage jobs program mostly funded through transactions taxes on finance; b) emergency measures to cap and gradually reduce the U.S. trade deficit; c) a transparent and coherent â€œindustrial policyâ€ to increase high value added, competitive manufacturing exports. The goal should be to support â€œnon-predatoryâ€ trade and industrial policies that move the U.S. and world economies toward sustainable and balanced trade and development. JEL classification: E00; L00; H00; F00; P00
P00|Military coups and the consequences of durable de facto power: the case of Pakistan|No abstract is available for this item.
P00|Economic Reform and Openness in China: China’s Development Policies in the Last 30 Years|Most economics journals take no substantive measures to ensure that the results they publish are replicable. To make the data and code available so that published results can be checked requires an archive. Top economics journals have been adopting mandatory data+code archives in the past few years. The movement toward mandatory data+code archives has yet to reach the open access journals. This is paradoxical; given their emphasis on making articles readily available, one would think that open access journals also would want to make data and code readily available. Open access economics journals should adopt mandatory data+code archives en masse. Doing so will give them a competitive advantage with respect to traditional economics journals.
P00|The Impact Of Economic Reforms On Indian Manufacturers : Evidence From A Small Sample Survey|Although there has been much theorising on the impact of Indias economic reforms of 1991 on Indian manufacturers, there is hardly any previous study that has taken up the task of actually asking the manufacturing firms as to what the true impact of economic reforms has been on them. In this paper, we report the findings of a small sample survey of manufacturing enterprises in the Delhi region regarding perceptions of the impact of economic reforms of 1990s. Most firms felt that the reforms were helpful by increasing access to foreign technology and making imports of capital and intermediate goods cheaper. They also felt that improvement in infrastructure and more flexible labour laws will facilitate further growth of Indias manufacturing sector.
P00|A model of dynamic balance among the three spheres of society – markets, governments, and communities: Applied to understanding the relative importance of social capital and social goods|Purpose - This paper revisits old questions of the proper subject and bounds of economics: does economics study “provisioning”? or markets? or a method of reasoning, self-interested rational optimization? Design/methodology/approach - A variety of scholars and others in many fields make use of a taxonomy of society consisting of three “spheres”: markets, governments, and communities. It is argued here that this tripartite taxonomy of society is fundamental and exhaustive. A variety of ways of understanding this taxonomy are explored, especially Fiske's (1991, 2004) “Relational models theory.” Then – after communities and their products, social goods, are defined more thoroughly – a visual model of interactions among the three spheres is presented. Findings - The model is first used briefly to understand the historical development of markets. The model is then applied to understanding how economic thinking and market ideology, including the notion of social capital, can be destructive of communities and their production of social goods (and their production of social capital as well). Research limitations/implications - It is not possible to measure these effects monetarily, so calculating precisely “how this affects results” in a standard economic model is impossible. Practical implications - Nevertheless we could better prepare students for real-world analysis, and better serve our clients, including the public, if – whenever relevant, such as in textbook introductions and in benefit/cost analyses – we made them aware of the limitations of economic analysis with respect to communities and social goods. Originality/value - The three-spheres model offered here, based on Fiske's “Relational models theory,” facilitates this awareness.
P00|New Rationales for Innovation Policy? A Comparison of the Systems of Innovation Policy Approach and the Neoclassical Perspective|Ever since its introduction in the 1990s, the systems of innovations (SI) concept has received a great deal of attention from researchers and politicians. The systems of innovation policy (SIP) approach, which is based on the SI concept, is considered an alternative to neoclassical theory. Its goal is to provide new rationales and criteria for innovation policy, as well as concrete implications and guidelines for policymakers, that are more appropriate for innovation processes in comparison to the rationales and criteria of standard economic theory. The aim of this paper is to critically investigate to what extent the SIP approach provides additional rationales for public intervention in innovation processes compared to neoclassical theory.
P00|Environmental Effects of Production and Consumption Activities Within an Economy: the Aragon Case|The goal of this research paper is to analyze the households’ environmental impact in a regional economy such as Aragon, focusing on water consumption, and water and atmosphere pollution. Our objective is to include not only the direct impact but also the indirect one that is generated by the production of goods and services in global and per capita. The framework of analysis is a SAMEA (Social Accounting Matrix and Environmental Accounts) built for Aragon in 1999. This SAMEA is composed by SAM (Social Accounting Matrix) and also the Water Accounts, the Water Pollution Accounts and the Atmosphere Emissions Accounts. For this reason, the SAMEA describes the relationship between the institutional activities and the environment. In order to obtain environmental impact of household activity in Aragon and to measure the individual responsibility, we are going to calculate indicators from the SAMEA model considering only households as exogenous account. The environmental effects are estimated for two water resources categories, for six water pollution categories and for six atmosphere emissions categories. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2009
P00|The Fatal Conceit of Foreign Intervention|The fatal conceit is the assumption that the world can be shaped according to human desires. This paper argues that the logic of the fatal conceit can be applied to foreign interventions which go beyond the limits of what can be rationally constructed by reason alone. In suffering from the fatal conceit, these interventions are characterized by: (1) the realization that intentions do not equal results, (2) a reliance on top-down planning, (3) the view of development as a technological issue, (4) a reliance on bureaucracy over markets, and (5) the primacy of collectivism over individualism. These characteristics explain why interventions extending beyond the limits of what can be rationally constructed tend to fail.
P00|Inflation Dynamics in Romania - a New Keynesian Perspective|The objective of this paper is to identify the main factors which drive inflation in Romania: inflation persistence, inflation expectations and real economy variables. We estimate a reduced form hybrid New Keynesian Phillips Curve in order to determine the degree of inertia and the impact of forward looking expectations. As a proxy for real economic activity, we alternatively use the output gap, the unemployment gap, the unit labour cost, the capacity utilization rate and the economic sentiment indicator. We focus on the role of the monetary policy in controlling the various sources of inflation.
P00|Inflation Dynamics in Romania – a New Keynesian Perspective|We investigate in this paper the main factors which drive inflation in Romania: inflation persistence, inflation expectations and real economy variables. We estimate a reduced form hybrid New Keynesian Phillips Curve in order to determine the degree of inertia and the impact of forward looking expectations. As a proxy for real economic activity, we alternatively use the change in the real labour cost, output gap, the capacity utilization rate, the economic sentiment indicator and the unemployment gap. We find that the capacity utilization rate and the unemployment gap are good proxies for the real economic activity. Inflation inertia is more important in explaining CPI inflation than rational expectations confirming the fact that inflation expectations in Romania are still highly adaptive.
P00|Comparative Analysis at the Level of Countries from European Union Regarding the Development Potential of Companies Population|In the same time with the integration in E.U the Romanian companies must get through with new challenges: first the competition of west European companies which will try to enter in Romania and second the trial to enter on the west European market. Both objectives are difficult to achieve because the E.U companies have a strong experience regarding to the competition, increasing of activity efficiency and to attract the customers. In order to understand how it would must approach these objectives, we should first find out the evolution stage attended by these companies and to analyze their provenience environment. In this paper we realize a comparative analyze of the companies population of european countries, highlighting the aspects which determine the european companies to evolve in order to achieve the actual performances.
P00|Econometric model for analyzing HRD Funds absorption at regional level – North-East region|The European Social Fund interventions in Romania in the field of Human Resources Development, as established in the National Strategic Reference Framework 2007- 2013, will assure investment in human capital, modernisation of education and training systems, increasing the access to employment and strengthening the social inclusion for vulnerable groups. The present paper proposes a simple, but robust, econometric model in order to analyze the absorption of the funds allotted by the Sectoral Operational Program - Human Resources Development at regional level in one of the eight Development Regions in Romania.
P00|The reconstruction of the institutional system during the process of transition to the market economy|In the socio-economic system, the institutions represent a real structural frame on which the entire economic edifice is standing, inclusively the mechanism of functioning of the economy. The economic processes cannot take place in a normal way without an institutional system made up of a complex network of rules and organizations. Because the transition to the market economy also implies the edification of a new institutional system based on new principles and realities, one also imposes a theoretical and practical analysis of the institutions, of their transformation and adaptation to the new circumstances in order to make the normal economic life possible.
P00|Democratization is the determinant of technological change|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the relationship between democracy and technological innovation. The primary findings are that most free countries, measured with liberal, participatory, and constitutional democracy index, have higher technological innovation than less free and more autocratic countries, so that the former have a higher interaction among social, economic and innovation systems with fruitful effects on economic growth and the wealth of nations. In fact “democracy richness” in these countries displays a higher rate of technological innovation. In addition, democratization is an antecedent process (cause) to technological innovation (effect), which is a major wellknown determinant of economic growth. These findings lead to the conclusion that policy makers need to be cognizant of positive association between democratization and technological innovation to sustain modern economic growth and future technological progress in view of the accelerating globalization.
P00|Ownership, Economic Entrenchment and Allocation of Capital|In an efficient economy, capital should be quickly (re)allocated from declining firms and sectors to more profitable investment opportunities. This process is affected by the concentration of corporate control, which in turn is affected by market institutions. We employ a panel of 12,000 firms across 44 countries to estimate the functional efficiency of capital markets. We adapt a measure for the efficiency of capital allocation using the accelerator principle. Our empirical results show weak property rights and highly concentrated ownership reduce the functional efficiency of capital markets. Findings support the economic entrenchment hypothesis but not the legal origins hypothesis.
P00|A Methodological Note on Measuring the Functional Efficiency of Capital Markets|We apply the accelerator principle to measure the functional efficiency of capital markets. We estimate the elasticity of capital with respect to output using a panel of firms across 44 countries, and compare the results with existing approaches. Furthermore, we correlate our measure with corporate governance institutions.
P00|Ownership, Economic Entrenchment and Allocation of Capital|In an efficient economy, capital should be quickly (re)allocated from declining firms and sectors to more profitable investment opportunities. This process is affected by the concentration of corporate control, which in turn is affected by market institutions. We employ a panel of 12,000 firms across 44 countries to estimate the functional efficiency of capital markets. We adapt a measure for the efficiency of capital allocation using the accelerator principle. Our empirical results show weak property rights and highly concentrated ownership reduce the functional efficiency of capital markets. Findings support the economic entrenchment hypothesis but not the legal origins hypothesis.
P00|A Methodological Note on Measuring the Functional Efficiency of Capital Markets|We apply the accelerator principle to measure the functional efficiency of capital markets. We estimate the elasticity of capital with respect to output using a panel of firms across 44 countries, and compare the results with existing approaches. Furthermore, we correlate our measure with corporate governance institutions.
P00|Ownership, Economic Entrenchment and Allocation of Capital|In an efficient economy, capital should be quickly (re)allocated from declining firms and sectors to more profitable investment opportunities. This process is affected by the concentration of corporate control, which in turn is affected by market institutions. We employ a panel of 12,000 firms across 44 countries to estimate the functional efficiency of capital markets. We adapt a measure for the efficiency of capital allocation using the accelerator principle. Our empirical results show weak property rights and highly concentrated ownership reduce the functional efficiency of capital markets. Findings support the economic entrenchment hypothesis but not the legal origins hypothesis.
P00|Measuring the Functional Efficiency of Capital Markets|We apply the accelerator principle to measure the functional efficiency of capital markets. We estimate the elasticity of capital with respect to output using a panel of firms across 44 countries, and compare the results with existing approaches. Furthermore, we correlate our measure with corporate governance institutions.
P00|Managing Risk in Africa Through Institutional Reform|African economies have experienced weak levels of growth in per capita income over the past decade. While standard models of growth suggest institutional governance as one key to success, thus far little attention has been given to the role of risk in institutional reform. In this paper, we use a nested panel regression model to estimate the economic value of institutional reform on economic growth, with data for 30 Sub-Saharan African countries from 1980–2004. Our findings provide a basis for measuring the economic value of institutional reform through its impact on reducing aggregate country risk. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2008
