P14|El bicentenario: una mirada entre la historia económica y la economía política|En el marco del Bicentenario de la independencia de Colombia, el Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), en alianza con el periódico Portafolio, ha presentado una serie de reflexiones sobre la trayectoria económica que ha atravesado el país, en aras de entender los retos del futuro y las lecciones aprendidas del pasado. El contenido es muy amplio incluyendo temas que han jugado un rol clave en la historia del país, como el café, la violencia, la tierra, hasta temas que son menos conocidos pero deberían formar parte de la reflexión colectiva, como el papel de la mujer, los estudios sectoriales, o el desarrollo de largo plazo. El lector no tiene que esperarse una narración univoca, ni un recorrido lineal: estos escritos son reflexiones que vienen de investigadores con enfoques teóricos y metodológicos muy diferentes, como tradición en la Universidad Nacional. Así, ensayos de análisis económico de las instituciones son acompañados por reflexiones de análisis marxiano aplicado, y la cliometría se entrelaza a la finanza pública. Por la misma razón, decidimos no proponer una estructura interpretativa o una organización del contenido, prefiriendo reportar los escritos en el orden cronológico en el cual aparecieron en el portal del periódico. *** In the framework of the Bicentennial of the independence of Colombia, the Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), in alliance with the newpaper Portafolio, has gathered a series of reflections about the economic trajectory that the country has gone through, for the sake of understanding the challenges of the future and the lessons learned from the past. The content is very broad including issues that have played a key role in the history of the country, such as coffee, violence, land, and issues that are less known but should be part of collective reflection, such as the role of women, sectoral studies, or long-term development. The reader should not expect a univocal narrative, nor a linear perspective: these texts are reflections that come from researchers with very different theoretical and methodological approaches, as a tradition at the Universidad Nacional. As a result, economic analysis of the institutions goes hand by hand with applied Marxian analysis, and the cliometry is intertwined with public finance. For the same reason, we decided not to propose an interpretative structure or an organization of the content, opting for an order of presentation that follows the chronological order in which they appeared in the newspaper's portal.
P14|Measuring Entrepreneurship: Do Established Metrics Capture High-Impact Schumpeterian Entrepreneurship?|Are quantitative measures driven by small business activity also valid proxies for high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship? We compile four hand-collected measures of high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship (VC-funded IPOs, self-made billionaire entrepreneurs, unicorn start-ups, and young top global firms founded by individual entrepreneurs) and six measures dominated by small business activity as well as institutional and economic variables for 64 countries. Factor analysis reveals that much of the variation is accounted for by two distinct factors: one relating to high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship and the other relating to small business activity. Except for the World Bank measure of firm registration of limited liability companies quantity-based measures tend to be inappropriate proxies for high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship.
P14|Does homeownership hinder labor market activity? Evidence from housing privatization and restitution in Brno|We study the effects of homeownership on labor force participation and unemployment. We exploit housing privatization and restitution after the fall of communism as a source exogenous assignment of homeowner/renter status, using a unique dataset from the city of Brno, Czech Republic. We do not find any evidence of homeownership hindering labor force participation. In fact, our estimates suggest that homeownership reduces unemployment by four to six percentage points. Homeownership appears to decrease the risk of unemployment by about one third to one half, relative to renters. The estimated effects on labor force participation are systematically around zero.
P14|Do Property Rights Alleviate the Problem of the Commons? Evidence from California Groundwater Rights|Property rights are widely prescribed for addressing the tragedy of the commons, yet causal evidence of their effectiveness remains elusive. This paper combines theory and empirics to produce a causal estimate of the net benefit of using property rights to manage groundwater. We develop a model of dynamic groundwater extraction to demonstrate how a spatial regression discontinuity design exploiting an incomplete property rights setting can recover a lower bound on the value of property rights. We apply this estimator to a major aquifer in water-stressed southern California, finding groundwater property rights led to substantial net benefits, as capitalized in land values. Heterogeneity analyses suggest that gains arise in part from the tradeability of property rights, enabling more efficient water use across sectors.
P14|The Reformed EU ETS - Intertemporal Emission Trading with Restricted Banking|With the increase of the linear reduction factor (LRF), the implementation of the market stability reserve (MSR) and the introduction of the cancellation mechanism (CM), the EU ETS changed fundamentally. We develop a discrete time model of the intertemporal allowance market that accurately depicts these reforms assuming that prices develop with the Hotelling rule as long as the TNAC is non-empty. A sensitivity analysis ensures the robustness of the model results regarding its input parameters. The accurate modelling of the EU ETS allows for a decomposition of the eﬀects of the individual amendments and the evaluation of the dynamic eﬃciency. The MSR shifts emissions to the future but is allowance preserving. The CM reduces the overall emission cap, increasing allowance prices in the long run, but does not signiﬁcantly impact the emission and price path in the short run. The increased LRF leads with 9 billion cancelled allowances to a stronger reduction than the CM and is therefore the main price driver of the reform.
P14|“To destroy the settlement of estate”? the Glorious Revolution and estate acts of parliament, 1660–1702|This article sheds light on the way the Glorious Revolution of 1688 in England affected property rights to land. From 1660 to 1702, the bulk of parliament’s legislative work was on estate acts that reorganized families’ rights to land use. Using a random sample of 65 estate acts, the article finds that the Revolution broadened political access to parliament. I show acts were primarily for members of parliament and their families, but new acts after 1688 had secondary connections to MPs as trustees. It also finds that the composition of the acts changed after the Revolution because landholders sought to break strict settlements, a new form of property conveyance. The findings establish the place of estate acts in the broad narrative of the Glorious Revolution and help to explain the development of capitalism in England.
P14|The Half Life of Economic Injustice|How much of today's income (GDP) is a result of unjust economic transactions? How much is a legacy of past acquisition of wealth (capital) which was itself unjust? To answer that question requires two things: first, a principle to determine what is, and what is not, a just acquisition of wealth or a just source of income; second, a means of using that principle to estimate what fraction of wealth and income is unjust. I use a principle put forward by Robert Nozick to provide the first of these things and then use some calculations based on standard neoclassical models of economic growth to illustrate its implications for the scale of unfairness today.
P14|Varieties of entrepreneurship: exploring the institutional foundations of different entrepreneurship types through ‘Varieties-of-Capitalism’ arguments|Abstract While entrepreneurship researchers agree that institutions ‘matter’ for entrepreneurship, they also have a rather encompassing understanding of institutions as almost any external factor that influences entrepreneurship. Ultimately, this literature thus comes up with a long list of institutional factors that may explain entrepreneurial differences between countries. But which institutions are most influential? How do these institutions relate to different types of entrepreneurship? And to what extent are institutions complementary to each other in the way they sustain different entrepreneurship types? The literature on ‘Varieties-of-Capitalism’ (VoC) offers a parsimonious theoretical framework to address these questions. Based on the VoC literature, we theoretically derive a consistent set of institutional indicators that can explain differences in entrepreneurship types between countries. Based on principal component and cluster analyses, we illustrate how 21 Western developed economies cluster around four distinct institutional settings. Furthermore, we use simple OLS regressions to show how these institutional constellations are related to different types of entrepreneurship. We conclude that four different ‘Varieties of Entrepreneurship’ can be identified across the Western world. The main implication of our findings is that a ‘perfect’ institutional constellation, equally facilitating different types of entrepreneurship, does not exist. Policy-makers seeking to stimulate entrepreneurship are thus faced with the trade-off of targeting policy reforms to that entrepreneurship type they intend to promote—at the expense of other types of entrepreneurship and the broader societal consequences such reforms will have.
P14|The Rise of Private Foundations as Owners of Swedish Industry: The Role of Tax Incentives 1862–2018|The tax system has at times favoured firm control through private foundations, which has been argued to inhibit high-impact entrepreneurship and economic growth. However, research has been hampered due to a lack of systematic historical tax data. The purpose of this study is threefold. First, we describe the evolution of tax rules for private foundations in Sweden between 1862 and 2018. Second, we calculate the marginal effective tax rate on capital income. Third, we examine the incentives to use private foundations as a means for corporate control by comparing the taxation of private foundations and of high-impact entrepreneurs. Tax incentives help explain why economically significant private foundations were founded between World War I and the 1960s.
P14|Homeownership, Political Participation, and Social Capital in Post- Communist Countries and Western Europe|We study whether the positive effects of homeownership on political participation and social capital, found in developed market economies, extend to post-communist countries. We find that homeownership is strongly related to higher participation in local-level and national elections. In post- communist countries, homeownership is also related to higher social trust. However, the positive association between homeownership and volunteering found in developed market economies does not extend to post-communist countries. Together, our results corroborate that homeownership is associated with positive social benefits. However, these effects are highly heterogeneous and context- dependent.
P14|Dynamisation de la malédiction des ressources naturelles en Afrique sur les performances économiques : institution et guerre froide<BR>[Curse of Natural Resources and Economic Performance in Africa: Institution and Cold War]|This article articulates Acemoglu-Robinson's theory of inclusive and exclusive institutions to the theory of the effects of natural resources on the incentives of political elites to implement good institutions for development. If Africa is subject to the curse of natural resources it means that this continent has generally been organized on the basis of extractive institutions that have determined the conflicts between political elites, between border countries and between the great world powers. On this basis, this article proposes an original test over the period 1985-2010 for 30 African countries linking institutional quality to an indicator of dependence on natural resources and different control variables. The phenomenon of the curse is decreasing in Africa as we move away from the end of the Cold War.
P14|Conditions institutionnelles de la malédiction des ressources naturelles en Afrique sur les performances économiques<BR>[Institutional conditions of the natural resource curse in Africa on economic performance]|We show that if Africa is subject to the curse of natural resources it is because this continent has generally been organized since the European colonization on the basis of extractive institutions that determines the strong conflicts between the economic preferences of the political decision-makers and those of the rest of society. In particular, we show that the quality of institutions in African countries is fundamentally determined by historical factors. The main originality is that it uses as an instrumental variable, the institutional path dependence that ensures that there is a curse of natural resources only in countries where the extractive institutions of colonialism have been reproduced. We provide evidence that the overall impact of institutions and natural resource dependence on economic performance is critically dependent on past events as these determine the incentive structure and future institutional choices. The phenomenon of the curse is decreasing in Africa as we move away from the end of the Cold War.
P14|Will Ukraine Be Able to Establish Real Property Rights?|Over time, the necessary economic reforms have become so obvious that they have become politically possible in most places. The great problem has become the establishment of real property rights. By and large, Central and Eastern Europe have managed to accomplish that not least thanks to support from the European Union. In the former Soviet Union, however, only Georgia succeeded in that endeavor. The big question today is whether Ukraine will manage to do so, or whether it will be caught in a low-economic-growth trap. The three main elements that are needed are independent courts, autonomous prosecutors, and a law-abiding law enforcement, while no old secret police structures should be allowed to sabotage them.
P14|Economic Freedom in Albania|"At early stages of transition, markets are in their first steps and sometimes do not exist in the literal sense of the word. Even after many years of development, the markets in transitional economies may be imperfect as well as incomplete. In these circumstances we cannot pretend the market system itself will determine prices and reallocate resources to more productive sectors.Also, being for many decades isolated from the outside world and external development, the economy and enterprises themselves are in great need of new and advanced technology. Obviously, there is need of economic sustainability and the social environment for the establishment and development of private sector.In these circumstances, obviously there is need for some restrictions and obligations. These are necessary for the very existence of a country, but when these limits exceed the target then the problem arises. Economic freedom, inter alia, will be defined as ""the lack of pressure or governmental constraints on the production, distribution or consumption of utility goods beyond what is needed for citizens to protect and preserve their freedom to work, produce, consume and invested so that they feel they are productive ""(Angjeli, A; 2007: 70).Over two?thirds of studies on economic freedom, found it to correspond to a ?good? outcome such as faster growth, better living standards, more happiness, etc. ( Hall, C. J; Lawson, A. R; 2013) For these reasons, we are having a look on economic freedom to see how this indicator has affected the Albanian economy and whether its values are comparable to those of the countries we aspire to."
P14|Governance and Land Reform in the Palm Oil Value Chain in the Philippines|The chain literature (Global Commodity Chains/Value Chains/Production Networks) have remained surprisingly silent about the role of land as a factor of production. I use fieldwork experience from the palm oil industry in Agusan del Sur, Philippines to illustrate the way in which the buyer-driven nature of the chain interacts with a major institutional change, namely the redistributive land reform, Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). I argue that the CARP has not resulted in the desired redistribution of power from the landed to the landless, but reinforces the unequal distribution of power between plantation/milling companies and beneficiaries, producing economic and social downgrading trajectories for reform beneficiaries and farmworkers.
P14|Dématérialiser la nature pour la faire entrer dans la sphère du marché|Cela fait longtemps que la nature est entrée dans le processus capitaliste dans ses dimensions matérielles, terre, ressources agricoles et minières, sous la forme de biens tangibles donc. Depuis quelques décennies, un phénomène nouveau apparaît. Des dimensions de la nature sont requalifiées en information, en services et en actifs financiers pour pouvoir à leur tour faire l’objet d’échanges marchands. Autrement dit une nouvelle classe de marchandises fictives apparaît (Karl Polanyi (1944)). Plutôt que de les nommer « immatérielles », je préfère parler de dématérialisation, car il s’agit d’un processus institutionnel, juridique et politique construit et voulu, et non d’une immanence. Analysant le cas des services écosystémiques, cet article propose une catégorisation permettant de comprendre comment l’institution marchande remodèle ainsi de grands pans de la nature, en trois grands moments. Le premier est celui de la qualification de la marchandise, qui vise à en définir les contours précis, la doter d’une mesure et de droits de propriété. Le deuxième processus est celui de l’évaluation, où l’objet considéré acquiert une valeur monétaire de référence. On parle quelquefois de monétisation. Le troisième et dernier moment de la création d’une marchandise fictive est celui de la valorisation. Il s’agit de dispositifs contractuels et/ou marchands qui transforment les valeurs en prix. Ce n’est qu’à cette ultime étape que de la valeur est effectivement créée, c’est-à-dire du capital. Malgré le caractère apparemment immatériel de ces nouvelles marchandises, les conséquences de leur création sur la nature et les relations que nous entretenons avec elle sont tout à fait matérielles.
P14|Aristotle vs. Plato: The distributive origins of the Cold War|Competing definitions of justice in Plato's Republic and Aristotle's Politics indicate the existence of two distinct economic systems with different normative priorities. The three-class society of the Platonic economy (guardians, auxiliaries, producers) gives rise to guardians who by virtue are expected to enforce output targets on producers directly or through auxiliaries. The three-class society of the Aristotelian economy (rich, middle, poor) facilitates the emergence of different ruling coalitions and compensates efficiency losses of vertical production processes with political gains derived from representative governance. In the Aristotelian economy, the middle class is better off than in the Platonic economy (auxiliaries), because a just society (polity) is achieved under its rule. I argue that the equilibrium solutions of the Platonic and Aristotelian systems provide the normative foundations for the distinction between plan and market.
P14|A Review of Geoffrey M. Hodgson, Conceptualizing Capitalism: Institutions, Evolution, Future|Capitalism and law go together in Geoffrey M. Hodgson's comprehensive analysis of the intellectual history and practical development of the capitalist system in Western Europe and North America. Given the breadth and depth of Professor Hodgson's reading in political economy and his reflections on its implications for the present and future of global capitalism, his book deserves to be widely read. Labeling his approach legal institutionalism, he argues that a legal system that supports capitalism and the market is necessary but not sufficient to sustain a fair and efficient economic system. The state makes efficient markets possible, but it must also deal with the inevitable tensions and the fundamental asymmetry between labor and capital. Tensions arise because labor cannot be used as collateral for the loans that are needed for large-scale capitalist enterprise. Hodgson has not developed the political implications of his conclusions in any detail, but his work ought to inspire research that explores the implications of his arguments for ongoing projects of nation building.
P14|Capitalism and Socialism: A Review of Kornai's Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy|Understanding the nature of capitalism has been a central theme of economics. The collapse of the Eastern Bloc and the global financial crisis spurred the reemergence of the political economy as a new frontier and the revival of interest in the nature of capitalism. Janos Kornai's book Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy: Two Essays on the Nature of Capitalism fills an important intellectual gap in understanding the dynamic nature of capitalism by comparing it with its mirror image, socialism. To further develop the themes contained in the book, serious challenges are posed theoretically and empirically, as well as in subjects, such as hybrid capitalism.
P14|The fruit of inequality: wine, efficiency, agrarian contracts and property rights in Catalonia (1898-1935)|With the aim of drawing lessons that can act as a reference for reforms in today’s developing countries, economic historians are showing a renewed interest in the European experiences of agrarian reform. But in some developing countries property rights over the land show‘oddities’ with respect to the ‘Western canon’. Drawing on the case of Catalonia, this paper maintains that, if their work is to be useful, historians should be sensitive to the fact that in Europe – including the United Kingdom – oddities were not rare either. In Catalan vineyards, sharecropping contracts that granted the sharecropper ownership rights over the land were in widespread usage. Around 1900, sharecroppers’ rights became insecure, which led to several dysfunctions that the paper analyses.
P14|Property Rights, Transaction Costs, and the Limits of the Market|Although the relevance of property rights and transaction costs for trade and innovation are well-known, we still lack a formal framework to think about their origins and interplay. Within trade interactions, fully protecting the original owners' property implies that some high-valuation potential buyers inefficiently refuse to buy it because of transaction costs. When instead property rights are weak, low-valuation potential buyers inefficiently expropriate the original owners' property. The trade-off between these two misallocations entails that property rights will be weaker the larger transaction costs are regardless of whether they are driven by frictions outside the control of traders or determined by the mix of the dispersion in their valuation and either the original owners' market power or their privileged information. A similar conclusion holds true for an upstream firm's property rights on an input necessary to a downstream firm to introduce a new technology and whose cost is random and ex ante non contractible. This time, transaction costs rise with the likelihood of a more productive technology. All these implications survive when a group of traders/innovators has a larger political influence on institutional design and when the disincentive to effort effect of weak property rights is taken into account. Crucially, the model predictions are consistent with the negative effects of proxies for market frictions and failures on measures of the protection of personal, intellectual, and financial property for a panel of 135 countries spanning the 2006-2015 period. Evidence from several identification strategies suggests that these relationships are indeed causal.
P14|Pampered Bureaucracy, Political Stability and Trade Integration|This paper shows how, under threat of revolution, a nation's elite are able to maintain political stability and hence ownership of their wealth by creating or expanding a `pampered bureaucracy.' The elite thus divert part of an otherwise entrepreneurial middle class from more productive manufacturing activities, reducing economic efficiency. If the country has a comparative advantage in primary products, trade integration is potentially destabilizing since it raises the payoff to the lower classes of mounting a revolution and challenging the elite for their wealth. In that case trade integration mandates expansion of the pampered bureaucracy. Therefore, trade integration may actually reduce economic efficiency. The econometric results provide supportive evidence for our model.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P14|Fondo de Tierras del Acuerdo Agrario de la Habana: Estimaciones y propuestas alternativas|El primer punto del Acuerdo de La Habana [y del Teatro Colón], “Hacia un nuevo campo colombiano: una reforma rural integral”, promueve la asignación de tierras a familias campesinas que carecen de tierra o tienen tierra insuficiente. Para esto, propone la creación de un Fondo de Tierras, que será destinado a la adjudicación de tierras, y la formalización de la propiedad. Tres son los objetivos de este documento. Primero, el documento realiza un análisis histórico de los procesos de adjudicación de tierras emprendidos por el Estado colombiano desde finales del siglo XIX hasta hoy. Segundo, estima la oferta de tierras disponible para alcanzar los objetivos del Acuerdo Agrario. Tercero, hace una exploración tentativa de la demanda potencial de tierras. El total de hectáreas potencialmente disponibles para el Fondo de Tierras es 2.7 millones. Tras añadir los baldíos y otras tierras de dominio estatal adjudicables, la oferta de tierras podría incrementar entre 3.9 y 5.3 millones hectáreas. La formalización de predios restituidos a la población desplazada podría alcanzar 4.6 millones de hectáreas. Al añadir las tres fuentes, la asignación de tierras en el marco del acuerdo agrario podría ascender entre 11.2 y 12.6 millones de hectáreas.
P14|1688 and all that: Property rights, the Glorious Revolution and the rise of British capitalism|"In a seminal 1989 article, Douglass North and Barry Weingast argued that by making the monarch more answerable to Parliament, the Glorious Revolution of 1688 helped to secure property rights in England and stimulate the rise of capitalism. Similarly, Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson later wrote that in the English Middle Ages there was a ""lack of property rights for landowners, merchants and proto-industrialists"" and the ""strengthening"" of property rights in the late 17th century ""spurred a process of financial and commercial expansion"". There are several problems with these arguments. Property rights in England were relatively secure from the 13th century. A major developmental problem was not the security of rights but their feudal nature, including widespread ""entails"" and ""strict settlements"". 1688 had no obvious direct effect on property rights. Given these criticisms, what changes promoted the rise of capitalism? A more plausible answer is found by addressing the post-1688 Financial and Administrative Revolutions, which were pressured by the enhanced needs of war and Britain’s expanding global role. Guided by a more powerful Parliament, this new financial system stimulated reforms to landed property rights, the growth of collateralizable property and saleable debt, and thus enabled the Industrial Revolution."
P14|1688 and all that: property rights, the Glorious Revolution and the rise of British capitalism|"In a seminal 1989 article, Douglass North and Barry Weingast argued that by making the monarch more answerable to Parliament, the Glorious Revolution of 1688 helped to secure property rights in England and stimulate the rise of capitalism. Similarly, Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James Robinson later wrote that in the English Middle Ages there was a ""lack of property rights for landowners, merchants and proto-industrialists"" and the ""strengthening"" of property rights in the late 17th century ""spurred a process of financial and commercial expansion"". There are several problems with these arguments. Property rights in England were relatively secure from the 13th century. A major developmental problem was not the security of rights but their feudal nature, including widespread ""entails"" and ""strict settlements"". 1688 had no obvious direct effect on property rights. Given these criticisms, what changes promoted the rise of capitalism? A more plausible answer is found by addressing the post-1688 Financial and Administrative Revolutions, which were pressured by the enhanced needs of war and Britain’s expanding global role. Guided by a more powerful Parliament, this new financial system stimulated reforms to landed property rights, the growth of collateralizable property and saleable debt, and thus enabled the Industrial Revolution.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
P14|Thou shalt not steal. Taking aversion with legal property claims|Abstract Some recent experimental literature on the taking game (a variation of the dictator game) suggests that human subjects may generally be taking averse, implying that the moral cost of taking exceeds the moral cost of not giving. In our experiment, our subjects could decide to take tangible objects (lottery scratchcards) brought from outside the lab and thus legally owned by other subjects. This legal treatment was compared with a more standard one where subjects earned their scratchcards inside the lab. Evidence is provided of a (weak) taking aversion that is greater when property is established inside the lab via an effort task than when it is pre-existing and legally enforceable outside the lab
P14|Institutional Reform for Innovation and Entrepreneurship: An Agenda for Europe|It is imperative that the economies of the European Union become more entrepreneurial to promote innovation and economic growth. To achieve these goals, we propose a reform strategy with respect to (i) the rule of law and the protection of property rights; (ii) the tax system; (iii) regulations governing savings, capital and finance; (iv) the organization of labor markets and social insurance systems; (v) regulations governing goods and service markets; (vi) regulations governing bankruptcy and insolvency; (vii) R&D, commercialization and knowledge spillovers; (viii) human capital investments; and (ix) informal institutions. Overall, the proposed institutional changes move in a liberalizing direction; however, one-size-fits-all policy reforms aimed at freer markets will not necessarily be successful. Instead, a successful reform strategy must consider country differences that affect the viability of reform without abandoning the long-term goal of institutional liberalization to promote entrepreneurship, innovation and growth
P14|Entrepreneurship and Institutions: A Bidirectional Relationship|The interplay between entrepreneurship and institutions is crucial for economic development; however, the view that institutions determine the extent to which entrepreneurial activity is productive is only part of the story. We argue that causality is bidirectional, in that entrepreneurship is also, for better or for worse, one of the main drivers of institutional change. Through their actions, entrepreneurs have a fundamental influence on institutions, whether they abide by them, actively try to alter them, or evade them. Particular attention is given to evasive entrepreneurship, an entrepreneurial function which, until recently, has been an underappreciated and poorly understood source of innovation and institutional change. We argue that the influence of evasive entrepreneurship on the economic trajectories of societies is likely to only grow in the future.
P14|Schumpeterian Entrepreneurship in Europe Compared to Other Industrialized Regions|Cross-country comparisons of entrepreneurship are difficult due to the lack of standard empirical definitions of entrepreneurship. Measures focusing on small business activity and self-employment suggest that Europe has the same or higher rates of entrepreneurship than the U.S. and East Asia. However, most business activity is not entrepreneurial in the Schumpeterian sense. We rely on empirical measures that more closely tally Schumpeterian entrepreneurship: self-made dollar billionaires per capita who earned their wealth by creating firms, top global firms founded in recent decades, unicorn startups, and VC investment as a share of GDP. Western Europe is shown to underperform in all four measures of high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship relative to the U.S. Once we account for Europe’s strong performance in technological innovation, an “entrepreneurship deficit” relative to East Asia also becomes apparent. This underperformance is missed by most standard measures. Finally, we also find that China performs surprisingly well in Schumpeterian entrepreneurship, especially compared to Eastern Europe.
P14|How Merchant Towns Shaped Parliaments: From the Norman Conquest of England to the Great Reform Act|After centuries of stagnation in the “Dark Ages,” the Commercial Revolution led to a boom in economic activity and urbanization across Western Europe. The surge in trade and commerce that began in the 11th century was followed by the emergence of self-governing merchant towns. Soon after, these merchant towns gained representation in regional and national parliaments. This paper establishes the mechanism by which trade led to parliamentary representation, via municipal autonomy. We focus on England after the Norman Conquest of 1066 and build a novel comprehensive dataset of 554 Medieval towns (boroughs), tracking their institutional development over eight centuries. We document a two-step process: First, inefficiencies in the king’s centralized system of tax collection became increasingly distortive to trading towns. In a mutually beneficial solution, merchant towns paid higher annual taxes in exchange for Farm Grants – the right of self-governed tax collection, cutting out royal officials. Second, Farm Grants were stepping stones towards representation in the English Parliament: To raise extra-ordinary taxes (e.g., for wars) from self-governed towns, the king had to negotiate with them – and negotiations took place in Parliament. We also show that Medieval self-governance had important long-term consequences and interacted with nationwide institutional changes. Boroughs with Medieval Farm Grants continued to have broader voting rights in the 17th to 19th centuries, they raised troops to back Parliament against the king during the Civil War in 1642, and they supported the Great Reform Act of 1832 that extended the franchise.
P14|The firm as a common. The case of the accumulation and use of capital resources in co-operative enterprises|Contemporary literature dealing with the governance of the exploitation of common-pool natural resources was initiated by Elinor Ostrom in 1990, and has been growing fast ever since. On the contrary, within the same research stream, the study of the presence and economic role of common resources in entrepreneurial-organizational is, to date, under-researched. This work endeavours some attempt to fill this gap by: first, spelling out a new-institutionalist framework for the analysis of the accumulation and governance of common capital resources within organizational boundaries; second, by considering co-operative enterprises as the organizational form that, on the basis of historical record, and of behavioural and institutional characteristics, demonstrated to be the most compatible with a substantial role for common and non-divided asset-ownership and with its governance thereof. The economic forces influencing the optimal level of self-financed common capital resources in co-operatives are enquired. Also their governance is brought under the spotlight, evidencing: (i) the constraints that need to be fulfilled, and the potential benefits arising out of their presence; (ii) the compatibility and mutual adaptability between democratic governance in co-operatives and the governance of non-divided assets.
P14|The Firm as a Common. The Case of the Accumulation and Use of Capital Resources in Co-operative Enterprises|Contemporary literature dealing with the governance of the exploitation of common-pool natural resources was initiated by Elinor Ostrom in 1990, and has been growing fast ever since. On the contrary, within the same research stream, the study of the presence and economic role of common resources in entrepreneurial-organizational is, to date, under-researched. This work endeavours some attempt to fill this gap. Firstly, by spelling out a new-institutionalist framework for the analysis of the accumulation and governance of common capital resources within organizational boundaries. Secondly, by considering co-operative enterprises as the organizational form that, on the basis of historical record, and of behavioural and institutional characteristics, demonstrated to be most compatible with a substantial role for common and non-divided asset-ownership and with its governance thereof. The economic forces influencing the optimal level of self-financed common capital resources in co-operatives are enquired. Also their governance is brought under the spotlight, evidencing: (i) the constraints that need to be fulfilled, and the potential benefits arising out of their presence; (ii) the compatibility and mutual adaptability between democratic governance in co-operatives and the governance of non-divided assets.
P14|The Foundations of the �Public� Organisation: Strategic Control and the Problem of the Costs of Exclusion|Henry Hansmann has argued that ownership is best allocated to only one group of homogeneous patrons, the group for which the total of cost of governance and contracting is minimized. This paper suggests a different model of governance, which is inclusive of multiple affected patrons, and which is growing especially in welfare service provision. The model considers an additional set of costs, the costs of excluding certain groups of patrons from the firm�s strategic control. The objective, which is Coasean in both spirit and formulation, is: (1) to reiterate the need to separate ownership and control by considering strategic control beyond ownership, (2) to show that the emergence of firms where control is shared among different groups of patrons can be explained as a way to economize on exclusion costs, and (3) to argue that the efficient governance structure must minimize the sum of internal costs for sharing control and the costs for contracting, and add also the costs of exclusion for all the firm�s patrons combined. The paper argues that this setup helps explain the public organisation, defined as a private organisation with public interest objectives, and further claims that this model helps justifying the recent emergence of multi-stakeholder social enterprises within the third sector.
P14|Replication to assess statistical adequacy|"""Statistical adequacy"" is an important prerequisite for securing reliable inference in empirical modelling. This paper argues for more emphasis on replication that specifically assesses whether the results reported in empirical studies are based on statistically adequate models, i.e., models with valid underpinning statistical assumptions that pass relevant diagnostic tests for misspecification. A replication plan is briefly outlined to illustrate what this would involve in practice in the context of a specific study by Acemoglu, Gallego and Robinson (Institutions, human capital, and development, Annual Review of Economics, 2014)."
P14|Exchange Efficiency with Weak Ownership Rights|"We show that efficient exchange obtains independently of the degree to which a legal system protects the rights of owners. We study a number of different legal rules, including property rules (strong protection), liability rules (any party can take the owner's asset but must pay a legally determined compensation), and even rules that protect the owner's interests very weakly (liability rules with a very low compensation level). Efficiency is obtained as long as the degree of protection provided by law and by the bargaining protocol is not ""too"" inversely correlated with a party's valuation of the asset."
P14|From Today's City to Tomorrow's City: An Empirical Investigation of Urban Land Assembly|Because cities are constrained by the boundaries of land ownership, fundamental urban modifications require land delineation changes. We evaluate whether there is enough land assembly--the joining together of two or more parcels of land--to put land to its highest value use. We hypothesize that in the absence of market frictions such as holdouts, the price of land sold for assembly should not exceed the price of land sold for other uses. Empirically, we find that to-be-assembled land in Los Angeles trades at a 15 to 40 percent premium and conclude that significant frictions prevent assembly.
P14|The White Man’s Burden: On the Effect of African Resistance to European Domination|Are there contemporary development effects of African resistance to European domination? This question is the primary issue addressed by this inquiry. We establish that African resistance has had adverse effects on post-colonial African development and discuss possible channels of such causality. This relationship is robust to alternative model and to controlling for the outliers.
P14|Securing Property Rights|A central challenge in securing property rights is the subversion of justice through legal skill, bribery, or physical force by the strong?the state or its powerful citizens?against the weak. We present evidence that the less educated and poorer citizens in many countries feel their property rights are least secure. We then present a model of a farmer and a mine which can pollute his farm in a jurisdiction where the mine can subvert law enforcement. We show that, in this model, injunctions or other forms of property rules work better than compensation for damage or liability rules. The equivalences of the Coase Theorem break down in realistic ways. The case for injunctions is even stronger when parties can invest in power. Our approach sheds light on several controversies in law and economics, but also applies to practical problems in developing countries, such as low demand for formality, law enforcement under uncertain property rights, and unresolved conflicts between environmental damage and development.
P14|Trust and communication in a property rights dilemma|We study in five diverse countries a laboratory social dilemma game in which incentives to steal from others lead to the socially inefficient diversion of resources from production unless the members of a given mini-society can abide by norms of non-theft or engage in low cost collective protection of their members’ wealth accumulations. We compare two treatments in which subjects have opportunities to exchange free-form messages to one without such opportunities, finding that most subjects allocate far less to theft and most groups achieve much greater efficiency in the presence of communication. Ease of identifying who has engaged in theft varies across the two communication treatments, but is of minor importance to the outcome. We find several coding-amenable elements of message content to be statistically significant predictors of group and individual outcomes. Contributing to the literature on culture, norms, and preferences, we find that the degree to which communication fosters cooperation varies among countries in a manner correlated with variation in survey based trust and with desistance from theft at the outset of our communication-free experiment treatment.
P14|Enabled to Work: The Impact of Government Housing on Slum Dwellers in South Africa|This paper looks at the link between housing conditions and household income and labour market participation in South Africa. I use four waves of panel data from 2002-2009 on households that were originally living in informal dwellings. I find that those households that received free government housing later experienced large increases in their incomes. This effect is driven by increased employment rates among female members of these households, rather than other sources of income. I take advantage of a natural experiment created by a policy of allocating housing to households that lived in close proximity to new housing developments. Using rich spatial data on the roll out of government housing projects, I generate geographic instruments to predict selection into receiving housing. I then use housing projects that were planned and approved but never actually built to allay concerns about non-random placement of housing projects. The fixed effects results are robust to the use of these instruments and placebo tests. I present suggestive evidence that formal housing alleviates the demands of work at home for women, which leads to increases in labour supply to wage paying jobs.
P14|Precision-Guided or Blunt? The Effects of US Economic Sanctions on Human Rights|We use endogenous treatment-regression models to estimate the causal average treatment effect of US economic sanctions on four types of human rights. In contrast to previous studies, we find no support for adverse effects of sanctions on economic rights, political and civil rights, and basic human rights. With respect to women's rights, our findings even indicate a positive relationship. Emancipatory rights are, on average, strengthened when a country faces sanctions by the US. Our findings are robust when applying various changes to the empirical specification. Most importantly, this study provides strong evidence that the endogeneity of treatment assignment must be modelled when the consequences of sanctions are studied empirically.
P14|The institution of intellectual property rights protection in the face of economic crisis|Nowadays proper protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) is particularly important for strengthening and accelerating economic growth and development. Contemporary society is in transition, from community which wealth is based on tangible assets, to a community which relies mainly on intangible resources. IPR are understood as an institution which guarantees the access to these resources and secures the legal rights of owners. In modern world there are many factors which influence the necessity of stronger IRR protection. Some of them appeared especially during times of economic slowdowns, when the IPR are specially exposed to illegal actions. If the legal system is properly organized and the law is enforced the intellectual property rights seem to be secure. Unfortunately the process of globalization, lack of technical barriers in information flow, decreasing purchasing power of households and poor economic situation of firms operating in competitive environment increase the uncertainty and possibility of illegal actions especially during recession. The main aim of paper is to identify the channels through which financial crisis affected world economy and intellectual property rights protection. It can be done by describing mutual relationship between the IPR protection and business cycle, mainly phases of recession. The first part of the paper shows the current state of knowledge. Then in the second part the main analyzed economic categories are briefly described. In the last part of the paper the relationship between economic crisis and IPR protection is presented in the context of institutions.
P14|Intellectual property rights hinder sequential innovation. Experimental evidence|In this paper we contribute to the discussion on whether intellectual property rights foster or hinder innovation by means of a laboratory experiment. We introduce a novel Scrabble-like word-creation task that captures most essentialities of a sequential innovation process. We use this task to investigate the effects of intellectual property allowing subjects to impose license fees on their innovations. We find intellectual property to have an adverse effect on welfare as innovations become less frequent and less sophisticated. Introducing communication among innovators does not reduce this detrimental effect. Introducing intellectual property results in more basic innovations, with subjects failing to exploit the most valuable sequential innovation paths. Subjects act more self-reliant and non-optimally in order to avoid paying license fees. Our results suggest that granting intellectual property rights hinders innovation, especially for sectors characterized by a strong sequentiality in innovation processes.
P14|Two sides to the evasion: The Pirate Bay and the interdependencies of evasive entrepreneurship|Purpose - – Evasive entrepreneurs innovate by circumventing or disrupting existing formal institutional frameworks. Since such evasions rarely go unnoticed, they usually lead to responses from lawmakers and regulators. The paper aims to discuss this issue. Design/methodology/approach - – The authors introduce a conceptual model to illustrate and map the interdependencey between evasive entrepreneurship and the regulatory response it provokes. The authors apply this framework to the case of the file sharing platform The Pirate Bay, a venture with a number of clearly innovative and evasive features. Findings - – The platform was a radical, widely applied innovation that transformed the internet landscape, yet its founders became convicted criminals because of it. Originality/value - – Applying the evasive entrepreneurship framework to this case improves the understanding of the relationship between policymaking and entrepreneurship in the digital age, and is a first step toward exploring best responses for regulators facing evasive entrepreneurship.
P14|Thou shalt not steal (from hard-working people)An experiment on respect for property claims|Abstract The institution of property is void without legal and social enforcement against theft. To address wasteful competition over resources, societies have long developed strategies that encompass -inter alia- behavioral traits, social norms and legal institutions to promote the respect and enforcement of property rights. On the other hand, a growing body of biological and ethological evidence suggests that several other animal species establish and respect some forms of property even in the absence of institutions. Would human beings respect others' property in the absence of institutions? Do people posses some innate sense of property, or do they respect property only because of legal and social enforcement? In this study, we explore this issue with a lab experiment that resembles a famous thought experiment proposed by Plato. As Plato sought to understand how one ought to behave when he or sheis completely shielded by the consequences of his actions,we study whether people respect property once full anonymity is granted. In this experiment, we implement a Free-Form Dictator game where participants can both give and take up to five scratchcards from a passive counterpart that they have either previously bought outside the lab with their own money (legal treatments) or gained inside the lab via an effort task (effortful treatments). In conclusion to the experiment, evidence is provided of a (weak) sense of property. We also provide evidence that property in the lab is better established through an effort tasks than through the use of subject's own real property brought from outside the lab.
P14|Property Rights and Gender Bias: Evidence from Land Reform in West Bengal|We examine intra-household gender-differentiated effects of property rights securitisation following West Bengal's tenancy registration program, using two independently gathered datasets. In both samples, higher program implementation increased male child survival rates in families without a firstborn son, but not in those that already have a firstborn male child. We argue this reflects intensified son preference as land rights improve, ostensibly to ensure a male heir to inherit land. Consistent with this, girls with firstborn brothers also experience increased survival, but not girls with firstborn sisters. The gender bias manifests both in infant mortality rates and the sex ratio at birth.
P14|New trends in the debate on geographical indications: evidence from Ecuador|Geographical Indications (GIs) are names of regions, specific places or, in exceptional cases, countries, used to describe an agricultural product or a foodstuff (EC 510/2006, Art. 2). They have received much attention in recent years not only at the European level, where they stem from, but also at different international forums such as at the World Trade Organization (wto). Being a particular form of intellectual property, these certification schemes have the potential to be applied also to non-agrifood commodities or even services. Furthermore, due to the grave menace of biodiversity loss caused by globalization, GIs could serve as a tool to promote biodiversity if linked to plant varieties or animal species in danger of disappearance. It seems that at European level these issues are gathering momentum. For this reason, the purpose of this paper is to support new interpretations regarding GI legislation. In the remainder of this paper, the authors will present a short description of GIs as they have been discussed at different international forums. Also, the innovative implementation of GIs in Ecuador will be illustrated by means of two examples: the Sombrero of Montecristi and the cacao Nacional Arriba. Based on these examples we trace possible scenarios of GI implementation in a particular type of service economy such as food tourism. In the final part, some conclusions will be presented.
P14|The Diversity of Entrepreneurial Regimes in Europe|Although institutional reforms are necessary to increase rates of entrepreneurship in European countries, we argue that one-size-fits-all reform strategies are unlikely to be successful. Reform strategies must be informed by a better knowledge of the varieties of European capitalism and the institutional complementarities that drive these differences. We investigate these issues by gathering a number of potentially relevant entrepreneurial regime measurements as well as indicators of formal and informal institutions based on data available from the 2000s onward. We employ principal component analysis, factor analysis and cluster analysis to examine how 21 European countries and the United States cluster in the entrepreneurial and institutional dimensions. Our results reveal six country clusters, or entrepreneurial regimes, with a distinct bundle of entrepreneurial characteristics and institutional attributes. The main implication is that different reform strategies are appropriate to promote entrepreneurship and economic growth in European countries in different clusters.
P14|Evasive entrepreneurship|Abstract We argue that evasive entrepreneurship is an important, although underrated, source of innovation, and provide the first systematic discussion of the concept. We define evasive entrepreneurship as profit-driven business activity in the market aimed at circumventing the existing institutional framework by using innovations to exploit contradictions in that framework. We formulate four propositions of evasive entrepreneurship and illustrate them with a number of real-life examples, ranging from a secret agreement among Chinese farmers in the 1970s to activities of rides-for-hire start-ups in the modern sharing economy. We demonstrate that while evasive entrepreneurship can either be productive, unproductive, or destructive, it may prevent economic development from being stifled by existing institutions during times of rapid economic change. Furthermore, it can spur institutional change with important welfare effects.
P14|The Property-Contract Balance|We identify a key trade-off between protecting property rights and enhancing reliance on contracts. For instance, when a dishonest intermediary transfers a good to an innocent buyer without the owner's consent, should the buyer or the owner retain the good? We show that the optimal rule maximizes the agents' valuation of the good rather than their incentives to protect property and inquire about title. Furthermore, enhancing reliance on contracts is more appealing in countries where fewer intermediaries are honest and law enforcement is more efficient. This is consistent with novel comparative-law data on the acquisition of ownership over movables.
P14|The Deregularization of Land Titles|In the last years, several countries implemented policy interventions to entitle urban squatters, encouraged by the results of studies showing large welfare gains from entitlement. We study a natural experiment in the allocation of land titles to very poor families in a suburban area of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Although previous studies on this experiment have found important effects of titling on investment, household structure, educational achievement, and child health, in this article we document that a large fraction of households that went through a situation at which formalization was challenged (death, divorce, sale/purchase), ended up being de-regularized. The legal costs of remaining formal seem too high relative to the value of these parcels and the income of their inhabitants.
P14|Unresolved issue of private property legitimacy in Russia|Private property exists in Russia for almost 25 years. However, the legitimacy of established property rights and the legitimacy of private property as an institution remain ambiguous. Despite the change of generations and the improvement of living standards, numerous opinion polls show that the majority of Russians refers negatively not only to the privatization of the 1990s and its results, but also to private property in general. Positive forecasts on the adaptation of people to new reality do not come true. The authors analyze the reasons and consequences of private property illegitimacy and compare alternative ways of its legitimating. The main conclusion is the uselessness of any discretionary state intervention in this long-lasting process, while the focus should be put on the mitigation of inequality and the enforcement of formal institutions without any exceptions or privileges.
P14|The White Man’s Burden: On the Effect of African Resistance to European Domination|Are there contemporary development effects of African resistance to European domination? This question is the primary issue addressed by this inquiry. We establish that African resistance has had adverse effects on post-colonial African development and discuss possible channels of such causality. This relationship is robust to alternative model and to controlling for the outliers.
P14|Securing Property Rights|A central challenge in securing property rights is the subversion of justice through legal skill, bribery, or physical force by the strong--the state or its powerful citizens--against the weak. We present evidence that the less educated and poorer citizens in many countries feel their property rights are least secure. We then present a model of a farmer and a mine which can pollute his farm in a jurisdiction where the mine can subvert law enforcement. We show that, in this model, injunctions or other forms of property rules work better than compensation for damage or liability rules. The equivalences of the Coase Theorem break down in realistic ways. The case for injunctions is even stronger when parties can invest in power. Our approach sheds light on several controversies in law and economics, but also applies to practical problems in developing countries, such as low demand for formality, law enforcement under uncertain property rights, and unresolved conflicts between environmental damage and development.
P14|Reverting to Informality Unregistered Property Transactions and the Erosion of the Titling Reform in Peru|Titling programs have focused mostly on providing initial tenure security and have not properly addressed maintaining the formality of future property transactions. Our data indicates that properties become de-regularized due to unregistered transactions in urban slums, which threatens to undo the success of the titling program in the long run. We exploit a natural experiment provided by the elimination of a streamlined registration system targeted for the poor residents in Peru to identify how costly and burdensome registration policies can increase de-regularization. Our analysis indicated that the elimination of such a system led to a significant reduction in the probability of registering transactions, including those that involved a change in ownership. Overall, our findings stress the necessity of building specific components aimed at maintaining properties formal into the design of urban titling programs.
P14|Why local context matters: de jure and de facto property rights in colonial South Africa|For economic transactions, including debt transactions, to occur in a market system, property rights are essential. The literature has focussed on finding empirical proof of the effect of property right regimes, noting differences between de jure and de facto property rights. Yet most of these studies focus on macroeconomic outcomes, like economic growth and public expenditure. We propose, instead, to use individual debt transactions and property ownership available in probate inventories from early colonial South Africa to investigate the effects of property right regimes on economic outcomes at the individual level. At the Cape, de jure property rights between freehold and loan farms differed. Historians, however, suggest that de facto property rights between these two property types were the same. We exploit the random variation of birth order, specifically being the oldest son, to estimate whether the type of farm, and therefore the type of property rights, matter for economic activity, in our case, debt transactions. Our results suggest that historians were correct: loan farms were as secure in their de facto property rights, despite differences in de jure property rights. Our results confirm that the local context in which property right regimes are embedded are at least as important as the property right regime itself.
P14|The new institutional economics - main theories|The aim of this arti cle is to show that the New Insti tuti onal Economics is an interdisciplinary stream combining economics, law, organizati on theory, politi cal sciences, sociology, and anthropology. The main theories which are part of the New Insti tuti onal Economics are: Agency Theory, Property Rights Theory and Transaction Costs Theory. The basic assumptions of these theories are mentioned in this paper. This article is an introduction to the New Institutional Economics and its main theories. For this purpose, it presents a brief guide for those who are interested in the New Institutional Economics. Finally, the article is accompanied by a short review of examples of empirical studies connected with these theories.
P14|Commons and the Public Domain|This article critically examines the concepts of the commons and the public domain as developed in the literature on law and economics, and in the legal literature on intellectual property. It aims to accomplish two things: reviewing the literature laying out diverse meanings associated with these terms and reintroducing them into radical political economy. The study of the commons and the public domain have long been neglected in the area of radical political economy, and the way these concepts have been developed in the literature reviewed is only marginally relevant to problems and methods of political economy. This article argues for a reassessment and redefinition of the commons and the public domain from the standpoint of radical political economy, and proposes a research agenda for the commons.
P14|Primitive Accumulation in the Cultural Commons|A culture is a kind of common created by social communications and composed of both information and attention. Over the last hundred and forty years or so, the United States has seen an aggressive move toward the privatization of both the information and attention facets of the cultural commons. The model of a collectively governed commons offers a more democratic option than commodified communications.
P14|Luta pela permanência na terra e memórias de conflito agrário numa comunidade remanescente quilombola: Lagoa Santa-Ituberá-Bahia, Brasil|This study examines a rural black community that defines itself as of Quilombola origin, located in Lagoa Santa, Ituberá, in the state of Bahia, Brazil. The main objective of the study is to understand the process of expropriation of a significant portion of rural land occupied by this black community. We have attempted to demonstrate that both the legal and bureaucratic constraints imposed by the Brazilian government for the legalization of ownership of small plots of land occupied by land grabbers were an important factor in how a small privileged elite accumulated land. Data were collected from interviews and from written sources such as processes of re-appropriation of land and certificates proving the purchase or sale of real estate. By analyzing both written documents and the narratives of those directly or indirectly involved in the conflicts, we have sought to problematize issues of struggle and access to land in Brazil’s post-abolition period. It becomes evident that there is a relationship between the individual and social memories of the rural black community members involved in the conflicts that led to the partial expropriation of their land. This relationship currently projects itself in the community expectations engendered by the prospect of ownership of land that had been expropriated, having its own territory demarcated and granted, as currently required by law in Brazil.
P14|Do capitalistic institutions breed billionaires?|Abstract There is a new wave of interest in the inequality of income and wealth in the social sciences as well as in physics. On the top of the list are persons who own assets of US dollar 1 billion and more. Not much is known quantitatively of the distribution of these persons among countries. In this paper, it is analyzed empirically whether more capitalistic countries, as measured by index variables of economic freedom, exhibit a systematically larger number of billionaires in the year 2012 than less capitalistic countries. The main result is that the typical economic freedom indicators do not play a statistically significant role with respect to the number and wealth of billionaires, except the protection of property rights. In addition to that, according to further empirical results of the paper, billionaires may not be economically harmful for the respective countries as their existence, number and wealth is positively correlated with the GDP per head.
P14|Knowledge as a Global Common and the Crisis of the Learning Economy|This paper analyzes two interrelated problems characterizing a learning society. On the one hand, there is a tension between the non-rival nature of knowledge and its private appropriation. On the other hand, there is an institutional mismatch between the global public good nature of knowledge and the fragmentation of political power among different nations. We will argue that these two contradictions are a fundamental cause of economic stagnation and of inequality. The excessive monopolization of knowledge decreases the rate of growth but, at the same time, it increases the share of profits and shareholders’ wealth. The discounted rents of privatized knowledge are a clear example of what Joe Stiglitz has aptly named capitaldestructive wealth. Whereas the wealth (of few) increases, knowledge-capital decreases because its available uses are dramatically restricted.
P14|Transaction Costs Market Failures and Economic Development|This paper relates economic development to transaction costs It reveals the triad transaction costs market failure economic underdevelopment Many scholars attribute the problems of development to the failure of markets to perform their role of resource allocation Some deny market failure and blame government instead Of those who trace the roots of economic backwardness to market failure few if none investigate transaction costs in their linkage with market failure This paper tries to bridge development economics with transaction cost theory and new institutional analysis
P14|Social capital and large-scale agricultural investments: An experimental investigation in Zambia|Large-scale agricultural investments (LSAIs) typically depend on strong formal institutions and market-oriented intensive farming, whereas informal institutions tend to characterize the traditional villages located around them. We investigate changes to social capital in such villages when LSAIs materialize in their vicinity. Specifically, we employ a lab-in-the-field and a natural field experiment to elicit cooperation levels in villages that lie in the direct proximity of two LSAIs and compare them to villages further away. Our results reveal more cooperative outcomes for villages around the LSAIs. Smallholders who have worked on large-scale farms also show greater levels of cooperation than those who have no such work experience. Moreover, villages closer to the LSAIs demonstrate a higher propensity to share the public good provided in the natural field experiment. Taken together, these results suggest that beyond direct effects on employment, LSAIs yield positive externalities on cooperation, which are likely to be driven by increased exposure to more market-oriented forms of agriculture.
P14|Precision-Guided or Blunt? The Effects of US Economic Sanctions on Human Rights|This study contributes to the literature that analyzes the consequences of economic sanctions for the target country’s human rights situation. We offer a political economy explanation for different types of human rights infringements or improvements in reaction to economic shocks caused by sanctions. Based on this, we derive hypotheses linking sanctions to four types of human rights: economic rights, political and civil rights, basic human rights, and emancipatory rights. We use endogenous treatment regression models to estimate the causal average treatment effect of US economic sanctions on each type of human rights within a uniform empirical framework. In contrast to previous studies, we find no adverse effects of sanctions on economic rights, political and civil rights, and basic human rights, once the endogenous selection into sanctions is modelled. With respect to women’s rights, our findings even indicate a positive relationship. Emancipatory rights are, on average, strengthened when a country experiences sanctions by the US. Our findings are robust and we find little evidence for effect heterogeneity between types of target countries or sanctions. Most importantly, this study shows that the endogeneity of treatment assignment must be modelled when the consequences of sanctions are studied empirically.
P14|Delinking Land Rights from Land Use: Certification and Migration in Mexico|In many developing countries property rights over rural land are maintained through continuous personal use instead of by land titles. We show that removing the link between land use and land rights through the issuance of ownership certificates can result in large-scale adjustments to labor and land allocations. Using the rollout of the Mexican land certification program from 1993 to 2006, we find that households obtaining certificates were subsequently 28 percent more likely to have a migrant member. We also show that even though land certification induced migration, it had little effect on cultivated area due to consolidation of farm units. (JEL O13, O17, P14, Q15, Q18, Q24, Q28)
P14|Bundling Governance: Finance versus Institutions in Private Investment Promotion|Abstract Purpose – The study extends the debate on finance versus institutions in the promotion of investment documented by Acemoglu and Johnson (2005), Ali (2013) and Asongu (2014). We assess the effects of various components of governance on private investment, notably: political, economic and institutional governances. Financial indicators of depth, allocation efficiency, activity and size are used. Design/methodology/approach – An endogeneity robust dynamic system GMM estimation technique is employed. Principal component analysis is also employed to reduce the dimensions of governance variables. The empirical evidence is based on 53 African countries for the period 1996-2010. Findings – The findings provide support for the quality of governance as a better determinant of private investment than financial intermediary development. Moreover, the evidence of finance and governance as substitutes in their impact on investment implies that good governance fuels private investment and this positive impact is stronger in nations with less developed financial systems. This finding is consistent with Ali (2013) and contrary to the results of Asongu (2014c). Practical implication – Policy measures for fighting involuntary and voluntary surplus liquidities are discussed. The paper provides additional support for the need of strengthening governance institutions to promote investment on the one hand and fighting financial allocation inefficiency by mitigating surplus liquidity issues on the other hand. Originality/value – The paper extends the debate on the substitution of finance and institutions in the promotion of private investment.
P14|The Cyprus Crisis and the Legal Protection of Foreign Investors|The legal protection of foreign investments deposited in EU financial institutions has attracted considerable attention both in the legal as well as in the business community following European Parliament’s approval on last April of the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive which includes the so called bail in clause. As the introduction of this clause reflects the intentions of EU’s institutions to put an end to the use of taxpayers’ funds to resolve financial crises, on the other hand it already had a remarkable impact on banks’ creditors’ property rights, especially in the case of foreign investors. In this view, this dissertation will survey the possible legal protection, mostly but not exclusively included in ad hoc Bilateral Investment Treaties (“BIT”), provided to foreign investors to recover the losses suffered following bail-ins’ of credit institutions. In this regard, particular attention will be given to the analysis of the relevant crisis of the Cypriot’s banking sector and the following laws enabling its restructuring by means of creditors’ assets write off, the subsequent institutionalization of this template at the EU level and the connections of this new legal framework with international law rules and principles which safeguard property rights of expropriated foreign investors.
P14|Hungary’S U-Turn|For two decades Hungary, like the other Eastern European countries, followed a general policy of establishing and strengthening the institutions of democracy, rule of law, and a market economy based on private property. However, since the elections of 2010, when Viktor Orbán’s Fidesz party came to power, Hungary has made a dramatic U-turn. This article investigates the different spheres of society: political institutions, the rule of law, and the influence of state and market on one another, as well as the world of ideology (education, science and art), and describes the U-turn’s implications for these fields and the effect it has on the life of people. It argues against the frequent misunderstandings in the interpretation and evaluation of the Hungarian situation, pointing out some typical intellectual fallacies. It draws attention to the dangers of strengthening nationalism, and to the ambivalence evident in Hungarian foreign policy, and looks into the relationship between Hungary and the Western world, particularly the European Union. Finally, it outlines the possible scenarios resulting from future developments in the Hungarian situation.
P14|Culture and Global Sourcing|This paper develops a model of global sourcing with culturally dissimilar countries. Production of final goods requires the coordination of decisions between the headquarter of a multinational firm and managers of their component suppliers. Managers of both units are assumed to have strong beliefs about the right course of action and are reluctant to adjust their decisions. We then characterize the optimal allocation of decision rights across firms when contracts are incomplete. Our theoretical model delivers two key predictions: An incentive of a firm to integrate (rather than outsource) its input supply is decreasing in cultural distance between the home and the host country and decreasing in trade cost between the two countries. Combining data from the U.S. Census Bureau s Related Party Trade with various measures for cultural distance and trade cost, we find empirical evidence broadly supportive of these two predictions.
P14|La teoría del título válido de Robert Nozick: un balance|Robert Nozick’s entitlement theory is one of the cornerstones of his theory of justice. Being one of the pillars of the argument in the defense of a minimal State, it has been a target for much criticism. This article studies some of these attacks in order to show that many of them are either misguided, or are based on misunderstandings which are eliminated through an adequate interpretation of the function played by Locke’s proviso and the principle of rectification within Nozick’s theory. In discussing these principles, though, the article put forward the reading that a realist consideration of the conditions under which an entitlement theory should be applied would entail a defense of a more than minimal State, for much longer than Nozick would admit.
P14|Property rights and the stock market-growth nexus|Using threshold estimation techniques, this study examines whether the growth effect of stock market development differs according to the different levels of property rights and minority shareholders protection in a cross-section of 85 jurisdictions during the post-crisis period. The results demonstrate that the impact of stock market liquidity on growth is positive and significant only in jurisdictions where there is high level of property rights protection. Similar effect is discerned in the case of strong minority shareholders protection. Using the market size as a measure of stock market development, the paper also documents a positive growth effect of market size when property rights and minority shareholders protection are strong. However, there is mixed evidence in the low to medium degrees of protection. Further analyses using other broader governance indicators as threshold variables and instrumental variable threshold regressions reaffirm the main findings. The study upholds the “better finance, more growth” proposition and contributes to the identification of thresholds above which institutional quality can positively shape the impact of stock market on economic growth.
P14|Privatization, financial development, property rights and growth|This study analyzes how prevailing institutional arrangements i.e., property rights, contracting rights, political institutions, and corporate governance practices affect privatized firms’ performance, capital markets development, and economic growth. Most of the studies surveyed show that privatization enhances privatized firms performance, efficiency, and profitability, which percolates to economic growth. Privatized firms performed better in countries with better regulatory and legal frameworks. Partial privatization may be beneficial in countries with weak institutions, namely, the French civil law countries. The stronger the economic and the governing institutions, the easier it is for privatized firms to thrive and contribute to economic growth. Overall, privatization allows firms to achieve improved efficiency while driving the development of the financial sector.
P14|Superentrepreneurship and global imbalances: closing Europe’s gap to other industrialized regions|The EU’s Role in Fighting Global Imbalances looks at the role of the European Union in addressing some of the greatest challenges of our time: poverty, protectionism, climate change, and human trafficking. Contributions from ten leading scholars in the fields of economics, law, and political science provide in-depth analyses of three key dimensions of EU foreign policy, namely: the internal challenges facing the EU, as its 28 member countries struggle to coordinate their actions; the external challenges facing the EU on the global arena, in areas where global imbalances are particularly pervasive, and where measures taken by the Union can have an important impact; and the EU´s performance on the global arena, in the eyes of other key actors. Based on a broad and interdisciplinary understanding of the concept of global imbalances, this book argues that these challenges follow from pervasive global imbalances, which at root are economic, political, and legal in character.
P14|Trade, Law and Order, and Political Liberties: Theory and Application to English Medieval Boroughs|We argue that trade opportunities, combined with the provision of law and order, may lead to local political liberties. In our model, a ruler chooses the size of an administration that (i) provides law and order for a merchant to use and (ii) collects taxes. Larger gains from trade increase the demand for law and order, which requires a larger administration. However, a larger administration is more difficult to monitor and allow local officials to expropriate merchants. When the resulting inefficiencies are significant, the ruler delegates control of the administration to the better-informed merchant, even though this makes tax evasion more tempting. We then analyze the emergence of local political liberties in post-Norman Conquest England (1066-1307) using data on taxation, commerce, and the behavior of local officials. This period marks the beginning of England's transition away from feudalism. We nd that trade expansion coincides with widespread misbehavior by ocials and, in line with the predictions of our model, an increasing willingness by the king to grant boroughs of high commercial value the right to elect local officials.
P14|Why Trading with Dictators May Nevertheless Help the People: On the Interplay between Trade, Political Regimes and Economic Institutions|Recent empirical studies confirm a positive relationship between trade liberalization or trade openness and the quality of domestic economic institutions. An isolated analysis of trade openness per se, however, may grossly simplify the mechanisms at work, as the linkage between open trade and quality of economic institutions is likely to vary for different political regimes. This study examines the causal relationship between trade openness and quality of economic institutions under different political institutions. We find that in the presence of extractive political institutions, the effect of trade openness on economic institutions is reduced significantly.
P14|Relative Injustice Aversion|I propose a new utility function based on the relative aversion to injustice to explain why, in bargaining games, neither classical equilibria nor inequality aversion equilibria hold when money is not windfall, but it is the result of the effort. This utility function generalizes the concept of inequality aversion when agents have beliefs about what they deserve, and it is able to explain rejections in non zero-sum games. I analyze the agents' behavior and their bargaining power in the dictator game, ultimatum game and (0,1)-ultimatum game and results are compared within those games.
P14|Ruling elites’ rotation and asset ownership: implications for property rights|We provide a theory and empirical evidence indicating that the rotation of ruling elites in conjunction with elites’ asset ownership could improve property rights protection in non-democracies. The mechanism that upholds property rights is based on elites’ concern about the security of their own asset ownership in the event they lose power. Such incentives provide a solution to the credible commitment problem in maintaining secure property rights when institutional restrictions on expropriation are weak or absent. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P14|Does tenure insecurity explain the variations in land-related investment decisions in rural Ethiopia?|We examine the relationship between land tenure security and land-related investments in rural Ethiopia. We control for both household heterogeneity and possible endogeneity of tenure security in estimating the impact of tenure security on investment. Empirical results show that variations in levels of tenure security do not explain the observed differences in investment behaviour among farm households in rural Ethiopia. In contrast, land size, access to labour and extension services, and location are seen to be important determinants of land-related investments. The results suggest that without addressing other barriers to investment, land reforms (titling) may not be sufficient to improve land-related investments.
P14|"Are both dimensions of property rights ""efficient""?"|"The ""efficient institutions view"" on property rights claims that property rights emerged and are enforced when their enforcement maximizes net wealth. In a cross-country pattern this is usually understood as the prediction that economic development creates the incentives to provide higher quality property rights, but this claim is highly debated. This paper tries to take various property rights scholarsâ€™ arguments seriously and see property rights quality as a two dimensional concept, the two dimensions being the definition and the assignment of property rights. The paper derives a measure for these two dimensions of property rights and shows that it is the assignment dimension which is determined by development, while the definition dimensions is rather determined by cultural factors, especially those deeper factors that seem to reflect a long-run effect of Western European culture. According to the paper, the main reasons behind this may be the difference in the expropriability of income generated by an improvement of each dimension, and the way such improvements may or may not affect countries' catching up process."
P14|Making and Breaking Property Rights: Coalitions, Veto Players, and the Institutional Foundation of Markets|This paper analyzes why some governments protect property rights while others do not. Although institutional constraints may affect government incentives to protect property rights, the paper emphasizes that different political institutions have dissimilar effects. Coalition institutions that make governments accountable to large groups in society are particularly important, whereas division of powers between veto players is hypothesized to have more ambiguous effects on property rights. Empirical analyses of panel data support the proposition that coalition institutions matter for property-rights protection, whereas veto-player institutions have no particular effect.
P14|Culture and Global Sourcing|This paper develops a model of global sourcing with culturally dissimilar countries. Production of final goods requires the coordination of decisions between the headquarter of a multinational firm and managers of their component suppliers. Managers of both units are assumed to have strong beliefs about the right course of action and are reluctant to adjust their decisions. We characterize the optimal allocation of decision rights across firms when contracts are incomplete. Our theoretical model delivers two key predictions: the incentive of a firm to integrate (rather than outsource) its input supply is decreasing in the cultural distance between the home and the host country and decreasing in trade costs between the two countries. Combining data from the U.S. Census Bureau's Related Party Trade with various measures for cultural distance and trade cost, we find empirical evidence strongly supportive of these two predictions.
P14|Neoliberalism, ‘Digitization’, and Creativity: the Issue of Applied Ontology|The paper extends Foucault’s analysis of neoliberalism in The Birth of Biopolitics. More specifically, I construct and defend an anti-Husserlian approach to the labour process with the objective of investigating how collectively generated forms of intellectual labour have been appropriated under capitalist relations of production. I also interrogate the way that different notions of (computational) applied ontology influence both the nature of and our very conception of social creativity. What, quite wrongly, has been thought of in Spinoza as pantheism is simply the reduction of the field of God to the universality of the signifier, which produces a serene, exceptional detachment from human desire. In so far as Spinoza says—desire is the essence of man, and in the radical dependence of the universality of the divine attributes, which is possible only through the function of the signifier, in so far as he does this, he obtains that unique position by which the philosopher—and it is no accident that it is a Jew detached from his tradition who embodies it—may be confused with a transcendent love. This position is not tenable for us. Experience shows us that Kant is more true, and I have proved that his theory of consciousness, when he writes of practical reason, is sustained only by giving a specification of the moral law which, looked at more closely, is simply desire in its pure state, that very desire that culminates in sacrifice, strictly speaking, of everything that is the object of love in one’s human tenderness—I would say, not only in the rejection of the pathological object, but also in its sacrifice and murder. That is why I wrote Kant avec Sade. (Lacan, 1979: 275-6) But it is like the story of the Resistance fighters who, wanting to destroy a pylon, balanced the plastic charges so well that the pylon blew up and fell back into its hole. From the Symbolic to the Imaginary, from castration to Oedipus, and from the despotic age to capitalism, inversely, there is the progress leading to the withdrawal of the overseeing and overcoding object from on high, which gives way to a social field of immanence where the decoded flows produce images and level them down. Whence the two aspects of the signifier: a barred transcendent signifier taken in a maximum that distributes lack, and an immanent system of relations between minimal elements that come to fill the uncovered field (somewhat similar in traditional terms to the way one goes from Parmenidean Being to the atoms of Democritus). (Deleuze and Guattari,1987: 290-1). Marx was vexed by the bourgeois character of the American working class. But it turned out that the prosperous Americans were merely showing the way for the British and the French and the Japanese. The universal class into which we are merging is not the revolutionary proletariat but the innovative bourgeoisie. (McClosky, D. 2009)
P14|Economic Strategy for the Peripheral System|"Russian economic system is considered as a peripheral capitalist economy. For this type of economy the concept of ""economic strategy"" does not seem applicable, since the system itself rigidly defines the logic of development. It determines such features of Russia's economy as a large role of export of mineral resources, dependence on external financial markets and on foreign investments as the source of new technologies; government and business interweaving; financial flows configured by rent income extraction through administration and corruption. With lacking civil society, weak institutions and subordinated position within the world economy the system can be transformed only through conscious efforts of authorities. However political regime which evolved in the country - peripheral autocracy - makes only more conspicuous the lack of political will to reform the system. So a scenario of Russia implementing the strategy of breaking through the limitations of the peripheral area of world capitalism is postponed for an indefinite period of time."
P14|African American Slavery - a Social Ecological Approach|This paper aims to briefly explore American slavery from a social ecological point of view. As a historical and economic institution, this (pre)capitalist structure is related to social hierarchies of power in which a cultural dichotomy is anchored within the inner fabric of a specific society. Thus, there are contiguous oppositions between the white and the black, man and woman, human and nature, identity and alterity. This societal antinomy has been exported to Nature in such a way that both human slaves and the environment are apprehended as commodities satisfying the white people's economic or personal needs. Nevertheless, the binary opposition of master and slave or Nature represents a cultural construct and it ought to be deconstructed in order to show that there is an ontological or, at least, axiological continuity between the oppressor and the oppressed, between the economic structures and the environment.
P14|Endogenous Institutional Change and Privileged Groups|Since the recent advances in the institutional perspective of economic development, there is considerable increase in the literature on the evolution of institutions. In this study, while employing the game theoretic approach, we explore the rent-seeking fundamentals of institutions. We model the manner in which the rent-seeking behaviour of state actors results in inefficiency of the institutional framework. The main focus is on the rents provided by the availability of natural resources wealth, foreign aid or corruption potential. By originating a framework where rulers, agents of the state, and citizens act endogenously, we show that the rents from these resources can be a significant constraint to institutional reforms. In order to come out of the bad institutions trap, the society needs to offer a substantial amount of incentives to the privileged groups. The focus is on two privileged groups, i.e. the rulers and the state agents. In most of the societies, these two groups have the highest bargaining power in the negotiations over the rules and institutions.
P14|« Propriété » ou « possession » : une question de sémantique…ou de paradigme ?<BR>[“Property” or “possession”: just a matter of semantics…or paradigm?]|This paper deals with the debate between “property” and “possession”, hosted by the Journal of Institutional Economics since early 2015. According to Hodgson, economists conflate these two terms involving important consequences on the discernment of the analysis and on the general scope of the economics of property rights. In the same journal, Allen and Barzel only concede semantics significance to the Hodgson’s critics. We analyze the whys and wherefores of this debate and discuss its paradigmatic dimension.
P14|O Custo da Incerteza: Uma Análise do Pensamento Novo Institucional de Douglass North<BR>[The Cost of Uncertainty: A New Institutional Thought Analysis of Douglass North]|The theme of economic development has always had an important role at the center of macroeconomic research, meanwhile microeconomic environment; uncertainty has its due prominence. However, few authors develop these issues jointly, although the uncertainty holds an important role in decision making of agents, and therefore the array of choices that determine the development of a country. This paper aims to examine how to establish the relationship between uncertainty and economic development, from the perspective proposed by Nobel 1993, Douglass North (05Nov1920 – 23Nov2015). Based on an analysis of the notion of uncertainty proposed by Knight in 1927, this paper advances to the contemporary notion developed by North. Then, through a breakdown of development theory proposed by North, will be discussed how the uncertainty is associated with each factor of development, aiming to demonstrate the critical role played by the control of Uncertainty in development or decline a country.
P14|Bundling Governance: Finance versus Institutions in Private Investment Promotion|Purpose – The study extends the debate on finance versus institutions in the promotion of investment documented by Acemoglu and Johnson (2005), Ali (2013) and Asongu (2014). We assess the effects of various components of governance on private investment, notably: political, economic and institutional governances. Financial indicators of depth, allocation efficiency, activity and size are used. Design/methodology/approach – An endogeneity robust dynamic system GMM estimation technique is employed. Principal component analysis is also employed to reduce the dimensions of governance variables. The empirical evidence is based on 53 African countries for the period 1996-2010. Findings – The findings provide support for the quality of governance as a better determinant of private investment than financial intermediary development. Moreover, the evidence of finance and governance as substitutes in their impact on investment implies that good governance fuels private investment and this positive impact is stronger in nations with less developed financial systems. This finding is consistent with Ali (2013) and contrary to the results of Asongu (2014c). Practical implication – Policy measures for fighting involuntary and voluntary surplus liquidities are discussed. The paper provides additional support for the need of strengthening governance institutions to promote investment on the one hand and fighting financial allocation inefficiency by mitigating surplus liquidity issues on the other hand. Originality/value – The paper extends the debate on the substitution of finance and institutions in the promotion of private investment.
P14|The Impact of Economic Freedom on the Unemployment Rate in O.E.C.D. Nations: An Exploratory Study Accepting the Validity of Okun’s Law - L’impatto della libertà economica sul tasso di disoccupazione nei paesi Ocse: uno studio esplorativo sulla base dell’accettazione della legge di Okun|This exploratory study empirically investigates the hypothesis that the higher the degree of economic freedom in a nation, the lower the unemployment rate in that nation, ceteris paribus. This hypothesis is based on the idea that greater economic freedom leads to greater real GDP growth, which in turn reduces the unemployment rate. As such, it represents a de facto acceptance (in principle) of Okun’s Law. The framework studied consists of a dataset for the member nations of the OECD (except Iceland) during the period 2003 to 2007, which precedes the Great Recession. The model in this exploratory study, which integrates a measure of the tax burden, a long term interest rate, and a measure of political stability, along with a measure of overall economic freedom, provides estimations finding that the unemployment rate is a decreasing function of the overall average level of economic freedom. Robustness testing, which involves narrowing the definition of the economic freedom measure and introducing a variable reflecting regulatory quality, leads to same conclusion, namely, that greater economic freedom reduces the unemployment rate. - Questo studio presenta una verifica empirica sull’ipotesi secondo cui, a parità di condizioni, maggiore è il livello di libertà economica in un paese, minore sarà il tasso di disoccupazione. Tale ipotesi si basa sull’idea che una maggiore libertà economica porti ad una maggior crescita del PIL reale, che a sua volta riduce il tasso di disoccupazione. Ciò rappresenta l’accettazione de facto della legge di Okun. Il modello si basa su un dataset per i paesi Ocse (esclusa l’Islanda) durante il periodo 2003-2007, cioè prima della grande crisi. Questo modello, che si basa su un indice di pressione fiscale, sul tasso di interesse a lungo termine e su un indicatore di stabilità politica, insieme a un indice della apertura economica generale, fornisce stime che evidenziano che il tasso di disoccupazione è una funzione decrescente del livello generale medio della libertà economica. I test di robustezza, che includono una definizione più ristretta di libertà economica e l’introduzione di una variabile che riflette la qualità dei controlli, porta alla stessa conclusione: una maggiore libertà economica riduce la disoccupazione.
P14|Informal property rights as stable conventions in hawk-dove games with many players|This paper investigates the evolution of conventions (Young Econometrica 61(1):57–84, 1993 ) in n-player hawk-dove games where multiple players share the same payoff-irrelevant label, such as “blue” or “green”. With more than two players, the stochastically stable equilibrium depends on how many players in the contest share each label. If the cost of fighting is high, then the long-run equilibrium is favorable to the label shared by fewer players – those players play hawk – while if the cost is low, then the opposite convention develops. This result provides one explanation for the emergence of informal property rights. In disputes over property, a fundamental distinction exists between the possessor, who is unique, and non-possessors, who can be several. For objects whose value is low relative to the cost of conflict over them, this asymmetry favors the development of informal property rights conventions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
P14|Pillage games with multiple stable sets|We prove that pillage games (Jordan in J Econ Theory 131.1:26–44, 2006 , “Pillage and property”, JET) can have multiple stable sets, constructing pillage games with up to $$2^{\tfrac{n-1}{3}}$$ 2 n - 1 3 stable sets, when the number of agents, $$n$$ n , exceeds four. We do so by violating the anonymity axiom common to the existing literature to establish a power dichotomy: for all but a small exceptional set of endowments, powerful agents can overcome all the others; within the exceptional set, the lesser agents can defend their resources. Once the allocations giving powerful agents all resources are included in a candidate stable set, deriving the rest proceeds by considering dominance relations over the finite exceptional sets—reminiscent of stable sets’ derivation in classical cooperative game theory. We also construct a multi-good pillage game with only three agents that also has two stable sets. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
P14|On the substitution of institutions and finance in investment|The Ali (2013, EB) findings on the nexuses among institutions, finance and investment could have an important influence on policy and academic debates. This paper relaxes his hypotheses on the conception, definition and measurement of finance and institutions because they are less realistic to developing countries to which the resulting policy implications are destined. We dissect with great acuteness the contextual underpinnings of financial development dynamics and elucidate why the Acemoglu & Johnson (2005) justification provided for the measurement of property rights institutions (PRI) is lacking in substance. Using updated data (1996-2010) from 53 African countries, we provide more robust evidence on the substitution of institutions and finance in investment. Results under many baseline and augmented scenarios are not consistent with the underlying paper. Justifications for the differences in findings are discussed. As a policy implication, the Ali (2013, EB) findings for countries with poor financial systems may not be relevant for Africa.
P14|An Economic Theory of the Evolutionary Emergence of Property Rights|We model the emergence of an innate, biological sense of property rights where resource scarcity and output contestability reign. Preferences evolve such that, in evolutionarily stable equilibrium, an object is valued more by an individual who possesses it, or has produced it, than if he is neither possessor nor producer. In a distributional contest for the object, the possessor/producer will devote more effort to retaining it than an interloper will to expropriating it. Asymmetry in preferences for an object between possessor/producer and interloper, and consequent asymmetry of efforts defending or expropriating it, constitute our concept of innate property rights.
P14|Addressing Global Environmental Externalities: Transaction Costs Considerations|Is there a way to understand why some global environmental externalities are addressed effectively, whereas others are not? The transaction costs of defining the property rights to mitigation benefits and costs is a useful framework for such analysis. This approach views international cooperation as a contractual process among country leaders to assign those property rights. Leaders cooperate when it serves domestic interests to do so. The demand for property rights comes from those who value and stand to gain from multilateral action. Property rights are supplied by international agreements that specify resource access and use, assign costs and benefits including outlining the size and duration of compensating transfer payments, and determining who will pay and who will receive them. Four factors raise the transaction costs of assigning property rights: (i) scientific uncertainty regarding mitigation benefits and costs; (ii) varying preferences and perceptions across heterogeneous populations; (iii) asymmetric information; and (iv) the extent of compliance and new entry. These factors are used to examine the role of transaction costs in the establishment and allocation of property rights to provide globally valued national parks, implement the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, execute the Montreal Protocol to manage emissions that damage the stratospheric ozone layer, set limits on harvest of highly-migratory ocean fish stocks, and control greenhouse gas emissions.
P14|Institutions and Poverty: A Critical Comment Based on Evolving Currents and Debates|Abstract Tebaldi and Mohan (Journal of Development Studies 46:1047–1066, 2010) have established an empirical relationship between institutions and monetary poverty. We first, reflect their findings in the light of recent development models, debates and currents in post-2010 literature. We then re-examine their results with a non-monetary and multidimensional poverty indicator first published in 2010. Our findings confirm the negative relationship and the nexus disappears with control for average income. Hence, confirming the conclusions of the underlying study that institutions could have an indirect effect on multidimensional poverty. In other words, the poverty eradication effect of institutions is through average income as opposed to income inequality. We discuss how the findings provide insights into: (1) the Chinese model versus sustainable development; (2) debates over preferences in economic rights; (3) China’s development and outlook; (4) the Fosu conjectures and (5) Piketty’s and Kuznets’ literatures.
P14|Inequality and Wealth Creation in Ancient History: Malthus’ Theory Reconsidered|The main purpose of this paper is to propose the hypothesis that inequality was essential for the sustainability and ‘development' of early agriculturally based societies that developed in Prehistory and Ancient History. This was so for varied reasons: there was a need for some members of societies – the dominant class also called the elite – to escape from the Malthusian trap. In most cases, agriculture produced a bigger economic surplus eventually. Managerial problems – such as the ones associated with storage, the division of labor, irrigation, trade – being part of the consequences of the Neolithic revolution, created pressures to develop more centralized political organizations, a process which led later to the formation of the early states. This process allowed the appearance of powerful local chiefs who changed the nature of their original communities with new forms of social organization, in which one individual and his enlarged family – transformed into a ruling elite – received the benefits of the labor of a large number of serfs belonging to less-favored communities in neighboring areas. Although the surplus appropriated by the elite was used in specific ways – consumption, investments and expenditures on armed forces – it increased the power and wealth of these societies, albeit a solution involving unequally distributed wealth. While this is not the only factor in the growing dominance of agriculturally based societies, it is one of main ones as is evidenced by considering six early civilizations resulting from the Neolithic revolution. This result involves an important modification of Malthus' theory. However, inequality – though necessary – was not a sufficient condition for the sustainability and economic development of these early societies.
P14|Post-Socialist transition in a 25-year perspective|A recent international conference, entitled Transition in Perspective offered an opportunity for the author to take stock of the achievements of the post-socialist economies since the regime change in 1989/90. The analysis was carried out in two dimensions, in the political and the economic one. Regarding the first one, the record is largely positive: many countries have regained their independence, although in some cases the price was high and the fundamentals of democracy are still missing. In civil wars and inter-ethnic fights far too many people were killed and/or displaced. Since about 2000, many countries fell in the hand of autocratic leaders. In terms of catching-up with the income levels of the advanced economies, less than half of the countries were truly successful. The people have good reasons to be disappointed.
P14|Why are civil liberties more important than executive constraints in economic development? A property rights approach|This paper develops a simple model that helps understand an important fact concerning cross-country pattern of growth and institutions shown by BenYishay and Betancourt (2010). They show that civil freedoms, especially one of their components called Autonomy and Individual Rights, are more important determinants of economic development than constraints on executives, a widely used measure in the literature on institutions and growth. The paper provides an interpretation of this fact through the lense of an argument that puts emphasis on three insights. The first is that civil freedoms can be seen as property rights broadly understood. The second is that with a higher scope of property rights enforced, the government must be able to commit to a lower level of expropriation of income. Third, institutions of freedom are sticky: they must be in line with the culture of the country so that they can be enforced with a reasonable cost. By addressing this specific question of constraints on executives versus civil freedoms the paper joins the literature which emphasizes the importance of culture in economic development.
P14|Introduction: Environmental Sustainability Symposium|The issue of environmental sustainability is a controversial and extremely diverse multi-faceted topic that ranges from questions as to how to ensure that adequate investment in energy R&D and infrastructure will be undertaken, to state level renewable portfolio standards, to the impact of pollution havens on legislation that would enhance industrial greenhouse gas emission standards, to economic resilience to hurricane hazards, and to EPA policies. This paper summarizes seven studies that are devoted to exploring various aspects of the remarkably complex and diverse dimensions of environmental sustainability.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P14|De la critique des corporations à la libération des forces productives : l'économie politique de Jean-Baptiste Say|In the Traité d’Economie Politique and in the Cours Complet d’Economie Politique, Jean-Baptiste Say develops a criticism of corporations and other industrial regulations. According to him, these regulations are barriers to the entrepreneurial freedom and to the progress of arts. They are almost always tools of individual and collective oppression and at the origin of various economic, social and political ills. In this paper, we detail Say’s argumentation against corporations and show that it is part of more general framework based on the influence of institutions on the economy and of machines on commerce. His critical analysis leads us to present his conception of a necessary liberation of the forces of production, which requires the creation of a general framework favorable to the freedom to undertake and a blossoming of the forces of production (machines). These elements also constitute the foundations of his political economy. JEL Codes : A11, B12, B30, K11, N01, P14, P16
P14|Is [Rural] Property Tax Relevant?|Abstract: The present document presents the general notions and the definition of property taxation and, as part of it, the working definition of rural property taxation emphasizing that property taxation is a matter of “property” and rural property taxation is linked with rural property, specifically with land ownership. In addition, the document presents some facts about the performance of property taxation based on a secondary source of cross-country analysis. In order to give a definition of rural property tax, I will explain the logic of taxation linked to property and then present the nature and logic behind property taxation in theory.
P14|Unbundling democracy: Political rights and civil liberties|Much recent political economy and political science literature views democracy in terms of political rights. This view, often referred to as electoral democracy, is particularly pronounced in the empirical literature. We reincorporate the role of civil liberties, which are at the core of modern democracy, in two ways. We identify four fundamental sources of potential differences in the evolution of political rights and civil liberties. We present systematic, robust and varied empirical evidence on the direct impact of two of these potential sources of differences using cross-national panel data and accounting for the modernization hypothesis. We obtain two noteworthy empirical results: civil liberties exhibit greater persistence than political rights in affecting subsequent outcomes; and, our main result, civil liberties are complementary to political rights when affecting subsequent outcomes, while the reverse is not the case. Consequently, one must incorporate civil liberties as a determinant of electoral democracy. More generally, both dimensions must be considered to understand the setbacks recently experienced by many democracies, despite their holding of free and fair elections.
P14|Patterns of growth in Chinese cities: Implications of the land lease|A special feature of China’s housing market is land use rights in the form of land leasehold contracts granted by the government. We consider an equilibrium model in which a representative developer may choose to redevelop existing centrally located housing or to develop new housing at the periphery of the city. We show that as the city grows, the land leasehold system results in the city center being developed less intensely and more land being used on the outskirts of the city when compared to a fee simple environment. Thus, cities in China are likely to be relatively more spread out, with city centers relatively older than would be the case with “fee simple” ownership. Our model suggests that excess residential land use is about 6 percent. In addition, compared with the ownership case, housing supply will grow more quickly in the near future, but more slowly later on during the transition of the Chinese economy. Parallel to the supply growth pattern, equilibrium price grows relative slowly in the near future, but more quickly later on. While we focus on residential uses, we believe our model can be applied to other land uses.
P14|Sufficient conditions for unique stable sets in three agent pillage games|Pillage games (Jordan, 2006a) have two features that make them richer than cooperative games in either characteristic or partition function form: they allow power externalities between coalitions; they allow resources to contribute to coalitions’ power as well as to their utility. Extending von Neumann and Morgenstern’s analysis of three agent games in characteristic function form to anonymous pillage games, we characterise the core for any number of agents; for three agents, all anonymous pillage games with an empty core represent the same dominance relation. When a stable set exists, and the game also satisfies a continuity and a responsiveness axiom, it is unique and contains no more than 15 elements, a tight bound. By contrast, stable sets in three agent games in characteristic or partition function form may not be unique, and may contain continua. Finally, we provide an algorithm for computing the stable set, and can easily decide non-existence. Thus, in addition to offering attractive modelling possibilities, pillage games seem well behaved and analytically tractable, overcoming a difficulty that has long impeded use of cooperative game theory’s flexibility.
P14|Taxation and Democratization|Anecdotal evidence from pre-modern Europe and North America suggests that rulers are forced to become more democratic once they impose a significant fiscal burden on their citizens. One difficulty in testing this “taxation causes democratization” hypothesis empirically is the endogeneity of public revenues. I use introductions of value added taxes and autonomous revenue authorities as sources of quasi-exogenous variation to identify the causal effect of the fiscal burden borne by citizens on democracy. The instrumental variables regressions with a panel of 122 countries over the period 1981–2008 suggest that revenues have on average a mild positive effect on democracy.
P14|Can't see the tacking for the trees? Try a Coasian solution|Arguably, the types of examples used by texts in examining Coasian bargains that address negative externalities are not the types of situations or stories that typically appeal to traditional college and university students. The chapter provides a more modern story for principles instructors to use as a supplement to traditional textbook accounts of the problems associated with externalities and the applicability of the Coase Theorem.
P14|Rights to Ecosystem Services|Ecosystem services are the benefits people obtain from ecosystems. Many of these services are provided outside the borders of the land where they are produced; this article investigates who is entitled to these non-excludable ecosystem services from two libertarian perspectives. Taking a right-libertarian perspective, it is concluded that the beneficiaries generally hold the right to use non-excludable ecosystem services and the right that landowners do not convert ecosystems; landowners are only at liberty to convert ecosystems if they appropriated their land before any beneficiary used the services and converted the ecosystems before or shortly after the beneficiaries started using the services. This means that the beneficiaries generally have the right to compensation payments by the landowners in the event of service losses, instead of the landowners having the right to payments for ecosystem services by the beneficiaries. Taking a left-libertarian perspective, it is concluded that people hold an equal per capita right to non-excludable ecosystem services. This right can be secured by the beneficiaries paying a central authority for the non-excludable ecosystem services they use, while the owners of the land on which the ecosystems are situated pay a central authority for the non-excludable ecosystem services lost as a result of their activities. The central authority distributes the returns to the community on an equal per capita basis.
P14|A theory of trade policy under dictatorship and democratization|This paper develops a new model of trade policy under dictatorship and democratization. The paper makes two contributions. One is to provide a deeper understanding of the relationship between political institutions and economic efficiency by studying the endogenous interaction between the form of government and trade policy. The paper's second contribution is to show how a dictatorship can manipulate trade policy to maintain its grip on power in the face of permanent world price shocks, thus opening the door to a re-examination of trade policy responses to technology shocks. The model is used to explain an interesting episode of trade policymaking between 1815 and 1846, during which time Britain substantially liberalized trade while Prussia, on the other side of the grain market, significantly increased protectionism.
P14|Cultural property rights in the eu geographical indications’ system: Cui prodest?|This paper develops five theses to analyze the distribution of economic, social and environmental effects connected with the system of geographical indications (gis). The authors claim that the distribution of benefits for the agricultural sector largely differentiate among European countries (Thesis 1); non-organized outsiders in the region who do not financially support the common pool resource can profit particularly greatly from a gis system (Thesis 2); among gis consortia, those with a clear marketing leadership of a focal supplier profit whereas those with many small suppliers are easier to get pressed by dominant buyers (Thesis 3); the role of public authorities may represent a significant bias in the application phase (Thesis 4) and environmental benefits attached to the gis such as biodiversity preservation are largely overestimated (Thesis 5).
P14|Considerazioni critiche su diritti ed indici di edificazione|L’articolo discute la questione dei diritti di edificazione considerando tre domande. Anzitutto, qual’è la relazione tra diritti di edificazione e proprietà dei suoli (il diritto di edificazione è qualcosa che viene concesso dal governo locale, oppure il governo locale si limita a vincolare l’uso di un diritto pre-esistente)? In secondo luogo: è preferibile utilizzare lo stesso indice edificatorio per tutte le aree (ad esempio, X metri cubi per metro quadro ovunque), oppure è meglio utilizzare diversi indici per diverse classi di aree? Per finire: è meglio che i diritti di edificazione siano fissi, oppure mobili (vendibili ed acquistabili tra soggetti privati)?
P14|Institutions for Managing Ground and Surface Water and the Theory of the Second-Best| We review the theory of optimal conjunctive-use management absent transaction costs as a point of departure for a second-best theory of management. We first explore the problem of optimal pricing of surface water when groundwater remains unregulated. We then move to consideration of institutional mechanisms for managing groundwater. The last section discusses the transaction cost difficulties with water markets and how these can be mitigated with remote sensing technology, much as barbed wire facilitated private property in the American West.
P14|Extending the Analysis of Spontaneous Market Order to Governance|How much do markets depend on the state? The founders of the Austrian School of Economics saw a lot of room for markets but believed that government rules and regulations are needed to create framework for markets. More recent research, however, has shown that rules and regulations underpinning some of the most advanced markets such as stock markets have emerged from the market. This article discusses how Austrian economic insights about the importance of competition (although not atomistic competition), entrepreneurship, and consumer sovereignty can be applied to governance itself. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2014
P14|War and democracy in ancient Greece|In the present paper we analyse some of the preconditions for the emergence of democracy in Ancient Greece. For democracy to emerge in Ancient Greece a combination of several enabling factors proved decisive: the development of new military tactic, the phalanx, marked by the appearance of a new type of heavy infantry warrior, the hoplite, who owned individually some property, i.e. land, sufficient to permit him to finance his weaponry and a city-state culture. We describe the emergence of this new type of warrior, link this emergence to the establishment of individual property rights and show how this brought about a military revolution, exemplified in a new tactical formation, the phalanx. We then proceed by showing how the attitudes and learning processes made necessary by this new type of warfare were transformed in the civic values and virtues that shaped democratic institutions. Our thesis can thus be briefly termed as the “military cum city-state” explanation of democracy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2014
P14|Mérlegen a rendszerváltás 25 éve<BR>[The transition in a 25-year perspective]|1989-ben a Föld 36 országát marxista-leninista pártok irányították. Ma már csak Észak-Koreát és Kubát. Ez világtörténelmi jelentőségű változás, amelynek Magyarország is részese volt. A Kelet-Európában és a Szovjetunióban 1989-1990-ben végbement változások 25. évfordulója alkalmából a washingtoni Peterson Institute for International Economics és a Közép-európai Egyetem Politikatudományok Tanszéke 2014. május 6-7-én közösen rendezett konferenciát Budapesten Transition in perspective címmel. E tanulmány egyfelől ennek a konferenciának a főbb megállapításait foglalja össze, másfelől pedig a szerző saját kutatásai alapján számszerűsíti és minősíti is a 36 egykori szocialista ország gazdasági teljesítményét. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: P21, P14, P26, P27.
P14|The State's Enforcement Monopoly and the Private Protection of Property|The modern state has monopolized the legitimate use of force. This concept is twofold. First, the state is empowered with enforcement rights; second, the rights of the individuals are restricted. In a simple model of property rights with appropriation and defense activity, we show that a restriction of private enforcement is beneficial for the property owner, even if there are no economies of scale from public protection. We emphasize the role of the state as a commitment device for a certain level of enforcement. However, commitment will only work if the state can regulate private protection, such as private armies and mercenaries.
P14|Economic Growth and Institutional Reform in Modern Monarchies and Republics: A Historical Cross-Country Perspective 1820-2000|Conventional arguments suggest that republics ought to grow faster than monarchies and experience lower transitional costs following reforms. We employ a panel of 27 countries observed from 1820 to 2000 to estimate these differences. Results show no significant growth differences between the two regime types. Effects of incremental reforms do not differ between them, but those of large-scale reforms do. Specifically, we find a strong valley-of-tears effect of large reforms in republics, and monarchies benefit from such reforms in the ten-year perspective adopted here. We offer some tentative thoughts on the underlying mechanisms responsible for the results.
P14|Asignación de derechos de usufructo en mercados informales: Evidencia desde las calles|En el presente estudio, observamos los resultados de una política de asignación masiva de derechos de usufructo a los cuidacoches, personas que desempeñan –en la informalidad– tareas de vigilancia de vehículos aparcados en las calles. Sorprendentemente, a pesar del costo reducido y los considerables beneficios de adquirir legalmente el derecho de usufructo sobre la cuadra, la mitad de los potenciales beneficiarios han rechazado la suscripción a ese programa. Con el fin de entender este mercado y la movilidad entre el sector formal e informal, construimos una base de datos inédita que contiene información económica y sociodemográfica de los cuidacoches. Dentro de los resultados encontrados, se destacan cuatro observaciones: la heterogeneidad en las razones de entrada al sector informal de cuidacoches; la protección del derecho de usufructo sobre la cuadra como el beneficio principal percibido de pasarse al sector formal; la aspiración a cambiar de trabajo de la inmensa mayoría; la capacidad de ahorro reducida. El estudio concluye con líneas para la elaboración de una estrategia de identificación causal que permita medir el posible impacto de la forma-3 lización como cuidacoches (i.e., obtener el permiso de la autoridad departamental) en la movilidad ascendente en el mercado laboral.
P14|"Adam Smith's ""Tolerable Administration of Justice"" and the Wealth of Nations"|"In the Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith argues that a country's national income depends on its labor productivity, which in turn hinges on the division of labor. But why are some countries able to take advantage of the division of labor and become rich, while others fail to do so and remain poor? Smith's answer, in an important but neglected theme of his work, is the security of property rights that enable individuals to ""secure the fruits of their own labor"" and allow the division of labor to occur. Countries that can establish a ""tolerable administration of justice"" to secure property rights and allow investment and exchange to take place will see economic progress take place. Smith's emphasis on a country's ""institutions"" in determining its relative income has been supported by recent empirical work on economic development."
P14|Investment Climate and Government Turnover in Russian Regions|"We study the impact of Russian regional governors’ rotation and their affiliation with private sector firms for the quality of investment climate in Russian regions. A theoretical model presented in the paper predicts that these factors taken together improve ""endogenous"" property rights under authoritarian regimes. This conclusion is confirmed empirically by using Russian regional data for 2002—2010; early in that period gubernatorial elections had been canceled and replaced by federal government’s appointments. This is an indication that under certain conditions government rotation is beneficial for economic development even when democracy is suppressed."
P14|Impact of Economic Freedom, Regulatory Quality, and Taxation on the Per Capita Real Income: An Analysis for OECD Nations and Non-G8 OECD Nations|This study of the impacts of economic freedom, regulatory quality, and the relative burden of taxation on the level of per capita real income/GDP among OECD nations over the 2003-2007 period adopts a modified version of the overall economic freedom index computed by The Heritage Foundation (2013), one with the fiscal freedom and business freedom indices removed. This study then provides PLS fixed effects estimates for five linear specifications/models. Each nation during this time frame can be regarded either as a nation per se or as a de facto “economic region” within the OECD. The analysis first focuses upon all of the OECD nations and then, as a robustness test, subsequently focuses only on non-G8 OECD member nations. The estimations in this study all provide strong empirical support for the three central hypotheses proffered here, namely: (1) the higher the overall degree of economic freedom; the higher the per capita real income (GDP) level; (2) the higher the level of regulatory quality, the higher the level of per capita real income (GDP); and (3) the higher the overall tax burden, expressed as a percent of GDP, the lower the level of per capita real income (GDP).
P14|Economic Freedom, Regulatory Quality, Taxation, and Living Standards|Using panel data for OECD nations for the period 2003-2009, the fixed-effects estimations in this study all provide strong support for the three central hypotheses considered here, namely: (1) the standard of living in a nation, measured in this study as the level of purchasing-power-parity adjusted per capita real GDP in the nation, depends directly upon the overall economic freedom index, presumably at least in part due to the ability of increased economic freedom to elevate the level of economic activity through incentives to work, invest, save, hire/dismiss, make market-based business decisions, and take risk and engage in risk-reward economic behaviors in a market-based economy; (2) the living standard depends directly on the index of regulatory quality, because high quality regulation interferes less with the efficient functioning of firms’ decision-making processes in a market-based economy and contributes less to firms’ production costs, and (3) the standard of living is a decreasing function of the tax burden, expressed as a percent of GDP because higher tax burdens reduce the growth rate of disposable income and thereby limit the growth rate of the ability to purchase new goods and services and hence reduce/restrict the level of economic activity.
P14|Schumpeter y la Historia del Pensamiento Económico<BR>[Schumpeter and the History of Economic Thought]|The History Schumpeter´s of Economic Analysis, is a tour de forcé of scholarship. The display of erudition is 'truly unbelievable. How could one man have acquired and then digested so much knowledge? Not only does the History offer two thousand years of economics, from Aristotle to Paul Samuelson, but also it ranges most expertly over all the other social sciences, history and belles lettres as well. For more than 1,100 pages the prose flows on in a way that one has come to expect from Schumpeterthe fluent style, the vivid analogy, the striking metaphor, the arresting aside. Our goal is to present the central ideas of Schumpeter on the complex relationships between Economic History and Epistemology of Science. This design has three aspects that interest us: (a) its amplitude to conceive the economy as part of the overall development of scientific knowledge; (b) its relevance applied and the examples used by the author; (c) its currently facing tremendous methodological problems facing the economy with the other sciences.
P14|On the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward leveraged buyout transactions implementation during private equity investment in conditions of resonant absorption of discrete information in diffusion - type financial system with induced nonlinearities|The authors perform an original research on the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward the leveraged buyout transactions implementation during the private equity investment in the conditions of the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities at the influences by the Schumpeterian creative disruption processes in the free market economy. We propose that the money is a financial computing process, which is executed by the operating system, representing an exchange medium, at a computing device. We make a comprehensive academic literature review on the various aspects of modern financial engineering approaches to make the private equity investments and design the leveraged buyout and venture capital firms, funds and transactions in the finances. We highlight a private equity’s important role in the Schumpeterian creative destruction processes in the free market economy, discussing the leverage buyout transactions process and properties. We develop the MicroLBO software: 1) to create the winning virtuous strategies toward the LBO transactions implementation, and 2) to compute the direct/reverse LBO transaction probability number for the selected public/private companies. We formulate the Ledenyov theory on the winning virtuous strategies creation toward the LBO transactions implementation at the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial economic system with the induced nonlinearities.
P14|On the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward leveraged buyout transactions implementation during private equity investment in conditions of resonant absorption of discrete information in diffusion - type financial system with induced nonlinearities|The authors perform an original research on the fundamentals of winning virtuous strategies creation toward the leveraged buyout transactions implementation during the private equity investment in the conditions of the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities in particular, and at the influences by the Schumpeterian creative disruption processes in the free market economy in general. Going from the academic literature, we make a comprehensive review on the various aspects of modern financial engineering approaches to make the private equity investments and design the leveraged buyout and venture capital firms, funds and transactions in the finances. We highlight a private equity’s important role in the Schumpeterian creative destruction processes in the free market economy, discussing the leverage buyout transactions process and the accurate characterization of the leverage buyout transactions properties at the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities. We formulate the Ledenyov theory on the winning virtuous strategies creation toward the leveraged buyout transactions implementation during the private equity investment in the conditions of the resonant absorption of discrete information in the diffusion - type financial system with the induced nonlinearities.
P14|RESULTADOS y consecuencias DE LAS PRIVATIZACIONES de Empresas Públicas: Una perspectiva internacional<BR>[THE PRIVATISATION OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES. RESULTS AND CONSEQUENCES:An international empirical review]|"El objetivo del presente informe es presentar los resultados de un análisis del impacto de las privatizaciones de empresas públicas, en base a la evidencia empírica acumulada hasta ahora por los estudios que comparan el antes y el después de las Empresas Públicas privatizadas, tomando para ello las investigaciones publicadas en revistas académicas a escala internacional. Como es lo más habitual al hablar de empresas públicas (EP) y de privatizaciones, por EP se entiende aquí las de propiedad pública en economías de mercado. Quedan pues fuera del presente trabajo las privatizaciones de las empresas estatales en los países de economía planificada en su proceso de transición a economías de mercado, pues se trata de una situación muy distinta. Respecto a los resultados y consecuencias de las privatizaciones parece razonable plantearse las siguientes preguntas: En primer lugar, ¿mejora la eficiencia de las EP después de su privatización? Una pregunta relevante, pues un tópico común en declaraciones gubernamentales al presentar planes de privatización, así como en argumentos académicos defendiendo la conveniencia o necesidad de éstas, es el de que “las EP son por naturaleza menos eficientes que las privadas, por lo que al privatizar una EP ésta mejorará su eficiencia”. Afirmación que se formula de forma axiomática (sin demostrarla con evidencias empíricas sino como algo que se supone evidente por si mismo), apoyada implícitamente en la principal proposición de la teoría de los derechos de propiedad, a su vez pieza destacada en la teoría micro-económica dominante. En segundo lugar, ¿que, qué se observa, en paralelo, respecto al comportamiento comercial de la EP después de privatizada: cambios en los precios efectivos a los usuarios o clientes, y en los parámetros de calidad? Una cuestión también central, pues muchos gobiernos declaran como uno de los objetivos principales que persiguen con la privatización que las EP a privatizar –especialmente las de servicios de transportes, comunicación, energéticos, sanitarios, educativos, ..etc.- pasaran a actuar con mayor eficiencia, y que ello a su vez redundará en beneficio de los consumidores, bien sea porque la empresa privatizada bajará sus precios, o aumentará la calidad del bien o servicio que provee, o bien por una cierta mezcla de ambas cosas. Y, desde la perspectiva más general de orientar las políticas públicas al respecto, parece igualmente relevante preguntarse ¿en qué casos o situaciones de EP las diferencias observadas, sean del signo que sean, han sido más (menos) significativas? ¿Qué nos dicen los estudios disponibles sobre el efecto de la privatización sobre el nivel de empleo, y/o sobre cambios en la estructura de la plantilla de personal, en el tipo de contratos a los trabajadores, y en los salarios reales? ¿Cuál ha sido el impacto de las privatizaciones sobre las relaciones socio-político-económicas internas y respecto al exterior? Existe sin embargo una seria limitación en cuanto a poder contestar esas preguntas. Como se verá, la mayoría de las investigaciones empíricas disponibles sobre post-privatización se limitan al impacto en el funcionamiento de la empresa en sí. Y más específicamente a los cambios después-vs-antes en cuanto al nivel de eficiencia, medido éste con indicadores como tasas de beneficios (margen, rentabilidad) y (en mucha menor medida) variaciones en el índice de productividad. En cualquier caso son ese tipo de investigaciones unidimensionales, limitadas a comparar el valor de uno o más indicadores de eficiencia para el periodo post-privatización con los valores para el periodo pre-privatización, las que constituyen la gran mayoría de los trabajos empíricos disponibles en la literatura sobre el tema. Y estos son los que se analizan aquí, en el apartado 2: un total de 30 artículos. Un resumen y las conclusiones derivadas de este análisis se presentan en el apartado 3, junto con los resultados derivados de otros tres ‘surveys’ (compilaciones del mismo tipo; es decir, trabajos que tratan de establecer el ‘estado de la cuestión’) también publicados en los últimos años. Así, para cada uno de los estudios empíricos de ese conjunto de cuatro compendios, se expone aquí cual es el resultado que se desprende del mismo: si la conclusión es que la eficiencia de la/s empresa/s privatizadas examinadas mejoró, si más bien no se observan diferencias significativas, o si empeoró. Como se verá, se observa que las diferentes opciones metodológicas de los respectivos autores condicionan en cierta medida los resultados de sus investigaciones; y por otra parte que las muestras de EP privatizadas que considera cada estudio pueden no considerarse satisfactoriamente significativas. El/a lector/a podrá hacer la interpretación/ valoración correspondiente sobre esto. En cualquier caso, puede anticiparse que en conjunto estas conclusiones de los diferentes estudios empíricos no apuntan precisamente en la línea del tópico al respecto de: ‘privatizar para ganar en eficiencia’. En alrededor de la mitad de las investigaciones referidas las conclusiones que se desprenden son que la eficiencia mejoró ligeramente, y en la otra mitad que lo contrario o que no se aprecian diferencias significativas. Para interpretar esto hay que tener en cuenta que si se efectúa un análisis ‘cross-time’ similar para una muestra arbitraria de empresas, privadas o públicas –tomando un año cualquiera como referencia- lo que es de esperar estadísticamente son unos resultados repartidos de forma parecida al comparar el periodo ‘previo’ con el ‘posterior’. Lo que significa que el conjunto de la evidencia empírica disponible no valida precisamente la predicción de la ‘teoría de los derechos de propiedad’ sobre que la privatización conllevará sistemáticamente un mayor nivel de eficiencia de la EP afectada. Este aparatado 3 se completa con la aportación de alguna evidencia sobre resultados positivos de la denominada ‘privatización organizativa’ (un cambio organizativo-jurídico, siguiendo la empresa como EP). En el apartado 4 se examinan de forma específica las escasas evidencias empíricas disponibles sobre algo más que indicadores de eficiencia, como cambios en los precios reales aplicados por la empresa a los usuarios, o en la calidad, después de la privatización. Finalmente, en el apartado 5 se amplia la perspectiva para la evaluación del impacto de la privatización de una EP más allá o además de ella, abarcando también el impacto sobre los consumidores (algo muy relevante especialmente en el caso de servicios públicos: nivel de precios y de calidad), los trabajadores (nivel de empleo, salario medio), las cuentas públicas, y sobre las cuentas de otras empresas. O dicho más brevemente, se extiende el alcance del análisis a la evaluación del impacto global de una privatización sobre el bienestar económico social (5.1). Siguiendo esa línea se examinan las posibilidades del sugerente enfoque del ‘escenario contrafactual’: “¿qué hubiese ocurrido (eficiencia, precios, …etc.) si la EP ‘X’ no se hubiese privatizado –en comparación a lo que realmente se observa que ha ocurrido?” (5.2). Y se cierra el apartado con una aproximación al impacto global de las privatizaciones en otro sentido: Las repercusiones socio-económicas y políticas observadas, en países en que las privatizaciones en conjunto han sido importantes (5.3). Esta perspectiva más amplia del apartado 5 está de hecho relacionada con el contenido del apartado 1, en las páginas que siguen, pues en éste se empieza por presentar el panorama de cuales son los posibles impactos relevantes de una privatización, mostrando así el mapa de cuales serían idealmente las variables relevantes a tener en cuenta en cada caso para evaluar efectivamente –y no de forma parcial- el impacto real de la privatización. // Abstract in English: The aim of this report is to present the results of an analysis on the impact of the privatization of publicly owned enterprises (PE). It is based on the empirical evidence accumulated so far by studies that compare the scenarios before vs. after regarding PE that have been privatised. And the sources are the empirical researches which have been published in academic journals internationally. As it is the most common when talking about privatization and public owned companies, by PE it is here meant those of public ownership in market economies. Therefore, privatisations of State enterprises carried out in formerly planned-economy countries when they were engaged in their transition process to market economies are not considered in the present work, since they imply a quite different reality. Some questions seem to come obliged as far as evaluating the results and consequences of privatisations: Firstly, does the efficiency of the PEs improve after their privatisation? This is a relevant question since a common topic in governmental declarations when presenting privatisation plans -as well as in academic statements regarding that- is that ""the PE are by nature less efficient than private ones, therefore if a PE is privatised it will improve its efficiency"". An statement that is usually formulated in axiomatic terms (not claiming for it empirical evidence but taken it as something that is supposed to be self-evident) and which comes related to the main proposition from the property rights theory, which in turn is a core piece in orthodox micro-economic theory. Then, as a second question: What is it observed, in parallel to efficiency, with respect to the commercial behaviour of the PE after being privatised: changes in the real prices charged to users/clients, and in service’s quality parameters? This is also a core question, since most Governments claim as one of the main objectives pursued with its privatisation policy -especially regarding transport, communication, energy, education, health services,...etc.- to get the corresponding public firm to increase its efficiency which in turn will result in a benefit for consumers because then the firm will either lower prices or increase quality parameters, or a given mix of both things. And taking a broader outlook, as for orienting public policies in this regard, it seems equally relevant to ask ourselves: In which cases or situations –regarding incumbent PEs- the observed differences after-vs-before, whichever their sign, tend to be more (less) significant? What do the available studies say to us regarding changes in employment, in the structure of the firms’ workforce, the type of job contracts they come to apply, and in the real wages paid? And, looking beyond firms’ behaviour, what has been the impact of privatisations on the country’s economy and on the overall socio-economic relationships –both internal and regarding abroad? There are however serious limitations as far as answering these questions. As we will see, most of the available empirical research on post-privatization is limited to the impact on the performance of the privatised firms. And, more specifically, on assessing the after-vs-before changes in the level of efficiency, measuring it by indicators such as rates of profits (margin, profitability) and (to a much lesser extent) rate of change of the ‘total factors productivity’ index. In any case, it is that kind of one-dimensional research works, limited to compare the value of one or more efficiency ratio for the post-privatization period with the value for the pre-privatisation period, which constitute the vast majority of empirical works available in the literature on the subject. And these are the ones that are analysed here, in section 2: a total of 30 articles. A summary with the conclusions drawn from this analysis are presented in section 3, together with the results derived from other three surveys on the same type (i.e., works that try also to establish the 'state of the art') also published in recent years. Thus, it is detailed –for each of the four compendiums- which is the conclusion that emerge from each of the research articles they take into account: If it is that the efficiency of the privatized firm/s the article refers to improved, if rather no significant differences are observed, or if the firm’s efficiency got worse. As we will see, it is observed that the different methodological options of the respective authors condition to some extent their results; and on the other hand that the samples of privatized PE which considers such and such study can not be considered as fairly representative samples. The reader will make the corresponding interpretation regarding these issues. In any case, it can be anticipate here that putting altogether the conclusions from all the different available empirical studies they do not precisely lend support to the topic on the matter, 'privatize to win in efficiency'. In around half of the available articles the findings that emerge are that efficiency improved slightly, and in the other half the contrary, or that no significant differences are observed. For interpreting this overall result it must be kept in mind that if we carry out a similar cross-time analysis regarding an arbitrary sample of companies, private or public -taking a given year as a reference- what is statistically expected are results distributed in a similar way when comparing ‘previous’ period with ‘post’ period. This means that overall the available empirical evidence not confirm the prediction of the 'theory of property rights' on that privatization will systematically lead to a higher level of efficiency of the affected PE. Section 3 includes also a short presentation of research contributions that offer some evidence of positive results from the so-called 'organisational privatisation' (or ‘corporatisation’: a legal-behavioural change of the firm, leaving it as PE). Section 4 is devoted to review the scarce available empirical evidence regarding comparisons after-vs-before of something beyond efficiency: specifically changes, after the privatization, in real prices applied by the firm to users, and in quality parameters. Finally, in section 5 the scope for evaluating the impact of the privatization of a PE is extended beyond the firm, including also the impact on consumers (something very important especially in the case of public utilities: prices and quality level), on workers (employment level, average salary), on public budgets, and on other companies performance. Or more in short: To wide the scope of the analysis by assessing the global impact of privatization on economic social welfare (5.1). Following this line the possibilities of the suggestive approach of the ‘counterfactual scenario’: ""what had happened (efficiency, prices,... etc.) if the PE 'X' had not been privatised- in comparison to what actually is observed that have happened?"" (5.2). And the section closes with an approach to the global impact of privatisations in another sense: The socio-economic and political impact observed in countries in which privatisations have been important (5.3). This broader perspective of section 5 is in fact related to the content of section 1, en the following pages, since it begins by presenting an overview regarding which are all the possible relevant impacts of a privatisation, thus showing the map of the variables that would ideally be relevant to determine in each case in order to actually assess the full –not partial- impact of a given privatisation decision."
P14|¿Privatización o expolio? La desamortización del monte público en Almodóvar del Campo, Ciudad Real (1845-1897)|As late as 1895, the town of Almodóvar del Campo (Ciudad Real province) still controlled 63,269 hectares of public forest. Yet, just two years later, that huge area of land had been privatized, including land supposedly excluded from disentailment for environmental reasons. This paper focuses on two main issues: why were these forests not sold until 1895 -almost half a century after the Madoz disentailment law- and why were exempted lands privatized as well? The answer lies in the survival of the derecho maestral, an ancient feudal rent that complicated the definition of new property established by the liberal disentailment laws in towns that belonged to former military orders. We use a microanalytical methodology to examine systematic, fraudulent practices in the context of public auctions and land valuations. In addition, we explore the speculative behaviour of local oligarchies and focus on the use of a peculiar society, the Sociedad Compradora (Purchasing Company), which was created ad hoc and controlled by the local oligarchy to immediately resell privatized lands at a profit. Municipal sources confirm the intricacies of this capital accumulation process and how it resulted in the impoverishment of the peasantry in this region.
P14|The Effect of Land Title on Child Labor Supply: Empirical Evidence from Brazil|Abstract This paper assesses the effect of property titling on child labor. Our main contribution is to investigate the potential impact of property rights on child labor supply by analyzing household response regarding the child labor force to exogenous changes in property ownership status. The causal role of legal ownership is isolated by comparing the effect of land titling using data from a unique study in two geographically close and demographically similar communities in Osasco, a town of 654,000 people in the Sao Paulo metropolitan area. Survey data were collected from households in both communities before and after the granting of land titles, with neither type knowing ex ante whether it would receive land titles. The econometric estimates, applying the Difference-in-Difference (DD) methodology and propensity score matching, suggest that land titling decreases child labor.
P14|The Impact of Economic Freedom and Personal Freedom on Net In-Migration in the U.S.: A State-Level Empirical Analysis, 2000 to 2010|Arguably, private enterprise flourishes under conditions of increased freedom. However, increases in economic freedom can sometimes impose costs on others (negative externalities and monopoly power being prominent examples). Nevertheless, on balance, it is typically expected that the greater the degree of economic freedom, the more successfully and efficiently markets perform and the greater the prosperity created through private enterprise. These net outcomes from greater freedom accelerate economic growth and development, which in turn creates opportunities for yet further success. From a different perspective, it can be argued that greater personal freedom promotes higher levels of utility for consumers in non-economic ways. Accordingly, the present study empirically investigates whether the prospects of greater economic freedom and/or greater personal freedom in any given state vis-à-vis other states act(s) to induce a greater net influx of migrants. This empirical study of internal U.S. migration over the study period from 2000 to 2010 finds clear evidence that migrants prefer to move to those states with greater economic freedom on the one hand and greater personal freedom on the other hand. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
P14|Property rights as a complex adaptive system: how entrepreneurship transforms intellectual property structures|This article aims to provide some elements of an evolutionary theory of property rights. It applies a systems-based capital-theoretic perspective to explain the formation and transformation of property rights structures. The approach emphasizes how entrepreneurs create capital combinations by connecting capital goods—defined widely to include property rights, such as patents—in their production plans. Their actions change complementarity relations between property rights as used in production. We treat the property rights structure as a complex adaptive system that exhibits increasing structural complexity as it evolves. Entrepreneurs discover gaps in the property rights system. As they organize production to exploit profit opportunities, entrepreneurs regroup existing intellectual property rights (IPR) into new modules, such as patent pools, that encapsulate more complex combinations of basic building blocks of intellectual property. A patent pool constitutes an interpolation of a new meso level within the macro IPR structure. We apply our framework to the first of the patent pools for digital video compression technology used in digital television and DVDs. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P14|Informationen sind anders: Was bei einer ökonomischen Analyse von Wissenschaft und Internet zu beachten ist|Informationen sind anders als normale, insbesondere private Güter, was bei der ökonomischen Analyse zu berücksichtigen ist. An den Beispielen Wissenschaft und Internet werden einige Besonderheiten von Informationen vorgestellt und Folgerungen daraus gezogen.
P14|Assignment of Arrival Slots|Industry participants agree that, when inclement weather forces the FAA to reassign airport landing slots, incentives and property rights should be respected. We show that the FAA's Compression algorithm is incentive compatible, but fails to guarantee a form of property rights. This is significant since these conditions were the motivation for introducing Compression a decade ago. We give an alternative mechanism that does satisfy these conditions. It has the flavor of Top Trading Cycle variants of Abdulkadiroğlu and Sönmez (1999) and Pápai (2000) for related but distinct models. Finally, both mechanisms may fail another condition: the incentive to vacate unusable landing slots. (JEL D45, D82, L93, L98, P14, R41)
P14|Markets for Pollution Allowances: What Are the (New) Lessons?|About 45 years ago a few economists offered the novel idea of trading pollution rights as a way of meeting environmental goals. Such trading was touted as a more cost-effective alternative to traditional forms of regulation, such as specific technology requirements or performance standards. The principal form of trading in pollution rights is a cap-and-trade system, whose essential elements are few and simple: first, the regulatory authority specifies the cap—the total pollution allowed by all of the facilities covered by the regulatory program; second, the regulatory authority distributes the allowances, either by auction or through free provision; third, the system provides for trading of allowances. Since the 1980s the use of cap and trade has grown substantially. In this overview article, I consider some key lessons about when cap-and-trade programs work well, when they perform less effectively, how they work compared with other policy options, and how they might need to be modified to address issues that had not been anticipated.
P14|The Impact of Economic Freedom on Per Capita Real GDP: A Study of OECD Nations| This study of the impact of economic freedom on per capita real GDP among OECD nations over the 2002-2006 period, with each OECD nation during this time frame being treated as a de facto “economic region” within the OECD, finds strong initial support for the hypothesis proffered here, namely, the higher the degree of economic freedom, the higher the level of economic activity and hence the higher the per capita real GDP level. In particular, the per capita real GDP level in each of the nations (regions) in existence as OECD members (except Iceland) over the study period is shown, using fixed-effects PLS estimations, to be an increasing function of business freedom, freedom from corruption, investment freedom, monetary freedom, government size freedom, trade freedom, and property rights freedom. By contrast, these preliminary estimations find that labor freedom, financial freedom, and fiscal freedom do not exercise a statistically significant impact on per capita real GDP (income).
P14|The Future of Agricultural Cooperatives|Cooperatives are of particular interest to economists because of their unique ownership structure and the incentives this structure creates. In addition to the so-called property rights problems (e.g., free-rider, horizon, and portfolio problems), the analysis of agricultural cooperatives has focused on issues of market power, agency, product quality, and increasingly producer and consumer heterogeneity. These last three elements are important features of the industrialization of the agrifood system. This article highlights the key concepts required for examination of cooperatives now and in the future and incorporates these concepts into a framework that can be used to examine the myriad situations and problem settings in which agricultural cooperatives are likely to be found. A key finding of the paper is that the procompetitive and distributional impacts of cooperatives depend critically on the sensitivity of price in the downstream retail market, the nature of the cooperative’s governance structure, and the open or closed nature of cooperative membership. The article also provides a discussion of new areas in which an understanding of cooperatives and collective action would be valuable, as well as a discussion of the applicability of the proposed framework to these areas.
P14|Social Unrest in the Wake of IMF Structural Adjustment Programs|This paper proposes an answer to the question of why social unrest sometimes occurs in the wake of an IMF Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). Under certain circumstances, partly determined by a country’s comparative advantage, a nation’s elite may have an incentive to make transfers to the rest of society through government employment in order to quell social unrest. But under an SAP, the elite are constrained from making such transfers and consequently social unrest may arise. The paper proposes a framework from which a prediction can be made about the circumstances under which social unrest can be expected to occur. It then takes this prediction to the data and finds empirical support for it.
P14|Threats to property rights: Effects on economic performance of the manufacturing sector in Indian states|We examine the effects of the threats to property rights on the economic performance of the manufacturing sector in Indian states. We constructed indices of the threats using data on crime against property rights. In our analysis, we correct for the problem of underreporting of crimes in official crime data. The results of our instrumental variable estimation show that not only threats to private property but also to contracts adversely affect the performance of the manufacturing sector in India. We also extend our basic model to examine the effects of kidnapping and the scale economies of property rights protection.
P14|Threats to security of property rights in a transition economy: An empirical perspective|Effective property rights protection plays a fundamental role in promoting economic performance. Yet measurement problems make the relationship between property rights and entrepreneurship an ambiguous issue. As an advancement on previous research in this paper we propose a new approach to the evaluation of the security of property rights based on direct measures that overcomes some limitations of previous studies. We apply this new metrics to a survey of manufacturing firms in Russia to identify the economic effects associated with the lack of property protection in a transition economy. Our analysis supports the view that there is a close relationship between institutions, property rights and economic growth. Our findings confirm that redistributive risks provide a depressing effect on investment and innovative activity of manufacturing enterprises and potentially result in a huge loss in efficiency and economic growth, which in other institutional settings could have been avoided.
P14|Defining governance matters: A factor analytic assessment of governance institutions|This paper produces a new set of governance indices that enable estimation of the marginal economic benefits of particular categories of governance. The indices are constructed using a factor model, estimated on forty perceptions-based governance variables from eleven data sources. In contrast to previous research, a unified statistical framework is used to determine the number of governance indices to create, the conceptual content of each index, and the relative importance each has in accounting for the observable data. The four indices are labeled market infrastructure, downside governance risk, order, and civil liberties. Confidence intervals are calculated for each country, for each index to aid in the comparison of scores. As an application, the indices are used as explanatory variables in cross-country income regressions. Instrumental variables estimates show that market infrastructure and civil liberties both exert statistically and economically significant effects on per capita income, controlling for geography (malaria risk) and international trade.
P14|Property rights, entrepreneurship and coordination|The notion of plan coordination enjoys a central place in the analysis of institutions and competitive market processes. The conventional wisdom is that institutions and policies vary in the extent to which they promote competition and how quickly and completely they bring individuals’ plans into closer coordination with one another. Kirzner has provided the most fully elaborated statement on the use of coordination as a positive analytical device for explaining market dynamics and as a normative criterion for evaluating economic policies. We identify the core propositions in his analysis that elucidate how economic coordination depends upon that most fundamental of market institutions – the system of private property rights. We also probe into Kirzner's claims about inherent limitations in our ability to compare the coordinative potential of alternative property rights systems. We unpack the consequences of these core propositions using the economic theory of property rights. We also examine Kirzner's assertion that dynamic competition – including Schumpeterian innovation – is necessarily coordinative in its market effects. We find that his argument rests on the implicit assumption that property rights remain constant during the process of market adjustment. We provide a case study of the advent of commercial aviation as a potential counterexample to his claims.
P14|Understanding the puzzling resilience of the land share ownership in Russia: the input of Ostrom’s approach|This paper determines how the rule-in-use on access to agricultural land affects both the size of Russian farms and the nature of land property via enforcement mechanisms. The concept of “institutional arrangements”, developed by Ostrom, is used to show that land use practices by farmers can be considered a compromise between legal land access regimes and economic and social interests of nested communities. This compromise leads to the preservation of both large-scale agricultural production units and “land-share ownership” in Orel.
P14|Small Business Activity Does not Measure Entrepreneurship|Entrepreneurship policy mainly aims to promote innovative “Schumpeterian” entrepreneurship. However, the rate of entrepreneurship is commonly proxied using quantity-based metrics, such as small business activity, the self-employment rate or the number of startups. We argue that those metrics give rise to misleading inferences regarding high-impact Schumpeterian entrepreneurship. In order to unambiguously identify high-impact entrepreneurs we focus on self-made billionaires (in USD) who appear in Forbes Magazine’s list and who became wealthy by founding new firms. We identify 996 such billionaire entrepreneurs in fifty countries in 1996–2010, a systematic cross-country study of billionaire entrepreneurs. The rate of billionaire entrepreneurs correlates negatively with self-employment, small business ownership and firm startup rates. Countries with higher income, higher trust, lower taxes, more venture capital investment and lower regulatory burdens have higher billionaire entrepreneurship rates but less self-employment. Despite its limitations, the number of billionaire entrepreneurs appears to be a plausible cross-country measure of Schumpeterian entrepreneurship.
P14|Budget Deficits, Economic Freedom, and Economic Growth in OECD Nations: P2SLS Fixed-Effects Estimates, 2003–2008|This study empirically investigates the impacts of central government budget deficits and economic freedom on per capita real economic growth in OECD nations over the period 2003–2008. Economic growth is measured by the percentage growth rate of purchasing-power-parity adjusted real per capita GDP. Within the context of the Fixed Effects Model, panel two stage least squares (P2SLS) estimations using a six-year panel dataset for 29 of the 30 the OECD member nations as of 2008 as a group reveal that economic growth is a decreasing function of higher central government budget deficits and an increasing function of economic freedom. It is suggested that governments can best promote real economic growth by limiting the size of their budget deficits (relative to GDP) and pursuing policies consistent with increasing various forms of economic freedom<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P14|Voluntary payments, privacy and social pressure on the internet: A natural field experiment|The emergence of Pay-What-You-Want (PWYW) business models as a successful alternative to conventional uniform pricing brings up new questions related to the task of pricing. We investigate the effect of a reduction of privacy on consumers' purchase decisions (whether to buy, and if so how much to pay) in a natural experiment at an online music store with PWYW-like pricing. Our study extends the empirical evidence of the reduced anonymity effect, previously established for donation or public goods contexts, to a consumption environment. We find that revealing the name of the customer led to slightly higher payments, while it drastically reduced the number of customers purchasing. Overall, the regime led to a revenue loss of 15%. The experiment suggests that even low levels of social pressure without face to face interaction on customers leads to a reduction of welfare.
P14|Institutional interactions and economic growth: the joint effects of property rights, veto players and democratic capital|We investigate the possible interaction effects that the extent of property rights protection and separation of powers in a political system have on economic growth. Using analysis of panel data from more than countries over the period 1970-2010 we find that the growth effects of property rights increase when political power is divided among more veto players. When distinguishing between institutional veto players (political institutions) and partisan veto players (fractionalization among political parties), we further find that the growth effects of property rights are driven mainly by checks on the chief executive (in bicameral systems) and primarily found in countries with large stocks of democratic capital.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P14|The Trends Of Food Consumption In The Process Of Property Relations Transformation In Ukraine’S Agriculture|The article highlights the necessity of studying the level of food consumption in the context of major changes of property relations in agriculture. It was suggested to use the ratio of food consumption adequate per person as an important indicator of socio-economic efficiency of reforms in the agriculture sector. Also, it is performed a characteristic of the reforming stages of property relations in agriculture from the standpoint of the dynamics of the country’s food security indicators.
P14|Ethics and Capitalism. An Interdisciplinary Interpretation [Etică şi capitalism. O interpretare interdisciplinară]|The paper starts from the argument that, at present, there are two opposite perspective on the relationship between ethics and capitalism, namely: on the one hand, it is the interpretation offered by the neoclassical school of economic thought (mainstream economics) and, on the other hand, it is the interpretation offered by the Austrian School of economic praxeology (libertarian economics).
P14|Property Rights As A Factor Of Foreign Direct Investment. The Case Of Poland|Clearly defined property rights enable people and business to make contracts over such property, and thus to engage in business – most business transactions concern the transfer of some sort of property, or rights to property. It seems that property rights have huge influence on foreign direct investment inflow, especially in the Polish economy. Therefore, the aim of this article is to verify the hypothesis that property rights are an important factor for foreign direct investment flow. The object of the research is the Polish economy in the years 1994-2011. The first part of this paper shows the dynamics and structure of FDI inflows to the Polish economy in the years 1994-2011. Next two parts clarify the idea of property rights, their transformation, importance to the growth and foreign direct investment inflow. Verification of the hypothesis will be made on the basis of domestic and foreign literature.
P14|Esclavagisme et colonisation : Quelles conséquences contemporaines en Afrique ? - Résumé critique des travaux de l'économiste Nathan Nunn<BR>[Slavery and colonization: What contemporary consequences in Africa? - Summary of critical work of economist Nathan Nunn]|This article aims to highlight the first work of economist Nathan Nunn on slavery and colonization. Indeed, for the latter, these two historical facts, quantifiable consequences, have defined the path of economic development of African countries. Secondly, this paper discusses the findings of Nunn with the prism of literature ad hoc and do not miss to criticize. Cet article a pour objectif de mettre en évidence en premier lieu les travaux de l’économiste Nathan Nunn sur l’esclavagisme et la colonisation. En effet, pour celui-ci, ces deux faits historiques, aux conséquences quantifiables, ont défini la trajectoire du développement économique des pays africains. En second lieu, cet article discute les conclusions de Nunn avec le prisme de la littérature ad hoc et ne manque pas de les critiquer.
P14|Effects of Economic Freedom, Regulatory Quality, and Taxation on Real Income|This exploratory study investigates the hypothesis that higher levels of economic freedom in an “economic region” promote a higher level of economic activity and hence yield higher levels of per capita real income in that economic region, ceteris paribus. However, in the pursuit of a broader perspective, this study also investigates the hypothesis that the higher the taxation level relative to GDP, the lower the per capita real income level. Finally, in the pursuit of a broader perspective, this study also investigates the hypothesis that higher quality regulation leads to higher per capita real income level.
P14|Relative Injustice Aversion|I propose a new utility function based on the relative aversion to injustice to explain why, in classical bargaining games, classical equilibria do not hold when money is not windfall, but it is result of the e ffort.
P14|Comment comprendre les « communs » : Elinor Ostrom, la propriété et la nouvelle économie institutionnelle|L’objet de cet article est d’analyser la théorie institutionnaliste d’Elinor Ostrom, dans ses rapports à la « nouvelle économie institutionnelle », et plus particulièrement aux analyses qui, à la suite du papier de Coase sur les coûts sociaux, donnent une place privilégiée à la question de la propriété. Cela nous permettra de mettre en évidence des aspects essentiels de la théorisation d’Elinor Ostrom, et les questions qu’elle soulève. Nous procéderons en trois étapes. Nous rappellerons tout d’abord quelles sont les références théoriques principales qui sont à la base de ses analyses des ressources en pool commun (Common Pool Ressources), et qui marquent certaines de ses orientations. Nous nous attacherons ensuite à explorer les traits essentiels de l’institutionnalisme d’Elinor Ostrom, confrontés au nouvel institutionnalisme. Pour cela, nous considérerons tout d’abord ses analyses, originales et importantes, sur les règles et les normes, et sa conception des comportements économiques, puis sa théorisation des droits de propriété et des conditions de sélection des formes de propriété et des institutions, dans la perspective d’une confrontation à l’idée de « théorème de Coase généralisé ». Cela nous amènera, en conclusion, à des interrogations sur les conceptions d’Ostrom sur les institutions et les communs, et à des axes possibles de dépassement.
P14|Elinor Ostrom et les faisceaux de droits : l’ouverture d’un nouvel espace pour penser la propriété commune|En mobilisant une certaine manière de concevoir la propriété, en termes de faisceau de droits, les travaux d’Ostrom sur la propriété ouvrent un véritable espace pour penser la propriété commune aujourd’hui. Cet article propose d’éclairer la portée des travaux d’Ostrom en les situant dans l’histoire du concept de faisceau de droits et des enjeux politiques et intellectuels associés à ce concept. Initiée par John Commons et les juristes critiques américains du début du xxe siècle, cette conception de la propriété est ensuite récupérée par les penseurs libéraux. En mobilisant l’approche par les faisceaux de droits dans la lignée revendiquée de Commons, Ostrom opère alors un renversement des positions de « l’école des droits de propriété » pour proposer une conceptualisation inédite de la propriété commune.
P14|Homo Economicus and the Economics of Property Rights|This article challenges some fundamental propositions of property rights theory by revealing the inability of new institutional economics to fully grasp the notion of property, as reflected in its narrow and problematic definition of property rights. The concept of property relations is proposed as better suited to capture the social and institutional aspects of property. By reconsidering the case of the Montagnais, originally used by Alchian and Demsetz for illustrative purposes, and drawing on the works of Polanyi and McManus, we show that the historical explanation of the emergence of (private) property rights provided by Alchian and Demsetz is flawed.JEL Codes: D02, D23, P14
P14|Determinants of property rights institutions: survey of literature and new evidence|Why do some countries have better institutions than others? More specifically, what accounts for variation in the quality of property rights institutions in different countries? In this paper, I empirically assess four different theories relating to the determinants of property rights institutions: (1) the economic approach, which maintains that property rights institutions are created when the benefits of their creation exceed their costs; (2) the cultural approach, which stipulates that institutional variation reflects the differences in the beliefs of political leaders about what institutions create benefits for society; (3) the historical approach, which contends that cross-country differences in property rights institutions are the by-product of historical accidents; and (4) the political approach, which defends the premise that institutions are voluntarily chosen by the individuals who control political power, and these individuals choose institutions with the objective to maximize their personal payoffs rather than the benefits of the society as a whole. In order to test the veracity of these theories, I undertake a cross-sectional analysis of 142 countries (including 116 developing and 26 developed countries) over the period 1970–2005. The results of this analysis provide several interesting insights. Firstly, they indicate that the political approach appears to be the most relevant explanation for cross-country variation in property rights institutions: not only is this approach the most statistically robust, it also provides the best fit with the property rights index. The results of non-nested hypothesis test à la Davidson and MacKinnon ( 1981 ) confirm this analysis. Secondly, regardless of econometric specification and country sample, democracy is positively and significantly linked to property rights institutions. Thirdly, the data also reveal that while legal origin does significantly affect property rights institutions in developing countries, it appears to have no effect in developed countries. Fourthly, my analysis demonstrates that, in contrast to the full sample case, an increase in GDP per capita does not significantly contribute to the improvement in the quality of property rights institutions in Africa. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
P14|Sukuk Defaults: On Distress Resolution in Islamic Finance|Islamic strictures require investors to share risks with the entrepreneurs they finance. Sukuk (Islamic securities) come mostly in two varieties, musharakah (basically a joint venture agreement) and ijarah (more like an operational lease agreement). Yet defaults did happen, even in the case of musharakah (joint venture) sukuk discussed in this study. So is Islamic finance failing to deliver on its promises? To answer that question, we analyse four major defaults on Sukuk that have happened recently in the aftermath of the worldwide credit crisis that has engulfed the world since 2007. These case studies make clear that in most cases, the problems can be traced back to clauses and structures that made the sukuk more like conventional bonds. Furthermore, once default happened, most of the sukuk discussed did not transfer the underlying assets to the sukuk holders. So, in the event of default, due to limited recourse provisions, sukuk holders often had nothing to res ort to, as effectively there were no underlying assets in their ownership. The case studies highlighted the importance of the legal institutions of the country where the collateral is likely to be contested. Interestingly enough, strict adherence to shariah principles would have considerably simplified restructuring because shariah compliance implies a clear allocation of property rights: in sukuk, investors will receive full title to the underlying sukuk assets in distress situations. So the answer to the question we asked, is Islamic Finance failing to deliver on its promises, is a qualified no.
P14|Collective institutions towards habitability: roles, strategies and forms of governance|The goal of this paper is to apply the theory of commons to residential contexts and verify if and how collective institutions can be used to produce habitability, i.e. a set of particular socio-environmental conditions conducive to inhabiting a particular area. While most literature on the study of the commons has a specific focus on the management of natural resources, this paper argues that collective institutions can work also in urban contexts. This paper focuses on the issue of housing. Although this topic is rarely discussed in the literature on the commons, some authors have clearly shown the role of selforganising communities in producing habitability since the 1970s. The theme of habitability will be discussed from two different perspectives: the first part of the paper will present the historical evolution of two very old collective institutions in north-central Italy responsible for managing common lands. These rural institutions have faced major socio-economic changes and have developed adaptive strategies to survive until today. The second part of the paper will discuss new forms of collective institutions (such as co-ops, trusts, charities, etc.) that use very similar institutional arrangements compared to the previous examples, but for the purpose of governing housing estates.
P14|Trade, Self-Governance,and the Provision of Law and Order, with an Application To Medieval English Chartered Towns|We build a model to investigate the interaction between trade, the supply of law and order, and the nature of governing political institutions. To supply law and order necessary for a representative merchant to create wealth, a ruler (i) appoints officials capable of coercion and (ii) introduces a system of taxation. When potential gains from trade are important, the demand for law and order is high but appointing numerous officials capable of coercion may pave the way to arbitrary and distortive expropriation. Delegating the task of appointing offi- cials to the better-informed merchant lowers the cost of sustaining good market institutions, but exacerbates the latter's temptation to escape taxation. When gains from trade are instead low delegation never occurs. Our theory provides a rationale for the case of post-Norman Conquest England (1066-1307) where, in parallel with the rise of trade, kings increasingly give in to the citizens' desire of self-governance by granting Charters of Liberties.
P14|Notes on Institutional Complementarities and Organizational Forms|This paper analyses the concept of organizational forms, and derives some implications for the economics of production organization. To this end, after pointing out the role of knowledge in the organization of production, we discuss the theories based on technology (new institutional economics) and property rights (so-called radical school). When the effect of property rights is not taken into account, technology alone entails unique solution to the problem of production organization. After ruling out this technologically deterministic argument, by recourse to a simple model, we study the complementarities between these two domains. Finally, we derive some implications: (a) the asymmetry between the characteristics of labour and capital under the existing property relations, (b) the importance of workers’ preferences for different ways of production organization. In so doing, we show that efficiency driven arguments on the relative success of different organizational forms may be misleading. Hence, we argue that, change in production organization should be described not as a linear path, but rather as a branching tree.
P14|Real Estate Valuation Using Cyclical Capitalization Models|This paper is focused on the integration of property valuation and market cycles analysis. Early work in this field (d'Amato, 2003) tried to integrate market analysis and valuation process and reduce the gap between academic research on property market cycles and professional practice of property valuation. In fact, whilst it is well documented that the property market presents a cyclical behavior, income approach in many cases still relies on the assumption that the real estate generate a stable or perpetually growing income. By considering a stable net operating income in a real estate market heaving a cyclical behavior may overestimate the property value in the recession phase of the market and underestimate it in the expansion phase. This may be the reason of the Ponzi effect denounced in Shiller (2002) which partially increased the real estate bubble and the consequent financial markets crisis experienced recently. This paper offers a general introduction on cyclical capitalization that takes into consideration the real estate market cycle, as a further family of income producing properties valuation methodologies. This method, developed based on the traditional Dividend Discount Model, uses more than one growth rate (g) in order to include property market cycle analysis in the value opinion. An empirical application of cyclical capitalization is offered taking into consideration the office market of South Bank in London.
P14|River Sharing and Water Trade| We analyse river sharing games in which a set of agents located along a river shares the available water. Using coalition theory, we find that the potential benefits of water trade may not be sufficient to make all agents in the river cooperate and acknowledge property rights as a prerequisite for trade. Specifically, a complete market for river water may not emerge if there are four or more agents along the river. Instead, a partial market may emerge where a subset of agents trades river water, with the possibility that other agents take some of the river water that passes their territory.
P14|The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation: Comment| Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson's (2001) seminal article argues property-rights institutions powerfully affect national income, using estimated mortality rates of early European settlers to instrument capital expropriation risk. However, 36 of the 64 countries in the sample are assigned mortality rates from other countries, often based on mistaken or conflicting evidence. Also, incomparable mortality rates from populations of laborers, bishops, and soldiers--often on campaign--are combined in a manner that favors the hypothesis. When these data issues are controlled for, the relationship between mortality and expropriation risk lacks robustness, and instrumental-variable estimates become unreliable, often with infinite confidence intervals. (JEL D02, E23, F54, I12, N40, O43, P14)
P14|The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation: Reply|" Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson (2001) established that economic institutions today are correlated with expected mortality of European colonialists. David Albouy argues this relationship is not robust. He drops all data from Latin America and much of the data from Africa, making up almost 60 percent of our sample, despite much information on the mortality of Europeans in those places during the colonial period. He also includes a ""campaign"" dummy that is coded inconsistently; even modest corrections undermine his claims. We also show that limiting the effect of outliers strengthens our results, making them robust to even extreme versions of Albouy's critiques. (JEL D02, E23, F54, I12, N40, O43, P14)"
P14|Productivity and credit constraints: A firm-level propensity score evidence for agricultural farms in central and east European countries|Drawing on a unique farm level panel data set with 37,409 observations for period 2004–2005 and employing a matching estimator, this paper analyses how farm access to credit affects farm input allocation and farm efficiency in the CEE transition countries. We find that farms are asymmetrically credit constrained with respect to inputs. Farm use of variable inputs and capital investment increases up to 2.3% and 29%, respectively, per 1000 EUR of additional credit. Our estimates suggest also that farm access to credit increases the total factor productivity up to 1.9% per 1000 EUR of additional credit, indicating that an improved access to credit results in adjusting the relative input intensities on farms. This finding is further supported by a negative effect of better access to credit on labour, suggesting that these two are substitutes. Interestingly, farms are found not to be credit constrained with respect to land.
P14|Security of Property as a Public Good: Institutions, Socio-Political Environment and Experimental Behavior in Five Countries|We study experimentally the protection of property in five widely distinct countries – Austria, Mexico, Mongolia, South Korea and the United States. Our main results are that the security of property varies with experimental institutions, and that our subject pools exhibit significantly different behaviors that correlate with country-level property security, trust and quality of government. Subjects from countries with higher levels of trust or perceptions of safety are more prone to abstain initially from theft and devote more resources to production, and subjects from countries with higher quality political institutions are more supportive of protecting property through compulsory taxation. This highlights the relevance of socio-political factors in determining countries' success in addressing collective action problems including safeguarding property rights.
P14|Shadow Economy and Entrepreneurial Entry|We analyze theoretically and empirically the impact of the shadow economy on entrepreneurial entry, utilising 1998-2005 individual-level Global Entrepreneurship Monitor data merged with macro level variables. A simple correlation coefficient suggests a positive linear link between the size of the shadow economy and entrepreneurial entry. However, this masks more complex relationships. With appropriate controls and instrumenting for potential endogeneity where required, the impact of the shadow economy on entry is found to be negative, based on a linear specification. Moreover, there is also evidence of nonlinearity: entrepreneurial entry is least likely when the shadow economy is of medium size. We attribute the negative effects of shadow economy on entry to perceived strong competition faced by new entrants when the shadow economy is widespread. At the individual level, an extensive shadow economy has a more negative impact on respondents who are risk averse. In addition, in the economies where property rights are strong, the negative impact of the shadow economy is weaker.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P14|Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Community Patent|For more than 40 years, governments and professional associations have acted, voted or lobbied against the implementation of the Community Patent (COMPAT, officially called the EU Patent). The econometric results and simulations presented in this paper suggest that, thanks to its attractiveness in terms of market size and a sound renewal fee structure, the COMPAT would drastically reduce the relative patenting costs for applicants while generating more income for the European Patent Office and most National Patent Offices. The loss of economic rents (400 million would be lost by patent attorneys, translators and lawyers) and the drop of controlling power by national patent offices elucidate further the observed resistance to the Community Patent.
P14|Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Community Patent|The creation of a European Community Patent (COMPAT) came a step closer this month when Sweden brokered a preliminary agreement on the issue. In this working paper, Senior Resident Fellow Bruno van Pottelsberghe and Jérôme Danguy use simulations to take a look at the advantages, disadvantages, winners and losers from the creation of the COMPAT. They find that it would drastically reduce the relative patenting costs for applicants while generating more income for the European Patent Office and increased savings for the business sector. They also explain that the lost of economic rents for patent attorneys, translators and lawyers specialised in patent litigation and the drop of controlling power for national patent offices may explain why there has been such resistance to the COMPAT thus far.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P14|"""Climbing the hierarchical ladders of rules"": A life-cycle theory of institutional evolution"|"This paper proposes an analysis of the emergence and evolution of institutional frameworks. It explains the causes, process, and outcome of institutional evolution. We first describe the institutional framework as a multilevel system at the bottom of which several ""local and flexible"" institutions apply to subsets of the society while, at the top, a single ""generic and rigid"" institution applies to all. Dissatisfied with generic order, promoters of local orders try to design collective governance solutions that are better suited to their needs. If agents are heterogeneous (as we assume), then coordination needs differ and a competitive process begins among sponsors of alternative orders. To benefit from efficiency gains, promoters of local orders encourage adherence to their preferred system of rules. The resulting competition for adherents explains why ""local and voluntary"" institutions might progressively turn into ""generic and mandatory"" ones. We thus establish a logical continuum between contractual governance mechanisms and institutions. We then analyze the strategic interplay among sponsors of alternative institutional orders by considering not only the ""horizontal"" competition among institutions emerging in the same time but also the ""vertical"" competition between promoters of new rules and sponsors of the established, more generic rules."
P14|“Climbing the hierarchical ladders of rules”: A life-cycle theory of institutional evolution|This paper proposes an analysis of the emergence and evolution of institutional frameworks. It explains the causes, process, and outcome of institutional evolution. We first describe the institutional framework as a multilevel system at the bottom of which several “local and flexible” institutions apply to subsets of the society while, at the top, a single “generic and rigid” institution applies to all. Dissatisfied with generic order, promoters of local orders try to design collective governance solutions that are better suited to their needs. If agents are heterogeneous (as we assume), then coordination needs differ and a competitive process begins among sponsors of alternative orders. To benefit from efficiency gains, promoters of local orders encourage adherence to their preferred system of rules. The resulting competition for adherents explains why “local and voluntary” institutions might progressively turn into “generic and mandatory” ones. We thus establish a logical continuum between contractual governance mechanisms and institutions. We then analyze the strategic interplay among sponsors of alternative institutional orders by considering not only the “horizontal” competition among institutions emerging in the same time but also the “vertical” competition between promoters of new rules and sponsors of the established, more generic rules.
P14|Why Did Productivity Fall So Much during the Great Depression?|Between 1929 and 1933, real output per adult fell over 30 percent and total factor productivity fell 18 percent. This productivity decrease is much larger than expected from just extrapolating the productivity decrease that typically occurs during recessions. This paper evaluates what factors may have caused this large decrease, including unmeasured factor utilization, changes in the composition of production, and increasing returns. I find that these factors combined explain less than one-third of the 18 percent decrease, and I conclude that the productivity decrease during the Great Depression remains a puzzle.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
