P17|The Urgent Need for an Economics of “Hategoatism”|The word “scapegoat” is defined as “a person made to bear the blame for others,” and similarly, “scapegoatism” refers to “the act or practice of assigning blame or failure to another, as to deflect attention or responsibility away from oneself” (Collins English Dictionary and Dictionary.com, respectively.) While these definitions do not mention economics specifically, in most cases the blame on the scapegoat is economic in nature. Scapegoatism also provides a convenient, though extremely inferior, substitute for valid analyses of economic problems. Scapegoatism, however, has a partner, dehumanization, which is the process of demonizing certain people as less than human and unworthy of humane treatment. Scapegoatism is not only accompanied by dehumanization, but it is often motivated by it. Thus, “scapegoatism” is a euphemism and it is understudied as a result, because there is no single term of art that combines scapegoatism and dehumanization. This paper offers a solution to this semantic dilemma by proposing the new term, “HATEGOATISM,” for the simultaneous existence of scapegoatism and dehumanization. Only one subfield of economics regularly embraces hategoatism, which is Libertarianism (where the “HATEGOAT” is government workers). Economists must lead by example by combating hategoatism, and that requires cleaning their own house first.
P17|Distrust and Political Turnover|We present findings that document one way in which a society's culture can affect political outcomes. Examining an annual panel of democratic countries over six decades, we show that severe economic downturns are more likely to cause political turnover in countries that have lower levels of generalized trust. The relationship is only found among democracies and for regular leader turnover, which suggests that the underlying mechanism works through leader accountability and the electoral process. Moreover, we find that the effects of trust on turnover are greatest during years with regularly-scheduled elections, and within democracies with a parliamentary system, a fully free media, and greater stability. The estimates suggest that generalized trust affects political institutions by influencing the extent to which citizens attribute economic downturns to the mistakes of politicians.
P17|Humanism or Racism. Pilot Project Europe at the Crossroads|This policy paper combines a large number of acute contemporary problems in political economy and shows that it is possible to bring them under one broad common umbrella: The choice between humanism or racism. To do so more fine grained definitions of humanism and racism are put forward. From that theoretical perspective the possible policy options for further European Integration are discussed. It is argued that Europe could be a role model for global evolution if it is possible to overcome racism and to use diversity as a creative force. As a driving agent for such a development the emerging class of organic intellectuals is identified.
P17|The secular decline in profit rates: time series analysis of a classical hypothesis|Recent global financial crisis and ongoing turbulence in the global economy revived interest in the classical hypothesis of declining profit rates and vanishing profit opportunities as one of the reasons of economic instabilities. This paper, while not joining theoretical debate on the driving factors of profit rates’ decline, reconsiders empirically the hypothesis of the secular decline in economy-wide profit rates. A panel of unit root tests is used and deterministic and stochastic trend models (with or without structural breaks) are estimated. It is shown that instead of continuous downward trend, profit rates exhibit diverse dynamics – random walk, deterioration with breaks, reversals, or the absence of trend. Likewise, it is shown in an exploratory analysis that a variety of factors were determining profit rates, with capital productivity and competitive dynamics in the economy likely being the most salient.
P17|Perpetual growth, distribution, and robots|"The current literature on the economic effects of machine learning, robotisation and artificial intelligence suggests that there may be an upcoming wave of substitution of human labour by machines (including software). We take this as a reason to rethink the traditional ways in which technological change has been represented in economic models. In doing so, we contribute to the recent literature on so-called perpetual growth, i.e., growth of per capita income without technological progress. When technology embodied in capital goods are sufficiently advanced, per capita growth becomes possible with a non-progressing state of technology. We present a simple Solow-like growth model that incorporates these ideas. The model predicts a rising wage rate but declining share of wage income in the steady state growth path. We present simulation experiments on several policy options to combat the inequality that results from this, including a universal basic income as well as an option in which workers become owners of ""robots""."
P17|The Postwar British Productivity Failure|British productivity growth disappointed during the early postwar period. This reflected inadequate investment in equipment and skills but also entailed inefficient use of inputs. Weak management, dysfunctional industrial relations, and badly-designed economic policy were all implicated. The policy framework was partly the result of seeking low unemployment through wage restraint by appeasement of organized labour. A key aspect was weak competition. This exacerbated corporategovernance and industrial-relations problems in the British 'variety of capitalism' which sustained low effort bargains and managerial incompetence. Other varieties of capitalism were better placed to achieve fast growth but were infeasible for Britain given its history.
P17|The Postwar British Productivity Failure|British productivity growth disappointed during the early postwar period. This reflected inadequate investment in equipment and skills but also entailed inefficient use of inputs. Weak management, dysfunctional industrial relations, and badly-designed economic policy were all implicated. The policy framework was partly the result of seeking low unemployment through wage restraint by appeasement of organized labour. A key aspect was weak competition. This exacerbated corporate governance and industrial-relations problems in the British ‘variety of capitalism’ which sustained low effort bargains and managerial incompetence. Other varieties of capitalism were better placed to achieve fast growth but were infeasible for Britain given its history.
P17|Capital flows and growth dynamics in Central and Eastern Europe|This paper assesses the importance of capital flows as measured by the current account balance for the growth dynamics of the EU countries from Central and Eastern Europe. Economic growth in these countries was on average relatively high before the global financial crisis but markedly lower after the crisis. Panel data econometrics using annual data for 1997â€“2015 points to the contemporaneous current account balance having a sizeable negative effect on annual GDP growth. Estimations using many control variables and instrumental variables suggest that the negative effect is mainly demand driven. Counterfactual simulations show that growth rates in all CEE countries would have been lower in the absence of capital flows, and this applies particularly to the countries with the most disadvantageous starting points.
P17|Mesure de la performance des banques dans une zone d'ancrage monétaire: cas de la France et des pays de l'UMOA|Our study aims at measuring banking system efficiency for France and WAMU, by isolating environmental specificities to each region. Our results show that the two banking systems have quite close efficiency scores about 80%. As their french counterparts, WAMU banks are efficient; however this assertion is true in regarding the environment in which they evolve. Indeed, those banks transform collected deposits in short term loans or loans to big foreign corporations, that they are sure to recover lent amounts. This situation has the following effect: a significant part of entreprises (smal and medium ones) are under funded. The comparison of the two banking systems lead us to suggest that monetary and financial authorities implement reforms. Those reforms inspired by french ones and adapted to the WAMU specificity and environement, would help the banking system of the zone to effectively play its financial intermediary role.
P17|Profit rates in the developed capitalist economies: a time series investigation|This paper examines whether there is empirical evidence to support the hypothesis of secular decline in the economy-wide profit rates as predicted by classical economic theories. We specifically consider profit rates in the OECD economies based on the national accounts data contained in the Extended Penn World Table database. In our analysis we use linear trend, Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) tests, and also allow for structural breaks and instabilities in the series. Results suggest that profit rates in OECD economies exhibited a wide variety of patterns, including stochastic and deterministic trends, random walk, reversals, as well as stability. Secular decline (fluctuation around falling deterministic trend) hypothesis is supported for Canada, Portugal and the USA, while secular rise is witnessed for Greece and Norway.
P17|Stability of the labour shares: evidence from OECD economies|In light of ongoing concern about rising inequality in the developed economies, this paper revisits the old standing issue of the stability of the labour share. The paper focuses specifically on the empirical aspect of the problem and considers statistical properties of the labour share in OECD economies over 1960-2014 period, using a battery of time series models and unit root tests. We account for structural changes in labour share using Lagrange Multiplier (LM) unit root tests with up to two structural breaks, address the problem of heterogeneous level shifts using LM panel unit root test, and examine four types of statistical patterns (trend stationarity, mean reversion, random walk with and without drift) using Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) test. Empirical results indicate diverse patterns in labour share movements, with downward deterministic trend with break(s) being the most preponderant. The upward trends are observed in a limited set of economies (Belgium, Luxembourg, and Netherlands). Overall, the stability of labour share hypothesis appears to find only weak support. Exploratory analysis demonstrates that most of the structural breaks are economically significant, short-term fluctuations in series correlate strongly with business cycle turning points, whilst medium-term movements in labour share are adequately explained in terms of broader political and also country-specific factors.
P17|Economics of WTO plus: No to conflict and Yes to regionalism|The paper makes a case for effective regionalism in South Asia by developing such conflict mitigation strategies between India and Pakistan that exploit their proximity to global trade. The welfare enhancing measures for nation states become more startling when they not only invest in institutional development but also become an active part of the global village with regionalism as a viable means to achieve this objective.
P17|The White Man’s Burden: On the Effect of African Resistance to European Domination|Are there contemporary development effects of African resistance to European domination? This question is the primary issue addressed by this inquiry. We establish that African resistance has had adverse effects on post-colonial African development and discuss possible channels of such causality. This relationship is robust to alternative model and to controlling for the outliers.
P17|The financial systems in Russia and Turkey: recent developments and challenges|Following the severe financial crises of the 1990s and early 2000s, substantial efforts have been undertaken in Russia and Turkey to diversify and deepen the financial systems. However, despite unquestionable improvements, financial deepening in Russia and Turkey has taken place at a slower pace than in other major emerging economies. Our paper highlights that this is in part a consequence of a highly volatile economic environment and deep-seated institutional and structural bottlenecks. Though authorities in both countries have committed to sounder economic policies and have implemented important structural reforms to improve the institutional environment and overcome structural weaknesses, over time reform fatigue has gradually taken hold. As a consequence significant gaps and weaknesses in the institutional and business environments still characterize, to a different degree, Russia and Turkey. These factors have not only slowed the development of the financial system as a whole, but have also contributed to the build-up of key vulnerabilities, which have come to the fore more recently in the context of a less supportive external environment.
P17|Financial market determinants of the real cost of funds to public corporations in the US: 2SLS and GMM findings|Purpose - The purpose of this study is to provide new empirical evidence on the impact of a variety of financial market forces on the ex post real cost of funds to corporations, namely, the ex post real interest rate yield on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds in the USA. The study is couched within an open-economy loanable funds model, and it adopts annual data for the period 1973-2013, so that the results are current while being applicable only for the post-Bretton Woods era. The auto-regressive two-stage least squares (2SLS) and generalized method of moments (GMM) estimations reveal that the ex post real interest rate yield on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds in the USA was an increasing function of the ex post real interest rate yields on six-month Treasury bills, seven-year Treasury notes, high-grade municipal bonds and the Moody’s BAA-rated corporate bonds, while being a decreasing function of the monetary base as a per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) and net financial capital inflows as a per cent of GDP. Finally, additional estimates reveal that the higher the budget deficit as a per cent of GDP, the higher the ex post real interest rate on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds. Design/methodology/approach - After developing an initial open-economy loanable funds model, the empirical dimension of the study involves auto-regressive, two-stage least squares and GMM estimates. The model is then expanded to include the federal budget deficit, and new AR/2SLS and GMM estimates are provided. Findings - The AR/2SLS and GMM (generalized method of moments) estimations reveal that the ex post real interest rate yield on AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds in the USA was an increasing function of the ex post real interest rate yields on six-month Treasury bills, seven-year Treasury notes, high-grade municipal bonds and the Moody’s BAA-rated corporate bonds, while being a decreasing function of the monetary base as a per cent of GDP and net financial capital inflows as a per cent of GDP. Finally, additional estimates reveal that the higher the budget deficit as a per cent of GDP, the higher the ex post real interest rate on AAA-rated long -term corporate bonds. Originality/value - The author is unaware of a study that adopts this particular set of real interest rates along with net capital inflows and the monetary base as a per cent of GDP and net capital inflows. Also, the data run through 2013. There have been only studies of deficits and real interest rates in the past few years.
P17|Libéralisme, souveraineté et politique économique : un débat contemporain|L’Union Européenne et plus particulièrement la zone euro se sont construites au cours du dernier quart de siècle en appliquant une doctrine économique articulée autour de deux principes : la flexibilité des marchés de biens et du travail, la neutralité monétaire et budgétaire de l’action publique. C’est à un recul de la souveraineté des Etats auquel l’on a ainsi assisté au nom d’une certaine vision du libéralisme. Cette évolution institutionnelle est emblématique du paradoxe de la mondialisation (Rodrik 2011) qui veut que, faute d’un gouvernement mondial, la mondialisation des échanges requière une action des Etats réduite à l’application de règles intangibles édictées par la doctrine au détriment de la démocratie et des arbitrages que celle‐ci implique. Il n’y aurait pas d’alternative autre que le repli à l’abri des frontières nationales permettant éventuellement de sauvegarder le principe démocratique mais au détriment de l’expansion des échanges et, possiblement, de la croissance. Pourtant, la question de la souveraineté comme celle du libéralisme ne sauraient être tranchées aussi facilement. Un débat existe qui conduit à considérer qu’une alternative au modèle du moment est possible qui rétablit les Etats dans leurs prérogatives sans qu’il faille renoncer aux bénéfices de la mondialisation.
P17|Planification: Potential and role in XXI century market economy|"The authors, basing on a critical analysis of the experience of planning during the 20th century in a number of countries of Europe and Asia, and also on the lessons from the economics of ""real socialism"", set out to substantiate their conclusions on the advisability of ""reloading"" this institution. The aim is to create planning mechanisms, suited to the new economy, that incorporate forecasting, projections, direct and indirect selective regulation and so forth into integral programs of economic development and that set a vector of development for particular limited spheres of what remains on the whole a market economy. New planning institutions presuppose a supersession of the forms of bureaucratic centralism and a reliance on network forms of organization of the subject and process of planning."
P17|The White Man’s Burden: On the Effect of African Resistance to European Domination|Are there contemporary development effects of African resistance to European domination? This question is the primary issue addressed by this inquiry. We establish that African resistance has had adverse effects on post-colonial African development and discuss possible channels of such causality. This relationship is robust to alternative model and to controlling for the outliers.
P17|Fighting Capital Flight in Africa: Evidence from Bundling and Unbundling Governance|Abstract This study investigates the effect of governance on capital flight by bundling and unbundling governance. The empirical evidence is based on 37 African countries for the period 1996–2010 and the Generalised Method of Moments. Governance is bundled by principal component analysis, namely: (i) political governance from political stability and ‘voice and accountability’; (ii) economic governance from government effectiveness and regulation quality and (iii) institutional governance from corruption-control and the rule of law. The following findings are established. (i) Political stability and ‘voice and accountability’ reduce capital flight while the collective effect of political governance is not significant. (ii) Economic governance increases capital flight whereas the individual effects of regulation quality and government effectiveness are not significant. (iii) Corruption-control and institutional governance negatively affect capital flight whereas the impact of the rule of law is not significant. (iv) Taken together, Corruption-control is the most effective governance weapon in the fight against capital flight. (v) Priority in the Washington Consensus is more effective at fighting capital flight compared to the Beijing Model. Policy implications are discussed.
P17|The Transformation of Values into Prices of Production in Marxâ€™s Scheme of Expanded Reproduction|This paper analyzes the formation of a general rate of profit and the subsequent prices of production in the context of Marxâ€™s two-sector scheme of expanded reproduction. We show that a consistent solution of the transformation problem can be derived by incorporating the original transformation procedure into the inter-temporal equilibrium framework provided by the scheme of accumulation. Previous solutions for the special case of simple reproduction are also examined, and it is shown that all these solutions rest on the restrictive assumption of constant wage rates.
P17|Determinants of efficiency of economic systems in Latin America|This paper investigates the determinants of efficiency of economic systems across Latin American countries during recent periods of economic liberalization. The empirical analysis considers fourteen Latin American countries representing different varieties of capitalism. The indicators relate to the period between 1995 and 2014. Consistent with extant literature, the empirical analysis of the sample economic systems suggests that the source of inefficiency is regulatory. The most resounding conclusion is that higher economic role of the state tends to be associated with lower efficiency of the economic system. The results also shows that one of the most important positive factors in economic systems? efficiency is competition. The quality of institutions and demographic factors are the other influencing determinants in efficiency of economic systems. Moreover, the analysis of the indicators shows that richer countries exhibit better efficiency. Strategies for better quality of institutions and competition, and better level of education may help to increase the efficiency of economic systems in Latin America.
P17|Liberalisme, souveraineté et politique économique : un débat contemporain|L’Union Européenne et plus particulièrement la zone euro se sont construites au cours du dernier quart de siècle en appliquant une doctrine économique articulée au tour de deux principes : la flexibilité des marchés de biens et du travail, la neutralité monétaire et budgétaire de l’action publique. C’est à un recul de la souveraineté des Etats auquel l’on a ainsi assisté au nom d’une certaine vision du libéralisme. Cette évolution institutionnelle est emblématique du paradoxe de la mondialisation (Rodrik 2011) qui veut que, faute d’un gouvernement mondial, la mondialisation des échanges requière une action des Etats réduite à l’application de règles intangibles édictées par la doctrine au détriment de la démocratie et des arbitrages que celle?ci implique. Il n’y aurait pas d’alternative autre que le repli à l’abri des frontières nationales permettant éventuellement de sauvegarder le principe démocratique mais au détriment de l’expansion des échanges et, possiblement, de la croissance. Pourtant, la question de la souveraineté comme celle du libéralisme ne sauraient être tranchées aussi facilement. Un débat existe qui conduit à considérer qu’une alternative au modèle du moment est possible qui rétablit les Etats dans leurs prérogatives sans qu’il faille renoncer aux bénéfices de la mondialisation.
P17|Do capitalistic institutions breed billionaires?|Abstract There is a new wave of interest in the inequality of income and wealth in the social sciences as well as in physics. On the top of the list are persons who own assets of US dollar 1 billion and more. Not much is known quantitatively of the distribution of these persons among countries. In this paper, it is analyzed empirically whether more capitalistic countries, as measured by index variables of economic freedom, exhibit a systematically larger number of billionaires in the year 2012 than less capitalistic countries. The main result is that the typical economic freedom indicators do not play a statistically significant role with respect to the number and wealth of billionaires, except the protection of property rights. In addition to that, according to further empirical results of the paper, billionaires may not be economically harmful for the respective countries as their existence, number and wealth is positively correlated with the GDP per head.
P17|Soft budget constraints, European Central Banking and the financial crisis|During the European financial crisis, the European Central Bank implemented a series of unconventional monetary policy measures. We argue that these unconventional monetary policy measures created soft budget constraints for the Eurozone countries by lowering their bond yield spreads. This hypothesis is tested using pooled OLS estimations and two different datasets: monetary policy event dummies and the purchase volumes of the Securities Markets Programme (SMP). We find significantly negative effects on bond yield spreads for both datasets, leading us to accept the hypothesis. The results are confirmed by robustness checks that directly estimate the effect of unconventional monetary policy on central government debt.
P17|An Interdisciplinary Perspective on the Relationship between Ethics and Today’s Capitalism|The paper begins by emphasizing the fact that, on a historical scale, one can have several views of the relationship that has existed over time between ethics and capitalism, namely missionary, ‘Nietzschean’, critical, and ‘regulatory’. It is argued that, nowadays, the capitalization of the contributions supplied, over time, by the four views embraces the form of two modern diametrically opposed perspectives, i.e.: on the one hand, there is the interpretation given by the neo-classical school of thought (mainstream economics) and, on the other hand, it comes to the interpretation given by the Austrian praxeological economic school (libertarian economics). The emphasis of the analysis is put on the assertions developed by the last one, libertarian thinking, that insists on the necessity to operate with a well-defined distinction between the legal level of the matter, the ethical level and the moral one. At the core of the libertarian analysis there is the understanding of the capitalist system being naturally impregnated by ethical values. And this intrinsic ethical nature of capitalism is organically bound to the sphere of the ownership-type relationship. In line with the understanding of the economic system, based on the institutions of the free market as representing ethical capitalism per se, the paper argues that the realities of the world today show governmental interventionism as a main factor that supports non-ethical economic behaviour. As a consequence, the more limited government intervention is, the greater the chance of ethical capitalism, that is, voluntary, non-conflictual and non-aggressive economic market relationships. Under such conditions, a ‘minimal state’ institutional arrangement (that is, the legitimate use of power by the state is limited to preventing fraud or the use of force; it does not include the power to tax or to confiscate property) is the basic condition for the existence of an ethical capitalism that works, which is to say that the chance of an economic system based on ethical values stands in people’s willingness to be part of such an evolution in society that aims to minimise the role of the state. Further, the paper argues that any historical analysis on how societies asserted such a willingness outlines the expression of a secular and unshaken option for growing rather than diminishing state involvement in the economy. It is about people’s perennial preference for the state, namely for the organization of society based on state interventionism (respectively, their preference for the coercive order imposed by the state authorities, order based, through its own nature, on the subjugation of private property and the aggression against individual freedom), with a preference for the government intervention over the organization of a society based on free market functioning (which is equivalent, in fact, to their rejection of a voluntarily and spontaneously non-violent order, based on the observance of private property and individual freedom, brought about by the free functioning of markets). In the last part of the paper there are put forward for discussion the possible explanations for this perennial preference for non-ethical capitalism, the analysis focusing on two directions: firstly, on that of social ontology; and then, on that of human psychology.
P17|Does Economic Prosperity Breed Trust?|We explore whether national economic prosperity enhances mutual generalized trust. This is done using panel data of multiple waves of the World Values Surveys, whereby national income levels are instrumented for using exogenous oil price shocks. We find significant and substantial effects of national income on the level of trust in the economy. In particular, a one percent increase in national income tends to cause an average increase of one percentage point (or more) in the likelihood that a person becomes trustful. One possible rationalization for this, exhibited in a simple model, is that perceived prosperity signals that many people are trustworthy.
P17|Does Economic Prosperity Breed Trust?|We explore whether national economic prosperity enhances mutual generalized trust. This is done using panel data of multiple waves of the World Values Surveys, whereby national income levels are instrumented for using exogenous oil price shocks. We find significant and substantial effects of national income on the level of trust in the economy. In particular, a one percent increase in national income tends to cause an average increase of one percentage point (or more) in the likelihood that a person becomes trustful. One possible rationalization for this, exhibited in a simple model, is that perceived prosperity signals that many people are trustworthy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Russia and Europe Under Sanctions: Problems of Energy Development|Reciprocal application of sanctions due to geopolitical instability in Ukraine, led to the rupture of economic ties and investment cooperation between the Russian Federation and the European Union. Further escalation of the conflict can lead to the formation of a new cold war and the reorientation of the world economy. In connection with this assessment of the risks and challenges of mutual economic development in the Eurasian continent becomes particularly relevant theme. The study reviews the current economic partnership between the Russian Federation and the European Union. Actualized data on the implementation of joint investment projects. In conclusion reveals the degree of mutual economic risks in case of continuing the policy of restrictive measures.
P17|Sarmila Banerjee & Anjan Chakrabarti (Eds), Development and Sustainability: India in A Global Perspective|The edited volume presents an engaging cartography of Indian economy following two decades of liberalization on the backdrop of globalization and problem of sustainability - two defining moments of post-reforms reorganization of the economy. A wide variety of sector-specific and economy-wide studies in the collection, examine the central tenets of market-centric reforms representing globalization. The research works dealing with micro- and macro-aspects of development help us form an idea of important issues, emerging debates, dominant institutions and changes required for attainment/restoration of efficiency. Most of these writings indicate the limitations of current developmental logic in their specific settings. These studies also propose measures to tackle the problems faced while presuming growth-sustainability disconnect to be temporary in nature. A number of studies introduced new analytical categories and empirical frameworks to capture current reality in better and more meaningful ways. A third strand of writings portrays conflict between the project of globalization and issue of sustainability as a distinguishing characteristic of global capitalism although the present policy framework accord highest priority to capitalist expansion. This conflict however, has put the Indian state in a perpetual act of balancing the growth objective of global capital and welfare objective meant for those experiencing exclusion in the development process.
P17|Economy and Art: Why are Economy and Art Closely Linked?|Most art products can be classified as intangible goods. They characterize a reasonable connection with passion, inspiration, creativity and emotions. However, the pricing of theseoutcomes is exceptional irregular and uncertain. As a result, the questions arise: What is art? What is the relationship between art and economy? Is there a practical way for artist to be famous and rich at the same time? Why are the fate of the artist depend not only on the quality and creativity of their products, but also to the economic resources? We have taken this phenomenon with particular attention, in which we examine the problem from an economic and artistic point of view.Upon analyzing the relations between art and economy, it provides a comprehensive view about the meaning of artworks for society’s economic and cultural development.
P17|Capital Taxation in the 21st Century|In his influential book, Capital in the 21st Century, Thomas Piketty argues forcefully that rising wealth and wealth inequality is an inherent characteristic of capitalist economies and calls for strong policy responses, in particular a substantial wealth tax implemented globally. This paper takes issue with the facts, logic, and policy conclusions in Piketty’s book, suggesting that the factors needed to support the inexorable rise in capital’s share and concentration are lacking and that among tax policy reforms aimed at dealing with economic inequality a wealth tax finds little support either in Piketty’s own work or elsewhere in the literature.
P17|Our Debts Heavy…|"(On the Monograph ""Debt as a Phenomenon of the XXI Century"") Lending capital, credit and debt financing have been around and used to fuel economic development since the time immemorial. There are innumerable studies by international and Russian scholars that look into the evolution of these notions and lending instruments employed. The collective monograph edited by A. Porokhovsky and published by the MSU in 2014 intends to provide an all-around political and economic as well as applied review of the current debt issues faced by the global economy, national economies of Russia, U.S.A. and countries of the European Union. It uses a variety of academic and methodological postulates that range from the reproduction approach to modern macroeconomic doctrines."
P17|Absorption Of Eu Funds In The Context Of Polish Enterprises Competitiveness Measured By Profitability Ratios|Competitiveness at the firm level is a subject of interest not only to managers and policy makers but also academics. An effective functioning under the conditions of new economy requires from the enterprises to develop their core capabilities and talents along with the ability to quickly identify and seize the opportunities generated by market environment. The implementation of such an approach allows the creation and sustain of economic surpluses in the long-run. The paper aims to examine the profitability of enterprises in Poland which is regarded in the context of absorption of EU funds in years 2007–2013. Taking into account that Poland became one of the largest beneficiaries, it is worth analyzing the impact of EU funding on the economic performance of Polish enterprises. The paper offers a critical reflection on the relationship between the absorption of EU funds and Polish enterprises competitiveness on the basis of the content analysis literature and statistical data derived from the European Commission, the Central Statistical Office and the Ministry of Regional Development. It is assumed simultaneously that the competitiveness of enterprises is expressed in the term of profitability rates. In spite of limitations which relate to the adopted definition of competitiveness and the short period of the conducted analysis concerning the key relationship, the paper contributes to the debate on the significance of EU Funds in the process of building modern and innovative economy.
P17|Spoleczny system produkcji w Niemczech – model na przyszlosc?|The concept of social system of production is one of the research perspectives by which the institutional arrangements of modern market economies are being analyzed. On this basis considerations can be made on distinctive arrangements in given countries, in line with the thesis of Variety of Capitalism approach, as well as explorations can be undertaken of issues of sustainability of institutional configurations and of the complementarity of their components. The study raises these issues in theory and carries out their preliminary verification on the example of Germany's social system of production, with special regard to the labor market. Based on the critical literature review a set of specific features of the German model was selected, as proposed by the concept of the social system of production, divided in four main categories: institutions, organizations, social values and economic policy. Then, using a secondary statistical data and qualitative analysis, the trends affecting these elements are identified, in order to verify the thesis of complementarity and the stability of the German social production system.
P17|Social system of production in Germany – a model for future?|The concept of a social system of production (SSP) is one of the cognitive perspectives by which the institutional arrangements of modern market economies could be analysed. It allows reflections on the autonomy of institutional arrangements in each country, in line with the assumption put by the Variety of Capitalism approach, as well as to investigate problems of stability of the given institutional configuration and the complementarity of their components. The following study raises these issues on theoretical basis and carries out their preliminary verification on the example of German SSP, with special regard to the labour market. Basing on the critical study of literature a set of specific features of the German model is proposed, structured according to the concept of SSP in four main categories: institutions, organizations, social values and economic policy. Then, using a secondary statistical data and qualitative analysis, some trends has been identified occurring within these elements in order to verify the thesis of complementarity and the stability of the German social production system.
P17|A MORE PROSPEROUS EUROPE : REVISITING THE CONCEPTS OF GROWTH , DEVELOPMENT AND PROSPERITY (International Conference “EUROPEAN PERSPECTIVE OF LABOR MARKET - INOVATION, EXPERTNESS, PERFORMANCE”)|Although discussions on the need to replace the view on economy based on Newtonian physics have been present for several decades, especially after the 1970s, the conditions in the European Union after 2008, as well as the long term global prospects have determined an increasing urgency for designing a new paradigm for a sustainable and humanely fulfilling economy.The interest for a new paradigm is not confined to European Union but the urgency may be higher in its case as a combination of structural and circumstantial factors require a sustainable solution sooner rather than later. The current official strategy, Europe 2020, has in view a new “growth model and creating the conditions for a smart, sustainable and inclusive growth”. But the five flagship initiatives of the strategy address important but partial dimensions of the socio-economic system. The strategy proposes some remedies but not a new paradigm. This paper aims to explore and capitalize on a number of new approaches that try to define growth, development and prosperity in a more realistic and operational manner. At the same time the author explores the consequences of rethinking growth and development and advocates a shift from quantitative to qualitative analysis. The conclusion is that reaching the goal of a more prosperous Europe requires some clarifications on what prosperity is and which is the relation of this new meaning of prosperity with the current global conditions that include the new technologies, the existing natural resources, the impact of waste on the environment and the human nature as manifested in the new geopolitical context.
P17|The footprint of using metals: new metrics of consumption and productivity|Metal use and modern society are intrinsically linked and it is no surprise that global processes of industrialization and urbanization have led to ever increasing amounts of metal use. In recent decades, global supply and demand networks for metals have become increasingly complex. Industrial Ecology research is well placed to unpack this complexity and to explore potential resource efficiencies for metals. This is especially important during the current period of rising ore prices. We examine patterns of supply and demand for iron ore and bauxite, and recent trends in resource productivity of these two important metal ores. We introduce a consumption perspective and compare the material footprint of metal ores to the GDP of countries to look at how much economic benefit countries achieve per unit of metal footprint. We find that for the past two decades global amounts of iron ore and bauxite extractions have risen faster than global GDP, that both supply and demand of iron ore and bauxite have been concentrated in a handful of countries and that resource productivity from a consumption perspective has fallen in developed nations, as well as globally. The research shows no saturation of metal ore consumption at any level of income. Policies will be required to enhance both the productivity of metal production and the economic productivity of consumption (GDP per metal footprint) through more efficient mining, product design, reuse and recycling. Copyright Springer Japan 2015
P17|Thomas Piketty’s Capitalism Revisited|Thomas Piketty’s international best selling Capital in the TwentyFirst Century lays out his theory of a long-run rise in income inequality under capitalism. It is written as a manifesto urging reintegration of social sciences. A number of reviewers judged it on ideological grounds, labeling it either as a revolution in economic thinking, or dismissing it offhandedly. Piketty’s theory of rising inequality is based on the two Fundamental Laws of Capitalism, developed after the Solow growth model. However, this model is inconsistent with Piketty’s own characterization of modern capitalism. Moreover, his sole justification for the constant discrepancy between rate of return and rate of income growth (r > g) is based on the high elasticity of substitution between capital and labor. However, that is just one factor that can have an influence on factor income shares. By failing to offer a consistent theory of rising inequality, his piece can hardly be considered as a useful founding stone for a new social science.
P17|Bundesrepublik Erde: Grundrechte und Grundgesetz für die ganze Welt|In diesem Beitrag wird das kontrafaktische Szenario betrachtet, dass die ganze Erde einen globalen Bundesstaat nach dem Vorbild der Bundesrepublik Deutschland bilden würde, in dem das Grundgesetz analog für alle Menschen und Länder Geltung hätte. Grundgesetz und Organisation der Bundesrepublik Deutschland sind natürlich weder dafür gedacht noch optimal dafür geeignet, alle Menschen und Völker der Erde zu integrieren. Trotzdem wäre eine Bundesrepublik Erde vermutlich ein friedlicherer Ort mit besser geschützten Menschenrechten und höherer Wohlfahrt als die gegenwärtige Welt. Der Beitrag folgt dem Aufbau des Grundgesetzes unter besonderer Berücksichtigung der Grundrechte, um Anpassungen für die Bundesrepublik Erde und mögliche Konsequenzen zu diskutieren.
P17|Growing Income Inequality as a Challenge to 21st Century Capitalism|Income inequality has increased in both developed and developing countries, and this growing inequality is in large part due to a shift in factor shares in favor of capital and to the detriment of labor. Factor shares have varied systematically over the post-World War II period, rising until the late 1970s and then falling until now. Explanations for the decline in labor’s share include technical progress, globalization, a decline in labor’s bargaining power, and increasing energy prices. These drivers of income change are likely to persist for the foreseeable future, meaning that income inequality will continue to increase. We show that growing inequality tends to reduce political stability and the ability of governments to protect citizens against predation and also to reduce education attainment. Since good institutions and education are key drivers of the growth of total factor productivity, growing inequality thus poses a serious risk for the capitalist system.
P17|Crisis inmobiliaria, recesión y endeudamiento masivo, 2002-2011|The global financial crisis of the first decade of the 21st century had its origin in the creation and diversification of financial instruments backed by mortgages that eventually returned on high risk derivatives. As part of the shocks of the crisis a temporary restriction of credit was one of the main causes of global recession in 2009. However, an over-indebtedness process was extended throughout the developed world, affecting the most vulnerable economies of the European Union with particular virulence. Iceland, Ireland, Portugal. Greece and Spain, are countries where the crisis followed a similar pattern: collapse of the real estate sector, bank failures, its rescue with public funds, over-indebtedness, reduction of the fiscal deficit, unemployment, increased taxes and devaluation of sovereign bonds.
P17|Csr Integration Into The Corporate Strategy|The aim of this research paper is to develop a model for the integration of ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) into the company strategy as a source of competitive advantages. CSR is an organization's obligation to consider the interests of their customers, employees, shareholders, communities and to consider the social and environmental consequences of their business activities. By integrating CSR into the corporate strategy and stakeholder management, organizations can ensure that the increasing of shareholder value doesn’t overshadow the need to behave ethically to their stakeholders. The research is based on the theoretical framework that supports a thesis of beneficial impact of the development and implementation of CSR plan: by planning out CSR as part of a corporate strategy, companies can achieve the ultimate goal of creating both social value and corporate value.
P17|Corporate Social Responsibility And Companies’ Reputation|The aim of this research paper is to analyze in what way Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is capable of enhancing corporate reputation. In the past companies often thought to business and society as being in opposition, but in these days external pressure for CSR continues to grow and numerous organizations monitor, rank, and report social performance. Sometimes the legal, business and reputation risks are great for companies engaging in practices deemed unacceptable. Socially responsible behaviors can increase a company's value in that they can increase the degree of confidence of the various stakeholders and the level of reputation. The research is based on the theoretical framework that supports a thesis of their positive relationship. In the paper the Italian companies with the best CSR reputations are analyzed.
P17|Frais, performance et risque des fonds d'investissement islamiques et conventionnels : une approche théorique et empirique|Islamic and conventional investment funds have the same purpose. However, unlike conventional funds, Islamic funds offer different investment contracts and have to invest in accordance with a set of selection rules. This dissertation focuses on developing theoretical and empirical analysis framework to explain the fixed and performance fees, the performance and the risk of investment funds. Thus, we begin by developing a theoretical analysis about profit and loss-Sharing contracts (venture capital) that face agency problems. Based on this theoretical framework, a theoretical model, in the presence of adverse selection problem between the fund manager and the investor, shows that the risk aversions of the fund manager and the investor have respectively an impact on the periodic performance fees (carried interest) during the bargaining stage. The conclusions of this model lead us to empirically explain the terms of compensation and profit-Sharing, the performance and the risk of funds. To achieve our objective, we create a unique database that has an international sample of Islamic and conventional funds grouped by management company. By distinguishing between Islamic and conventional funds, the legal, political and economic conditions explain their fees, performance and risk.
P17|The impact of macro news and central bank communication on emerging European forex markets|We employ a two-stage empirical strategy to analyze the impact of macroeconomic news and central bank communication on the exchange rates of three Central and Eastern European (CEE) currencies against the euro. First we estimate the nominal equilibrium exchange rate based on a monetary model. Second, we employ a high-frequency GARCH model to estimate the effects of the news and communication along with the estimated exchange rate misalignment on the exchange rate as well as its volatility. The analysis is performed during the pre-crisis (2004–2007) and crisis (2008–2009) periods. CEE currencies react to macroeconomic news during both periods in an intuitive manner that corresponds to exchange rate-related theories. However, the responsiveness of the currencies to central bank verbal interventions becomes important only during the crisis period.
P17|Vulnerabili e appassionati. Sui fondamenti antropologici della scienza economica|Without the passions there would be little reason to act at all. Nevertheless, in standard economic models human action is driven solely by self-interest: the passions are supposed to interfere with our ability to form rational beliefs and to make rational choices. In fact, any action originated and nurtured by passions places its own raison d’être in itself. The acts motivated by passions can either improve or (even) worsen one’s wellbeing: there might not be any payoff in both the present and the future, and monetary incentives do not influence or mitigate their nature. Above all, under the influence of the passions, the actor does not calculate but instead “loses control”. This paper argues against the separation of passion-infused intimate relations and economic theory through a reconsideration of the anthropological conception of the economics.
P17|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. One of the major aim of financial systems is to make stability over the financial companies. Well known financial companies are Banks. If Banks make more profitable works, it can provide better effect to sector as an efficiency. The profitability of banks are more important for financial systems. Because of a lot of factors may affect to the banks as a widely way. Some researchers may emphasize banks earnings how it can improve which internal and external forces. Main studies are focused on banks financial statements. Therefore it is important how can we analyse their financial statements for evaluating profitability. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bank’s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. Therefore banking sector profitability are substantial for Turkey which to understand the determinants of all types of banks. On the other hand, financial atmosphere give priority to above changes for evaluating their performances. Therefore many studies were analysed profitability with various methods like ratio analyses, predicting regression model, simulation methods and etc. Some learning from expert’s experiences are rely on use of panel comparison with others about same historical infrastructure. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan/Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P17|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. A profitable banking sector is better able effect to stability of the financial system. The profitability of a financial institution is affected by a lot of factors. These factors include elements internal to each financial institution and several important external forces shaping earnings performance. In this study we analyses effects from financial statements to their profitability of each types of banks. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bankâ€™s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. It is therefore important to understand the determinants of banking sector profitability in Turkey between all types of banks. This is essentially important in the light of the above notable changes that have occurred in the operating environment of banks in Turkey. An overview of previous studies indicates various ways that profitability was examined. Some studies were country specific and few of them considered panel of countries reviewing the determinants of profitability. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan / Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P17|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. One of the major aim of financial systems is to make stability over the financial companies. Well known financial companies are Banks. If Banks make more profitable works, it can provide better effect to sector as an efficiency. The profitability of banks are more important for financial systems. Because of a lot of factors may affect to the banks as a widely way. Some researchers may emphasize banks earnings how it can improve which internal and external forces. Main studies are focused on banks financial statements. Therefore it is important how can we analyse their financial statements for evaluating profitability. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bank’s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. Therefore banking sector profitability are substantial for Turkey which to understand the determinants of all types of banks. On the other hand, financial atmosphere give priority to above changes for evaluating their performances. Therefore many studies were analysed profitability with various methods like ratio analyses, predicting regression model, simulation methods and etc. Some learning from expert’s experiences are rely on use of panel comparison with others about same historical infrastructure. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan/Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P17|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. One of the major aim of financial systems is to make stability over the financial companies. Well known financial companies are Banks. If Banks make more profitable works, it can provide better effect to sector as an efficiency. The profitability of banks are more important for financial systems. Because of a lot of factors may affect to the banks as a widely way. Some researchers may emphasize banks earnings how it can improve which internal and external forces. Main studies are focused on banks financial statements. Therefore it is important how can we analyse their financial statements for evaluating profitability. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bank’s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. Therefore banking sector profitability are substantial for Turkey which to understand the determinants of all types of banks. On the other hand, financial atmosphere give priority to above changes for evaluating their performances. Therefore many studies were analysed profitability with various methods like ratio analyses, predicting regression model, simulation methods and etc. Some learning from expert’s experiences are rely on use of panel comparison with others about same historical infrastructure. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan/Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P17|The Impact of Motivational Factors of Participation in R&D Consortia on Firm Performance|The formation of R&D consortia can provide enterprises with many competitive advantages and allow them to achieve economies of scale. Therefore, R&D consortia are an important way of enhancing technical capacity, reducing cost and risk, and maintaining the competitive advantages of enterprises. This study selected 489 consortia with 1,668 participating enterprises from 14,922 government-subsidized enterprises participating in the six projects of participation in R&D consortia during the period 2000-2011. The research focus was to explore the motivation and effectiveness of enterprise participation in consortia using 14 variables for internal and external factors. The study found that these internal and external factors were significantly and positively correlated with the formation of the R&D consortia. Moreover, after participating in R&D consortia, the capital, turnover, number of employees, R&D talent, and new products and services of these enterprises all increased.
P17|Economy and Art: Why are Economy and Art Closely Linked?|Most art products can be classified as intangible goods. They characterize a reasonable connection with passion, inspiration, creativity and emotions. However, the pricing of these outcomes is exceptional irregular and uncertain. As a result, the questions arise: What is art? What is the relationship between art and economy? Is there a practical way for artist to be famous and rich at the same time? Why are the fate of the artist depend not only on the quality and creativity of their products, but also to the economic resources? We have taken this phenomenon with particular attention, in which we examine the problem from an economic and artistic point of view.Upon analyzing the relations between art and economy, it provides a comprehensive view about the meaning of artworks for society’s economic and cultural development.
P17|“External Debt, Domestic Investment and Economic Growth in Cameroon” A system Estimation Approach|The feedback of external debt on economic growth through gross domestic investment has provided quite interesting results throughout the world especially in developing countries where external and internal borrowing have been a tradition. Based on a system estimation approach, using Two Stage Least Squares as an estimation technique in the case of Cameroon for a period of 34 years (1980-2013), the results reveal that while domestic investment increases economic growth, external debt retards economic growth in Cameroon, revealing the influence of debt overhang. It was therefore concluded that external debts adversely affect economic growth in Cameroon and thus, as a major recommendation, the authorities are expected to improve on the performance of external debt through proper debt management, a complete debt relief and using the debt in productive sectors for production of goods and services.
P17|Elements of Novelty, Known Mechanisms, and the Fundamental Causes of the Recent Crisis| This article briefly describes the evolution of the recent economic crisis based on different theories toward my own interpretation of it. The deregulation wave of the last decades has created new profit opportunities in various contexts — from labor flexibility to privatization and from financialization to globalization — so promoting a renewed process of capitalist accumulation after the stagflation of the 1970s. This has taken place at the cost of a wide-ranging increase in inequality and instability, thus bringing a cascade of crises, including the latest one of 2008.
P17|Economic Growth and Institutional Reform in Modern Monarchies and Republics: A Historical Cross-Country Perspective 1820-2000|Conventional arguments suggest that republics ought to grow faster than monarchies and experience lower transitional costs following reforms. We employ a panel of 27 countries observed from 1820 to 2000 to estimate these differences. Results show no significant growth differences between the two regime types. Effects of incremental reforms do not differ between them, but those of large-scale reforms do. Specifically, we find a strong valley-of-tears effect of large reforms in republics, and monarchies benefit from such reforms in the ten-year perspective adopted here. We offer some tentative thoughts on the underlying mechanisms responsible for the results.
P17|Global Crisis and Trends of Economic Development|Global crisis forms new economic policy agenda which raises new questions for economic theory and economic thinking. The paper deals with these new intellectual challenges. Among them: growth theory and ricks of secular stagnation, unconventional macroeconomic policy and risk of financial stability, inequality and growth, new welfare state, prospects of globalization vs. deglobalization, and prospects of reindustrialization in advanced economies.
P17|Factors That May Cause The Recovery Of The Global Economy In 2014|The financial and economic crisis of 2008 led to a number of perverse effects on international trade and economic growth. However, 2013 was marked by the adjustment process of the world economy after the incidence waves of the financial crisis, thus resuming a year of global economic transition to a new economic cycle. The growth of stock market indices during 2013 and particularly those in the United States and Germany could be a factor in economic recovery for 2014. In the global macroeconomic scenario it is expected that the U.S. economy will accelerate in 2014 for a GDP forecast rate of 1.9% annually, which would reconfirm the strength of the U.S. economy to shocks. However, the most important positive impact on the world economy in 2014 could come from the Eurozone: in the central scenario it is expected an increase of the region's GDP by 0.6% annually, a trend driven by public investment and consumption components.
P17|Absorption of EU Funds in the context of Polish enterprises competitiveness measured by profitability rates|Competitiveness at the firm level is a subject of interest not only to managers and policy makers but also academics. An effective functioning under the conditions of new economy requires from the enterprises to develop their core capabilities and talents along with the ability to quickly identify and seize the opportunities generated by market environment. The implementation of such an approach allows the creation and sustain of economic surpluses in the long-run. The paper aims to examine the profitability of enterprises in Poland which is regarded in the context of absorption of EU funds in years 2007-2013. Taking into account that Poland became one of the largest beneficiaries, it is worth analyzing the impact of EU funding on the economic performance of Polish enterprises. The paper offers a critical reflection on the relationship between the absorption of EU funds and Polish enterprises competitiveness on the basis of the content analysis literature and statistical data derived from the European Commission, the Central Statistical Office and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development. It is assumed simultaneously that the competitiveness of enterprises is expressed in the term of profitability rates. In spite of limitations which relate to the adopted definition of competitiveness and the short period of the conducted analysis concerning the key relationship, the paper contributes to the debate on the significance of EU Funds in the process of building modern and innovative economy.
P17|Retour sur la crise et les politiques mises en œuvre : une perspective autrichienne<BR>[Past and Future of the crisis]|"This paper argues in an Austrian-Business Cycle's perspective that all the conditions are met again to have new crisis. The Federal Bank treats, always, a crisis of liquidity excess by low interest rate, i.e. ""cheap money policy"". When Federal Bank will have to rise its rates, the crisis will come back. This working paper explains also why, on the one hand, the post-keynesian's explication (Minsky) gives only a part of the story and, whyon the other hand, public spending and public debt was not the solution. It gives only a part of the story by if the financial market is fragile it is because central bank increases the moral hasard phenomena. The capitalism by fiat is the cause of market instability. Moral hazard incentives banks to take risks. In this context economic policies implemented to manage the crisis are inadequate. The public expenditure, at the origin of public debt, is not the solution. It is on the contrary a part of the problem. Indeed beyond the optimal size of government the rise of public spending has negative effect on economic growth. It increases public debt and the level of tax and then creates the conditions to have a crisis even deeper."
P17|Развитие Региональной Проблемы В Югославии В 1918–1941 Гг.: Централизм, Федерализм И Межнациональные Проблемы<BR>[Development of the Regional Problem in Yugoslavia (1918–1941): Centralism, Federalism and Ethnic Problems]|English Abstract. The paper examines the origins and the process of growing of the regional problem in Yugoslavia in the period between the World Wars (1918–1941) in the context of discussions about the form of the statehood. Russian Abstract. В статье рассматривается генезис и процесс нарастания региональной проблемы в Югославии, в период между мировыми войнами в 1918–1941 гг. в контексте дискуссии о форме государственного устройства.
P17|The Impact of Strategic Human Resource Management on Organizational Performance|Organizational performance is getting more and more important, especially in a market with greater competition and dynamic. Organizational performance is measured through different indicators. It guarantees the continuity of the organization to be competitive in a global marketplace. Normally, the implementation of performance indicators achieved through human resources. Human resources are the key for keeping the organization in the market so competitive. These human resources need to be managed effectively to achieve the required performance of the organization. It is necessary to manage strategically the human resources and to adapt at its strategy with organizational strategy. The aim of this study is focused on the impact of the strategic management of human resource in achieving organizational performance. This study was conducted based on primary and secondary sources. How much organizations appear competitive in the market through achieving the performance indicators? How important is the management of human resources in achieving organizational performance? So, through the skills, behaviors and attitudes would be expected by human resources to achieve the required performance in the organization.
P17|Over-accumulation, Rising Costs and â€˜Unproductiveâ€™ Labor|The current crisis takes place within a long downturn and new debates on the future of growth are emerging. This paper argues that some theoretical insights made by classical economists about the end of economic expansion are relevant for the discussion on the prospects for growth in rich countries. We focus on three key mechanisms related to contemporary radical economic analysis: over-accumulation, rising costs of accumulation, and the balance between productive and unproductive labor and consumption.
P17|The Neoliberal Era and the Financial Crisis in the Light of SSA Theory|Social structure of accumulation (SSA) theory suggests that economic growth in capitalist countries is characterized by lengthy periods of relatively vigorous growth, often amounting to several decades, followed by lengthy periods of relatively sluggish growth or stagnation. The periods of vigorous growth are marked by institutions that taken as a whole are favorable to the accumulation or investment process. The internal contradictions of those institutions, interacting with changes in the external environment, eventually bring the period of prosperity to a close. At that point, a period of intense social conflict is ushered in, accompanied by economic stagnation, until a new set of institutions that favors accumulation can be established. The neoliberal era, from 1980 to 2007, represents a distinctive period of capitalist development in the United States, one with its own characteristic institutions. This essay examines the major institutions of the neoliberal era and their internal contradictions. It shows how these led to the financial crisis of 2007-2009, and examines the conflicts exposed by the crisis. The essay attempts to bring together an empirical account of the financial crisis with a theoretical framework in which the crisis can be most readily understood.
P17|The Harsh Reality of Pursuing Innovations: Emerging Market Perspectives|"This short conference paper serves as a distillation of a keynote address delivered at the the Second National Conference on Management and Higher Education Trends & Strategies for Management & Administration hosted by Bangkok-based Stamford International University (Thailand) on November 1, 2014.Innovation is discussed as the heart of entrepreneurial processes occurring in today's capitalist economic systems, including transition economies like China and Vietnam, which underscores economic competitiveness of firms and economies. But the innovation effort and process also face dilemma of ""entrepreneurial curse of innovation"". Advantages and disadvantages are weighed for a more balanced view, especially in the context of outnumbering SMEs and given existence of pitfalls and traps along the innovation path of development. Toward the end, the value of the market is once again stressed amid the concern of subjective assumption and illusion about availability of market opportunities in the mind of innovators, which may contrast totally with the dismal outcome the actual market realities may show ex post."
P17|International Year of Cooperatives and the 2020 Vision|The cooperative movement underwent in 2012 a renewed impulse with the declaration of the �International Year of Cooperatives�. In this paper we present the results of the interviews conducted with international experts of the sector, who belong to national organizations following the Delphi methodology. The questionnaire gathered qualitative information from experts about the balance of this celebratory year. Moreover, it was used as a discussion tool to evaluate obstacles and the potential for accomplishment of the objectives outlined in the project �2020 Vision�. This project identifies the challenges faced by the cooperative movement as it strives to keep encouraging, strengthening, and giving visibility to cooperatives worldwide.
P17|El año internacional de las cooperativas. Una aproximación a los desafíos del sector mediante el método Delphi<BR>[International year of cooperatives. An approach to challenges of the sector through the Delphi method]|El movimiento cooperativo vivió en el año 2012 un impulso renovado con la celebración del Año Internacional de las Cooperativas de Naciones Unidas (ONU), siendo su objetivo fomentar y dar visibilidad al papel que juegan las cooperativas en el desarrollo. En este trabajo, se presentan los resultados cualitativos de las entrevistas realizadas a expertos del sector en el ámbito internacional siguiéndose la metodología Delphi, con la que se recaban valoraciones expertas de la situación y retos del movimiento en distintos países, de los logros de la celebración ese Año Internacional y de las posibilidades de cumplimiento de los objetivos marcados para la próxima década por las organizaciones representativas del sector a nivel internacional.
P17|Political Economy of Love: Nurturance Gap, Disembedded Economy and Freedom Constraints within Neoliberal Capitalism|This article critically evaluates the forms of love capital being accumulated by people in capitalist economies, through the lens of some of the core general principles of heterodox political economy (HPE). We start by situating love historically in the neoliberal culture and then examine the six main love styles as well as the five critical factors through the process of circular and cumulative causation. We then scrutinise the contradictions of neoliberal capitalism involving the nurturance gap, disembedded economy and freedom constraint which inhibit the generation of holistic love capital. The path dependent nature of love is then linked to relational phases and instabilities, especially involving serial monogamy in the United States. Some of the core principles of HPE provide a vantage point for scrutinising the problems involved in stimulating holistic love capital in the contemporary environment.
P17|Franchising As A Business Concept - Chance For Many In Serbia|" The development of the franchise network as an alternative solution in comparison with the traditional opening of the organizational units allows our own expansion through enganging less money and risk-sharing with local entrepreneurs who are already well familiar with its own market and its potential and had it completely checked before investing their own funds in buying a franchise. Company „Soko Stark"" in Belgrade is one of the largest companies in the confectionery industry, in the region and for more than 90 years has been a leader in the domestic market. Given the fact that the concept of franchising as a business in the last decade, has been rapidly growing in all world markets, management of Soko Stark reviewed all the advantages and disadvantages of such business concept and took all necessary actions and measures as soon as possible to come out with a new strategy of development, before creating its retail network through the system of franchising. The company with its operating has its business concept proved successful so far. In the near future it plans to expand and increase the franchise system. The company has proven that it is more successful than the competition, in the the confectionery market, where until recently dominated almost no one. Therefore, we expect that we could easily extend our franchise system both within our borders and in other markets as well as on the territory of the former republics."
P17|Japan’s competitiveness: Trends and challenges|There are many definitions and concepts of competitiveness in the literature. This article focuses on multilevel concepts of a country’s competitiveness, especially the broad concept of the World Economic Forum (WEF). This concept is explained through the example of Japan. The objective of the article is to discuss various concepts of a country’s international competitiveness, as well as to describe and analyse the competitiveness level of the current Japanese economy. The authors try to identify key competitiveness-related issues in the context of the country’s macroeconomic development in the last decade.
P17|Na dobre czy na zle? Wspolny kryzys a dobro wspolne/For Better or Worse? The Common Crisis and Common Good|Crisis, sometimes associated with historically distant times or centrally planned economies, has turned out to be one of the main contemporary issues. Hence different systems like socialism and capitalism become similar in their inability to reply to expectations for a safe, peaceful and abundant life. It means that economic problems are more complex in their nature. Thorough analysis of the roots of different crises should therefore reach deeper than just economic explanations. This is the point where ethical and cultural explanations may be useful because they strive to explore the socio-cultural fabric at its foundations in the hierarchy of values and vision of human beings and society. When it comes to contemporary crisis the problem is twofold: firstly, there is the threat that the crisis will be treated inadequately and not realistically in consequence. Secondly, the roots of the crisis may not be diagnosed properly, which may lead to false ‘treatment’. This article is an attempt to highlight the above issues and analyse them in the context of the common good approach, which seems to offer valuable potential to understand the difficulties properly and offer a reasonable plan for recovery.
P17|How Large Is The Private Sector In Africa? Evidence From National Accounts And Labour Markets|In recent years, the private sector has been recognized as a key engine of Africa's economic development. Yet, the most simple and fundamental question remains unanswered: how large is the African private sector? We present novel estimates of the size of the private sector in 50 African countries derived from the analysis of national accounts and labor market data. Our results point to a relatively large size of the African private sector. National account data shows that this accounts for about 2/3 of total investments, 4/5 of total consumption and 3/4 of total credit. In relative terms, large private sector countries are concentrated in Western Africa (Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Niger, Senegal and Togo), Central Africa (Cameroun, Republic of Congo) and Eastern Africa (Kenya, Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania), with the addition of Mauritius. Countries with small private sectors include a sample of oil-exporters (Algeria, Angola, Equatorial Guinea, Libya and Nigeria), some of the poorest countries in the continent (Burundi, Burkina Faso, Guinea Bissau, Mali and Sao Tome e Principe), Zambia and Botswana. Over the last ten years, the size of the private sector has been contracting significantly in oil exporting countries, although the variation in its size does not appear to be significantly correlated with growth performance. Labor market data reinforces the idea of a large private sector, which provides about 90% of total employment opportunities. However, most of this labor is informal and characterized by low productivity: permanent wage jobs in the private sector account on average for only 10% of total employment (a share similar to that provided by public administration and state owned enterprises). South Africa is the notable exception, with formal wage employment in the private sector representing 46% of total employment. Finally, we find evidence of negative private sector earning premiums, suggesting that market distortions abound. These are likely to prevent the eff<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Dutch diease in the post-soviet countries of central and south-west Asia: How contagious is it?|This study seeks to determine the extent to which the former communist states of Central and South-West Asia are “infected” by the Dutch Disease. We take a detailed look at the functioning of the transmission mechanism of the Dutch Disease, i.e. the chains that run from commodity prices to real output in manufacturing. We complement this with two econometric exercises. First, we estimate nominal and real exchange rate models to see whether commodity prices are correlated with the exchange rate. Second, we run growth equations to analyse the possible effects of commodity prices and the dependency of economic growth on natural resources.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Conceptual Framework For Estimating The Performance Of Interorganizational Collaborative Innovation|The construction of a sequential model performance based on indicators broken down by factors and variables is relevant because it provides a complete picture of the effectiveness of collaborative structures built and operated on the basis of policies induced by the organizations involved. It also provides a longitudinal analysis of the effectiveness of collaboration for innovation. I will define the performance analysis model of collaborative innovation as a conceptual tool consisting of a set of elements and relationships between them, allowing the quantification of the expression of innovation performance as a result of interaction of several organizations. Applying such a model involves the analysis and estimation of the added value of each segment of interorganizational innovation cycle as part of the overall performance obtained by combining existing or created knowledge. From this point of view, it is necessary to develop an ontology, a common ground on which this model can be built.
P17|Religious Identity, Public Goods and Centralization: Evidence from Russian and Israeli Cities|In this paper, we analyze the effects of religious identity - defined both as personal identification with a religious tradition and institutional ideas on the provision of public goods - on attitudes toward central government. We explore whether citizens belonging to collectivist rather than individualist religious denominations are more likely to evaluate their central government positively. Moreover, we explore whether adherence to collectivist norms of economic and political organization leads to a positive evaluation of central government. Surveys were conducted in Russia and Israel as these countries provide a mosaic of three major world religions - Judaism, Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The information gathered also allows us to study whether attitudes towards religious institutions such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf, and the Greek-Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Israel are able to predict positive attitudes toward centralized forms of governance. We find strong support for the proposition that collectivist norms and an institutional religious identity enhance positive attitudes towards central government.
P17|Threats to property rights: Effects on economic performance of the manufacturing sector in Indian states|We examine the effects of the threats to property rights on the economic performance of the manufacturing sector in Indian states. We constructed indices of the threats using data on crime against property rights. In our analysis, we correct for the problem of underreporting of crimes in official crime data. The results of our instrumental variable estimation show that not only threats to private property but also to contracts adversely affect the performance of the manufacturing sector in India. We also extend our basic model to examine the effects of kidnapping and the scale economies of property rights protection.
P17|Future-oriented technology analysis: Its potential to address disruptive transformations|This paper reflects on the potential of future-oriented analysis (FTA) to address major change and to support decision-makers and other stakeholders in anticipating and dealing with transformations. It does so by critically reflecting on the selected papers for this special issue as well as on the discussions that took place at the fourth Seville International Conference on Future-oriented Technology Analysis. Considering the potential roles of FTA in enabling a better understanding of complex situations and in defining effective policy responses leads to the understanding that appropriate FTA practices are needed to enable FTA to fulfil such roles. Dealing with disruptive changes – and grand challenges in particular –, therefore, raises several conceptual, methodological and operational issues. Two of them are general, while further two are specific to the so-called grand challenges: i) distinguish known unknowns, unknown knows and unknown unknowns, ii) combine quantitative and qualitative approaches in a relevant and feasible way, iii) understand the complex and systemic nature of grand challenges, and iv) orchestrate joint responses to grand challenges. After a brief explanation of these issues, the paper outlines the main ideas of the papers published in this special issue. These present various methodological aspects of FTA approaches as well as some advances needed in practice to assist FTA practitioners and stakeholders in comprehending transformations and in tackling the so-called grand challenges.
P17|Cok Kriterli Karar Verme Teknikleriyle Lojistik Firmalarinda Performans Olcumu|Gunumuz yogun rekabet ortaminda kaynaklarini optimal sekilde kullanmak zorunda olan isletmeler belirledikleri hedeflere ulasma derecelerini gorebilmek icin duzenli olarak performans olcumu yapmalidir. Stratejik bir performans olcumu ise ayni endustri dalinda faaliyet gosteren isletmelerin birbirleriyle karsilastirilmasini gerektirir. Bu dogrultuda calismanin amaci, literaturde yaygin olarak kullanilan Cok Kriterli Karar Verme (CKKV) teknikleri yardimiyla 2011 yili icin “FORTUNE Turkiye” dergisinin acikladigi ilk 500 firma listesinde yer alan 10 lojistik firmasinin performans olcumunu gerceklestirmektir. Uc asamada gerceklestirilen uygulamanin ilk asamasinda literatur ve veri elverisliligi dikkate alinarak belirlenen degerlendirme kriterlerinin onem agirliklari objektif bir CKKV teknigi olan CRITIC (Criteria Importance Through Intercritera Correlation) yontemiyle hesaplanmistir. Elde edilen agirliklar yardimiyla ikinci asamada SAW (Simple Additive Weighting), TOPSIS (The Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution) ve VIKOR (VlseKriterijumska Optimizacija I Kompromisno Resenje) yontemleri kullanilarak firmalar performanslarina gore siralanmistir. Ucuncu asamada ise bir veri birlestirme (data fusion) teknigi olan Borda Sayim (Borda Count) yontemiyle soz konusu uc yontemle elde edilen siralamalardan yararlanilarak butunlesik tek bir siralama elde edilmistir. Uygulama sonucunda calismada kullanilan butunlesik modelin performans olcumu amaciyla kullanilabilecek uygun bir yontem oldugu ve uygulayicilara tatminkâr sonuclar verdigi ortaya cikmistir. Bu calismada kullanilan butunlesik yontemle ilgili literaturde baska bir calismaya rastlanmamistir.
P17|Il problema del tempo libero nell’ambito della civiltà del capitale|In questo saggio intendiamo discutere la questione del tempo libero nel capitalismo alla luce della problematica della liberazione dal e del lavoro (par. 1). Nel far ciò, dopo aver criticato la concezione dell’essere umano propria della scienza economica, proporremo l’abbozzo di una concezione alternativa (par. 2). Ci chiederemo quindi cosa succederebbe liberando sic et simpliciter del tempo attraverso mere elargizioni di reddito senza rimettere in discussione la concezione dell’essere umano comunemente accettata (par. 3) per poi proporre (par. 4) due real utopias che affrontano congiuntamente il nodo dell’aumento del tempo libero e dell’apertura a forme differenti di società. Infine (par. 5) saranno tratte alcune brevi ma articolate conclusioni. (In this essay we intend to discuss the issue of leisure time in the capitalist system in the light of the issue of the liberation from and of work (par. 1). In doing that, after having criticized the conception of human being wich characterized economics we will propose the sketch of an alternative conception (par. 2). Then, we will wonder what would happen releasing sic et simpliciter some spare time through mere income transferts, without bringing into question the commonly accepted conception of human being (par. 3) to then propose (par. 4) two ‘real utopias’ that jointly deal with the tangle of an increase of leisure time and the opening to different forms of society. Finally (par. 5) some brief but articulated conclusions will be drawn.)
P17|Labour Market Institutions and Unemployment: Does Finance Matter?|We explore whether finance influences the impact of labour market institutions on unemployment. Using a data set of 18 OECD countries over 1980-2004, we estimate a panel VectorAutoRegressive model. We check whether causalities from labour market variables to unemployment are affected by financial factors. In Belgium, Italy, Australia, Japan and Spain, accounting for financial indicators mitigates the benefits of labour market flexibilization or makes it harmful to employment. In Austria, Canada, Finland and Portugal, it reduces its detrimental impact or makes it beneficial. In Ireland and Netherlands, both effects prevail, depending on the labour market indicator used.
P17|Public sector e-innovations. E-government and its impact on corruption|The paper aims at assessing indicators and individual elements of e-government of selected countries in 2009-2010, and the interrelation of e-government with corruption in the public sector. The authors explore possible causal and dependency relations of the established interlink between e-government and public sector corruption. Although it is universally acknowledged that corruption is an evil, there is much debate over which determinants of corruption are important. Using econometric analysis for sizeable country samples the authors verified the closeness of interrelation between e-government indicators and ICT Development Index indicators, such as online services quality and ICT usage, on one hand, and the level of perceived public sector corruption, on the other hand. The major research papers were analyzed, along with international rankings and databases of international organizations. Based on the analysis recommendations for overcoming international e-government measurement constraints are put forward, as well as suggestions for future studies of the topic
P17|Institutional interactions and economic growth: the joint effects of property rights, veto players and democratic capital|We investigate the possible interaction effects that the extent of property rights protection and separation of powers in a political system have on economic growth. Using analysis of panel data from more than countries over the period 1970-2010 we find that the growth effects of property rights increase when political power is divided among more veto players. When distinguishing between institutional veto players (political institutions) and partisan veto players (fractionalization among political parties), we further find that the growth effects of property rights are driven mainly by checks on the chief executive (in bicameral systems) and primarily found in countries with large stocks of democratic capital.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Developing an Aggregate Well-being Index: Some First Trials|The growing need to put alongside established development measures, asthe gross domestic product, measures oriented to evaluate the general well-being of a Country, has led to the setting up of systems of indicators useful to assess economic, social and environmental issues that affect the lives and on the happiness of the citizens. The major difficulty encountered in this case is not only to identify such indicators, but also to define, as less arbitrarily as possible, an aggregate index that measures the level of collective well-being. This study fits into this context, using the results produced by a statistical project on progress and well-being indicators, carried out by the Steering Committee CNEL-ISTAT, which led to the construction of 134 indicators, grouped into 12 domains. In this project, because of the methodological difficulties related to the arbitrariness in the choice of the system of weights and synthesis procedures, we have chosen not to create an aggregate index. In our paper, we suggest a methodological approach for the aggregation of different indicators. The synthesis of information occurs at two levels: at the level of domain we create a marker using the method of factor analysis; such indicators are then aggregated into a composite index, with weights based on the regional distribution of well-being perceived by citizens. Using the indicators obtained, we compare the levels of well-being for each domain and in total between the Southern Italy and the whole of the country. The results highlight the presence of a gap in well-being lower than that in terms of GDP per capita. Even the ranking of regions is different.
P17|What Is the Future of the Market Economy?|"(On the Book by Justin Yifu Lin ""The Quest for Prosperity: How Developing Economies Can Take Off"") According to the opinion of Chinese economist J. Y. Lin, industrial structure of economy is endogenously determined by factors of production. Its effective operation is possible only under the influence of market forces. The main role of the government is to target the strategic support for specific industries with comparative advantages, as well as to improve the infrastructure."
P17|Project Benchmarking Project Excellence Award In Croatia In 2013|Many organizations who deal with a variety of projects have the problem to compare the efficiency and eff ectiveness of all the projects in the organization and to learn from this experience. The PEM (Project Excellence Model) from IPMA (International Project Management Association) is an open, very fl exible model for assessing different projects. It is used by IPMA each year to finthe best project of the year. This model is being adopted for the Croatian PM Award. The model itself and the project for implementing it in Croatia are described as well as the benefits from this kind of benchmarking projects for the project teams as well as for the other involved parties.
P17|Financial Fragility and Macroeconomic Instability in a Heterogeneous Interacting Agents Framework|A financial crisis can have important effects on the real economy. The more financially fragile are agents the more likely is the occurrence of a financial crisis. Moreover, financial contagion may have more or less severe consequences on the real economy, depending on the degree distribution of credit interlinkagess. However, financial instability may be due to real causes. For instance, the deregulation of markets may create the conditions for an increase of inequality. If rich people save a larger part of their income, while the poor are forced to reduce consumption, a lack of aggregate demand may follow, which can eventually lead to a large crisis.
P17|Changing development prospects for the Central and Eastern European EU member states|One of the fundamental goals of European integration is to provide less-developed member states opportunities for convergence and strengthen economic and social cohesion. Before the crisis the convergence process was impressive in the new member states. This success raises the question of how the institutions of the new EU member states match the institution types previously worked out for the old member states, and whether they resemble any of the broadly accepted four models of capitalism (Anglo-Saxon, Nordic, Continental European and Mediterranean) or represent a new type of model. Empirical analysis suggests that an independent Central and Eastern European model is eligible for existence. The characteristics of the model may be derived from three main factors: the lack of capital, weak civil society and the impact of the European Union and other international organisations influencing the new member states. FDI inflow could help to reduce the lack of capital. The success of convergence can be explained through the reconfiguration of the value chain after the collapse of communism by companies located in Continental and Northern Europe. These companies located their assembly activities in Central and Eastern Europe, and these countries could integrate not only within the EU but also within the world economy through increased investment and productivity. Although this convergence model has its limits, it provided sufficient space for the Central and Eastern European countries to develop, due to their low initial GDP levels. During the crisis the convergence has slowed down. The forthcoming period makes some changes in the convergence model necessary. The reduction in the private sector savings-investment gap is unavoidable. Savings must be used more efficiently than in the past. These suggestions are known in literature. However, two other important factors should also be taken into consideration. Failing to bridge the current productivity gap between foreign and domestic companies makes catching-up impossible. Population ageing and increased net migration from the Central and Eastern European countries has reached the level which demolishes their economic potential and destabilizes their societies in the medium and long run. These issues mean severe challenges on both national and European level.
P17|Religious identity, public goods and centralization: Evidence from Russian and Israeli cities|In this paper, we analyze the effects of religious identity - defined both as personal identification with a religious tradition and institutional ideas on the provision of public goods - on attitudes toward central government. We explore whether citizens belonging to collectivist rather than individualist religious denominations are more likely to evaluate their central government positively. Moreover, we explore whether adherence to collectivist norms of economic and political organization leads to a positive evaluation of central government. Surveys were conducted in Russia and Israel as these countries provide a mosaic of three major world religions - Judaism, Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The information gathered also allows us to study whether attitudes towards religious institutions such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf, and the Greek-Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Israel are able to predict positive attitudes toward centralized forms of governance. We find strong support for the proposition that collectivist norms and an institutional religious identity enhance positive attitudes towards central government.
P17|Contradictions: Finance, Greed, And Labor Unequally Paid|This volume analyzes two decisive factors that have become embedded in the world spread of capitalism, a shift toward dominance of the financial sector, now entailing massive greed and calling into question whether the ‘rules’ of capitalism have been broken, and of global wage differentials so deep that recognition of a labor aristocracy cannot be avoided. These chapters are supplemented by two additional showing that gold still regulates the dollar’s value, and that unpaid reproductive labor of women adversely affects labor productivity. (New paragraph) Analysis of finance engenders discussion of its place in value theory, posed around the rate of profit, and is more complex than often presented. Furthermore, the varying rates of profit at the firm level, not just for financials, are distributed in a manner exhibiting more frequent extreme cases than a Bell-curve would suggest. Implications for incorporation of randomization into political economy are drawn. The final chapters provide evidence that Marx was more correct than Kalecki and Minsky when arguing the lead of profits for investment, and that product innovations can mitigate problems of over-production resulting from process innovations.
P17|Religious Identity, Public Goods and Centralization: Evidence from Russian and Israeli Cities|In this paper, we analyze the effects of religious identity – defined both as personal identification with a religious tradition and institutional ideas on the provision of public goods – on attitudes toward central government. We explore whether citizens belonging to collectivist rather than individualist religious denominations are more likely to evaluate their central government positively. Moreover, we explore whether adherence to collectivist norms of economic and political organization leads to a positive evaluation of central government. Surveys were conducted in Russia and Israel as these countries provide a mosaic of three major world religions – Judaism, Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The information gathered also allows us to study whether attitudes towards religious institutions such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf, and the Greek-Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Israel are able to predict positive attitudes toward centralized forms of governance. We find strong support for the proposition that collectivist norms and an institutional religious identity enhance positive attitudes towards central government.
P17|A Teljesítménymérés Kérdései A Költségvetési Intézményekben| A teljesítmény mérése, értékelése, s még inkább a teljesítményt befolyásoló tényezők feltárása kulcsfontosságú úgy az üzleti vállalkozások, mint a nem profitorientált szervezeteknél is. A mérési módszereket neves közgazdászok, üzleti szakemberek igyekeznek tökéletesíteni. A non-profit szervezetek szembeni elvárások teljesítésének mérése jellemzően a költségek, a gazdálkodás elemzésével történik, de nyilvánvalóan ez nem elegendő. Igaz ez a költségvetési szervként működő közoktatási intézményekre is, amelyek közfeladatot látnak el közpénzek felhasználásával. A cikk célja, hogy egy konkrét non-profit szervezet vizsgálatával bemutassa az eredményesség mérés kulcskérdéseit, továbbá ismertesse azt a modellt, amely célja a közoktatási intézmények teljesítményének összehasonlítása. Ez a modell az eddig alkalmazott modellek kritikai értékelése révén szerzett tapasztalatok felhasználásával, az azokban feltárt hiányosságok kiküszöbölésére tesz kísérletet. -------------------------------------------------------------- Measurement and evaluation of performance, furthermore exploring the factors influencing performance play a key role for business as well as for non-profit organizations. Renowned economists as well as business professionals seek to improve the measurement methods. Measuring the fulfillment of the expectations against the non-profit organizations is typically evaluated by analyzing the costs and the management however this is obviously not enough. This is true for the public education as budgetary financed public institutions, having a public-service mission and using public funds. The goal of the paper is to show the key issues of the effectiveness measurement by the analysis of a specific nonprofit institution and describe a model which is designed to compare the performance of different public education institutions. Based on the critical evaluation of the experiences of the models used so far the presented model attempts to correct those deficiencies.
P17|Creative Accounting In The Context Of An “Efficient” Management|This paper proposes an analysis of the creative accounting connection with the managing factor which administers informational resources in a company activity. Creative accounting, as it is defined in scientific literature, takes different shapes, “existential complexity” which makes it become the suitable environment of strategic and tactical steps, initiated and performed from the major objective point of view represented by the performance of the company. The manager is the one who connects the internal information, upon which he has control, with external information, in order to manage properly economic circumstances, the way of reporting financial results with influences on the perceptive of the company. An efficient management will follow the increase of financial indicators of the company and implicit of its performance, through financial insurance turnover necessary to the continuity and development of the activity of the company.
P17|Improving the organisation and commercialisation of small coffee and cocoa producers in the Northern Amazon Region of Ecuador|Coffee and cocoa represent the main sources of income for small farmers in the Northern Amazon Region of Ecuador. The provinces of Orellana and Sucumbios, as border areas, have benefited from investments made by many public and private institutions. Many of the projects carried out in the area have been aimed at energising the production of coffee and cocoa, strengthening the producers’ associations and providing commercialisation infrastructure. Improving the quality of life of this population threatened by poverty and high migration flows mainly from Colombia is a significant challenge. This paper presents research highlighting the importance of associative commercialisation to raising income from coffee and cocoa. The research draws on primary information obtained during field work, and from official information from the Ministry of Agriculture. The study presents an overview of current organisational structures, initiatives of associative commercialisation, stockpiling of infrastructure and ownership regimes, as well as estimates for both ‘robusta’ coffee and national cocoa production and income. The analysis of the main constraints presents different alternatives for the implementation of public land policies. These policies are aimed at mitigating the problems associated with the organisational structure of the producers, with processes of commercialisation and with environmental aspects, among others.
P17|Nominal and Real Exchange Rate Models in South Africa: How Robust Are They?|This paper addresses difficulties in modelling exchange rates in South Africa. Real exchange rate models of earlier research seem to be sensitive to the sample period considered, alternative variable definition, data frequency and estimation methods. Alternative exchange rate models proposed in this paper including the stock-flow approach and variants of the monetary model are not fully robust to data frequency and alternative estimation periods, either. Nevertheless, adding openness to the stock-flow approach and augmenting the monetary model with share prices and the country risk premium improves significantly the fit of the models around the large (nominal and real) depreciation episodes of 2002 and 2008. Interestingly, real commodity prices do not help explain the large depreciations. While these models do a reasonably good job in-sample, their out-of-sample forecasting properties remain poor.
P17|Nominal and Real Exchange Rate Models in South Africa: How Robust are they?|This paper addresses difficulties in modelling exchange rates in South Africa. Real exchange rate models of earlier research seem to be sensitive to the sample period considered, alternative variable definition, data frequency and estimation methods. Alternative exchange rate models proposed in this paper including the stock-flow approach and variants of the monetary model are not fully robust to data frequency and alternative estimation periods, either. Nevertheless, adding openness to the stock-flow approach and augmenting the monetary model with share prices and the country risk premium improves significantly the fit of the models around the large (nominal and real) depreciation episodes of 2002 and 2008. Interestingly, real commodity prices do not help explain the large depreciations. While these models do a reasonably good job in-sample, their out-of-sample forecasting properties remain poor.
P17|Russian Economy in September 2012: Preliminary Data and Major Trends|The beginning of the autumn was marked by an onset of fundamental conflicts in the ranks of the new Russian government and by some fresh signs of political reaction fomented in the State Duma by United Russia deputies. President Putin publicly expressed his dissatisfaction with the federal budget’s draft for its failure to secure the achievement of the targets set by the President’s executive orders, and also with the government’s delay in producing a properly coordinated plan of pension reform.
P17|Unemployment and finance: how do financial and labour market factors interact?| Using annual data for 18 OECD countries over the period 1980-2004, we investigate how labour and financial factors interact to determine unemployment. We estimate a dynamic panel model using the system Generalized Method of Moments (GMM). It is shown that the impact of financial variables depends strongly on the labour market context. Increased market capitalization as well as decreased banking concentration reduce unemployment if the level of labour market regulation, union density, and coordination in wage bargaining is low. Increasing intermediated credit and banking concentration is beneficial for employment when the degree of labour market regulation, union density, and wage coordination is high. These results suggest that the respective virtues of intermediated and market-based finance are crucially tied to the labour market context. Copyright 2012 Oxford University Press 2011 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.
P17|Port Environment Development: A Study of Chennai Port Performance of Ships|This study highlights the performance of Chennai port environment with reference to the ships. Chennai port comes under the category of development process on the east coast of India as it is considered important port. India has around 7720km of natural peninsular coastline which is strategically located on crucial east-east trade route which linked Europe, Far East and sea ports of India. A view to improving the performance and productivity levels of the container port terminal and brings it on par with the standards of the leading container ports of the neighboring countries through modernization and up gradation to bring mainline vessels. A comparative study of performance of ports during the pre-reform and post reform period of trade has been conducted. According to a study in Chennai port performance of ship development Chennai ranked 2nd best cargo handling next to JNPT, and its operational efficiency high it’s performance indicators during the period 1988-89 to 2008-09. The secondary source of data was gathered on performance of Cargo Ship at Chennai Port from 1986-87 to 2008-2009. The analysis reveals that total traffic handled is high when compared to other ports of Tamil Nadu.
P17|Factors Affecting Traffic Jam in Karachi and its Impact on Performance of Economy|Attempt has been made to investigate the factors of traffic jam in Karachi and find out its impact on the performance of economy. Previous studies highlight the same field but due to rapidly changes in infrastructure of Karachi city and growing population raise the demand for more facilities, space and vehicles. It became a vital challenge for city to manage the flow of traffic as per routine and design the ways through which problems can rectify and minimize the future problems. In this study exploratory approach has been used and primary data was collected through various methods and techniques which helpful to investigate in the subject matter. The qualitative research study conducted via one to one interviews from citizens of Karachi along with the structured questions. Researcher’s observation and experience work as a catalyst to analyze the factual finding in an appropriate way. The results of data have been critically examined from prospective. This study concluded the key issues for traffic jam is non-availability of long term planning by traffic management which leaves negative impact on performance of economy is clearly exposed. It is recommended that factors indicated in this research may be rectified and remedial measurement may be taken to control these responsible factors which will creates better performance of economy.
P17|A Comparison of Inequality and Living Standards in Canada and the United States Using an Expanded Measure of Economic Well-Being|We use the Levy Institute Measure of Economic Well-being (LIMEW), the most comprehensive income measure available to date, to compare economic well-being in Canada and the United States in the first decade of the 21st century. This study represents the first international comparison based on LIMEW, which differs from the standard measure of gross money income (MI) in that it includes noncash government transfers, public consumption, income from wealth, and household production, and nets out all personal taxes. We find that, relative to the United States, median equivalent LIMEW was 11 percent lower in Canada in 2000. By 2005, this gap had narrowed to 7 percent, while the difference in median equivalent MI was only 3 percent. Inequality was notably lower in Canada, with a Gini coefficient of 0.285 for equivalent LIMEW in 2005, compared to a US coefficient of 0.376—a gap that primarily reflects the greater importance of income from wealth in the States. However, the difference in Gini coefficients declined between 2000 and 2005. We also find that the elderly were better off relative to the nonelderly in the United States, but that high school graduates did better relative to college graduates in Canada.
P17|Knowledge Enclosures, Forced Specializations and Investment Crisis|Like land before the industrial revolution, in the present global economy much knowledge is being enclosed in private hands. In this paper we argue that these enclosures have become a major factor in specialization among firms and among countries: both are forced to specialize in the fields that are not restricted by the enclosures of the others. We use data on 26 OECD countries over the 1978-2006 period. We estimate the effect of patents endowments of countries on their investment specialization across sectors and show that knowledge enclosures involve self-reinforcing innovation patterns. Moreover, we perform a structural change analysis and find that the TRIPs agreement has significantly strengthened the relationship between countries' patents specialization and investment specialization. We conclude by suggesting that stronger international patent protection may restrict global investment opportunities, and this may be one of the factors contributing to the present crisis.
P17|La cooperación al desarrollo como parte de la estructura económica del capitalismo global/Development Cooperation as a Part of the Economic Structure of Global Capitalism: Alternative or Reinforcement?|En este artículo se examina la relación entre la Cooperación al Desarrollo y el desarrollo capitalista, prestando especial atención a los cambios en ambos en las últimas décadas. Se argumenta que la Cooperación al Desa¬rrollo forma parte de la propia estructura económica mundial diseñada por el capitalismo en sus diversas fases (inter-nacional y después global), por lo que su funcionalidad está sujeta a la propia lógica estructural capita¬lista. Se examinan, así, las estrechas relaciones entre los modelos de cooperación y las lógicas de reproducción del Sistema Mundial, tanto en su estructura como en su superestructura. Se distinguen una Cooperación Pro-sistema y una Cooperación Antisistema, y se extraen algunas primeras conclusiones sobre los cambios a introducir para conseguir una cooperación verdaderamente transformadora. In this article the relationship between Cooperation for Development and capitalist development is examined, focusing specially on changes in both processes during the last decades. It is argued that Development Cooperation is a part of the world economic structure, designed by capitalism along its different phases (in an international dimension, first; and global afterwards), so its functionality is embodied in the capitalist logical scheme itself. This paper outlines the narrow relationship between the cooperation models and the logics of reproduction of World System, both in its structure and superstructure dimensions. A Pro System cooperation practice is distinguished from an Anti System one, and some preliminary conclusions are derived about the need of improvements in Development Cooperation in order to promote truly structural changes.
P17|Does Linking Worker Pay to Firm Performance Help the Best Firms Do Even Better?|"This paper analyzes the linkages among group incentive methods of compensation, labor practices, worker assessments of workplace culture, turnover, and firm performance in a non-representative sample of companies: firms that applied to the ""100 Best Companies to Work For in America"" competition from 2005 to 2007. Although employers with good labor practices self- select into the 100 Best Companies firms sample, which should bias the analysis against finding strong associations among modes of compensation, labor policies, and outcomes, we find that in the firms that make more extensive use of group incentive pay employees participate more in decisions, have greater information sharing, trust supervisors more, and report a more positive workplace culture than in other companies. The combination of group incentive pay with policies that empower employees and create a positive workplace culture reduces voluntary turnover and increases employee intent to stay and raises return on equity. Finding these effects in the non-representative ""100 Best Companies"" sample strengthens the likelihood that the policies have a causal impact on employee well-being and firm performance."
P17|The World our Grandchildren Will Inherit: The Rights Revolution and Beyond|Following on Keynes's Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren, this paper develops conjectures about the world we will leave to our grandchildren. It starts by outlining the 10 most important trends that have defined our economic, social, and political lives over the last 100 years. It then provides a framework for interpreting these trends, emphasizing the role of the expansion of political and civil rights and institutional changes in this process. It then uses this framework for extrapolating these 10 trends into the next 100 years.
P17|Performance in Public Administration. A Systemic Approach|There are two points of view on the performance of the public administration: an internal one, governed by the principle of the three “E”’s and an external one, a measure of the public accessibility to the civil service. The problem with these two points of view in that, although they show the same direction they are of opposite bearings. Even though the inherent purpose is ensuring the citizen’s access to the civil service, serving the tax payer with their problems thus serving the whole community in a most efficient manner, we cannot overlook the fact that the resources of the public administration are often more limited than those of private economic agents, especially when considering that the civil service usually involves very high operating costs. In these conditions the performance of the public administration is defined as an optimum between the capacity to deliver the civil service towards the citizens and the associated costs of this capacity.
P17|From the Neoliberal crisis to a new path of development|In our view, the causes of the crisis are tied to the political change towards a Neoliberal phase from the 1970s on: a wide process of “deregulation” – from the labour market to the globalisation of production, from the national to the international finance – has allowed a partial recovery in the profitability of the capitalist system, contrasting the post-war decline of the profit rate which led to the 1970s “stagflation”. The same key elements of the Neoliberal model – deregulation, financialisation, globalisation – have eventually led to a large crisis as a result of the huge increase of inequality, financial instability, and trade imbalances. In this perspective, the “financial crisis” is the signal of underlying problems concerning the global process of capital accumulation. It is now necessary to support a recovery of the public intervention (“top down”) in order to create the conditions for an economic restart that, in turn, would strengthen the construction of a radical alternative (from the “bottom up”) to the Neoliberal course. A wider access to education should be the key to this progressive strategy aimed at supporting a more egalitarian and green path of development. A radical rethinking of bequest taxation and, in general, of the taxation on wealth would have a clear symbolic value in this perspective, providing, at the same time, the material basis for extending the right to a “universal education”.
P17|La diversité des capitalismes latino-américains : les cas de l’Argentine, du Brésil et du Mexique|Cet article prolonge des travaux antérieurs sur l’effet de la diversité des configurations institutionnelles sur les trajectoires récentes de développement économique en Argentine, au Brésil et au Mexique. La première partie est consacrée à la caractérisation et aux transformations des coalitions socio-politiques dominantes dans les trois pays. Les deux parties suivantes examinent l’empreinte de ces coalitions socio-politiques dans les trois domaines relativement autonomes que sont les relations de travail, les systèmes monétaire et financier, et la structure organisationnelle de l’État. La conclusion s’attache à montrer que les différences observées dans les degrés d’autonomie de l’État et les forces organisatrices des syndicats et des entrepreneurs définissent différent modèles économiques et formes d’insertion dans l’économie internationale, qui permettent de parler d’une diversité des capitalismes propres à l’Amérique latine.
P17|A Comparison of Inequality and Living Standards in Canada and the United States Using an Expanded Measure of Economic Well-Being|We use the Levy Institute Measure of Economic Well-being (LIMEW), the most comprehensive income measure available to date, to compare economic well-being in Canada and the United States in the first decade of the 21st century. This study represents the first international comparison based on LIMEW, which differs from the standard measure of gross money income (MI) in that it includes noncash government transfers, public consumption, income from wealth, and household production, and nets out all personal taxes. We find that, relative to the United States, median equivalent LIMEW was 11 percent lower in Canada in 2000. By 2005, this gap had narrowed to 7 percent, while the difference in median equivalent MI was only 3 percent. Inequality was notably lower in Canada, with a Gini coefficient of 0.285 for equivalent LIMEW in 2005, compared to a US coefficient of 0.376-a gap that primarily reflects the greater importance of income from wealth in the States. However, the difference in Gini coefficients declined between 2000 and 2005. We also find that the elderly were better off relative to the nonelderly in the United States, but that high school graduates did better relative to college graduates in Canada.
P17|Relating economic infrastructure indexes to investor protection for selected emerging economies|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|Internal Auditing Value Added Concept|The analysis showed that no risk management process is perfect for identifying all failures and in order to avoid them, the managers must take into consideration the recommendations of the internal auditors.
P17|Ist Wirtschaftswachstum systemimmanent?|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|Anglo-Saxon Capitalism in Crisis? Models of Liberal Capitalism and the Preconditions for Financial Stability|The return to economic liberalism in the Anglo-Saxon world was motivated by the apparent failure of Keynesian economic management to control the stagflation of the 1970s and early 1980s. In this context, the theories of economic liberalism, championed by Friederich von Hayek, Milton Friedman and the Chicago School economists, provided an alternative. However, the divergent experience of the US, UK, Canada and Australia reveals two distinct 'varieties' of economic liberalism: the 'neo-classical' incarnation, which describes American and British liberal capitalism, and the more 'balanced' economic liberalism that evolved in Canada and Australia. In large part, these were a product of the way that liberal economic theory was understood and translated into policy, which in turn shaped the evolving relationship between the state and the private sector and the relative position of the financial sector within the broader economic system. Together, these determined the nature and extent of financial market regulation and the system's relative stability during the 2008 crisis.
P17|Political Competition in Dual Economies: Clientelism in Latin America|Resumen: Este artículo presenta el proyecto de investigación que intenta iluminar los mecanismos que vinculan el clientelismo con la informalidad. En particular la investigación se concentra en las interacciones que tienen lugar durante la competencia electoral e intenta proporcionar un marco analítico para comprender los mecanismos económicos subyacentes en la competencia electoral en América Latina. Esta competencia está caracterizada por asimetrías entre los políticos (credibilidad y habilidad para movilizar votantes) y asimetrías entre los votantes (ingreso y participación en cierto segmento de la economía) ambos inmersos en un ambiente de baja calidad institucional (débil imperio de la ley). El artículo expone la evidencia empírica que motivó la investigación, discute los conceptos y literatura centrales y presenta un ejercicio exploratorio basado en el modelo de votación probabilística como un punto de partida en la formalización del problema. En esta primera aproximación se muestra que el político clientelista en el poder puede proveer más bienes públicos cuando su maquinaria política es suficientemente rentable y la sociedad es altamente inequitativa. En la medida en que el político entrante tiene su nicho en los votantes ricos quienes demandan bajos impuestos, el político clientelista redistribuye más ingreso aunque a costa de una mayor informalidad.
P17|Soviet growth and American textbooks: An endogenous past|Between 1960 and 1980 American economics textbooks overestimated Soviet growth. They held that the Soviet economy was growing faster than the US economy and yet they kept the ratio of Soviet–US output constant over two decades. The textbooks downplayed any uncertainty associated with such growth estimates. We offer evidence that the optimistic portrait of the Soviet economy in the textbooks was in part driven by an assumption of efficiency and abstraction from institutional concerns.
P17|Soviet growth and American textbooks: An endogenous past|Between 1960 and 1980 American economics textbooks overestimated Soviet growth. They held that the Soviet economy was growing faster than the US economy and yet they kept the ratio of Soviet-US output constant over two decades. The textbooks downplayed any uncertainty associated with such growth estimates. We offer evidence that the optimistic portrait of the Soviet economy in the textbooks was in part driven by an assumption of efficiency and abstraction from institutional concerns.
P17|Profit rate dynamics, income distribution, structural and technical change in Denmark, Finland and Italy|Under less restrictive assumptions than in previous contributions, this paper highlights various patterns of profit rate dynamics that are common to the countries under scrutiny. Without a substantial re-distribution of income in favour of profits, the profit rate declines. When labour productivity is weak the profits/wages ratio declines leading to a decline in the profit rate, also due to capital deepening. Developments in the capital-labour ratio tend to increase the organic composition of capital while those in the ratio between the capital price deflator and the average wage tend to decrease it. Falls in the profit rate took place in countries with a weak technological change with episodes of Marxian bias. Employment shifted from low to high capital intensity sectors, from low to high organic composition industries and from low to high productivity sectors. Rising strength of labour and realization failures tend to have a greater role than rising organic composition in cyclical profit rate dynamics. Over the cycle, the first mechanism is also the first one to show up, while the others tend to follow it. Theoretical and policy implications are offered.
P17|L’économie de la responsabilité sociétale d’entreprise (RSE) :éléments de méthode institutionnaliste|La responsabilité sociétale des entreprises (rse) incorpore une dimension politique et morale qui ne peut se réduire à la performance sociétale – dont traite habituellement l’économie de la rse – mais qui l’impacte : l’analyse de cette dimension est donc indispensable à l’analyse économique. Cet article propose des éléments méthodologiques pour endogénéiser ce facteur institutionnel dans l’analyse. Une première partie présente le cadre d’analyse des dispositifs symboliques d’une norme de qualité visant à objectiver ses caractéristiques, attester la conformité à cette qualité et la valoriser à un niveau satisfaisant aux conditions du marché. La difficulté est que cette qualité – typique de biens de réputation – porte sur des propriétés de l’organisation productive et du produit qui ne peuvent être confirmées par leur valeur d’usage. La seconde partie montre que i) les conditions institutionnelles sur l’identité, la conformité et la rentabilité nécessaires ne sont pas encore réunies pour assurer la diffusion de la qualité rse par une voie non réglementaire ; et que ii) deux types de conceptions managériales et politiques de la rse divergent quant à la traduction de la rse au niveau opérationnel et de la structure du gouvernement de l’entreprise.
P17|Labour Market Institutions and Unemployment: does Finance Matter?|We explore whether fi nance influences the impact of labour market institutions on unemployment. Using a data set of 18 OECD countries over 1980-2004, we estimate a panel Vector AutoRegressive model. We check whether causalities from labour market variables (labour market regulation, union density, coordination in wage bargaining) to unemployment are a ffected by the introduction of financial factors (stock market capitalisation, intermediated credit and banking concentration) in the estimation. In Australia, Belgium, Italy, Japan and Spain, accounting for financial indicators mitigates the benefi ts of labour market flexibilization or makes it harmful to employment. In Austria, Canada, Finland and Portugal, it reduces its detrimental impact or makes it bene cial. In Ireland and Netherlands, both e ffects prevail, depending on the labour market indicator used.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|The Levy Institute Measure of Economic Well-Being, Great Britain, 1995 and 2005|"Forty-five years ago, the A. Philip Randolph Institute issued ""The Freedom Budget,"" in which a program for economic transformation was proposed that included a job guarantee for everyone ready and willing to work, a guaranteed income for those unable to work or those who should not be working, and a living wage to lift the working poor out of poverty. Such policies were supported by a host of scholars, civic leaders, and institutions, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.; indeed, they provided the cornerstones for King's ""Poor Peoples' Campaign"" and ""economic bill of rights."" This paper proposes a ""New Freedom Budget"" for full employment based on the principles of functional finance. To counter a major obstacle to such a policy program, the paper includes a ""primer"" on three paradigms for understanding government budget deficits and the national debt: the deficit hawk, deficit dove, and functional finance perspectives. Finally, some of the benefits of the job guarantee are outlined, including the ways in which the program may serve as a vehicle for a variety of social policies."
P17|The Levy Institute Measure of Economic Well-Being, France, 1989 and 2000|We construct estimates of the Levy Institute Measure of Economic Well-Being for France for the years 1989 and 2000. We also estimate the standard measure of disposable cash income (DI) from the same data sources. We analyze overall trends in the level and distribution of household well-being using both measures for France as a whole and for subgroups of the French population. The average French household experienced a slower rate of growth in LIMEW than DI over the period. A substantial portion of the growth in well-being for the middle quintile was a result of increases in net government expenditures and income from wealth. We also found that the well-being of families headed by single females relative to married couples deteriorated much more, while the well-being of households headed by the elderly relative to households headed by the nonelderly improved much more than indicated by the standard measure of disposable income. The conventional measure indicates that a steep decline in economic inequality took place between 1989 and 2000, while our measure indicates no such change. We argue that these outcomes can be traced to the difference in the treatment of the role of wealth in shaping economic inequality. Our measure also indicates that, on balance, government expenditures and taxes did not have an inequality-reducing effect in France for both years. This is, again, contrary to conventional wisdom.
P17|“Economic freedom” and economic growth: questioning the claim that freer markets make societies more prosperous|A conventional reading of economic history implies that free market reforms rescued the world’s economies from stagnancy during the 1970s and 1980s. I reexamine a well-established econometric literature linking economic freedom to growth, and argue that their positive findings hinge on two problems: conceptual conflation and ahistoricity. When these criticisms are taken seriously, a very different view of the historical record emerges. There does not appear to be enduring relationship between economic liberalism and growth. Much of the observed relationship between these two variables involves a one-shot transition to freer markets around the Cold War’s end. Several concurrent changes took place in this historical context, and it is hasty to conclude that it was market liberalization alone that produced the economic turnaround of the 1990s and early-2000s. I also question market fundamentalists’ view that all forms of liberalization are helpful, arguing that the data show little to no benefit from reforms that did not attract foreign investment.
P17|La crisi, le sue origini e il prossimo futuro<BR>[The crisis, its origins, and the next future]|We briefly describe the evolution of the global process of capitalist accumulation during the neoliberal decades, to stress the “real causes” of the current crisis. This analysis leads to the search for a radical alternative to “austerity”, that is the economic policy approach tied to an interpretation of the crisis due to problems of “financial nature”. In our view, the political alternative to the neoliberal management of the crisis should be based on a large extension of education in the context of a “green” and “egalitarian” process of economic development. This requires a significant involvement of the public sector (in collaboration with private capitals) in providing the bases for economic growth, and a political support to an appropriate taxation of wealth (by now highly concentrated in a very small fraction of the population).
P17|Performance Audit In Romania Between Reality And Necessity|We observe that the performance audit in Romania has not proven its worth and value, as demonstrated by the perpetuation and support in all budgeted areas. The present crisis hastens us and force us to re-think a performance audit approach compatible with social and economic situation, beginning with institutional organization and ending with the audit process itself, to maintain our national identity in an extremely aggressive and dynamic global competitive context. In the paper the authors present the results of the analysis stage of implementation of performance audit in Romania, international experience in the field - good practice in specialist institutions in countries with rich experience and shaping intelligence solutions for the audit to show off the true expected and extremely useful for Romania.
P17|La crise contemporaine, une crise de la modernité technique|La crise financière et la crise écologique sont les manifestations d’une crise plus globale et profonde, la crise de nos rapports à la nature et à la société, caractérisés par une volonté de maîtrise étendue, une instrumentalisation et une artificialité croissantes. Mais malgré la puissance des outils et techniques modernes, les sociétés sont globalement de plus en plus fragiles, et la recherche de l’efficacité se retourne contre elle-même, engendrant des situations inefficientes voire absurdes. Ce phénomène de contreproductivité, mis en lumière par Ivan Illich dans les années soixante-dix, se repère pareillement dans la sphère financière et dans les relations que l’homme d’aujourd’hui entretient avec la nature. On montre qu’il trouve son origine dans la domination de la rationalité instrumentale et la tendance à l’autonomie de la technique moderne. Puis on en étudie deux expressions particulières. Dans le domaine de la finance, les enchaînements à l’œuvre depuis les subprimes témoignent de la manière dont les outils dévolus à une meilleure gestion des risques ont contribué au contraire à accroître le risque global. D’une façon similaire, le système agricole productiviste qui tend à devenir la norme aujourd’hui engendre de multiples nuisances et effets pervers, qu’on pense résoudre en faisant un pas de plus dans la même direction.
P17|Life cycle of the centrally planned economy: Why Soviet growth rates peaked in the 1950s|The highest rates of growth of labor productivity in the Soviet Union were observed not in the 1930s (3% annually), but in the 1950s (6%). The TFP growth rates by decades increased from 0.6% annually in the 1930s to 2.8% in the 1950s and then fell monotonously becoming negative in the 1980s. The decade of 1950s was thus the “golden period” of Soviet economic growth. The patterns of Soviet growth of the 1950s in terms of growth accounting were very similar to the Japanese growth of the 1950s-70s and to Korean and Taiwanese growth in the 1960-80s – fast increases in labor productivity counterweighted the decline in capital productivity, so that the TFP increased markedly. However, high Soviet economic growth lasted only for a decade, whereas in East Asia it continued for three to four decades, propelling Japan, South Korea and Taiwan into the ranks of developed countries. This paper offers an explanation for the inverted U-shaped trajectory of labor productivity and TFP in centrally planned economies (CPEs). It is argued that CPEs under-invested into the replacement of the retiring elements of the fixed capital stock and over-invested into the expansion of production capacities. The task of renovating physical capital contradicted the short-run goal of fulfilling plan targets, and therefore Soviet planners preferred to invest in new capacities instead of upgrading the old ones. Hence, after the massive investment of the 1930s in the USSR, the highest productivity was achieved after the period equal to the average service life of fixed capital stock (about 20 years) – before there emerged a need for the massive investment into replacing retirement. Afterwards, the capital stock started to age rapidly reducing sharply capital productivity and lowering labor productivity and TFP growth rates.
P17|Varieties of Liberalism: Anglo-Saxon Capitalism in Crisis?|.'Global financial crisis' is an inaccurate description of the current upheaval in the world's financial markets. The initial banking crisis did not affect all countries to the same degree. Notably, while the US and UK banking systems were badly hit, those of the other two major Anglo-Saxon economies, Canada and Australia, remain largely unscathed and have even gained in terms of global market share. The national business systems and comparative corporate governance literatures underscore the similarities among these four 'liberal market economies' (LMEs) and would predict similar trajectories. This paper investigates the reasons behind the differing performance of the Anglo-Saxon banking systems, which defy a verdict of failure of the LME variety of capitalism as such.
P17|Analyse comparée de la productivité des firmes européennes à partir de données comptables: L'effet pays en cause|This paper aims at measuring the productivity gap between firms located in six European countries over the period 1996-2007 and to provide some explanations of the observed differences. Our approach is original for two reasons. Firstly the value added and the productivity are valued from the BACH database that proposes harmonized balance sheets. Secondly, we take into account the influence of environment and institutional factors on the firms' performance thanks to the use of a fixed effects panel data model that allows to assess the unobserved heterogeneity in a sample. This analysis is made at the national level for the whole economy, for three industries (manufacturing industry, construction and services) and for three groups of size (small, medium and large). The results allow to highlight the existence of different productive configurations attested by the different levels of firms' productivity according to size or industry. They also point out a «country effect» that embeds a set of organizational and institutional elements besides production factors.
P17|Varieties of Capitalism and the Limits of Entrepreneurship Policy: Institutional Reform in Germany’s Coordinated Market Economy|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|The Impact of Monetary and Commodity Fundamentals, Macro News and Central Bank Communication on the Exchange Rate: Evidence from South Africa|This paper studies drivers of high-frequency (daily) dynamics of the South African rand vis-à-vis the dollar from January 2001 to July 2007. We find strong nonlinear effects of commodity prices, perceived country and emerging market risk premium and changes in the dollar-euro exchange rate on changes in daily returns of the rand-dollar exchange rate. We also identify a one-sided nonlinear mean reversion to the long-term monetary equilibrium. In addition we establish very short-lived effects on the exchange rate of selected macroeconomic surprises and central bank communication aimed at talking up the rand. L'impact des fondamentaux monétaires et de matières premières, des nouvelles macroéconomiques et de la communication de la Banque centrale sur le taux de change : Le cas de l'Afrique du Sud Ce document étudie les facteurs qui peuvent expliquer la dynamique journalière du rand sud-africain vis-à-vis du dollar sur la période allant de janvier 2001 à juillet 2007. Nous trouvons que les prix des matières premières, la perception du risque par rapport à l’Afrique du Sud et aux pays émergents et les changements du taux de change dollar-euro influencent forcément les variations des rendements journalières du taux de change du rand par rapport au dollar de manière non linéaire. Nos résultats indiquent aussi que le rand s’ajuste vers son niveau d’équilibre monétaire de manière non linéaire lorsque le taux de change du marché est plus fort que le taux de change d’équilibre. De plus, il se trouve que certaines nouvelles macroéconomiques et la communication de banque centrale visant l’appréciation du rand exercent une influence de très court terme sur le cours du rand par rapport au dollar.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Property Rights and Parliament in Industrializing Britain|During Britain's industrialization, Parliament operated a forum where rights to land and resources could be reorganized. This venue enabled landholders and communities to exploit economic opportunities that could not be accommodated by the inflexible rights regime inherited from the past. In this essay, historical evidence, archival data, and statistical analysis demonstrate that Parliament increased the number of acts reorganizing property rights in response to increases in the demand for such acts. Tests with placebo groups confirm the robustness of this result. This evidence indicates that Parliament responded elastically to changes in the public's demand for reorganizing property rights. Parliament's efforts to adapt property rights to modern economic conditions may have accelerated Britain's economic ascent.
P17|The Influence Of Applying The Tqm Principle On The Business Results Of Big Croatian Companies|Companies in the modern environment which constantly changes competitiveness, have to devote significant time and resources, financial and human, as well as the energy to measure their own performance in achieving the preset strategic goals. Although the methods of managing business have significantly changed over the past few decades, the approaches to measuring and handling results of business activities have remained unadapted to new circumstances. However, it is not enough only to introduce new theoretical knowledge form the field of organisation and management but it is also necessary to find a way how to measure the introduced changes. Nowadays, the feedback is the key to success, because it gives the concrete information about the success of introducing news into a company as well as the information about performances of a company on the whole. That is why today great attention is given to the methodologies which try to evaluate the performance of a company. The results of the conducted research show that companies with a low level of performance in the research from the year 2000 went bankrupt or shut down during the following two four-year-cycles (2001-2008). The results of the empirical research have shown a significant correlation between the performances investigated in 2000 and the financial results in the period until 2008.
P17|Managing Non-Interest Income As Part Of Bank Business Strategy|In order to obtain constant and stable sources of finance, particularly in the changed circumstances on the banking market, i.e. the global financial crisis, credit institutions in Croatia have changed their business strategy by focusing partly on the non-interest income segment. By this procedure credit institutions are trying to impact their market position. In this paper the authors investigate the role and significance of non-interest income and its impact on business policies of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia.
P17|Some Aspects Concerning Global Performance Reporting in Romania|Worldwide social and economic disparities, financial and political instability, major corporate scandals, global warming of the planet imposed unprecedented change in the economy, facilitating the transition from the concept of performance to “global performance”. Concerning to global performance reporting on national level, we appreciate that the information submitted is insufficient and lets to the assessment of each entrepreneur the manner in which these aspects of environmental and social performance must be reported
P17|Institutionalized Public Sector Corruption:a Legacy of the Soeharto Franchise|Attempts to maintain prices different from those that would otherwise be determined by supply and demand are virtually guaranteed to result in illegal behaviour, including in the case of laws that determine the salaries of civil servants. In Indonesia, private sector salaries are highly progressive with respect to increasing levels of responsibility, whereas the civil service structure is very flat, resulting in an enormous gap between private and public sector salaries at higher levels of management. As a consequence, informal--and often illegal--income generating practices are observed that make public sector careers far more attractive than formal remuneration levels would suggest. It is argued here that it is unhelpful to view endemic corruption simply in terms of unprincipled behaviour. Rather, it is best understood in terms of institutional weakness in the form of continued reliance on entrenched personnel management practices from the Soeharto era that deliberately ignored market realities.
P17|The Role of Institutions in Growth and Development|In this paper we argue that the main determinant of differences in prosperity across countries are differences in economic institutions. To solve the problem of development will entail reforming these institutions. Unfortunately, this is difficult because economic institutions are collective choices that are the outcome of a political process. The economic institutions of a society depend on the nature of political institutions and the distribution of political power in society. As yet, we only have a highly preliminary understanding of the factors that lead a society into a political equilibrium which supports good economic institutions. However, it is clear that it is the political nature of an institutional equilibrium that makes it very difficult to reform economic institutions. We illustrate this with a series of pitfalls of institutional reforms. Our analysis reveals challenges for those who would wish to solve the problem of development and poverty. That such challenges exist is hardly surprising and we believe that the main reason for such challenges is the forces we have outlined in this paper. Better development policy will only come when we recognize this and understand these forces better. Nevertheless, some countries do undergo political transitions, reform their institutions, and move onto more successful paths of economic development. We also can learn a lot from these success stories.
P17|The Role of Institutions in Growth and Development|In this paper authors argue that the main determinants of differences in prosperity across countries are differences in economic institutions. To solve the problem of development will entail reforming these institutions. Unfortunately, this is difficult because economic institutions are collective choices that are the outcome of a political process. The economic institutions of a society depend on the nature of political institutions and the distribution of political power in society. As yet, authors only have a highly preliminary understanding of the factors that lead a society into a political equilibrium which supports good economic institutions. However, it is clear that it is the political nature of an institutional equilibrium that makes it very difficult to reform economic institutions. The authors illustrate this with a series of pitfalls of institutional reforms. The author's analysis reveals challenges for those who would wish to solve the problem of development and poverty. That such challenges exist is hardly surprising and believe that the main reason for such challenges is the forces authors have outlined in this paper. Better development policy will only come when authors recognize this and understand these forces better. Nevertheless, some countries do undergo political transitions, reform their institutions, and move onto more successful paths of economic development.
P17|Elementi di novità, meccanismi noti e cause di fondo della recente crisi<BR>[Elements of novelty, known mechanisms, and fundamental causes of the recent crisis]|"We firstly provide a brief description of the crisis episodes, from the 2007-8 ""liquidity crisis"" to the 2008-9 ""global recession"". Then, we discuss some possible interpretations of the recent evolution, focussing on diverse aspects of the crisis: from the ""elements of novelty"" (financial innovations and new practices of risk management) to ""known mechanisms"" (the pro-cyclicality of the credit supply and the role of finance in a monetary production economy) and its ""fundamental causes"" which, in our opinion, date back to the deregulation policies implemented in many countries during the last decades, starting from the US and the UK. These decisions have created new profit opportunities in various contexts, so promoting a renewed process of capitalist accumulation. This process has taken place at the cost of a wide-ranging increase of inequality and instability, thus implying a ""crescendo"" of crisis episodes (both at the national and the international level) until the more recent one. Accordingly, we think that the current crisis is linked to the underlying movements of capitalist accumulation (from the financiarization of advanced economies to the gradual shift of the centre of the world economy towards China and other Asian emerging countries), its functioning as a monetary production economy and its political dimension."
P17|Neoliberalism’s relationship with economic growth in the developing world: Was it the power of the market or the resolution of financial crisis?|"This article examines the relationship between ""economic freedom"" and economic growth. Previous studies have found a positive relationship between economic growth rates and ""economic freedom"", and used this relationship as a basis for arguing that more liberal economic policies promote development. ""Economic freedom"" conflates laissez-faire policy with other important concepts, like good governance and macroeconomic stability. When laissez-faire is parsed from these other concepts, it shows no positive relationship with growth outside of the early-1990s, a period in which financially-strained developing governments and financial systems enjoyed debt bailouts in exchange for liberalization reforms. Further analysis shows that laissez-faire exerts no discernible effect on economic growth net of the debt relief, inflation containment and improved inward investment that occurred after the Cold War. I argue that free market capitalism itself may not have promoted economic development in the post-Cold War era. Instead, free market reforms occurred alongside domestic and international political developments that helped developing countries resolve a serious financial crises, and that the resolution of these crises were most important in explaining the comparative prosperity of the 1990s and 2000s."
P17|Neoliberalism’s relationship with economic growth in the developing world: Was it the power of the market or the resolution of financial crisis?|"This article examines the relationship between ""economic freedom"" and economic growth. Previous studies have found a positive relationship between economic growth rates and ""economic freedom"", and used this relationship as a basis for arguing that more liberal economic policies promote development. ""Economic freedom"" conflates laissez-faire policy with other important concepts, like good governance and macroeconomic stability. When laissez-faire is parsed from these other concepts, it shows no positive relationship with growth outside of the early-1990s, a period in which financially-strained developing governments and financial systems enjoyed debt bailouts in exchange for liberalization reforms. Further analysis shows that laissez-faire exerts no discernible effect on economic growth net of the debt relief, inflation containment and improved inward investment that occurred after the Cold War. I argue that free market capitalism itself may not have promoted economic development in the post-Cold War era. Instead, free market reforms occurred alongside domestic and international political developments that helped developing countries resolve a serious financial crises, and that the resolution of these crises were most important in explaining the comparative prosperity of the 1990s and 2000s."
P17|Effects of business embedded & traditional training models on employees’ job motivation|Service industry is now focusing more and more on providing valuable training opportunities to its employees in order to improve the quality of its services and benchmarking them as its competitive advantage. This research has attempted to understand the effects of the Business Embedded Training Model and the Traditional Training Model on employees’ job motivation. A sample of 80 organizations and 1000 respondents was taken and Group T-Test and Log Linear Logit techniques were used to evaluate that which training model is preferred over the other by the service industry and which training model has more positive effects on employees’ job motivation.
P17|On the expansion of finance and financialisation|In this paper we explore the role of finance in the recent crisis noting that its expansion, in a context of deregulation and globalisation, has boosted financial profits and capital accumulation, but at the cost of a growing systemic instability both in the leading capitalist economy, i.e. the USA, and at the international level. The expansion of finance tends to emerge in certain phases of capitalist development, in particular during periods of countries’ decline. At the same time, each phase has its peculiar aspects and, referring to the recent evolution, we focus on the phenomenon of financialisation, intended as an increasing involvement of economic agents in the working of financial markets.
P17|Indian Capitalism: A Case that doesn’t Fit?|Abstract: This paper critically examines the ‘Varieties of Capitalism’ (VoC) School’s approach to constructing typologies of capitalisms with reference to the specific case of Indian capitalism. It emphasizes that two factors related to its origin and initial emergence remain crucial for explaining many of the key and sometimes very specific outcomes being generated by the operation of Indian capitalism in its current stage. These factors are, firstly, that Indian capitalism was born out of the womb of capitalist colonialism, and secondly, that no thoroughgoing agrarian transformation happened in India before or after independence. These have strongly conditioned capitalist development in India after independence, first under a more statist and protectionist regime till 1991 and subsequently under a more open and market‐oriented policy in the era of globalization. The transformational impact of this development has been consequently limited, even in comparison to other late‐industrializing Asian capitalisms, and insufficient to transcend these factors. Yet changes have happened over time, which lie behind the break state economic policy made with the past in 1991. The paper argues that such a combination of continuity and change poses some vexing problems for the characterization of contemporary Indian capitalism as a particular variety.
P17|International Comparisons of Living Standards by Equivalent Incomes|We propose a measure of living standards for international comparisons. Based on GDP per capita, the measure incorporates corrections for international flows of income, labor, risk of unemployment, healthy life expectancy, household demography and inequalities. The method for comparing populations that differ in some non‐income dimension consists of computing the equivalent variation of income that would make each population indifferent between its current situation and a reference situation with respect to the non‐income dimension. This is applied to 24 OECD countries. The obtained ranking of countries differs substantially from the GDP ranking.
P17|Governance, Regulation and Financial Market Instability: The Implciations for Policy|Just as the 1929 Stock Market Crash discredited Classical economic theory and policy and opened the way for Keynesianism, a consequence of the collapse of confidence in financial markets and the banking system – and the effect that this has had on the global macro economy – is currently discrediting the ‘conventional wisdom’ of neo-liberalism. This paper argues that at the heart of the crisis is a breakdown in governance that has its roots in the co-evolution of political and economic developments and of economic theory and policy since the 1929 Stock Market Crash and the Great Depression that followed. However, while many are looking back to the Great Depression and to the theories and policies that seemed to contribute to recovery during the first part of the twentieth century, we argue that the current context is different from the earlier one; and there are more recent events that may provide better insight into the causes and contributing factors giving rise to the present crisis and to the implications for theory and policy that follow.
P17|La actividad de porcicultura en el escenario del Tratado de Libre Comercio Perú-Estados|La investigación hecha en el contexto del Tratado de Libre Comercio (TLC) suscrito entre Perú y Estados Unidos identifica variables relevantes de demanda y oferta posibles de ser afectadas por el acuerdo comercial. En dicha investigación, mediante el análisis de equilibrio parcial se determinan los efectos e impactos sobre el bienestar de los porcicultores peruanos, concluyéndose que, si bien a corto plazo el TLC aumenta la importación en carne de cerdo y reduce el precio al productor, a mediano plazo es posible la implementación de mejoras tecnológicas; por ello, se deben considerar las compensaciones y establecerse una agenda agraria para elevar la competitividad.
P17|Growth and economic crises in Turkey: leaving behind a turbulent past?|Turkey's performance in the current crisis shows that it has managed to weather the global stormy conditions relatively well and avoid collapsing into a full-fledged currency and financial crisis. On the face of it, one could conclude economic reforms introduced since 2001 have paid off and today's performance marks a clean break with the past. But there are also indications that the Turkish economy still retains some of its old vulnerabilities. By determining how resilient Turkey's economy has become to domestic and international economic volatility, one can better assess the sustainability of the accelerated economic convergence process on which Turkey embarked after the 2001 crisis.
P17|Effect of Threats to Property Rights on Economic Performance of the Manufacturing Sector of Indian States|We examine the effect of threats to property rights on the economic performance of the manufacturing sector of Indian states. We construct indices of the threats from data on crime against property rights. Our estimation results show that not only threats to private property, but also threats to contracts adversely affect the performance of India's manufacturing sector.
P17|Agricultural Crisis in India: The Root Cause and Consequences|Agricultue in India is undergoing a structural change leading to a crisis situation. The rate of growth of agricultural output is gradually declining in the recent years. The relative contribution of agriculture to the GDP has been declining over time steadily. The performance of agriculture by crop categories also clearly indicates the slowing down process of agriculture in India. The onset of deceleration in agriculture began from early nineties and it became sharp from the late nineties. The trends in the area, input use, capital stock and technology also reflect the agricultural downfall and the farmer’s response accordingly. It is alarming that India is moving towards a point of no return, from being a self-reliant nation of food surplus to a net importer of food. All these trends indicate that the agricultural sector in India is facing a crisis today. It is argued that the root cause of the crisis was that agriculture is no more a profitable economic activity when compared to other enterprises. It means that the income derived from these activities is not sufficient enough to meet the expenditure of the cultivators. And therefore, unless agriculture is made a profitable enterprise, the present crisis cannot be solved. The related factors responsible for the crisis include: dependence on rainfall and climate, liberal import of agricultural products, reduction in agricultural subsidies, lack of easy credit to agriculture and dependence on money lenders, decline in government investment in the agricultural sector and conversion of agricultural land for alternative uses. It is argued that the consequence of agricultural crisis in India is very vast and likely to hit all the other sectors and the national economy in several ways. In specific, it has adverse effects on food supply, prices of foodgrains, cost of living, health and nutrition, poverty, employment, labour market, land loss from agriculture and foreign exchange earnings. In sum, it revealed that the agricultural crisis would be affecting a majority of the people in India and the economy as a whole in the long run. And therefore, it can be argued that the crisis in agriculture is a crisis of the country as a whole. Ihe only remedy to the crisis is to do all that is possible to make agriculture a profitable enterprise and attract the farmers to continue the crop production activities. As an effort towards this direction, the government should augment its investment and expenditure in the farm sector. Investment in agriculture and its allied sectors, including irrigation, transport, communication, rural market, rural infrastructure and farm research, should be drastically increased, and the government should aim at integrated development of the rural areas. The solution of the problem is not in a few “packages” but in drastic changes in the present economic policies related to agriculture. No other sector’s growth and development must be at the cost of agriculture. All farmers, agricultural labourers, societies, Government and People’s Organisations should work collectively to revive agriculture and “Save India from Agriculture Crisis”.
P17|Le nouveau mercantilisme et sa crise. Eléments de discussion (The new Mercantilism and its crisis elements for discussion )|Comment comprendre la crise actuelle qui est déterminante sur le plan mondiale ? Dans ce texte, en suivant la pensée de Joan Robinson, nous présenterons dans la première partie le contenu de la définition du « nouveau mercantilisme », puis nous verrons comment ces pratiques ont contribué et ont soutenu ce que nous appelons communément la mondialisation. Cette mondialisation, du fait des barrières internes et externes auxquelles s’est heurté le capitalisme a été vite mue par la finance. Cette dernière alimentant l’« économie virtuelle » est de venue par son essoufflement une cause de dévalorisation et de destruction de capitaux excédentaires. Et après ? Quel peut être l’avenir de l’« économie monde » ? Le capitalisme peut-il se passer du mercantilisme ? How to understand the current crisis which is decisive at the World level? In this text, following the thought of Joan Robinson, we present in the first part the content of the definition of “new mercantilism”, and we then explain how these practices have helped and supported what we commonly call globalization. Globalization, because of the internal and external barriers that capitalism had to face, was quickly driven by finance. The latter, supplying the “virtual economy”, has become -because of its shortcomings-a cause of devaluation and destruction of surplus capital. And after? What can be the future of the “world economy”? Can Capitalism escape from mercantilism?
P17|La substitution des lois du marche aux criteres esthetiques dans l’art contemporain speculatif (The substitution of market laws to esthetic criteria in the contemporary speculative art)|La dérégulation des modes d'existence des oeuvres de l'art contemporain, et les critères contrastés de leur définition, interviennent à une période historique de profonde mutation des formes symboliques. Cette dérégulation, influencée par les modèles néolibéraux de l’économie financière, intervient directement sur la création artistique. L'économie de l'oeuvre d'art ne saurait se calquer sur les notions de temporalité et d'obsolescence en vigueur dans l'économie des biens et des services. Une perte du sens des limites, et la transgression des frontières, se traduisent notamment par l'emballement du marché de l'art contemporain. Apollon est à Wall Street, pour le pire. The deregulation of the representation modes of the works of contemporary art, and the contrasting criteria of their definition, take place at a historical period characterized by a profound transformation of symbolic forms. This deregulation, influenced by neo-liberal financial economics, directly impacts the artistic creation. The economy of the artwork cannot be based on the notions of temporality and obsolescence, in force in the economy of goods and services. A loss of a sense of limits and the transgression of borders notably cause the contemporary art market to race out of control. Apollo is at Wall Street, for the worse.
P17|Dutch disease in former Soviet Union : witch-hunting?|"This study seeks to determine the extent to which countries of the former Soviet Union are ""infected"" by the Dutch Disease. We take a detailed look at the functioning of the trans-mission mechanism of the Dutch Disease, i.e. the chains that run from commodity prices to real output in manufacturing. We complement this with two econometric exercises. First, we estimate nominal and real exchange rate models to see whether commodity prices are correlated with the exchange rate. Second, we run growth equations to analyse the possible effects of commodity prices and the dependency of economic growth on natural resources. Key words: Dutch disease, commodity prices, exchange rate, Commonwealth of Independent States. JEL Codes: E31, E32, F31, Q33"
P17|Economic Planning: Time to Reconsider?|Together with the collapse of what was once called the socialist system, was also the collapse of research on any other form of economic organisation of a society. Administrative methods for running an economy, with economic planning foremost among them, were inseparably linked to the collapse of the socialist system and, in essence, were held responsible for it. Thus, although the dominant economic paradigm has once again failed to deliver in recent years, the research for other methods fell into oblivion along with the system they were attached to. This work represents an attempt to reconsider the potential of economic planning as a means of organizing an economy at various levels, at various degrees and in various environments. I shall try to illustrate that the blame for the collapse of different socialist systems should not have fallen on the systemic deficiencies of economic planning but, instead, on the political institutions responsible for its application. In addition, I will stress that economic planning has been condemned by non-economic parameters and the application of wrong planning methods. In making this argument I hope to provide an angle through which the discussion of economic organisation can be opened to a broader scope of research.
P17|The finance-dominated growth regime, distribution, and the present crisis|The paper discusses the interactions of changes in income distribution and the accumulation dynamics in the post-Fordist accumulation regime in OECD countries, which is characterized by deregulated financial markets. The neoliberal mode of regulation came with a decisive shift in power relations at the expense of labor, which is clearly reflected in the fall of wage shares across OECD economies. The notion of a “finance-dominated” accumulation regime is proposed to highlight that financial developments crucially shape the pattern and the pace of accumulation. Financial globalization has relaxed balance of payment constraints and thereby allowed the build up of big international imbalances. The combination of real wage moderation and financial liberalization has led to different strategies (or at least outcomes) in different countries. While some countries (like the USA) exhibit a credit-fuelled consumption-driven growth model that comes with large current account deficits, others (like Germany and Japan) show an export-driven growth model with modest consumption growth and large current account surpluses. Overall the finance-dominated accumulation regime is characterized by a mediocre growth performance and by a high degree of fragility.
P17|A Economia Política do Cognitivo|A acumulação na base do conhecimento é sinônimo de uma situação de inovação permanente, em que a valorização se sustenta no tempo subjetivo e intersubjetivo da criação, isto é, no trabalho vivo e coletivo. As relações de produção superpõem a fábrica e cobrem a totalidade do terreno social, derrubando as fronteiras entre a produção social e a produção econômica, entre as forças produtivas e os meios de produção, o consumo e a produção, o valor de troca e o valor de uso, etc. A compreensão do modo como o capital se valoriza nessa nova base passa pelo estudo dos fundamentos do regime cognitivo e da sua lógica de acumulação-exploraçãoao no contexto das mudanças introduzidas pela difusão maciça das novas tecnologias de informação e comunicação.
P17|Sociedad de la información, neo-subjetividad posmoderna y modelos organizativos en la era de la globalización|Re-definitions happened in world capitalism imply a certain impact in organizational models defining the variety of social practices in informational society. Firstly, gnoseological approach reaches to the new accumulation model in a rationality framework, which focuses to the application of knowledge to knowledge itself (Drucker), starting from techno-economic change and its derivations in the field of IT an CT. Those, being a belt for a new world subjectivity. The rise of an ethical profile is highlighted, which implications (i.e., productivity, competitiveness and excellence) occupies a privileged place in a directional sense assumed by social wisdom in this context. Also structure-cojuncture adjustments happened are referred to, in entrepreneurial world, as well as labor and hole daily life fields. Secondly, a hypothetical framework is proposed in the sense that the (not so) new key factor for world economy (microelectronics) involves a trans-figurative subjectivity framework re-defining human dimension key scenarios. From a critical-interpretative approach, it is possible to understand that organizational model not only face the challenge of a growing competitiveness, but its gnoseological scaffolding --seen as a tension between forces-- involves a substantive re-definition of rationality in the seine of organizations, that directs its responsibility and social compromise in post-modern days.
P17|Dutch Disease Scare in Kazakhstan: Is it real?|In this paper we explore the evidence that would establish that Dutch disease is at work in, or poses a threat to, the Kazakh economy.Assessing the mechanism by which fluctuations in the price of oil can damage non-oil manufacturing-and thus long-term growth prospects in an economy that relies heavily on oil production-we find that non-oil manufacturing has so far been spared the perverse effects of oil price increases from 1996 to 2005.The real exchange rate in the open sector has appreciated over the last couple of years, largely due to the appreciation of the nominal exchange rate.We analyze to what extent this appreciation is linked to movements in oil prices and oil revenues.Econometric evidence from the monetary model of the exchange rate and a variety of real exchange rate models show that the rise in the price of oil and in oil revenues might be linked to an appreciation of the U.S. dollar exchange rate of the oil and non-oil sectors.But appreciation is mainly limited to the real effective exchange rate for oil sector and is statistically insignificant for non-oil manufacturing.Key words: price level, inflation, Balassa-Samuelson, tradables, house prices, regulated prices, Europe, transition JEL codes: E43, E50, E52, C22, G21, O52<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Real Exchange Rate Dynamics in Macedonia: Old Wisdoms and New Insights|The ambition of this paper is to analyse real exchange rate dynamics in Macedonia relying on a highly disaggregated dataset. We complement the indirect evidence reported in Loko and Tuladhar (2005) and we provide direct evidence on the irrelevance of the Balassa-Samuelson effect for overall inflation via service prices in the CPI. Furthermore, we estimate variants of the BEER model. We show that alternative econometric techniques and data definitions bear an impact on the robustness of the estimation results. Overall, productivity, government consumption and the openness variables were found to be fairly robust in terms of sign and size. An increase/decrease in the productivity variables is associated with an appreciation/depreciation of the real effective exchange rate. Given that the B-S effect admittedly has a very limited role to play through nontradable prices in the CPI, this relationship could be explained by the (inverse) quality effect proposed by Loko and Tuladhar and, possibly in addition to that, by the nontradable component of tradable prices.
P17|Entrepreneurship And Performance|Competitiveness is assured, developed businesses require the implementation of some quality standards in all the company fields, that is, granting some important financial resources. Actually, when analyzing the economic activity of the Romanian economic agents, we can notice that finding the best financial source is their main problem.
P17|The Soeharto Era: From Beginning to End|The paper develops a simple model of the Soeharto 'franchise', in which the coercive power of government was deployed in the interests of the president, his family, his business cronies and key officials within the franchise. The franchise prospered by generating rents that could be harvested by, and shared with, insider firms, and by extorting payments from outsider firms and individuals. In this model the franchise inevitably collapses in the long run for various reasons: the level of 'private taxation' from which it prospers eventually becomes intolerable; rents are diluted as franchise membership is expanded to buy off opposition; insider firms grow so rapidly that they run into financial and management bottlenecks; internal discipline declines as members compete for larger shares of the rents. The float of the Thai baht in 1997 merely provided the trigger for this inevitable collapse, while Soeharto's failing health helped to accelerate it.
P17|Perspective of agro-based industry of Tharparkar|This study is perspectives of agro-based industry of Tharparkar, and Third chapter of the thesis of Ph.D submitted in 2002. In this study perspectives of agro-based industry are discussed. Main topics of the study are: Crops, Non-crops, Livestock, Fishing, Poultry and Edible oil. Secondary data from different resources is collected to indicate the importance of agro-based industry. Purpose of the study was to give the complete picture of perspectives of the study for proper occlusions and recommendations for policy maker to get the Tharparkar better economically and socially. Study reveals that Thar depends on livestock and not corps People of Thar are poor and they have strong attachment with in the crops. In spite of uncertainty of rain people like it and take risk. Dairy products are not so income generating due the fact that milk taken out butter is used for personal nutrition and somewhat for saleable, there is no market for sale in villages. However poultry farm system does not exist only few people rare it in informal way. From all these discussion it is clear that only livestock is main agro-based industry and source of income. However in future if developed may increase income and alleviate poverty.
P17|Brobles of agro based industry of Tharparkar and barrge area of Sindh|This study is about problems of agro-based industry of Tharparkar and barrage area of Sindh, and fifth chapter of the thesis of Ph.D submitted in 2002. In this study problems faced by agro-based industry are discussed. Main topics of the study are: Crops, Non-crops, Livestock, Fishing, Poultry and Edible oil. Secondary data from different resources is collected to indicate the problems of agro-based industry. Purpose of the study was to give the complete picture of problems of the study for proper occlusions and recommendations for policy maker to get the Tharparkar better economically and socially. Study reveals that Thar depends on livestock and not corps People of Thar are poor and they have strong attachment with in the crops. In spite of uncertainty of rain people like it and take risk. Dairy products are not so income generating due to the fact that milk taken out butter is used for personal nutrition and somewhat for saleable; and there is no market for sale in villages. However poultry farm system does not exist only few people rare it in informal way. A barrage area is more developed than Thar. From all these discussions it is clear that only livestock is main agro-based industry and source of income for Thar. However in future if developed may increase income and alleviate poverty.
P17|Importance of agro based industry of Tharparkar and barrage area of Sindh|This study is about importance of agro-based industry of Tharparkar and barrage area of Sindh, and sixth chapter of the thesis of Ph.D submitted in 2002. In this study importance of agro-based industry is discussed with reference of main topics of the study: Crops, Non-crops, and Livestock in detail. Secondary data from different resources is collected to indicate the importance of agro-based industry. Purpose of the study was to give the complete picture of importance of the study so that valuable findings be drawn and recommendations for policy maker to get the Tharparkar and barrage area of Sindh to be better economically and socially. It is concluded that the scope of agro-based industry is too high, because of the fact that our country depends on agriculture. All branches of agro based industry are very important because they increase industrial products, provide employment, earn foreign exchange, increase income level and also provide employment to women and provide base for development for backward areas. At the same time reduces pressure of population and migration, distributes the Wealth properly and can be established with small capital. For this little imported inputs are required and no foreign investments or sophisticated technology is needed.
P17|Methods and procedurs of agro based industry of Tharparkar and barrage area of Sindh|This study is about research methodology and procedures adopted for the primary data of agro-based industry of Tharparkar and barrage area of Sindh, and seventh chapter of the thesis of Ph.D submitted in 2002. In this study detail of the consolidated datta about the sample characteristics of this random sample survey are being given, collected through questionnaire, by poll questions about agro-based industry, and are analyzed by tabulation and charts. This data is primarily and is first ever study of Tharparkar on the subject. In giving the random sample characteristics, every attempt was made to give almost necessary information about the village farmers of the defined area out of which sampling was done. It is concluded from the study that in Thar livestock is sustainable source of income at first level and rangeland is at second level and crops are at third level. In barrage area crops are sustainable source of income at first level livestock is a at second level and rangeland is at third level this study will help to policy makers for further planning.
P17|Perspectives of Agro-based Industry of Barrge Area of Sindh|This study is perspective of agro-based industry of Tharparkar, and fourth chapter of the thesis of Ph.D submitted in 2002. In this study perspective of agro-based industry is discussed. Main topics of the study are: Crops, Non-crops, Livestock, Fishing, Poultry and Edible oil. Secondary data from different resources is collected to indicate the perspectives of agro-based industry. Purpose of the study was to give the complete picture of perspectives of the study for proper occlusions and recommendations for policy maker to get the Tharparkar better economically and socially. Study reveals that Thar depends on livestock and not corps People of Thar are poor and they have strong attachment with in the crops. In spite of uncertainty of rain people like it and take risk. Dairy products are not so income generating due the fact that milk taken out butter is used for personal nutrition and somewhat for saleable, there is no market for sale in villages. However poultry farm system does not exist only few people rare it in informal way. From all these discussion it is clear that only livestock is main agro-based industry and source of income. However in future if developed may increase income and alleviate poverty.
P17|La « contre-performance » de l'Europe continentale. Le lien entre institutions, dynamisme et prospérité économique|While most continental European economies have exhibit deceiving outcomes for two decades, it seems necessary ? and it reveals fruitful ? to elaborate an ??institutional hypothesis?? to understand this failure. Our central reasoning is the following?: it is in the absence or the muffling of economic institutions able to generate ??dynamism?? that one must search for the explanation of the economic underperformance in continental Europe. After having carefully defined the idea of ??economic performance?? and the concept of ??dynamism??, we study in details the respective institutional advantages of the capitalist and corporatist systems, drawing on a number of theoretical approaches aimed at best identifying their strengths and weaknesses regarding the crucial issue of innovation process. Finally, we propose a first series of empirical tests for our theoretical intuition, that, while only preliminary, prove positive. JEL Codes ?: N23, N24, N13, N14, 031, 033, P17, P51.
P17|Killing The Goose That Lays The Golden Egg: Institutional Change And Economic Growth In Hong Kong|This article examines how the rule of law and democratic accountability have affected Hong Kong’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate in the past 20 yr. We find that democratic accountability has deteriorated substantially since the changeover of sovereignty in 1997, while the rule of law has remained strong and stable. Empirical results from autoregressive distributed lag bounds tests show a positive long‐run relationship between growth and democratic accountability, and Granger causality tests reveal that democratic accountability causes the growth rate of GDP in the short run. These conclusions are robust to control for the effects of investment and the Asian financial crisis in 1997. (JEL O18, O49, P17)
P17|Finance et économie de la connaissance : des relations équivoques|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|La fin de l'Histoire (économique)|Some papers, for reasons which remain partially obscure, leave a persistent trace in intellectual history. Such is the case with Keynes? ??Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren?? and its central questioning: Could the very functioning of the capitalist system lead to the solution of the economic problem and hence to the end of capitalism itself? This paper sustains that the answers given by Keynes to this question are grounded on three elements: arithmetic, the neurosis of capitalism and the communism of the elites. On the first element, Keynes is right; one may even argue that his reasoning anticipates Solow?s growth model. The second element is rooted in the context in which Keynes was writing and grounded on a false interpretation of Freud?s work which led him to a simplistic analysis of human needs. The third element unveils his aristocratic view of society. What is remarkable in ??the economic possibilities?? is the powerful intuition of Keynes and even more remarkable the nature of the questions he poses. What is deceptive is the naivety with which Keynes deals with human needs and even more deceptive his arrogance and the questionable moral which goes with it. JEL Classification: A13, D11, D63, E12, E21, O47, P17.
P17|Real exchange rates in small open OECD and transition economies: Comparing apples with oranges?|We find that productivity gains in tradables cause an appreciation of the real exchange rate via both tradable and nontradable prices in the CEE-5 and have no affect in the Baltic countries, while they lead to a depreciation of the real exchange rate of tradables in OECD economies that overcompensates the appreciation due to nontradable prices. Rising net foreign liabilities lead to a real appreciation in the Baltic countries instead of the expected depreciation found in OECD and CEE-5 countries. These differences are due to the different impact of the fundamentals on the real exchange rate depending on the time horizon studied.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Cyprus. The unfinished absurdity|The real Cyprus problem has to do with the centuries-old issue of relations between Greeks and Turks. As such, Cyprus lies at the heart of political developments in Greece. The Cyprus issue, nonetheless, may be misunderstood if the personality of Archbishop Makarios III is not seriously taken into consideration. As a matter of fact, the imbroglio that up to now still exists in the Ankara-Athens relationship may be regarded as his personal achievement. Had not Makarios ruled Cyprus, the Cypriots, both Greek and Turkish, would have long ago sunk into prosperity and would, therefore, be forgotten by world public opinion. And last but not least: the subsequent unavoidable separation of the Island into two different statehoods is due to Makarios' policy and the support that Greek-Cypriots wholeheartedly gave to him.
P17|Kalinningrad on its crooked way to economic modernization|The problem of Kaliningrad, in the form it has emerged after the 2004 enlargement of the European Union, stems from the region's ambivalent economic position of being simultaneously inside and outside the EU territory, with no international regulations existing to reconcile this conflict. However, this situation looks puzzling only regarding historical retrospective. In the context of post-modern realities, Kaliningrad just fits into the new type of regionalization based on transborder cooperation and networking with the advancing EU neighbours. At the moment, the new Federal Law on the Kaliningrad SEZ, in force from April 2006, rather impedes than promotes the prospect of the region's Europeanization and its structural turn to European export markets. Meanwhile, the global competition and the expected Russia's entry into the WTO will objectively make the local economy enter the stage of radical restructuring. In this regard, Kaliningrad is in sharp need of more constructive federal policies which could realize its potential comparative advantages and provide its sound involvement into the post-industrial clusters emerging in the Baltic Rim.
P17|The end of (economic) history|Some papers, for reasons which remain at least partially obscure, leave a persistent trace in intellectual history. Such is the case with Keynes’ paper “Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren”, although it never attracted much attention within the economic profession, besides reference here and there to the power of simple economic calculations: A possible explanation is that Keynes, in freeing himself from economic rigor, is attempting to unveil his moral philosophy. Because a great economist is not necessarily a great philosopher we should not ab initio expect the result to be at the level we are accustomed to in reading Keynes. What matters is not so much the way Keynes answers the questions he poses but the nature of the questions themselves. Could the very functioning of the capitalist system lead to the solution of the economic problem and hence to the end of capitalism itself? This paper sustains that the answers given by Keynes to these questions are grounded on three elements: arithmetic, the neurosis of capitalism and the communism of the elites. On the first element, Keynes is right; one may even argue that his reasoning anticipates Solow’s growth model. The second element is rooted in the context in which Keynes was writing and grounded on a false interpretation of Freud’s work which led him to a simplistic analysis of human needs. The third element unveils his aristocratic view of society. What is remarkable in “the economic possibilities” is the powerful intuition of Keynes and even more remarkable the nature of the questions he poses. Each and every economist should try to answer the question of the ends of the economic system and of its possible end. What is deceptive is the naivety with which Keynes deals with human needs and even more deceptive his arrogance and the questionable moral which goes with it.
P17|The End of (Economic) History|Some papers, for reasons which remain at least partially obscure, leave a persistent trace in intellectual history. Such is the case with Keynes’ paper “Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren”, although it never attracted much attention within the economic profession, besides reference here and there to the power of simple economic calculations: A possible explanation is that Keynes, in freeing himself from economic rigor, is attempting to unveil his moral philosophy. Because a great economist is not necessarily a great philosopher we should not ab initio expect the result to be at the level we are accustomed to in reading Keynes. What matters is not so much the way Keynes answers the questions he poses but the nature of the questions themselves. Could the very functioning of the capitalist system lead to the solution of the economic problem and hence to the end of capitalism itself? This paper sustains that the answers given by Keynes to these questions are grounded on three elements: arithmetic, the neurosis of capitalism and the communism of the elites. On the first element, Keynes is right; one may even argue that his reasoning anticipates Solow’s growth model. The second element is rooted in the context in which Keynes was writing and grounded on a false interpretation of Freud’s work which led him to a simplistic analysis of human needs. The third element unveils his aristocratic view of society. What is remarkable in “the economic possibilities” is the powerful intuition of Keynes and even more remarkable the nature of the questions he poses. Each and every economist should try to answer the question of the ends of the economic system and of its possible end. What is deceptive is the naivety with which Keynes deals with human needs and even more deceptive his arrogance and the questionable moral which goes with it.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Rawls’ Paradox|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|The quantification of the performances of public institutions – basics concepts|The performance of the public sector affects us all. There are at least three reasons why we should be interested in how well it functions: it is big; its outputs are special; and it is getting bigger. With all these, in Romania, the performance within the public sector represents a concept not so analyzed and rarely applied in practice. There is not the same situation in countries with a high developed economy, which represent an interest for us, along with the European integration. Internationally, since the 1970s processes of modernization and reorganization of public institution have been initiated in diverse countries in the world. The society has demanded greater efficiency in rendering of services, a better application of public resources and also questioned the effective bureaucratic model. In this context, the model of managing government institutions gains force, consistence and become more credible. Flexibility, decentralization, creativity, autonomy of management, and a management contract used as quantification instrument are basic characteristics of the management reforms that focus on results. Results determination within the public sector and the implementation of a system meant to measure the financing and non-financing performances need an exact definition of the objectives and purposes of each organization and constituent institution.
P17|A model of cognitive capitalism. A preliminary analysis|The aim of this paper is to present a first theoretical macro-modelling of cognitive capitalism, by utilizing the French regulation theory approach. With regard to the supply side analysis, we shall emphasize the role played by productivity dynamics: it is mainly affected by two types of dynamics: scale economics, based on learning processes and network activity. Turning to demand-side aspects, aggregate demand takes in account also the role played by distribution effects of financial markets, which operates as a distorsive income multiplier. As, on the one side, it depends upon the trade-off between learning processes diffusion and intellectual property rights and, on the other, upon income polarization (due to precariousness and limited access to capital gains) and demand growth stability. The stability of the system cannot be guaranteed. The need for new rules concerning income distribution process (i.e. basic income policy) will be taken in consideration.
P17|The Political, Economic, and Social Aspects of Katrina|In this paper, we examine the resiliency of community recovery after a natural disaster. We argue that a resilient recovery requires robust economic/financial institutions, political/legal institutions, and social/cultural institutions. We explore how politically and privately created disaster preconditions and responses have contributed to or undermined institutional robustness in the context of the Gulf Coast's recovery after Hurricane Katrina. We find that where postdisaster resiliency has been observed, private-sector responses contributing to the health of these institutional arenas are largely responsible. Where postdisaster fragility and slowness has been observed, public-sector responses contributing to the frailty of these institutional arenas are largely the cause. In other words, we engage in a comparative institutional analysis of civil society, entrepreneurial commercial society, and government agencies and political actors in the wake of a natural disaster.
P17|The end of (economic) history|"Some papers, for reasons which remain at least partially obscure, leave a persistent trace in intellectual history. Such is the case with Keynes' paper ""Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren"", although it never attracted much attention within the economic profession, besides reference here and there to the power of simple economic calculations: A possible explanation is that Keynes, in freeing himself from economic rigor, is attempting to unveil his moral philosophy. Because a great economist is not necessarily a great philosopher we should not ab initio expect the result to be at the level we are accustomed to in reading Keynes. What matters is not so much the way Keynes answers the questions he poses but the nature of the questions themselves. Could the very functioning of the capitalist system lead to the solution of the economic problem and hence to the end of capitalism itself? This paper sustains that the answers given by Keynes to these questions are grounded on three elements: arithmetic, the neurosis of capitalism and the communism of the elites. On the first element, Keynes is right; one may even argue that his reasoning anticipates Solow's growth model. The second element is rooted in the context in which Keynes was writing and grounded on a false interpretation of Freud's work which led him to a simplistic analysis of human needs. The third element unveils his aristocratic view of society. What is remarkable in ""the economic possibilities"" is the powerful intuition of Keynes and even more remarkable the nature of the questions he poses. Each and every economist should try to answer the question of the ends of the economic system and of its possible end. What is deceptive is the naivety with which Keynes deals with human needs and even more deceptive his arrogance and the questionable moral which goes with it."
P17|Some Stylized Facts on the Finance-Dominated Accumulation Regime|While there is an agreement that the Fordist accumulation regime has come to an end in the course of the 1970s, there is no agreement on how to characterize the post-Fordist regime (or if a such is already in place). The paper seeks put together various arguments related to financialization (in the broad sense) from a macroeconomic point of view and investigate the relevance of these arguments by means of an analysis stylized facts for EU countries. The paper discusses changes in investment behaviour, consumption behaviour and government expenditures, investigating to what extent changes are related to financialization. Households experience higher debt levels. Rising profits of businesses come with only moderate investment. The notion of a “finance-dominated” accumulation regime is proposed to highlight that financial developments crucially shape the pattern and the pace of accumulation. The finance dominated accumulation regime is characterized by a mediocre growth performance and by higher volatility. However, so far deregulated financial markets have not lead to major financial crises in advanced capitalist economies. A possible reason for this is that the size of the state sector has not been substantially reduced despite neoliberal attempts to do so.
P17|Equilibrium Exchange Rates in Transition Economies: Taking Stock of the Issues | In this paper, we present an overview of a number of issues relating to the equilibrium exchange rates of transition economies of the former soviet bloc. In particular, we present a critical overview of the various methods available for calculating equilibrium exchange rates and discuss how useful they are likely to be for the transition economies. Amongst our findings is the result that the trend appreciation usually observed for the exchange rates of these economies is affected by factors other than the usual Balassa-Samuelson effect, such as the behaviour of the real exchange rate of the open sector and regulated prices. We then consider three main sources of uncertainty relating to the implementation of an equilibrium exchange rate model, namely: differences in the theoretical underpinnings, differences in the econometric estimation techniques, and differences relating to the time-series and cross-sectional dimensions of the data. The ensuing three-dimensional space of real misalignments is probably a useful tool in determining the direction of a possible misalignment rather than its precise size. Copyright Blackwell Publishers Ltd, 2006.
P17|Structural Economic Constraints, The Imf-Style And Perspectives In Brazil|The last two decades in Brazil are characterized by low growth in income per capita, financial turmoil, increasing unemployment, dismal distribution of income (and wealth), rent-seeking speculation and dissatisfaction with the outcome of neo-liberal policies. It was in this context that Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva reached the presidency in January 2003. What has been seen so far is – despite the success in maintaining governability – a sharp neo-classical-cum monetarist practice of the previous government. It has been unable to move from the IMF orthodox approach. Thus, there is not much to commemorate in the first three quarters of the mandate.
P17|Real exchange rate misalignment: Prelude to crisis?|A model of the long run equilibrium real exchange rate based upon macroeconomic fundamentals is employed to calculate real exchange rate misalignments for Poland and Russia during the 1990s using the Beveridge and Nelson (1981) decomposition of macrofundamentals into transitory and permanent components. Short run movements of the real exchange rate are estimated with ARIMA and GARCH error correction specifications. The different nominal exchange rate regimes of the two countries generate different levels of misalignment and different responses to exogenous shocks. The average misalignment in Russia is substantially greater than that in Poland, indicating incipient pressures to devalue the ruble immediately preceding the August 1998 crisis. The half life of an exogenous shock is found to be much shorter for Poland than for Russia in the pre-crisis period. Dynamic forecasts indicate that the movements of the real exchange rate in the post-crisis period are significantly different from those in the pre-crisis period. Thus, the currency crisis in Russia could not be anticipated with the movements of the real exchange rate estimated with the macroeconomic fundamentals.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Equilibrium exchange rates in Central and Eastern Europe: A meta-regression analysis|This paper analyses the ever-growing literature on equilibrium exchange rates in the new EU member states of Central and Eastern Europe in a quantitative manner using meta-regression analysis. The results indicate that the real misalignments reported in the literature are systematically influenced, inter alia, by the underlying theoretical concepts (Balassa-Samuelson effect, Behavioural Equilibrium Exchange Rate, Fundamental Equilibrium Exchange Rate) and by the econometric estimation methods. The important implication of these findings is that a systematic analysis is needed in terms of both alternative economic and econometric specifications to assess equilibrium exchange rates.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|To a High Developed Public Sector|Performance measurement is a systematic process who affords evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of an organization or a program. It applies real information (quantitative and qualitative characteristics) to help managers and customers (in our case, the citizens) to determine whether the expected results are being achieved. In Romania, the performance within the public sector represents a concept not so analyzed and rarely applied in practice. There is not the same situation in countries with a high developed economy , which represent an interest for us, alongside with the European integration.
P17|The Economics of Young Democracies: Policies and Performance|Since the “third wave” of democratization began in 1974, nearly 100 states have adopted democratic forms of government, including, of course, most of the former Soviet bloc nations. Policy-makers in the west have expressed the hope that this democratic wave will extend even further, to the Middle East and onward to China. But the durability of this new democratic age remains an open question. By some accounts, at least half of the world’s young democracies—often referred to in the academic literature as being “unconsolidated” or “fragile”—are still struggling to develop their political institutions, and several have reverted back to authoritarian rule. Among the countries in the early stages of democratic institution building are states vital to U.S. national security interests, including Afghanistan and Iraq. The ability of fledgling democracies to maintain popular support depends in part on the ability of their governments to deliver economic policies that meet with widespread approval. But what sorts of economic policies are these, and are they necessarily the same as the policies required for tackling difficult issues of economic stabilization and reform? Conversely, what sorts of economic policies are most likely to spark a backlash against young and fragile democratic regimes? Do the leaders of young democracies face trade-offs as they ponder their electoral and economic strategies? These are among the questions we explore in this paper, which provides an overview of the monograph we are currently writing on the economics of young democracies. We do so first by exploring the hypothesized relationships between democratic politics and economic policy, as well as the findings of several important empirical studies with respect to the economic performance of young democracies around the world. We then provide some descriptive statistics on how the new democracies have fared in practice, making use of a new dataset that we have compiled (and which, among other things, is more up-to-date than most others cited herein). Do the data reveal any distinctive economic patterns with respect to democratic consolidation and reversal? We will show that they do. In particular, we find that deteriorating or stagnant economic performance constitutes a red flag or warning signal that the country is at risk of democratic reversal. Moreover, we find considerable variation in economic performance, suggesting that the design of political institutions in new democracies may have a significant influence on the probability of their survival.
P17|Competitividade no sector automóvel e formas inovadoras de gestão do emprego em Portugal<BR>[Competitivity in the Portuguese automotive sector and innovative forms of employment management]|If indicators of international competitivity of the Portuguese industry reveal very strong weaknesses in the field of education and vocational training, the achievement of a solution is not based only (and should not!) in a decisive increase of investment and support in the education and training system. It seem not logical to think in that way, once normally when one tries to solve a problem that is done in the context of that same problem. Eventually there are other strategies. Which are, then, the fields where is necessary to orient the investiment to improve an industrial competitivity? To try to answer this question, we analise one of the sectors that have contributed the most for an improvement of the Portuguese economical performance, and for a true innovative process as in terms of industrial product, or in terms of manufacturing and distribution processes. Is the automotive sector where that happens, taken in its two most important sub-sectors: the one of automobile manufacturing and assembly, and the one of components manufacturing.
P17|Tendencias de la rentabilidad y la acumulación en el capitalismo español (1954-2003)|This paper analyzes the accumulation pattern of Spanish capitalism during the last half a century, based on the evolution of the capital return and the behavior of its main determinants: distribution and technical change. First, it explains the accumulation logic of the theory of work-value and argues that the so-called “law of the falling tendency of the rate of profit” (LTDTG) provides a suitable frame to explain the movements of the capitalist development in the long term. It then shows how this dynamic has materialized in the development of world accumulation since the end of the second world war, and concludes that the evolution of the Spanish capitalism in this period follows the same world pattern, emphasizing its main singularities.
P17|Equilibrium exchange rates in South Eastern Europe, Russia, Ukraine and Turkey: Healthy or (Dutch) diseased?|This paper investigates the equilibrium exchange rates of three Southeastern European countries (Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania), of two CIS economies (Russia and Ukraine) and of Turkey.A systematic approach in terms of different time horizons at which the equilibrium exchange rate is assessed is conducted, combined with a careful analysis of country-specific factors.For Russia, a first look is taken at the Dutch Disease phenomenon as a possible driving force behind equilibrium exchange rates.A unified framework including productivity and net foreign assets completed with a set control variables such as openness, public debt and public expenditures is used to compute total real misalignment bands. JEL: E31, O11, P17 Keywords: Balassa-Samuelson, Dutch Disease, Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, Russia, Ukraine, Turkey<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P17|Consequences of Alternative Formulas for Agricultural Tariff Cuts|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|Reformas e integración vertical del sector eléctrico en Reino Unido|La industria Eléctrica en Gran Bretaña ha presentado grandes cambios desde 1881 cuando Joseph Chamberlain promovió una ley prohibiendo toda libre competencia y confinándola a unos pocos contratos permitiendo el privilegio de algunos individuos. Desde este entonces el Estado ha procurado maximizar la eficiencia del sector y la prestación del servicio más aún durante los últimos 20 años; además de beneficiarse en el proceso dando total apertura a la participación privada de las compañías relacionadas con todo el sector. Eso sí, controlando y regulando las condiciones de negocio y el mercado con el fin de introducir la libre competencia y garantizar la eficiencia de las compañías prestadoras de este servicio. Esto nos invita a preguntarnos ¿Qué reformas se han realizado en el sector eléctrico del Reino Unido relacionadas con la desintegración vertical? ¿Cuáles son los efectos que han tenido dichas reformas en el sector eléctrico sobre la integración o desintegración vertical? ¿Cuáles han sido los efectos de las reformas sobre la eficiencia asignativa, es decir, el efecto en los precios del servicio? Estos son los interrogantes que se tratarán de responder en el desarrollo de este artículo.
P17|The Ethical Dimension of Economic Choices|In general, capitalist countries display sustained growth, dynamism and innovation, and a high adaptability in response to external shocks. Yet in the last twenty years discontent over the notorious drawbacks of capitalism – corporate frauds, corruption, abuses of market power – has grown continually. In this paper, we argue that no remedy to these difficulties can be found if ethical dilemmas are not anticipated and addressed at the individual, firm and economy-wide level. While pro-ethical changes in business regulation would help, government action alone may not be effective enough. Given that the social sciences provide the general framework of reference for human action, better integration of the ethical dimension by these disciplines would bring about additional benefits. In particular, economic theory would gain from developing more in-depth reflection on human end-goals and values.
P17|Does free trade really reduce growth? Further testing using the economic freedom index|While studies of the relationship between economic freedom and economic growth have shown it to be positive, significant and robust, it has rightly been argued that different areas of economic freedom may have quite different effects on growth. Along that line, Carlsson and Lundström (2002) present the surprising result that “International exchange: Freedom to trade with foreigners” is detrimental for growth. We find that “Taxes on international trade” seems to drive this result. However, using newer data and a more extensive sensitivity analysis, we find that it is not robust. Least Trimmed Squares-based estimation in fact renders the coefficient positive. Copyright Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. 2005
P17|Is There an Optimum Level of Financial Activity?|"This paper addresses the notion of an ""optimum level of financial activity"" that is contingent on a country's general level of development. Referring to threshold regressions and a bootstrap test for structural shift of the finance regressor in a growth equation, it is shown that countries gain less from a given level of financial activity, if the latter fails to keep up with or exceeds what would follow from a balanced expansion path. The paper contributes to the literature on the finance-growth nexus in providing empirical support for the notion of ""balanced"" financial development with a development specific optimum level of financial activity."
P17|Balassa-Samuelson Meets South Eastern Europe, the CIS and Turkey: A Close Encounter of the Third Kind?|This paper investigates the importance of the Balassa-Samuelson effect for two acceding countries (Bulgaria and Romania), two accession countries (Croatia and Turkey) and two CIS countries (Russia and Ukraine). The paper first studies the basic assumptions of the Balassa-Samuelson effect using yearly data, and then undertakes an econometric analysis of the assumptions on the basis of monthly data. The results suggest that for most of the countries, there is either amplification or attenuation, implying that any increase in the open sector's productivity feeds onto changes in the relative price of non-tradables either imperfectly or in an over-proportionate manner. With these results as a background, the size of the Balassa-Samuelson effect is derived. For this purpose, a number of different sectoral classification schemes are used to group sectors into open and closed sectors, which makes a difference for some of the countries. The Balassa-Samuelson effect is found to play only a limited role for inflation and real exchange rate determination, and it seems to be roughly in line with earlier findings for the eight new EU member states of Central and Eastern Europe
P17|The Stock-Flow Approach to the Real Exchange Rate of CEE Transition Economies|No abstract is available for this item.
P17|Household wealth, public consumption and economic well-being in the United States| Standard official measures of household economic well-being in several countries are based on money income. The general consensus is that such measures are limited because they ignore certain crucial determinants of well-being. We examine two such determinants--household wealth and public consumption--in the context of the US. Our findings suggest that the level and distribution of economic well-being is substantially altered when money income is adjusted for wealth or public consumption. Over the 1989--2000 period, median well-being appears to increase faster when these adjustments are made than when standard money income is used. Adding imputed rent and annuity from household wealth to household income increases measured inequality, while adding public consumption reduces it. However, all three measures show about the same rise in inequality over the period. Copyright 2005, Oxford University Press.
P17|Demystifying the role of culture in innovative regional economies| James A. (2005) Demystifying the role of culture in innovative regional economies, Regional Studies 39 , 1197-1216. Within the regional learning and innovation literature, the precise impact of regional 'culture' on firms' competitive performance remains unspecified. In response, this paper draws on research on Utah's high-tech industrial agglomeration, embedded in a highly visible regional culture: Mormonism. Focusing specifically on computer software firms, the paper first shows how the cultural embeddedness of firms in the region is best understood as a series of sustained tensions between: (1) self-identified regional cultural traits imported into the firm; versus (2) key elements of corporate cultures known to underpin innovation. Second, the paper measures the material impact of that regional cultural embedding on firms' innovative capacities and hence abilities to compete. Finally, it outlines the wider relevance of the author's work with regard to the spatial limits imposed on high-tech cluster policy by cultural context.
P17|Killing the Goose that Lays the Golden Egg: a Time-Series Analysis of Institutional Change and Economic Growth in Hong Kong|This paper examines how the rule of law and democratic accountability have affected Hong Kong’s GDP growth rate in the past 20 years. We find that democratic accountability has deteriorated substantially since the changeover of sovereignty in 1997, while the rule of law has remained strong and stable. Empirical results from ARDL bounds tests show a strong positive long-run relationship between growth and democratic accountability, and Granger causality tests reveal that democratic accountability causes the growth rate of GDP in the short run. These conclusions are robust to controlling for the effects of investment and the Asian financial crisis in 1997. Our results suggest that the deterioration in democratic accountability following the handover in 1997 has come at the expense of a considerable decline in economic growth, and controverts popular arguments in Hong Kong that improving democratic accountability will harm economic growth.
P17|Democracia, mercado y socialismo|El trabajo pretende continuar con la pregunta en torno al papel de la democracia y su funcionalidad en la economía de mercado. Lo nuevo a desarrollar bajo este interrogante, es trasladar la reflexión al ámbito del socialismo y específicamente en lo que se ha denominado el socialismo de mercado.La aspiración es presentar los desarrollos teóricos en torno al denominado socialismo de mercado, y como desde allí se ha estructurado un concepto de democracia que adquiere validez desde el reconocimiento de las llamadas libertades reales y no solo formales. Este debate nos traslada a un escenario teórico particular, el de los denominados marxistas analíticos, el cual se ha sometido a una amplia discusión tanto desde sus defensores como desde sus detractores. Es por esto que retomo a varios autores relevantes en esta corriente teórica como son: John Roemer, Adam Przeworki y Philippe Van Parijs, con el ánimo de hacer una presentación analítica de la idea de mercado, democracia y socialismo.A modo de consideraciones finales, se pretenden dejar algunos delineamientos críticos, en aras del debate académico, que se han hecho a estas acepciones teóricas, en términos de la equiparación analítica que se hace entre individualismo metodológico y colectivismo metodológico. Igualmente sobre el no reconocimiento de una neutralidad del mercado; y la validación que se hace de la aplicación de modelos socialdemócratas.
P17|Does Economic Performance Correlate with Big Government?|Development is a systematic and evolutionary process, which is not limited to the improvement of economic performance per se. Institutions that support economic freedom and governments that may or may not support development and freedom probably evolve together. A recent study by La Porta et al (1999) examines these relationships and finds, among other things, that there is a positive link between big government and economic development. We reexamine these links with international cross-sectional data for five periods and find that economic freedom and development do reinforce each other but that the size and scope of government does not play a strong role.
