P18|Energy Consumption of Bitcoin Mining|After its introduction in 2008, increasing Bitcoin prices and a booming number of other cryptocurrencies lead to a growing discussion of how much energy is consumed during the production of these currencies. Being the most expensive and the most popular cryptocurrency, both the business world and the research community have started to question the energy intensity of bitcoin mining. This paper only focuses on computational power demand during the proof-of-work process rather than estimating the whole energy intensity of mining. We make use of 160 GB of bitcoin blockchain data to estimate the energy consumption and power demand of bitcoin mining. We considered the performance of 269 different hardware models (CPU, GPU, FPGA, and ASIC). For estimations, we defined two metrics, namely; minimum consumption and maximum consumption. The targeted time span for the analysis was from 3 January 2009 to 5 June 2018. We show that the historical peak of power consumption of bitcoin mining took place during the bi-weekly period commencing on 18 December 2017 with a demand of between 1.3 and 14.8 GW. This maximum demand figure was between the installed capacities of Finland (~16 GW) and Denmark (~14 GW). We also show that, during June 2018, energy consumption of bitcoin mining from difficulty recalculation was between 15.47 and 50.24 TWh per year.
P18|When the novelty fades – Socio-technical, spatial and temporal dimensions of regional energy transitions|Regional energy transitions are complex processes that are determined by manifold dynamics. We assign these to three core dimensions: the socio-technical, the spatial, and the temporal dimension, and integrate them into a comprehensive framework. We conceptualise the overall transition as unfolding in phases. The first three phases, ‘initiation’, ‘expansion’ and ‘consolidation’ are well established in the literature, and we supplement a particular focus on the social dynamics that constitute them. We also add a fourth phase, a period of ‘fragile new order’. In this phase, socio-technical constellations seem to be well established and the novelty fades. This induces the danger of complacency amongst agents which reduces transition activities, and results in a tipping point. The transition may or may not proceed from this depending on the institutional arrangements and on how the regional agents cope with them. Drawing upon an in-depth case study of the Oldenburg region, we illustrate the dynamics of each phase and show how agents cope with the fragile new order. The observed adaptation processes include a resurge of informal constellations as well as diversification and even exit strategies.
P18|Ratio Working Paper No. 317: China’s Wind Power Development – An Anatomy of Mishaps|China has in recent decades expanded its wind power generation capacity and become the world leader. Still, despite robust government support, wind power in China is obstructed by various barriers (e.g. quality deficiencies, inability to export, missing grid connections, and permit delays from central government for grid construction etc.). This paper synthesises the literature that has discovered weaknesses in the Chinese wind power development and suggests improvements. One energy policy relevant observation is that when the Chinese government sets command-and-control construction targets over new installed capacity, actors delivered to target – but with several power plants without grid connectivity and severe quality problems. The article contributes to the academic debate over the role of policy making in renewable energy development and argues that China should improve their incentive structure and coordination of regulations.
P18|Evaluating the Impact of Brexit on Natural Gas Trade between the UK and the EU – A Spatial Equilibrium Analysis|The United Kingdom (UK) and the European Union (EU) engage in significant natural gas trade through the Internal Energy Market (IEM). As the UK exits from the EU however, it is likely to also exit from the IEM given the seemingly intractable positions of both parties. Exit of the UK from the IEM would likely cause an increase in natural gas trade costs between the two. The increased trade costs result from a number of channels including (1) loss in trade efficiency arising from loss of EU financing previously aimed at improving efficiencies in trade between the two; (2) loss in trade efficiency arising from loss in the sophistication of financial instruments that are linked to the UK’s membership of the EU and the IEM; (3) rising costs of doing business in the UK for many EU energy companies due to the effects of possible regulatory divergence between the UK and the EU; etc. We use a spatial equilibrium model to examine the trade flow, price and welfare implications of these cost effects on global natural gas trade, with a focus on the UK and the EU. We find that cost increases in the UK-EU natural gas trade links would result significant trade flow changes, with the UK and the EU reducing overall exports and increasing internal trade. As a result, there would be significant underutilisation of existing pipelines linking both parties. The Republic of Ireland would also form a significant number of new trade links to compensate for its reduction in imports from the UK. Total welfare losses in the UK and the EU are in the order of $479million and $602million respectively, which is equivalent to about 3.69% and 0.59% of the total value of natural gas trade for the respective parties in 2017. In the UK, the producer welfare loss is significantly higher, highlighting the vulnerability of the UK natural gas industry to cost increases in trade with the EU.
P18|EU28 legal and fiscal readiness for the adoption of an on-tax financing mechanism - EuroPACE|EuroPACE is an innovative financial mechanism inspired by an American building improvement initiative called Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE). The innovative character of the EuroPACE mechanism is that financing through EuroPACE is linked to the taxes paid on a property. In other words, the financing lent by a private investor is repaid through property taxes and other charges related to the buildings. EuroPACE is therefore in line with the EC’s objectives of (1) putting EE first, (2) contributing to the EU’s global leadership, and (3) empowering consumers to enable MS to reach their energy and climate targets for 2030. Last but not least, EuroPACE could contribute to the democratisation of the energy supply by offering cash-flow positive, decentralised EE solutions. The EuroPACE mechanism engages several stakeholders in the process: local government, investors, equipment installers, and homeowners. To establish the EuroPACE programme, several conditions must be satisfied, each of which are relevant for different stakeholder at different stages of the implementation. For the purpose of this report, we divided these criteria into two categories: key criteria, which make the implementation possible, and complementary criteria, which make the implementation easier. For the time being, it is a pure hypothesis to be tested with potential EuroPACE implementation.
P18|Modelling Strategy and Net Employment Effects of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency: A Meta-Regression|By conducting a meta-analysis of the empirical literature on the net employment effects of renewable energy, we explore the extent to which the reported net employment effects are driven by the applied methodology. We find that the reported conclusions on net employment effects are to a large extent driven by the methodology that is applied, where computable general equilibrium (CGE) and I/O methods that include induced effects and studies that consider only the near future in their study period (up to 2020) are generally less optimistic about net employment creation in the wake of the energy transition. In addition, we found that policy reports have a greater tendency to report a positive net employment effect than academic studies.
P18|"Can APPealing and more informative bills ""nudge"" individuals into conserving electricity?"|We use a field experiment on energy billing in a German region to evaluate the effect of two behavioral nudges (consumption feedback and social comparison) on electricity consumption. Similar experiments have revealed significant treatment effects, yet the individual variance has proven to be substantial. On grounds of these heterogeneous treatment effects and the possibility of cross-country behavioral differences, additional experiments are warranted. For our German participants with low pretreatment consumption compared to many other countries, we find no treatment effects. From this, we deduce that the effect of consumption feedback and social comparison is highly context dependent.
P18|Ecological Limits and Hierarchical Power|Nowadays, it is commonplace to claim that the economy overuses our limited material and energy resources and that this overuse threatens both human society and the biosphere. Other than anti-science cranks, the only ones who seem to deny this claim are mainstream economists. In our view, though, this conventional condemnation of the economy is somewhat misleading. As we see it, the root of our ecological problems lies not in the ‘economy’, but in the hierarchical power structure of capitalism.
P18|Homo Oeconomicus im Treibhaus Erde: Umweltpolitische Herausforderungen aus polit-ökonomischer Perspektive|"Dieser Beitrag macht auf drei umweltpolitische Herausforderungen aufmerksam, die im gegenwärtigen Diskurs zum Themenkomplex Klima- und Umweltschutz zumeist nur am Rande und lediglich ansatzweise behandelt werden. Abschnitt 2 erörtert, inwiefern ""Fake News"" ein Problem für Umweltpolitik darstellen. Abschnitt 3 befasst sich mit der Frage, wie mit den in einigen umweltpolitischen Kontexten weiterhin bestehenden ""Knowing-Doing Gaps"" umgegangen werden kann. Abschnitt 4 weist schließlich auf die Schwierigkeiten einer globalen und gerechten Umweltpolitik hin. Diese Herausforderungen werden aus einer polit-ökonomischen Perspektive, genauer gesagt aus Sicht der Neuen Politischen Ökonomie betrachtet."
P18|"Can APPealing and more informative bills ""nudge"" individuals into conserving electricity?"|We use a field experiment on energy billing in a German region to evaluate the effect of two behavioral nudges (consumption feedback and social comparison) on electricity consumption. Similar experiments have revealed significant treatment effects, yet theindividual variance has proven to be substantial. On grounds of these heterogeneous treatment effects and the possibility of cross-country behavioral differences, additional experiments are warranted. For our German participants with low pre-treatment consumption compared to many other countries, we find no treatment effects. From this, we deduce that the effect of consumption feedback and social comparison is highly context dependent.
P18|Exporting Pollution|Despite awareness of the detrimental impact of CO2 pollution on the world climate, countries vary widely in how they design and enforce environmental laws. Using novel micro data about firms’ CO2 emissions levels in their home and foreign countries, we document that firms headquartered in countries with strict environmental policies perform their polluting activities abroad in countries with relatively weaker policies. These effects are stronger for firms in high-polluting industries and with poor corporate governance characteristics. Although firms export pollution, they nevertheless emit less overall CO2 globally in response to strict environmental policies at home.
P18|Exporting Pollution|Despite awareness of the detrimental impact of CO2 pollution on the world climate, countries vary widely in how they design and enforce environmental laws. Using novel micro data about firmsâ€™ CO2 emissions levels in their home and foreign countries, we document that firms headquartered in countries with strict environmental policies perform their polluting activities abroad in countries with relatively weaker policies. These effects are stronger for firms in high-polluting industries and with poor corporate governance characteristics. Although firms export pollution, they nevertheless emit less overall CO2 globally in response to strict environmental policies at home.
P18|OECD Progress Update on Approaches to Mobilising Institutional Investment for Sustainable Infrastructure|The large need for investments in sustainable infrastructure will require investments from the private sector, including institutional investors. This working paper contributes to scaling up investments by analysing public project-level interventions for projects involving institutional investors. It presents findings from an updated database on institutional investments in environmentally sustainable infrastructure with project-level intervention by the public sector.
P18|Power struggle: Decarbonising the electricity sector|This report investigates the effects of select climate policies, non-climate policies, as well as political economy factors on the decarbonisation of electricity in OECD countries from 2000 to 2015. Effects are analysed on the three phases of decarbonisation: (1) increasing the share of renewables installed, (2) increasing the use of renewables in generation, and (3) reducing the emissions from electricity.
P18|Contrasted performances of renewable energy development in French regions|The energy transition towards low-carbon energies is today a dominant paradigm of public policies related to energy. This article aims to propose an inventory of the energy transition in France and more precisely to evaluate the performances of regions in terms of diversification of the energy mix. Multidimensional data analysis methods have been implemented. A typology of French regions relating to the regional development of the renewable energies (RE) in France in 2015 is proposed; it highlights the emergence of five typical profiles of RE development sharply contrasted according to RE sectors and regions. The various statistical models realized underlines the importance of economic factors (economic performance and sector specialization), demographic specificities and geographical characteristics to explain contrasted performances of renewable energy development in French regions. By contrast, environmental and political factors do not discriminate between the five types of RE development.
P18|Dématérialiser la nature pour la faire entrer dans la sphère du marché|Cela fait longtemps que la nature est entrée dans le processus capitaliste dans ses dimensions matérielles, terre, ressources agricoles et minières, sous la forme de biens tangibles donc. Depuis quelques décennies, un phénomène nouveau apparaît. Des dimensions de la nature sont requalifiées en information, en services et en actifs financiers pour pouvoir à leur tour faire l’objet d’échanges marchands. Autrement dit une nouvelle classe de marchandises fictives apparaît (Karl Polanyi (1944)). Plutôt que de les nommer « immatérielles », je préfère parler de dématérialisation, car il s’agit d’un processus institutionnel, juridique et politique construit et voulu, et non d’une immanence. Analysant le cas des services écosystémiques, cet article propose une catégorisation permettant de comprendre comment l’institution marchande remodèle ainsi de grands pans de la nature, en trois grands moments. Le premier est celui de la qualification de la marchandise, qui vise à en définir les contours précis, la doter d’une mesure et de droits de propriété. Le deuxième processus est celui de l’évaluation, où l’objet considéré acquiert une valeur monétaire de référence. On parle quelquefois de monétisation. Le troisième et dernier moment de la création d’une marchandise fictive est celui de la valorisation. Il s’agit de dispositifs contractuels et/ou marchands qui transforment les valeurs en prix. Ce n’est qu’à cette ultime étape que de la valeur est effectivement créée, c’est-à-dire du capital. Malgré le caractère apparemment immatériel de ces nouvelles marchandises, les conséquences de leur création sur la nature et les relations que nous entretenons avec elle sont tout à fait matérielles.
P18|Energy Efficiency of Residential Buildings in the European Union – An Exploratory Analysis of Cross-Country Consumption Patterns|Despite a common EU directive on energy efficiency in residential buildings, levels of energy efficiency differ vastly across European countries. This article analyses these differences and investigates the effectiveness of different energy efficiency policies in place in those countries. We firstly use panel data to explain average yearly energy consumption per dwelling and country by observable characteristics such as climatic conditions, energy prices, income, and floor area. We then use the unexplained variation by sorting between-country differences as well as plotting within-country changes over time to identify better performing countries. These countries are analysed qualitatively in a second step. We conduct expert interviews and examine the legal rules regarding building energy efficiency. Based on our exploratory analysis we generate a number of hypotheses. First, we suggest that regulatory standards, in conjunction with increased construction activity, can be effective in the long run. Second, the results suggest that carbon taxation represents an effective means for energy efficiency.
P18|Co-determination: A driving force for corporate social responsibility in German companies?|"This discussion paper examines the relationship between co-determination and corporate social responsibility (CSR) in German companies, thereby addressing two distinct literatures. On the one hand, most quantitative studies of co-determination focus on its economic impact, with relatively little attention paid to other kinds of outcomes. On the other hand, few studies on CSR have looked at the role of worker representatives. Using a new measure of co-determination strength, the Mitbestimmungsindex (MB-ix), it is demonstrated that co-determination strength is positively related to the presence of ""substantive"" CSR policies, such as the adoption of targets for reducing pollution, but is unrelated to ""symbolic"" CSR policies, such as membership in UN Global Compact. The paper therefore sheds new light on the role of co-determination and provides a more differentiated view of the spread of what has been termed ""explicit"" CSR in Germany, one of the most prominent of the ""coordinated market economies""."
P18|Optimal over installation of wind generation facilities|This paper evaluates the economic benefits to over-installing turbines on capacity-constrained wind farm sites in order to capture more energy at low wind speeds. Although this implies curtailment at high wind speeds, we show that over installing generation facilities can increase returns to investors and reduce system costs. A detailed model-based analysis is developed using British data, with variations in the range of over installation, the renewable policy support systems (fixed feed-in tariffs or green certificate premia to wholesale energy prices) and the extent of replacement of fossil generation in the technology mix with wind. In the cases of premia to market prices, we use agent-based, computational learning and risk simulation to model market prices. Not only is over installation beneficial under fixed feed-in tariffs, but is more so under premia to market prices and increasingly so as wind replaces fossil generation.
P18|A soft computing based-modified ELECTRE model for renewable energy policy selection with unknown information|In recent years, the selection of suitable renewable energy policy is very significant issue that could affect on environment and economic development. To address the issue, some researchers have focused on choosing the best renewable energy alternative by utilizing the decision-making analysis and fuzzy sets theory. In this paper, a new decision model based on modified elimination and choice translating reality (ELECTRE) is presented under a hesitant fuzzy environment for solving the multi-attribute group decision-making (MAGDM) problems in energy sector. Hesitant fuzzy set (HFS) is a powerful tool to cope with uncertainty in case of hesitant and incomplete information by considering some membership degrees for an energy alternative versus an evaluation criterion (attribute) under a set. In this model, a group of energy experts is provided to assess the potential alternatives among the conflicted attributes or criteria. Also, the decision matrix and relative importance of each attribute are considered by linguistic terms that can be transformed to hesitant fuzzy elements. In addition, the relative importance of each energy decision maker (DM) or expert is computed by proposed hesitant fuzzy modified preferences selection index (HF-M-PSI) method. Also, the significance of attributes is determined by an extended maximizing deviation method which is motivated by hesitant fuzzy Euclidean-Hausdorff distance measure. In this regard, opinions of each energy expert are applied to extend maximizing deviation method. Then, weights of attributes and experts are considered in the proposed hesitant fuzzy modified-ELECTRE (HF-M-ELECTRE) model. In the proposed decision model, the hesitant fuzzy effective outranking matrix may not help to rank the energy candidates. Thus, the proposed soft computing approach takes account of the thresholds as indifference, preference and veto for each attribute to compare the equivalent alternative. Finally, two real case studies in developing countries on renewable energy policy selection problem are presented to indicate the suitability and feasibility of the proposed HF-M-ELECTRE model in imprecise situations.
P18|Knowledge accumulation from public renewable energy R&D in the European Union: Converging or diverging trends?|Bottom-up processes of policy convergence are increasingly discussed as a substitute for the absence of supranational energy policy coordination and harmonization in the EU. The overall objective of this paper is to analyse the development of government support to renewable energy R&D across EU countries over time: does the empirical evidence suggest bottom-up convergence? In order to answer this question, we first construct country-specific R&D-based knowledge stocks, and then investigate whether the developments of these stocks tend to converge or diverge across EU countries. A data set covering 12 EU Member States over the time period 1990-2012 is employed to test for the presence of conditional â-convergence using a bias-corrected dynamic panel data estimator. The empirical results are overall robust and suggest divergence in terms of public R&D-based knowledge build-up in renewable energy technology. This finding is consistent with free-riding behavior on the part of some Member States, and the presence of industrial policy motives in other States in combination with agglomeration effects in the renewable energy sector. Energy import dependence and electricity regulation are found to influence the growth of the R&D-based knowledge stock, and the deregulation of the EU electricity markets has tended to contribute to a lower speed of divergence.
P18|An Econometric Analysis of Divergence of Renewable Energy Invention Efforts in Europe|The objective of this paper is to investigate the presence of convergence (or divergence) of invention efforts per capita in the renewable energy field across European Union (EU) countries. Divergence may imply a risk of a lower level of goal fulfilment regarding the share of renewable energy in the EU energy mix. This is due to free-rider issues and sub-optimal investment levels, in turn making it more expensive and cumbersome to expand renewable energy production. Convergence suggests a possible faster renewable energy goal achievement. The econometric analysis is based on patent application counts per capita for 13 EU Member States over the time period 1990–2012. The methods used draw on the economic convergence literature. First, we rely on a panel data set to test for conditional β-convergence. Moreover, a distributional dynamics approach is employed to test for σ- and γ-convergence, and analyse the intra-distributional dynamics. The results indicate conditional β- and σ-divergence in renewable energy invention capabilities across the 13 countries, thus suggesting that some EU countries tend to free-ride on the development efforts of other Member States.
P18|The Political-Economy Implications of the Transition from State-Owned to Mixed-Owned Enterprises: Evidence from the European Gas Sector|This paper analyses how the transition from State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) to Mixed- Owned Enterprises (MOEs) in the European gas sector affected the European states’ ability to pursue public policy objectives. More specifically, the analysis focuses on the extent to which public and private interests can be reconciled within MOEs’ strategy. The paper suggests that the rise of profitability as the central objective for MOEs has prevented states from pursuing some, though not all, of the policy objectives that they could pursue before the transition. For example, states can no more pursue large-scale plans of economic and technological development through MOEs, or ensure consumers’ price affordability irrespective of market fluctuations. However, states may still be able to positively contribute to energy security thanks to the major shares held in MOEs, for instance by vetoing divestment from import infrastructure. The analysis suggests the need for states to devise alternative ways to pursue their objectives in the framework of national and European energy policy.
P18|Can There Be A Competitor To Traditional Arable Crops In Romania?|Regarding land use, in the member states of the European Union it can be established that maize is the most productive traditional arable crop. The annual productive area of maize in 2015 was approximately 9.33 million hectares in the EU 28, which was 3% less than that of 2014. There was also a reduction in average production, which, according to member states’ figures decreased to 6.15 tonnes/ hectare. This reduction is due to the worsening natural conditions. Consequently, the year’s production was about 57 million tonnes at the end of 2015. This represented a reduction of 25% compared to 2014. The second largest production crop in the EU 28 is wheat, although here, too, a reduction can be observed when the data for the last 5 years is examined. This reduction in crop production prompts arable farmers to engage in the production of other crops in those areas where there is a continual reduction in crop production. In my study I will introduce the profitability and risks associated with those plants suited for energy extraction, which can be competitive with the traditional arable plant cultivation.
P18|East Asian Integration: Towards an East Asian Economic Community|East Asia is a region of great global significance, currently accounting for around 30% of the global economy by most measures, e.g. production, trade, investment, and finance. It has also become increasingly integrated in various ways. Integration at the micro-level has steadily progressed since the 1960s, as indicated by rising intraregional trade. Moreover, East Asia’s economic regionalisation has become more functionally integrative, this broadly relating to the spread of transnational business and other technical systems where production, trade, and investment have become a function of each other within those systems. For example, as later explored, much of East Asia’s regionalised trade concerns cross-border movement of parts and components within the international production networks of multinational enterprises. Since the 1990s, East Asian states have in addition looked to strengthen regional cooperation and integration intergovernmentally at the macro-level, i.e. involving whole country economies. This has been driven by the need to manage their growing regional economic interdependencies and address future challenges that confront them all, such as globalisation and climate change. As we will discuss, this has been part of regional economic community-building efforts in East Asia, both across the whole region and within it at various subregional levels. We examine the key dimensions of East Asia’s integration, how they have developed over time, and what likely paths lie ahead in the endeavour to strengthen regional economic community-building.
P18|Explaining Electricity Forward Premiums - Evidence for the Weather Uncertainty Effect|With the increasing share of volatile renewable energies, weather prediction becomes more important to electricity markets. The weather-driven uncertainty of renewable forecast errors could have price increasing impacts. This research sets up an analytic model to show that the day-ahead optimal bidding under uncertain renewable production is below the expected production and thus price increasing. In a second step, the price increasing effect on forward premiums by specific weather types and their renewable production uncertainty is proved via empirical methods. Weather types are identified in which renewable production is harder to predict. The findings connect weather dependent renewable forecast uncertainty to forward premiums and support the consideration of weather types in price forecasting models.
P18|Households’ Energy Mix Selection in Pakistan|Despite the adverse effects of biomass fuels on health and the environment, the use of solid fuels at the household level for cooking, lighting and heating purposes is very common in developing countries such as Pakistan. Globally almost 3 billion people depend on traditional or conventional solid energy sources for cooking. These solid fuels are a major cause of indoor air pollution and can severely damage health and the environment, so there is a need to better understand the factors that lead to the consumption of solid fuels. This study analyzes data from the Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement (PSLM) Survey 2013-14 to establish the non-price factors associated with the fuel mix selection of households. A novel aspect of the study is that, rather than treating fuel choices as independent, we first group household fuel mix choices into categories using cluster analysis. We then apply multinomial logit models to investigate the factors associated with households’ fuel mix selection. We find that income, education, agricultural occupation and urban location are strongest factors associated with the selection of a mix of fuels that is substantially made up of clean fuels, while agricultural occupation, large family size, and having cattle are associated with fuel mixes that are more heavily based on solid fuels. Moreover, we show that income growth is unlikely to lead to substantial uptake of cleaner fuels in rural areas. Our results suggest that the government, if concerned about indoor air pollution, should rapidly increase the availability of natural gas and electricity connections to support a shift to cleaner fuel mixes.
P18|Knowledge Accumulation from Public Renewable Energy R&D in the European Union: Converging or Diverging Trends?|Bottom-up processes of policy convergence are increasingly discussed as a substitute for the absence of supranational energy policy coordination and harmonization in the EU. The overall objective of this paper is to analyse the development of government support to renewable energy R&D across EU countries over time: does the empirical evidence suggest bottom-up convergence? In order to answer this question, we first construct country-specific R&D-based knowledge stocks, and then investigate whether the developments of these stocks tend to converge or diverge across EU countries. A data set covering 12 EU Member States over the time period 1990-2012 is employed to test for the presence of conditional -convergence using a bias-corrected dynamic panel data estimator. The empirical results are overall robust and suggest divergence in terms of public R&D-based knowledge build-up in renewable energy technology. This finding is consistent with free-riding behavior on the part of some Member States, and the presence of industrial policy motives in other States in combination with agglomeration effects in the renewable energy sector. Energy import dependence and electricity regulation are found to influence the growth of the R&D-based knowledge stock, and the deregulation of the EU electricity markets has tended to contribute to a lower speed of divergence.
P18|Challenges to Sustainable Rural Development in Russia: Social Issues and Regional Divergences| Paper aims at investigation of contemporary approaches to sustainable rural development in Russia. It includes the overview of current experiences in rural development, analysis of major economic and social indicators of rural areas in comparison with urban ones. Analysis included the set of indicators such as number of rural people, number of rural settlements, rates of births and mortalities, natural and migration increases and declines of population, rates of employment and unemployment, average monthly nominal per capita wages, and level of the subsistence minimum. Indicators have been measured separately for rural and urban areas; regions have been grouped in relation to the particular indicator. The research is concluded by discovery of growth points for rural development and a set of recommendations on perspective measures of state and local policies in rural areas, directed on increase of living standards of rural population and retention of labour resources in their traditional rural areas of inhabitation.
P18|Biophysical limits of current debates on degrowth and the knowledge economy|New or revived concepts such as degrowth and the knowledge economy represent a necessary criticism to the conventional view on economic growth, especially in regard to their environmental criticism. Both ideas are related as degrowth needs the application of knowledge in order to be operationalised and both share as a desirable outcome the reduction of working time. However, both concepts also bear common flaws in their criticism, due to the lack of attention in their analysis of the biophysical side of the economic process that has been analysed in approaches such as societal metabolism. The document discusses these weaknesses with the aim of stirring the much needed debate on the limits to growth.
P18|Oil demand and price elasticity of energy consumption in the GCC countries: A panel cointegration analysis|This paper examines the cointegrating relationship between oil demand and price elasticity of energy consumption in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) countries during the period 1980-2010. The paper has applied the recently developed panel cointegration techniques, Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) and panel DOLS in a panel of GCC countries. The region is being recognized as the major region of oil production and export in the global economy. In recent times, the region is emerging as a fastest growing oil consuming region globally. This fast increase in the level of oil consumption in the major oil exporting countries raises the energy security implications in the sphere of the growing oil demand in the world economy. This is likely to bring many pitfalls in the form of price distortions and reduced growth rates in and outside the oil export region. The empirical finding reveals a cointegrating relationship among the variables and indicates an income elastic and price inelastic demand for oil in the long-run in the GCC countries. The outcomes of income elastic and price inelastic demand for oil are also consistent in the short-run. The income and price inelastic demand for oil though exists for a full panel of countries but vary across the GCC countries. The result of the Granger Causality test also depicts a unidirectional causality running from income to oil consumption and bidirectional causality running between oil prices and income in the GCC countries. Moreover, the outcomes reveal that demand for oil varies positively with the growth of income and negatively with the price level in the economy.
P18|Kurswechsel in der deutschen Klimapolitik am Beispiel der energetischen Gebäudesanierung<BR>[Rethinking Energetic Retrofit Policy in Germany]|Zusammenfassung Um CO2-Emissionen zu vermeiden, schreibt der Gesetzgeber in Deutschland häufig direkte, ganz konkrete Eingriffe vor. Im Bereich der energetischen Gebäudesanierung wird im Detail festgelegt, wo und wie eingespart werden soll. Es liegt auf der Hand, dass mit so engen Vorgaben eine effiziente Lösung häufig nicht erzielt werden kann. Der Autor plädiert für ein Umdenken in der deutschen Klimapolitik.
P18|Energieeffizienz & Rebound-Effekte im Kontext der Energiewende|Abschlussbericht des Workshops „Energieeffizienz & Rebound-Effekte im Kontext der Energiewende“ bei der NachDenkstatt 2013, Oldenburg
P18|Integrating Energy Use into Macroeconomic Stock-Flow Consistent Models|This thesis conceptualizes a method to analyze the structural dependencies between the physics of energy use and the economy. By synthesizing stock-flow consistent models, input–output models, and aspects of ecological macroeconomics, a discrete dynamical model is developed to simultaneously study monetary flows through the financial system, flows of produced goods and services through the real economy, and flows of physical materials through the natural environment. First, the stability properties of the model are analyzed using bifurcation theory, delineating a generalized, multi-sectoral version of the Sraffian maximum rate of profit, and instabilities induced by inventory oscillations. Further analysis challenges claims that 0% interest rates are a necessary condition for a stationary economy. Second, one particular application of the model is illustrated by applying it to energy related problems such as rebound effects, and to assessing the contribution of energy price shocks to recessions caused by changes in Energy Returned on Energy Invested or price markup. Third, a minimal single-layer atmosphere climate model is used to demonstrate that the effect of anthropogenic heat flux from energy conversion on climate change should be taken into account in climate modeling once long-term growth scenarios are examined. In further research the model can contribute to an integrated assessment of pressing multidimensional problems such as climate change and the transformation to a sustainable economy, which equally relate to the economic, environmental and ecological sphere.
P18|Households Facing Constraints. Fuel Poverty Put into Context|The present paper discusses the concept of fuel poverty taking into account the arbitrages made by households when they are facing economic constraints. Fuel poverty is still lacking a common definition throughout Europe: while the UK and France have (different) official definitions, there is still no definition in a country like Germany, or at the European level. Where definitions exist, they often consider that fuel poor households have high energy needs. The possibility of being fuel poor even without having high energy needs and the various arbitrage possibilities of households – i.e. to under-spend and use too little energy – are not systematically discussed. Our paper tries to fill that gap by putting fuel poverty into the larger context of constraints faced by households. Based on a graphical analysis , it shows that different situations of fuel poverty might occur. It results in the identification of two distinct fuel poverty problems: an “energy inequality” problem, reflected by the fact that some households pay disproportionately high energy bills, and an “energy affordability” problem that can affect a larger share of the population. It finally explores the two types of fuel poverty for European countries and discusses policy implications.
P18|Bürgerpartizipation für Energiewende und Wachstumswende|Die Prozesse, die helfen eine global und dauerhaft überlebensfähige Lebens- und Wirtschaftsweise zu realisieren, wobei der Energiewende eine wichtige Rolle zukommt, fördern die Nachhaltigkeit. Dieser Beitrag soll ihren Zusammenhang mit unserer auf Wachstum fokussierten Ökonomie problematisieren, die sich daraus ergebende Schlussfolgerung des Zusammendenkens von Energie- und Wachstumswende ziehen sowie die in diesem Prozess sinnvolle und wichtige Rolle aktiver Bürgerbeteiligung erläutern.
P18|Incidencia de poderes exógenos en las políticas públicas en el sector rural en Colombia|El presente escrito analiza de quémanera, a lo largo de la historia colombiana, una serie de fuerzas y poderes ajenos al sector rural, han ejercido una influencia nociva para este. Se estudia desde diversas perspectivas, el impacto que esas fuerzas y poderes han tenido en detrimento de uno de los sectores más importantes para el desarrollo del país, teniendo en cuenta que el sectorrural ha sido predominante en Colombia. Por último se hace un acercamientoal debate actual sobre políticas públicas agrarias desde diferentes miradas, con el fin de contribuir al estudio y comprensión delcaso colombiano.
P18|Material flow accounting of an Indian village|We are presenting material flow accounting and related indicators for an Indian adivasis village in 1983 (Sarowar, Dangs, Gujarat). It gives a point of comparison with modern nation-wide material flow accounting. The aim is to test the feasibility of indicators of dematerialization of the economy in poor economies. We measured the annual material flows within the Sarowar village (670 inhabitants) in 1982–1983. The method was a combination of surveys, real time measurements, indirect measurements and laboratory dry matter measurements. The results were translated into recent concepts of material flow accounting (MFA), and compared with nation-wide studies. The total material requirement (TMR) of Sarowar (excluding air and water), USA, Japan, Germany and The Netherlands is respectively about 5, 84, 46, 86 and 84 tons per capita per year. The input (all biotic materials are expressed in tons dry matter) totalised 15.8 t DM cap−1 y−1 in Sarowar, which consists mainly of air (11 t cap−1 y−1) and biotic primary materials (4.1 t DM cap−1 y−1). The latest was composed of 29% of pastures, 25% of branches for field burning, 35% of fuel wood, 6% fodder, 1% of construction wood and 4% of grains. The outputs (15.8 t cap−1 y−1) were dominated by CO2 (15.1 t cap−1 y−1). In contrast, the output of The Netherlands (66.8 t cap−1 y−1) is dominated by export with air emissions (19 t cap−1 y−1), export (16 t cap−1 y−1) and embedded export (29 t cap−1 y−1). The apparent eco-efficiency (kg per US dollar, excluding air and water, including hidden flows) is 70, 3, 3, 3 and 3 kg $−1 respectively for Sarowar, Japan, USA, Germany and The Netherlands. The corrected eco-efficiency using Purchasing Power Parity is less contrasted with respectively 18, 3, 3, 4 and 3 kg $−1. Traditional human ecosystem measurements can serve as a basic comparison point, and as a test for dematerialization indicators. The limit of the indicator of eco-efficiency resides in the different degrees of monetization of the economies. In less monetized economies, this indicator is highly biased by the underlying non-market material flows. We discuss the use of ratios of non-substitutable factors in dematerialization assessment and we suggest the use of multi-criteria analysis instead.
P18|Stochastic Modeling of Electricity and Related Markets|The markets for electricity, gas and temperature have distinctive features, which provide the focus for countless studies. For instance, electricity and gas prices may soar several magnitudes above their normal levels within a short time due to imbalances in supply and demand, yielding what is known as spikes in the spot prices. The markets are also largely influenced by seasons, since power demand for heating and cooling varies over the year. The incompleteness of the markets, due to nonstorability of electricity and temperature as well as limited storage capacity of gas, makes spot-forward hedging impossible. Moreover, futures contracts are typically settled over a time period rather than at a fixed date. All these aspects of the markets create new challenges when analyzing price dynamics of spot, futures and other derivatives.
P18|Socio-Economic Democracy and the World Government:Collective Capitalism, Depovertization, Human Rights, Template for Sustainable Peace|In developing an enlightened socio-economic-political environment, this book provides a new socio-economic-political system based on (i) Collective Capitalism (CCP) of cooperatively managed institutions and enterprises, and (ii) a Civilian Democracy (CDM) sans political parties, whereby the most qualified representatives of all the functional sectors of the community get elected to the local legislature. It also specifies a new economic-political structure in the form of autonomous functionally-sustainable communities (FSCs), within regional economic zones (REZs) and self-reliant regional unions (SRUs, such as the EU). This system of FSCs, REZs and SRUs will come under the aegis of (and collectively represented by) a World government, over-seeing the development of a comprehensive charter of human rights and social justice for all the people of the world. The neo-humanistic integrated system of CCP and CDM, to be implemented within FSCs, will provide grass-roots socio-economic-political empowerment, contrary to the system of centralized economic and political governance.
P18|Introduction: A Kaleidoscopic Survey of Under-Development and Its Solution|AbstractThe following sections are included:Third World predicamentAsian economic sceneFunctionally-sustainable communities for local economic empowerment and governanceProgressive socio-economic utilization system within FSCsAlternative political structure for harmonious and peaceful psychology and living setupSocio-economic democratic electoral and governance structure within FSCsStepwise global political restructuringThe economic system to be implemented at the grassroots level within FSCThe financial aspect of intra and inter RFD development and tradingWorld government and constitution for human rights and enlightened living
P18|Third World Under-Development and Need for Self-Reliance|"AbstractThe following sections are included:Under-developmentUnder-developed economy versus exploitative developmentEconomic colonizationPolitical apathy and indifferenceGlobalization: a neo-economic colonization?The ""totally neglected Fourth World"" of culturally suppressed communities and destitutesNeo Socio-economic-political orderCollective capitalism and Socio-economic democracyOptimal utilization of resources within self-reliant communities"
P18|Functionally-Sustainable Communities: Socio-economic-political Framework|AbstractThe following sections are included:Etiology of under-developmentBackground and development strategyFunctionally-sustainable communitiesFSC development through local empowermentCommunity development through cooperativesTowards a stable socio-economic democracy for a progressive societyPeople-centric governanceCommunity-development politicization (CDP)
P18|Neo-global Political Governance Structure|AbstractThe following sections are included:People's dilemma and futureFormation of functionally-sustainable communitiesSelf-reliant economyNeo-organization of world political structureIllustration of the SEB-SEZ conceptTowards global stabilityFormulation of the neo-political organization and governance systemPresent-day lamentable societal setup versus neo societal order
P18|Functionally-Sustainable Community (FSC) Design|AbstractThe following sections are included:For poverty eradication and Third World developmentPlanning for self-reliant regional developmentCommunity development engineering and SRC designFSC implementation through collective capitalism and socio-economic democracyFor local and regional development and self-relianceEducational programSocietal impact
P18|For an Enlightened Human Society|AbstractThe following sections are included:Progressive human societyCollective psychologyHuman values and lawConstitutional lawSynergism in societyFor renaissance in society
P18|Corporate Capitalism to Cooperative Capitalism and Social Democracy|AbstractThe following sections are included:Our disabled human society needs rehabilizationReplacement of problematic economic-political systemsIndigenous people's empowermentSelf-dismantling of corporate capitalismReforming the corporation's management cultureCapitalistic democracy versus socio-economic democracyEducational qualifications for politicians, civil and governance servicesSynergy of science, education and socio-economic order
P18|State and Group Terrorism, Justice and Reparation|"AbstractThe following sections are included:Trails of terrorismHypocritic sociology of terrorismState terrorism and democides of entire communitiesFreedom struggles from perpetrated injusticesSocial rebels or freedom fighters?""Religion for virtuosity"" or ""terrorism for religiosity""?Freedom from terrorismExtermination by elimination or elimination by assimilation?The causes and symptoms of terrorismPremises for peaceReparation programsReparation for state terrorism and crimes against humanityConscience-clearing reparation programsGlobal movements"
P18|Ethics of Politics: Politician versus People Sovereignty|AbstractThe following sections are included:The powerful weaponry tradeEthics of democracySafeguarding people from malevolent regimes and outside interventionsEthics of nations and the power of ethicsPrinciples of intra- and inter-nation peaceThe power of ethicsHyperpower consciousness and the conscience of a hyperpowerHyperpower consciousnessConscience of a hyperpowerQuality of lifeIn the fast lane to world government
P18|From United Nations to World Government|AbstractThe following sections are included:The United Nations CharterUN Millennium declaration and principles valuesFor human development and deepening democracyGlobalizationPolitical alliances and national securityInfluence of the UN?International Code of ConductThe vision and mission of the world governmentWorld government structureGlobalization and the peace program
P18|Socio-economic Democracy: Governance, Economic and Financial Policy|AbstractThe following sections are included:Failure of democracyProtesting in the face of repression: treason or patriotism?What is socio-economic democracy?Socio-economic principlesBalanced self-reliant economyResource managementEconomic frameworkCapitalist to Cooperative economic model
P18|Truly Democratic Electoral Governance System and Global Political Structure|AbstractThe following sections are included:Shortcomings of the present democratic governance systemSocio-economic democracy through cooperativesNeo-system of governanceNeo-global governance-electoral systemFSC, SED and SEZ governments' establishmentConstituting federational and world governmentsIgnorance factor in conventional democratic system
P18|Human Rights and Constitutional Guarantees|AbstractThe following sections are included:Lessons from historyFor democratic and political pluralismNeed for human rights and conscientious governanceHuman rights in a progressive societyEconomic democratic guarantees for the peopleConstitutional requirements for a progressive societySpecific constitutional requirements at FSC, SEZ and RFD levelsKnowledgeable governance with sincerity and morality
P18|Civilian-Centered Neo-humanistic Global Order|AbstractThe following sections are included:Neo-humanistic social outlookNeo-humanistic socio-economic systemNeo-humanistic political governance and judicial systemsGovernanceGlobal Judicial System (GJS)Neo-humanistic societal cultureUniversalism to replace nationalismSupport for local developmentNeo-global orderReorganization of world nationsCivilian-democratic global orderPoliticians decide and civilians suffer — But who adjudicates?Time to restore human dignity
P18|Neo-humanistic University System|AbstractThe following sections are included:Justification and needCharterAcademic programsUnified Bachelor's degree programGraduate programsResearch institutesNHU Institute of Consciousness, Psychology and Behavioral ScienceNHU Institute of PeaceNHU Institute for Third World DevelopmentNHU Law Institute for a Universal ConstitutionUniversity education for a progressive societyRenaissance in human civilizationEducation and knowledge for liberation of intellect and self-realizationUniversity as a community development agent in developing countriesThird World development academic (graduate) programObjectivesFor self-relianceAcademic collaborationCurriculumImpact of NHU on society
P18|Replacing Hypocrisy by Straightforwardness|AbstractThe following sections are included:Maintaining humanism in spite of persecution — a hallmark of being civilizedSetting straight the historical record of maritime discoveries and atrocitiesFrom pseudo democracy to real democracyFor a competent and moral governance systemTowards equal partnership in brokering global peace and securityFrom power-centric dictatorial hegemonism to global democracy and parityFor obviating terrorismTowards a global neo-humanistic cooperativeProgressing to a neo-humanistic civilizationTravelling light to our destination
P18|Sustainable Global Peace with Equitable Globalization: Strategizing the Role of the University in Society|AbstractThe following sections are included:Humanitarian law and progressive equitable political orderNew global orderCooperative globalization based on International capitalismCommunity Development and Economic Partnership (CDEP) programFrom exploitative political order (EPO) to a progressive equitable political order (PEPO)Towards sustainable global peace
P18|Epilogue: Towards a Neo-era of Peace, Security and Enlightened Living|AbstractThe following sections are included:The lamentable tale of anti-democratic global ordersThe partyless socio-economic democratic governance systemRelocating economy among the people generating economyHuman rights and democratic global order of parity among all nationsTowards global securitySummary of neo-concepts introduced in this bookLiving neo-humanistically
P18|El modelo de desarrollo agrícola|En el artículo se analiza los dos modelos de desarrollo existentes en la agricultura:el primero hace referencia, a lo que el autor llama, Modelo General de Industrializaciónen una Economía protegida; el segundo el que funciona a partir de 1990, enel marco de menor protección a las actividades productivas, inscrito en el procesode apertura económica. En cada uno de estos modelos se destacan los aspectos másrelevantes y los alcances y las limitaciones presentadas. Al final se hacen algunasconsideraciones de lo que podría ser en el futuro un modelo para el desarrollo de laagricultura.___________________ABSTRACT:In this article, there an analysis of the two existing models in agriculture: The firstone refers to the general model of industrialization in a protected economy (namegiven by the author); the second refers to the one that functions from 1990 underlow protected economy. The most relevant aspects are presented as well as its goalsand limitations. In the final part there are some considerations of what could be, inthe future, a model for the development of agriculture.
