P20|Russian Business under Economic Sanctions: Is There Regional Heterogeneity?|The sanctions against Russia, beginning in early 2014, provide us with a unique opportunity to study whether, and how sanctions affect a vast territorial global superpower. This study attempts to empirically examine the economic impact of this event, paying particular attention to the existence or nonexistence of its regional heterogeneity. For these purposes, this study used a dataset from a survey that asked the executive managers of Russian regional companies to assess the impact on their management activities in late 2015. The key findings are as follows. First, approximately half of those interviewed perceived the economic sanctions as having a negative impact. Second, no regional variations in the impact of the sanctions could be found. It follows that financial sanctions, aimed at an entire nation, exert a significant and geographically uniform impact. Moreover, even regional businesses near the Asia-Pacific region, holding strong connections with Asian countries, cannot avoid its impact.
P20|A Study of Economic Sophistication of China by Using Principle Component Analysis|Following the Global Recession in 2008, European countries and U.S. recognized irreversible changes resulting from financial shock that lead their own countries into a new stage of economy, called “New Normal”. Since the Chinese economy is not independent of the global economy, China also recognized that its own economy was entering the “New normal”, or “Xin Changtai” in Chinese. Furthermore, to suit their economy to “Xin Changtai”, new economic growth policy was necessary. During the 2014 APEC meeting, President Xi Jinping declared that China aimed to change their engine of economic growth from foreign trade and investment to innovation and consumption, in addition to the harmonious upgrade of the region and society between each province to achieve sustainable economic growth. Although existing literatures suggest the use of Genuine Progress Indicator (GPI) to evaluate the sophistication of society, there is no consensus on the construction of the components or the evaluation of each component of GPI, therefore, a more objective evaluation index is needed. This study employs the principle component analysis method to calculate an indicator to evaluate the sophistication of society. This indicator reflects the degree of the characteristics readily used in developed countries, and in the present study it is applied in the evaluation of China’s 31 provinces. Empirical results show that a few provinces in coastal areas developed their society, while most inland provinces were left behind. Moreover, as a result from the examination of the correspondence between the geographic distribution of the index and China’s seven geographic divisions, it is shown that a disparity in social sophistication occurred in each division.
P20|Out-of-Partnership Births in East and West Germany|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), we show that single women in East Germany are significantly more likely to give birth to a child than single women in West Germany. This applies to both planned and unplanned births. Our analysis provides no evidence that the difference between East and West Germany can be explained by economic factors or the higher availability of child care in East Germany. This suggests that the difference in out-of-partnership births is rather driven by behavioral and cultural differences. However, these behavioral and cultural differences do not only reflect different gender role models that evolved under the former communist regime in East Germany and the democratic one in West Germany. Partly, they also reflect a long historical divide that predates the 1945 separation of Germany.
P20|Market mechanisms in conventional economics and Islamic Economics|This article describes the market as a meeting place between demand and supply for the type of goods or services. In a capitalist economic system, buyers and sellers bargain with each other to determine prices that give freedom to the market and the government must not intervene which can disrupt the market balance. While the socialist economic system has a view by eliminating the role of markets and the government plays an active role in resolving and regulating all economic problems. In Islamic economics, the market is left freely or the government distorts the existence of a market mechanism. Using a comparative approach to the existing economic system in the world, this article concludes that the Islamic economic system combines market freedom and the role of government that emphasizes the principle of maslahah (goodness), which is a condition of market justice that emphasizes the fulfillment of people's needs in achieving welfare (falah).
P20|Terrorist attacks and public approval and confidence in the Russian president: Evidence from time series analysis|In this paper we apply time series analysis to examine weekly data of Vladimir Putin’s approval and confidence ratings and their dependence on terrorist attacks. We find that minor terrorist attacks with few or no mortal casualties in Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan increase Putin’s ratings, while major terrorist attacks, with more than four mortal casualties, have a negative impact. There is also evidence that terrorist attacks in other Russian regions reduce Putin’s public approval; however, this evidence is weaker and depends on the model specification. The effects of terrorist attacks on the confidence rating are indistinguishable from the statistical noise. Furthermore, we control for main annual media events with President Putin’s participation: the television Q&A program `Direct Line with V. Putin', address to the Federal Assembly and a large annual conference. All three media events increase the president’s approval, with `Direct Line' having the least effect. Only the large annual conference has a significant positive impact on respondents’ confidence in Putin.
P20|Out-of-Partnership Births in East and West Germany|Using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), we show that single women in East Germany are significantly more likely to give birth to a child than single women in West Germany. This applies to both planned and unplanned births. Our analysis provides no evidence that the difference between East and West Germany can be explained by economic factors or the higher availability of child care in East Germany. This suggests that the difference in out-of-partnership births is rather driven by behavioral and cultural differences. However, these behavioral and cultural differences do not only reflect different gender role models that evolved under the former communist regime in East Germany and the democratic one in West Germany. Partly, they also reflect a long historical divide that predates the 1945 separation of Germany.
P20|Institutional development in Transition Economies - The role of institutional experience|We examine the institutional development of a set of transition economies since the dissolution of the USSR, with a particular focus on the effect of natural resource dependency, EU accession and institutional experience. In a cross-sectional analysis these factors show a significant association with the different dimensions of institutional quality. To provide a more comprehensive picture of the development and to control for confounding factors, a Hausman-Taylor estimator on panel data is applied. This analysis confirms the positive relationship between institutional experience and institutional development; moreover, it also confirms the positive effects of the EU accession process on institutional development. Finally, resource dependency, although highly significant in the cross-section, has no significant relationship with average institutional quality in the panel. However, the panel results suggest that resource dependency has a negative effect on the quality of political institutions, while it has no significant association with administrative or legal institutions. Overall, the analysis highlights the persistent nature of institutions and indicates that experience of having independent institutions can affect the pace and path of institutional development.
P20|A Testable Theory of Institutional Change in Authoritarian Regimes|With the guidance of a new institutional framework, the theoretical modelling establishes the necessary and sufficient conditions for institutional change to occur in authoritarian regimes: first, external chocks must be strong, much stronger than in a democratic regime; second, the chocks must be of such a kind that gives rise to factional competition within the ruling group. It predicts that involvement by the ruled group brings about more extensive institutional change than that merely driven by the ruling group. The theory is then applied to explain rural China’s market transition. As institutional change defines pay-off structure, the extent of this change is approximated by the income advantage of cadre households relative to non-cadre households. Econometric tests based on a Chinese rural household panel data of 21 years confirm the theoretical prediction.
P20|Calcul socialiste et socialisme de marché<BR>[Socialist Calculation and Market Socialism]|"This paper focuses on the debate held in the twenties and thirties of the last century between libertarian economists and socialist economists, following the denial by the first ones of the feasibility of a socialist economy. This controversy is well known to specialists and has been widely commented. It seemed to me useful to initiate non-specialists in an original way: by having the controversy speaking by itself. We review the main contributions and summarise their arguments with, initially, the bare minimum of personal comments. Walrasian general equilibrium serves as a reference for the defenders of market socialism in the controversy. But the concept of competition behind this theory is very incomplete; it is purely passive. It follows that the market socialism which emanates from it is not really a MARKET socialism. It is lacking the competition which innovates. Markets for capital goods are also lacking in theses models. Our paper then turns to a new generation of socialist models involving this real competition. We review two models proposed by Bardhan and Roemer and then exhibit a personal model. This type of model is facing a modern criticism whose central concept is the ""soft budget constraint""."
P20|Economic Growth in Transition Economies: Does investments matter?|Many countries from the beginning of transition period tried to find answer of Adam Smith fundamental question, ?how countries get rich??. Thus, main goals of all economic reforms, since 1989-1990 years until now in countries with transition economic for stimulation economic growth. All transition states have two way of development ?Shock Therapy? and ?Gradualism? for faster implementation free market based economic system.Countries that are characterized as transition economies, with the inefficient political or economical system investment will play a less prominent role in stimulating the economy than in the developed countries. Given these peculiarities, investments have lesser role in stimulation economic growth in countries with transition than macroeconomic policies, structural reforms, protection of property right.Countries? from the start of the transition period or from the time of became independent, economic policy focus on attracting investments for stimulation economic growth, but the height role of investment is not confirmed in examples of many countries, which indicates that the economic growth in countries of transition is not related to the number of invitations attracted by the country. Our research is developed based on Oleh Havrylyshyn, Ivailo Izvorski, Ron van Rooden study ?Recovery and Growth in Transition Economies 1990-97: A Stylized Regression Analysis?. IMF, 1998. Which include inflation rate, structural reform, share of government expenditure in GDP; investment; price liberalization index; competition index; exchange rate and privatization index as an independent variables, dependent variable is real economic growth (GDP). 31 countries as transition economic are selected based on World Economic Outlook, October 2000, IMF. Dates (1997-2014) used in econometric models came from different publications of IMF, EBRD and WB collected by author.Statistical characteristics of 12 models satisfy the necessary requirements for the evaluation, namely R2 are presented in 0.21 (minimum) and 0.43 (maximum) interval. Other statistics are also used for assessing the model: Akaike info criterion; Schwarz criterion; Hannan-Quinn Criter; Durban-Watson and F-statistics. In those models are analyzed different combination of independent variables.Panel model where the analyzed period is divided into two parts (1997-2004; 2004-2014), It is important to note that in these models all variables of investment are characterized by negative correlation with economic growth, statistical characteristics of models analyzed during the 2004-2014 data are considerably improved compared to the previous model.Inflation, governmental expenditures, price liberalization index, competition policy, exchange regime, investment has negative impact on economic growth, but structural reforms in important factor for stimulation economic growth rate in all models.
P20|Property Rights and Fairness: A Tale of Two Koreas|We compare two groups of non-student Korean population?native-born South Koreans (SK) and North Korean refugees (NK)?with contrasting institutional and cultural backgrounds. In our experiment, subjects play dictator games under three di?erent treatments where the source of the income is varied: ?rstly, the income is exogenously given to the subject; secondly, earned by the subject¡¯s own e?ort; thirdly, individually earned by the subject and an anonymous partner and then pooled together. We ?nd that preferences for giving depend on the income source in di?erent ways for the SK and NK subjects. The SK subjects become more sel?sh when an income is individually earned than when it is given exogenously. However, the NK subjects are not responsive to the earned income treatment but behave more pro-socially when individually earned incomes are pooled. The pro-sociality of NK subjects is related to life experiences in North Korea. Our results corroborate the notion that institutions and cultures matter in shaping social norms about distributive fairness.
P20|Comparative Economic Studies and Comparative Economics: Six Decades and Counting|Abstract This paper reviews the history of Comparative Economic Studies and the role that it has played in the development of the field of comparative economics. While we emphasize developments in the past 10 years when we served as co-editors, the development of the journal and of the field of comparative economics is placed in the context of the entire 60-year history of Comparative Economic Studies and of its predecessors.
P20|War and Social Attitudes|We study the long-run effects of con ict on social attitudes, with World War II in Central and Eastern Europe as our setting. Much of earlier work has relied on self- reported measures of victimization, which are prone to endogenous misreporting. With our own survey-based measure, we replicate established findings linking victimization to political participation, civic engagement, optimism, and trust. Those findings are reversed, however, when tested instead with an objective measure of victimization based on historical reference material. Thus, we urge caution when interpreting survey- based results from this literature as causal.
P20|Firm Ownership, Political Participation, and Access to Finance through Public Bond Offerings in China|This study examines how state versus private ownership and political participation by private entrepreneurs affect access to financing through the corporate bond market in China. We find that state ownership is positively related to the likelihood that a firm issues bonds and that firms controlled by ultimate owners who participate in politics are significantly more likely to issue bonds. We also show that state ownership as well as political participation by the ultimate owner is positively associated with the amount firms raise in bond offerings. Moreover, state firms characterized by over-investment tend to increase their excess investments after a bond offering. For under-investing private firms, existing suboptimal investment levels are alleviated by bond offerings. In addition, we find that private firms significantly increase their R&D investments after a public bond offering, especially those controlled by owners who participate in politics. Finally, bond offerings are associated with a significant decline in market value for SOEs. For firms controlled by an owner who participates in politics, the opposite holds true. These findings highlight the need to improve the existing credit allocation via the bond market and the important role political capital plays for private firms in China.
P20|International Presence of the Japanese Study of Russian and East European Economies|In this article, I examine the oversea activities of Japanese researchers in the field of Russian and East European economic studies based on objective data and offer several suggestions for improving their presence in the international academic community. The presence of Japanese scholars of Russian and East European economies as measured by the number of relevant articles published in international journals is still marginal at best, despite their high participation rates in academic conferences abroad. This may partly be due to the fact that many Japanese researchers are not effectively utilizing available international resources. Furthermore, although many of the works produced by Japanese experts have important implications in the research field, only a handful of them are submitted to international journals. In this and many other respects, there is still much room for enhancing the international status of the Japanese study of Russian and East European economies.
P20|Establishing A New State under Human Resource Constraint: The Experience of the German Reunification|The human resources of East Germany were short in the terms of political integrity and professional qualification to establish the new public institutions modeled to those of West Germany. Dispatching West-German personnel, extensive re-training, and creation of informal personal network were the solution to compensate the shortage and to transfer knowledge and know-hows to East Germany. Reunified Germany established the new public institutions quickly, although the sudden change might discourage East-German personnel’s self-efforts to improve their capacities. The German experience suggests that it is difficult for the other ex-socialist countries those cannot expect quick transfer of knowledge and know-hows from the democratic market countries to establish their new public institutions quickly. It would take a long time of a generation and more for those countries to complete the systemic transformations, because the accumulation of the human capital needs the long period., Highlights: ・Human capital for operating state institutions is short in systemic transformation. ・Transfer of knowledge and know-hows is needed to solve the problem. ・Dispatching West-German personnel, re-training, and informal network solved it. ・Applying the German solution to the other ex-socialist countries are difficult. ・A generation or more are needed to complete the systemic transformation.
P20|Return Migration and Self-Employment: Evidence from Kyrgyzstan|A common finding of the migration literature is that migrants are more likely to choose self-employment upon return to their origin countries than non-migrants. This has led to the belief that return migration stimulates entrepreneurship in source countries and hence supports economic development. In this paper, we test these assertions, drawing on the Life in Kyrgyzstan Study, a rich longitudinal data set from a transition economy with high levels of international temporary migration. We find that for return migrants, self-employment is often a temporary occupational choice, suggesting that self-employment serves as a 'parking lot'. In addition, we find evidence that return migrants who were self-employed before migrating are less likely to opt for self-employment on their return, implying that migration disrupts self-employment trajectories. Both findings cast doubt on the common narrative of return migration stimulating entrepreneurship and therefore economic development.
P20|Human-Capital Externalities in China|This paper provides evidences of heterogeneous human-capital externality using CHIP 2002, 2007 and 2013 data from urban China. After instrumenting city-level education using the number of relocated university departments across cities in the 1950s, one year more city-level education increases individual hourly wage by 22.0 percent, more than twice the OLS estimate. Human-capital externality is found to be greater for all groups of urban residents in the instrumental variable estimation.
P20|The Soviet Economy, 1917-1991 : Its Life and Afterlife|In terms of economic development, Russia before and after the Soviet era was just an average economy. If the Soviet era is distinguished, it was not by economic growth or its contribution to human development, but by the use of the economy to build national power over many decades. In this respect, the Soviet economy was a success. It was also a tough and unequal environment in which to be born, live, and grow old. The Soviet focus on building national capabilities did improve opportunities for many citizens. Most important were the education of women and the increased survival of children. The Soviet economy was designed for the age of mass production and mass armies. That age has gone, but the idea of the Soviet economy lives on, fed by nostalgia and nationalism.
P20|Adolescents’ (un)happiness in transition|In this paper, we analyse the life satisfaction of adolescents in transition countries, comparing their life satisfaction with that of their peers in non-transition countries. We find that, at the start of transition, ceteris paribus, the life satisfaction of the adolescents in our sample of transition countries is somewhat smaller, but not significantly so, than the life satisfaction of the adolescents in our sample of non-transition countries. With the economic crisis of the early 1990s, however, the difference increased dramatically, but, by the beginning of the 2000s, this gap had again become fairly limited. From that point, respondents’ health situation, their material wealth and their school experience mattered much more than whether they lived in a transition country or not. Unlike the literature on adults, we do not find that after controlling for individual level variables, macro variables play an important role in adolescent happiness.
P20|The Soviet Economy, 1917-1991 : Its Life and Afterlife| In terms of economic development, Russia before and after the Soviet era was just an average economy. If the Soviet era is distinguished, it was not by economic growth or its contribution to human development, but by the use of the economy to build national power over many decades. In this respect, the Soviet economy was a success. It was also a tough and unequal environment in which to be born, live, and grow old. The Soviet focus on building national capabilities did improve opportunities for many citizens. Most important were the education of women and the increased survival of children. The Soviet economy was designed for the age of mass production and mass armies. That age has gone, but the idea of the Soviet economy lives on, fed by nostalgia and nationalism.
P20|Capitalism and Socialism: Review of Kornai's Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy|Understanding the nature of capitalism has been a central theme of economics. The collapse of the East Bloc and the global financial crisis spurred the reemergence of the political economy as a new frontier and the revival of interest in the nature of capitalism. Kornai's book fills an important intellectual gap in understanding the dynamic nature of capitalism by comparing it with its mirror image, socialism. To further develop the themes contained in the book, serious challenges are posted theoretically and empirically, as well as in subjects, such as hybrid capitalism.
P20|Competition and financial constraints: A two-sided story|This paper examines the relation between competitive pressure and financial constraints using firm-level survey data from 27 emerging economies of Eastern Europe and Central Asia for the years 2005 and 2009. In the empirical analysis, we disentangle the impact of product market competition on the demand and supply of credit. Our results support the hypothesis that competitive pressure on borrowers affects both sides of the credit market. We find that in industries with greater competitive pressure firms' demand for credit is typically higher but a greater proportion of firms are discouraged from loan application due to greater cost of credit. Interestingly, we find the detrimental effect of competitive pressure on credit access breaks down when firms are audited, when they can pledge collateral and when they engage in export activities. These results point to the role of competitive pressure in the lenders' information set when limited information is available.
P20|Rise of ‘Red Zaibatsu’ in China: entrenchment and expansion of large state-owned enterprises, 1990-2016|Ever since Deng Xiaoping’s reforms commencing in the 1980s, how to improve efficiency of state-owned enterprises has been on the government agenda. Progress has been made but more slowly than one expects in the decade. Even worse, against all the odds, China’s large state-owned firms, mega-SOEs, the backbone of Maoist economy previously, have gained exponential growth in the past decade. Reforms of that part of the economy have stalled. Why? To reveal the rationale and mechanisms of the rise of mega-SOEs, this study establishes a two-stage game model for an ‘authoritarian market economy’ (or a ‘market-Leninist economy’) where market monopoly and rent-seeking by state-owned conglomerates is firmly entrenched. Our findings confirm a ‘subgame perfect Nash equilibrium’ in China’s authoritarian market economy that has led the state (the owner or ‘principal’) and the large state-owned firms (the manager or the ‘agent’) to a paradox which prevents continuous reforms towards a Pareto solution for efficiency improvement.
P20|Rebalancing in China: a taxation approach|The rebalancing of the Chinese economy is analyzed through a heterogeneous taxation of various types of firms. Based on a two-country dynamic general equilibrium model, the paper applies tax reforms to raise consumption, reduce some firms' overinvestment and maintain a high level of welfare. To rebalance consumption and investment, taxation may allow reallocating a part of the labor force to firms that are not overinvesting. Moreover, the correction of distortions in production factor costs (capital and labor) is necessary during certain reforms applied in the model; that is, on the one hand, higher credit costs for State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and, on the other hand, a catch-up of foreign firms' wages by domestic firms (public and private). In this model, firms' credit cost is a key channel because it impacts both firms' investment and household consumption (through returns on savings). These consumption and investment reforms bring welfare benefits to households, and the results are close to direct welfare maximization. In this framework, the rebalancing of the domestic demand does not require the readjustment of the external financial position because the aggregate savings rate remains high and the supply of domestic assets is reduced. Finally, another theoretical framework proposes a heterogeneous taxation of consumption across home and foreign goods to enhance consumption.
P20|From abnormal to normal : Two tales of growth from 25 years of transition|We look at the growth experience of 25 transition countries over the 25 years since the dissolution of the USSR. The initial collapse in income was much more severe in 12 former Soviet Union countries (FSU12) than in the 10 transition countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007 (EU10). In 2015, FSU12 income levels were further behind EU10 than they were at the start of transition, despite more rapid growth in the last 15 years. Compared to predictions from a parsimonious growth model, the region as a whole is ‘normal’ in terms of growth performance since the 2000s. However, the FSU12 over‐perform and the EU10 under‐perform relative to model predictions for the last 15 years.
P20|Pre- and Post-Crisis Trust in Banks: Lessons from Transitional Countries|We study the factors determining the level of trust in banks before and after the 2007- 08 financial crisis and how this crisis reshaped banking trust in transitional countries. We find that younger, rural, educated, banked and generally trusting people tend to have higher confidence towards banks in both periods. Among country-level covariates, growth rate of GDP and Rule of Law remain significantly associated with banking trust in both periods. Finally, our findings indicate that the financial crisis has temporary impact on trust in banks since pulling back the rate of GDP growth tends to recover banking trust.
P20|TV and entrepreneurship|We empirically analyse whether television (TV) can influence entrepreneurial identity and incidence. To identify causal effects, we utilise a quasi-natural experiment setting. During the division of Germany after WWII into West Germany with a free-market economy and the socialistic East Germany with centrally-planned economy, some East German regions had access to West German public TV that - differently from the East German TV - transmitted images, values, attitudes and view of life compatible with the free-market economy principles and supportive of entrepreneurship. We show that during the 40 years of socialistic regime in East Germany entrepreneurship was highly regulated and virtually impossible and that the prevalent formal and informal institutions broke the traditional ties linking entrepreneurship to the characteristics of individuals so that there were hardly any differences in the levels and development of entrepreneurship between East German regions with and without West German TV signal. Using both, regional and individual level data, we show then that, for the period after the Unification in 1990 which made starting an own business in East Germany, possible again, entrepreneurship incidence is higher among the residents of East German regions that had access to West German public TV, indicating that TV can, while transmitting specific images, values, attitudes and view of life, directly impact on the entrepreneurial mindset of individuals. Moreover, we find that young individuals born after 1980 in East German households that had access to West German TV are also more entrepreneurial. These findings point to second-order effects due to inter-personal and inter-generational transmission, a mechanism that can cause persistent differences in the entrepreneurship incidence across (geographically defined) population groups.
P20|Структурные Или Институциональные Сдвиги? Попытка Измерения На Примере Банковского Сектора<BR>[Structural change, institutional change and their measurement: The case of banking]|The paper attempts measuring institutional change, taking the case of the Russian banking industry in 1991-2016. I put forward a set of metrics featuring the actors and the relevance of banking for the economy. At the first stage, the communist-era credit system falls apart, and so do coordination mechanisms between monetary and real sectors of the economy. After the 1998 crisis, evolution goes in the direction of greater government involvement in banks and centralized allocation of financial resources. Structural change has not yet led to a fully different modus operandi of the banking industry. The contribution of this paper is that it tackles the interplay between structural and institutional change in a particular economic sector.
P20|Други Канон И Маршалов План Као Модел Економске Политике<BR>[Other Canon and Marshall’s Plan as a Model of Economic Policy]|Serbian: Разматрају се основне карактеристике Маршаловог плана као типа економске политике. За разлику од политике саморегулишућег тржишта, која је заснована на (нео)либералној теорији и представљена Вашингтонским договором, политика маршаловског типа, активног уплива државе у привредне токове, заснована је на многовековној традицији и представљена Другим каноном. Обе врсте политика могу се историјски пратити до времена физиократа и меркантилиста, али у савременим условима потпуно адекватно могу да буду представљене плановима Моргентауа и Маршала, насталим за и примењеним у Немачкој после Другог светског рата. Моргентауов план одговара (нео)либералној политици и резултира деиндустриализацијом земље, док Маршалов план насупрот томе одговара политици Другог канона и резултира индустријализацијом земље. Из тих карактеристика следи да транзиционе земље за своје привреде треба да примене економску политику оваплоћену у Маршаловом плану. English: The paper considers the main characteristics of Marshall’s plan as an economic policy model. Unlike the self-regulating market policy, which is based on the neo-liberal policy and defined by the Washington Consensus, the Marshall-type policy, with its active state interference in economic processes, is based on the many centuries’ tradition and reflected in the Other Canon. Both policy types can be traced to the times of physiocrats and mercantilists, but in present circumstances they can be represented through Morgenthau Plan and Marshall Plan, originated after the World War Two and applied in Germany. Morgenthau’s Plan corresponds to the neoliberal policy and its consequence is the country deindustrialization, while Marshall’s Plan corresponds to the Other Canon policy and results in industrialization. Therefore, we deduce that transition countries need to apply the economic policy incorporated in Marshall Plan in order to develop their economies.
P20|Dollarization in North Korea: Evidence from a Survey of North Korean Refugees|This study measures the degree of dollarization in North Korea using results from a survey of 231 North Korean refugees. Specifically, we compare foreign currency use of households as both store-of-value substitutes (i.e., asset substitution) and transaction substitutes (i.e., currency substitution) before and after the confiscatory currency reform of 2009. The degree of dollarization has advanced since the currency reform in terms of both asset and currency substitutions. Survey results also indicate that the Chinese yuan is frequently used in the Sino-North Korean border area, whereas the US dollar is predominantly used in non-border areas. Furthermore, foreign currency increasingly serves as a medium of exchange not only for large transactions but also for smaller transactions, such as food purchases.
P20|The Impact of Un Sanctions on North Korea's Luxury Goods Imports|This paper aims to analyze the economic impacts of UN sanctions on North Korea’s banned luxury goods imports. The analysis is based on applying Difference-in-Differences Methods to the gravity model. The results show that North Korea’s luxury goods import patterns reflect the aforesaid model. The result of Difference-in-Differences shows that UN Resolutions 1695 and 1718 were ineffective in decreasing North Korea’s luxury goods imports. This paper also found that four countries, primarily China, accounted for 91.4% of North Korea’s luxury goods imports in 2007, and the share of North Korea’s luxury goods accounted for about 5.3% of North Korea’s overall imports.
P20|Resource dependence analysis of public higher education institutions in Uzbekistan|Since the early years of independence in 1991, a central topic of higher education in Uzbekistan has been how to fill the gap left by the reduced government funding at public higher education institutions (HEIs). The majority of the Uzbek universities, as in many other countries, have responded to the decline in public allocations through charging significantly increased tuition fees. Therefore, the revenue structure of public HEIs has changed from full government funding to mostly tuition funding over the last decade. Utilising resource dependence theory (RDT), this study empirically investigates whether or not increased institutional reliance on tuition fees as a main source of revenue has augmented the share of institutional expenditures dedicated to educational activities at public HEIs in Uzbekistan over the period 2000-2013. Drawing on a 14-year panel of university-level data and employing an instrumental variable approach that acknowledges the potential endogeneity of institutional tuition revenue, the analysis suggests that institutional expenditures for educational expenses are considerably increased as institutions became more dependent on tuition revenue for their financially sustainable operation. This finding is consistent with the predictions of RDT. Robustness of the empirical findings is also checked utilising several diagnostic models, and the results revealed that the IVs applied during the TSLS estimations are valid and they simultaneously uncorrelated with the error term.
P20|Cost efficiency analysis of public higher education institutions in Uzbekistan|Over the last decade, the revenue structure of public higher education institutions (HEIs) in Uzbekistan has changed from full government funding to mostly tuition funding. In this paper, a stochastic cost frontier analysis is used in order to examine whether the institutional financial resources obtained mostly from tuition revenue have been utilised efficiently or inefficiently at 58 public HEIs during the period of 2000 to 2013. The Battese and Coelli (1995) method is applied to measure the influences of institution, staff and student characteristics on cost efficiency of the universities. According to mean efficiency scores, the Uzbek universities are not remarkably cost efficient in producing education and research outputs, although the significant improvements in the efficiency followed throughout the sample period. Findings also reveal that HEIs with a greater share of government allocations are less cost efficient relative to those institutions with a smaller share of government allocations.
P20|Piecewise Solutions to Big Data|Outliers in the financial market data often carry important information, which requires attention and investigation. Many outlier detection techniques, including both parametric and nonparametric, have been developed over the years which are specific to certain application domains. Nonetheless, outlier detection is not an easy task, because sometimes the occurrence of them is pretty easy and evident, but in some other times, it may be extremely cumbersome. Financial series, which are not only pretty sensitive in reflecting the world market conditions due to the interactions of a very large number of participants in its operation, but also influenced by other stock markets that operate in other parts of the world, produce a non-synchronous process. In this research, we detect the presence of outliers in financial time series over the S&P 500 during the year 2016. We detect the beginning of some shocks (outliers) such as the Brexit referendum and the United States Presidential election held in the year 2016. Generally, the impacts of these events were not drastic. Histogram time series was implemented over a daily closing price on intervals of five minutes for the S&P 500 index during 2015 and 2016. In this case, the linear dependency between days of atypical returns were analyzed on quantiles [0 ?? 40]% and [60 ?? 100]%, while Wassertein distance and an approximation of entropy were used to quantify the presence of instant shocks in the index.
P20|TV and Entrepreneurship|Can TV influence the entrepreneurial decisions of individuals? To identify causal effects, we utilize a quasi-natural experiment, namely that during the division of Germany after WWI into the capitalistic West Germany and the socialistic East Germany, West TV was exogenously available only in some regions of the latter. Using regional and individual data, we show that, after the Reunification, entrepreneurship is higher among the residents of East German regions with West TV signal, indicating a direct effect of TV on the entrepreneurial mindset of exposed individuals. Moreover, we find second-order effects due to intergenerational transmission, which cause persistent differences.
P20|The state advances, the private sector retreats? Firm effects of China’s great stimulus programme|It has been argued that the state sector is advancing at the cost of the private sector in China. To examine this issue, we conduct an empirical analysis in which we exploit the launch of a large stimulus programme in the autumn of 2008. We find that state-owned enterprises (SOEs) are better able to maintain their leverage levels and have better access to both short- and long-term debt compared with private firms after the introduction of the stimulus programme. We also find that preferential access to debt financing does not help SOEs improve their performance. Instead, SOEs perform significantly worse than private firms after the introduction of the stimulus programme. Moreover, political connections obtained through political participation help mitigate the discrimination that private firms face from Chinese banks and help improve firm performance. These results support the conjecture that China’s state sector is advancing, with negative consequences for aggregate performance in the economy.
P20|“Fettered” And “Unfettered” Capitalism In J.A. Schumpeter’S Concept Of Tax State And Economic Development – Issues In Banking Perspective|Economic development and transformation processes have become much more intense in economic reality in the last years than they have ever been before. At this time a lot of questions were raised about the causes of the actual Global Crisis, future crises, the factors affecting the modern economy, about the essence of contemporary capitalism, demographic problems and overgrown bureaucracy. The most spectacular threat to capitalism, (based on private entrepreneurship) according to Schumpeter, stems from the high, growing and progressive taxation. Schumpeter saw clearly that the financing of public goods and services (requiring taxes, maybe even relatively high) is something other than a clerical control of the economic system that violates the natural economic mechanism. Moreover, Schumpeter says explicitly that an entrepreneur does not have to be one person, he even states that the country (state) itself, or its agenda, can act as an entrepreneur. Therefore, it can be concluded that we may have to deal with “Tax State”, which is typical for “fettered capitalism”, and with “entrepreneurial state”, which is typical for “unfettered capitalism”. The main goal of this paper is to present two different approaches to the economic development concept: Schumpeter’s “fettered” and “unfettered” capitalism in the context of “Tax State” and interventionism. The Author analyzes presented concept in contemporary issues from the banking perspective. In the paper, the Author used critical analysis as a research method. This allowed to identify gaps in the current state of knowledge and the scientific discussion focused on J.A. Schumpeter’s theoretical concept. Analysis was performed in 2015.
P20|The Impossibility of Democratic Socialism: Two Conceptions of Democracy|Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny (1994) have used Public Choice analysis to criticize market socialism. Peter J. Boettke (1995) and Peter T. Leeson and Boettke (2002) have argued that F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom (2007 [1944]) constituted a form of Public Choice analysis as well, in particular presaging an application of Arrow's Impossibility Theorem to democratic socialism. This essay demonstrates that additionally, Hayek's book adumbrated the distinction between liberal or limited democracy and illiberal or totalitarian democracy. This distinction between two conceptions of democracy provides another means of criticizing democratic socialism. The democratic political system and socialist economic system are fundamentally incompatible, making democratic socialism impossible, in the sense that democracy cannot fulfill for socialism what democratic socialists expect from it. Democratic socialism will fail, not because those in power will betray their trust or abuse their power, but because the fundamental institutional constraints of democracy are incompatible with socialist economics.
P20|Interest Groups and the Impossibility of Democratic Socialism: Hayek, Jewkes, and the Arrow Theorem|Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny (1994) have used Public Choice analysis to criticize market socialism. Peter J. Boettke (1995) and Peter T. Leeson and Boettke (2002) have argued that F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom (2007 [1944]) constituted a form of Public Choice analysis as well. Boettke and Leeson say that Hayek adumbrated a form of Arrow's Impossibility Theorem. This essay shows that Hayek was joined by John Jewkes in presaging a form of the Arrow theorem. In addition, this essay expands on the analysis by Boettke and Leeson, elucidating the broader implications which the Arrow theorem has for democratic socialism in particular. Democratic socialism is demonstrated to be impossible, in the sense that it cannot successfully accomplish the goals of its advocates. This is because the Arrow theorem implies that democratic political institutions are fundamentally incompatible with socialist economics.
P20|Labor Economics in a Planned Economy: F. A. Hayek and John Jewkes on the Impossibility of Democratic Socialism|Milton Friedman (1962) is associated with the claim that political and economic freedom cannot be distinguished (cf. Lawson and Clark 2010), using the famous example that there can be no freedom of speech where the government owns the printing presses. Less well-known is F. A. Hayek's example, drawn from labor economics, used to illustrate the same principle. Hayek was joined in this by his less well-known colleague, John Jewkes. Hayek and Jewkes argued that without a freely operating price system, central economic planning cannot function without compulsory regimentation of labor. Similarly, no state may simultaneously fix “fair” wages and demand a given pattern of productive output and employment. It is impossible to both achieve income equality and accomplish an economic plan. Hayek's and Jewkes's examples help explain why democratic socialism is impossible, in the sense that it cannot accomplish what its advocates desire.
P20|The Foreign Policy of a Democratic Socialist Regime: From Intervention to Protection to Warfare|Discussions of democratic socialism have focused on whether that system is compatible with domestic civil liberties. Less attention has been paid to its foreign policy implications. Despite the widespread acceptance of the democratic peace hypothesis, democratic socialism would be incompatible with peaceful foreign relations. Economic intervention and economic planning – even democratic – cannot be successful without insulating the domestic economy from foreign competition. This implies economic nationalism and autarky. Moreover, democratic socialism is often justified by the notion that the democratic will of the people should be absolutely sovereign. Such a conception of democracy has no place for constitutional limits on power. Such an unlimited democracy would soon prove illiberal and liable to be captured by a demagogic authoritarian dictator, and this would only exacerbate the deleterious foreign policy consequences of economic nationalism. Democratic socialism is therefore incompatible with the cosmopolitan and humanitarian values of democratic socialists.
P20|The Freedom of the Prices: Hayek's Road to Serfdom Reassessed|Recent debate has centered around the contemporary relevance and even the original validity of F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom. Was it directed against command socialism only or against welfare-state interventionism as well? Should the book even be read anymore? This essay takes a step back from the dichotomy between socialism and interventionism and explores two specific ideas of Hayek's which deserve renewed attention: first, his claim that economic liberty is the fundamental liberty and that political liberty is merely secondary in value. Second, Hayek's conception of the rule-of-law, which has implications for contemporary command-and-control regulation. Furthermore, that Hayek's philosophical conception of the rule-of-law in the Road to Serfdom is related to his economic theory of prices in “The Use of Knowledge in Society.” While Hayek's specific target in the Road to Serfdom was command socialism, his book embodied arguments which are more widely applicable and relevant today.
P20|The Impending Long March of the Chinese Economy|The Chinese economy is currently faced with the difficult problems of slowing economic growth and huge overcapacity. China is struggling to adapt to a “new normal.” Here, I examine the mechanism of why China is faced with these problems and some potential future paths of the Chinese economy. China does not have a socialist, socialist market, or market-oriented economy. Rather, it has a “state-driven economy” and that has deviated far from the saddle path to the steady state. The model of a state-driven economy constructed in this paper indicates that it is highly likely that China will proceed along a long-running transition path with low or no growth, but it is also very likely that China will excessively build up its military.
P20|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P20|Entrepreneurial role models, fear of failure, and institutional approval of entrepreneurship: a tale of two regions|Abstract Studies on the influence of entrepreneurial role models (peers) on the decision to start a firm argue that entrepreneurial role models in the local environment (1) provide opportunities to learn about entrepreneurial tasks and capabilities, and (2) signal that entrepreneurship is a favorable career option thereby reducing uncertainty that potential entrepreneurs face. However, these studies remain silent about the role of institutional context for these mechanisms. Applying an extended sender–receiver model, we hypothesize that observing entrepreneurs reduces fear of failure in others in environments where approval of entrepreneurship is high, while this effect is significantly weaker in low-approval environments. Taking advantage of the natural experiment from recent German history and using data from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor Project, we find considerable support for our hypotheses.
P20|A Short “Second Best” Narrative of the Ukrainian Economy/ Una Breve “Segunda Mejor Opción” de Narrativa de la Economía Ucraniana|This article maintains that in our second best world, neither corruption nor the informal sector and political instability can be held responsible for the moderate performance of the Ukrainian economy. Corruption in Ukraine appears to act as “grease in the wheels of the economy”, while informal activities add to the welfare of its people. And, no connection of political instability with economic performance may be contemplated conclusively. The cause of the inefficiency of private and public investment is traced to poor public governance. Massive infrastructure investments can become the remedy (i) in the context of public-private partnerships with the collaboration of the subnational governments, and (ii) in financing the projects through domestic monetary expansion, under a macroeconomic policy viewpoint emphasizing the monetary rather than fiscal side of the venture. The proposed monetary expansion can only work only under the proper multiplier, accelerator, and capital accumulation link. Special care should be taken to improve the industrial organization of the inefficient banking sector Este artículo manifiesta que en nuestro mundo de la segunda mejor opción, no se puede atribuir ni a la corrupción ni al sector informal y a la inestabilidad política el rendimiento limitado de la economía ucraniana. En Ucrania, la corrupción parece funcionar como “lubrificante para las ruedas de la economía”, mientras las actividades incrementan el bienestar de su pueblo. Además, no se puede contemplar de manera definitiva ninguna conexión entre la inestabilidad política y el rendimiento económico. La causa de la ineficencia de las inversiones particulares y públicas resalen a la gobernación pública ineficaz. Las inversiones masivas en infraestructuras pueden constituir un remedio (i) en el ámbito de partenariados entre los sectores públicos y privados con la colaboración del gobierno a nivel sub-nacional y (ii) financiando los proyectos mediante una expansión monetaria interior, desde un punto de vista de política macroeconómica que se enfoque en el aspecto monetario de la inversión más que en el fiscal. La expansión monetaria propuesta puede funcionar únicamente con el enlace correcto entre multiplicadores, aceleradores y la acumulación de capital. Se debe cuidar en particular de mejorar la organización del sector bancario actualmente ineficiente.
P20|Strategic decisions on industrialization: case of Galati Steel Works|The industrialization under a communist regime has some particularities generated by the state ownership, centralized administrative planning and, last but not least, by the communist leaders’ visions on the roles of industries. During the reign of Josef Stalin, who considered that major role in the economy had to be played by the heavy industries, in the Soviet Union there were built large industrial complexes where the former peasants were transformed in industrial workers. His successor, Nikita Khruhschev, who had a different vision on industrialization, assigned increasing roles to the consumer-oriented industries and agriculture. He promoted also the specialization among the economies of Soviet Union and its Eastern European satellites. This new orientation met the opposition of Gheorghe Gheorghiu - Dej, the Romanian communist leader who initiated, since the late 1950s, a gradually emancipation from the Soviet tutelage. An episode of confrontation between the Romanian and Soviet communists on the industrial policies was the 1960 decision of building a gigantic steel mill at Galati, a town from the South – East of Romania where Gheorghiu - Dej spent his youth. Despite the De – Stalinization process launched in the Soviet Union in 1956, the Romanian communists’ initiative followed a Stalinist type of industrialization. Moreover, when the Soviet Government proposed, in the spirit of the division of labor within the socialist camp promoted by Khruhschev, that the new plant should transform in steel the pig iron produced by their industrial complexes, Romanian communists viewed this plan as a threat to the country’s economic development and they rejected it. This paper explores some circumstances of the decision on building of the new steel mill which dramatically changed the economic and social profile of Galati.
P20|A born global’s radical, gradual and nonlinear internationalization: A case from Belarus|This paper contributes to the literature on internationalization processes by showing that a born global can experience nonlinear internationalization (de- and re-internationalize) after radical/fast initial growth, and use some subsidiaries as bases for further gradual expansion. After studying a case of a Belarusian door producer that has invested to seven and exported to 11 more countries, we conclude that a home country’s political/economic environment can be a crucial ‘push’ factor for a firm’s fast internationalization but, thereafter, it can internationalize gradually due to lacking knowledge or other resources, and de- and re-internationalize due to various internal and/or external reasons.
P20|A born global’s radical, gradual and nonlinear internationalization: A case from Belarus|This paper contributes to the literature on internationalization processes by showing that a born global can experience nonlinear internationalization (de- and re-internationalize) after radical/fast initial growth, and use some subsidiaries as bases for further gradual expansion. After studying a case of a Belarusian door producer that has invested to seven and exported to 11 more countries, we conclude that a home country’s political/economic environment can be a crucial ‘push’ factor for a firm’s fast internationalization but, thereafter, it can internationalize gradually due to lacking knowledge or other resources, and de- and re-internationalize due to various internal and/or external reasons.
P20|Modes of Production and Household Production|This paper consists of a brief presentation of modes of production in class societies, highlighting the significance of household production in these. This is followed by a new approach to the conceptualization of the (non-class) communist mode of production and the place of household production in such a society.
P20|SME Internationalization in Emerging Markets: Symbiotic vs. Commensal Pathways|Purpose - The purpose of this research is to develop, test, and validate the symbiotic networking concept of SMEs internationalization pathways. Design/Methodology/Approach - Survey data were collected from managers/owners of SMEs operating in the textile industry in China and Russia. The applied data analysis technique employed is structural equation modeling. The survey was pretested to address reliability, validity, and cross-cultural stability issues. Findings - The symbiotic networking relationships in SMEs were shown to be positively related to their degree of internationalization. The relationship between networking and internationalization is significantly stronger in the conditions of high rather than low environmental turbulence. Research Limitations/Implications - Further research should validate the findings in other industries and other countries. Future research may also include in the model other cultural, attitudinal, environmental, and managerial variables, as well as other dependent variables, first of all from consumer behavior and marketing communications fields. Practical Implications - The findings may assist in identifying networking clusters of SMEs in emerging economies that are more likely to enter foreign markets and develop more targeted support and educational programs aimed at facilitating the internationalization of small businesses. The research results also assist in the elaboration of managerial tools in multinational entrepreneurial businesses. Originality/Value –The research contributes to the field by empirically investigating, testing, and putting into a unified framework the measurement tools required for identifying the symbiotic networking interactions of SMEs and the influence of these interactions on SME internationalization pathways.
P20|What makes Vietnamese (not) attend periodic general health examinations? A cross-sectional study|Background: General health examinations (GHE) have become an increasingly common measure for preventive medicine in Vietnam. However there has still been a lack of understanding about what make Vietnamese (not)attend GHE. The effects of budget or time constraints remain to evaluated. Better-informed policy making needs these inputs. Aim & Objectives: This study aims to investigate factors that may affect Vietnamese behaviors with respect to periodic GHE. Main objectives are to: i) explore empirical relationships between influencing factors and periodic GHE frequencies; and, ii) predict the probabilities of attending GHE and associated conditions.Materials and Methods: The study uses a 2,068-observation categorical dataset obtained from a Vietnamese survey in 2016Q4. The analysis is then performed using the methods of baseline-category logits for establishing relationships between predictor and response variables. Results: There exist relationships among: (i) GHE expenditure and time consumption; (ii) health priority and sensitivity to health data; (iii) insurance status, and (iv) the frequency of GHE, with most p’s
P20|Sociodemographic factors and expenditure issues in Vietnamese consideration of periodic general health examination|Medical expenditure is perceived as a major obstacle for people wanting to access healthcare services in general, and in particular periodic general health examinations (GHE). However, the extant literature concerning expenditure on periodic health examinations in Vietnam is rather scarce and lacking in specific figures. Therefore, this article aims to examine the price people are willing to pay to take GHE periodically. From analyzing a dataset of 2,068 subjects collected from Hanoi and its vicinities, our study confirms that demographic factors (gender, job status, marital status) and socioeconomic factors (health insurance, low belief in healthcare quality and perceptions on public’s health status) have significant effects on GHE fees. The probability of people accepting to spend a larger sum (>VND2mn) for periodic GHE is relatively low (
P20|Public Debt Sustainability in Serbia-Evidence from Transition and the Great Recession|No abstract is available for this item.
P20|Fiscal Pressure of Interest Payments in Serbia - a Time Series Exploration|No abstract is available for this item.
P20|The Dynamics of Public Debt in Serbia - A Nonlinear Analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
P20|Im Fokus: Industrielle Kerne in Ostdeutschland und wie es dort heute aussieht – Das Beispiel des Metallurgiestandorts Eisenhüttenstadt|Der Metallurgiestandort Eisenhüttenstadt gehörte zu den industriellen Kernen, um deren Erhalt nach Herstellung der Einheit Deutschlands gerungen wurde. Der Beitrag untersucht, wie der Kern nach mehr als 25 Jahren Deutscher Einheit dasteht und welche Entwicklung sich vollzogen hat. Das Eisenhüttenstädter Unternehmen bildet weiterhin den prägenden industriellen Kern für die Region, bei starkem Beschäftigungsrückgang. Nach der Übernahme durch den privaten Investor Ende 1994 wurde die bis dahin existierende produktivitätsmindernde Lücke in der Wertschöpfungskette durch Errichtung eines Warmwalzwerks geschlossen. Auch ein neuer Hochofen wurde errichtet. Das Eisenhüttenstädter Werk gehört heute zu ArcelorMittal, dem weltweit größten Stahlkonzern, und ist einer von vier Stahlproduktionsstandorten des Konzerns in Deutschland. Geforscht wird an anderen Standorten außerhalb Deutschlands. Hergestellt werden qualitativ hochwertige Flachstähle für die zentral- und osteuropäischen Märkte. Die Produktion ist hochmodern und wettbewerbsfähig, sieht sich aber insbesondere durch Importwettbewerb und Pläne der EU-Kommission für den Emissionsrechtehandel herausgefordert. Weiterer Strukturwandel und wirtschaftliche Diversifizierung sind in Eisenhüttenstadt vonnöten.
P20|Im Fokus: Industrielle Kerne in Ostdeutschland und wie es dort heute aussieht – Das Beispiel des Chemiestandorts Schkopau|Der Beitrag untersucht, wie es um den industriellen Kern des Chemiestandorts Schkopau in Sachsen-Anhalt, der eng mit dem Namen Buna verbunden ist, mehr als ein Vierteljahrhundert nach der Herstellung der Deutschen Einheit bestellt ist. Anders als in Bitterfeld-Wolfen, wo eine Privatisierung der großen Chemiekombinate nicht zustande kam und stattdessen eine fragmentierte Landschaft kleiner und mittelgroßer Chemie- und anderer Produktions- und Dienstleistungsfirmen entstand, gelang fast fünf Jahre nach dem Übergang zu marktwirtschaftlichen Verhältnissen ein Verkauf des ehemaligen Stammbetriebs des Kombinats VEB Chemische Werke Buna sowie der Sächsischen Olefinwerke in Böhlen und von Teilen des Leuna-Werkes an den US-amerikanischen Investor The Dow Chemical Company, allerdings unter Inkaufnahme einer starken Reduzierung der Beschäftigtenzahl und mit sehr hohen Subventionen. Der industrielle Kern konnte dadurch erhalten werden. Die intra- und überregionale stoffliche Vernetzung ermöglicht eine moderne und flexible Rohstoffversorgung. Gleichwohl ist der mitteldeutsche Chemiestandort wie andere in Deutschland und Europa in seiner Wettbewerbsfähigkeit durch kostengünstige Produktionen in den USA, in Asien und im arabischen Raum herausgefordert.
P20|Im Fokus: Industrielle Kerne in Ostdeutschland und wie es dort heute aussieht – Das Beispiel der JENOPTIK AG|Der Wirtschaftsstandort Jena in Thüringen wurde in der DDR durch den Stammbetrieb des Kombinats VEB Carl Zeiss Jena dominiert, der optische Erzeugnisse und Präzisionsgeräte herstellte. In den letzten Jahren der DDR beauflagten die zentralen Planungsinstanzen der DDR das Kombinat auch mit der Herstellung von Ausrüstungen für die Herstellung mikroelektronischer Erzeugnisse. Nach dem Übergang zu marktwirtschaftlichen Verhältnissen wurde die klassische optische Produktion im Zuge der Privatisierung an die westdeutsche Schwester des Jenaer Kombinats, die Firma Carl Zeiss in Oberkochen veräußert. Der andere Teil des Carl-Zeiss-Stammbetriebs firmierte als Jenoptik GmbH, ging in das Eigentum des Freistaats Thüringen über, wurde erfolgreich umstrukturiert und ist als JENOPTIK AG seit 1998 börsennotiert. Wichtig erscheint in der Retrospektive der Ansatz der Jenoptik GmbH und ihrer Führung, durch Ausgründungen und Attrahierung neuer Investoren eine vorteilhafte Ballung technologieintensiver Unternehmen am Standort Jena zu erreichen. Umgekehrt haben die Standortvorteile Jenas mit seinen leistungsfähigen Wissenschaftseinrichtungen die erfolgreiche JENOPTIK-Entwicklung begünstigt.
P20|Im Fokus: Industrielle Kerne in Ostdeutschland und wie es dort heute aussieht – Das Beispiel SKET Magdeburg|Die erste Privatisierung des Stammbetriebs des ehemaligen VEB Schwermaschinenbau-Kombinats 'Ernst Thälmann' (SKET) scheiterte nach zwei Jahren, und das Unternehmen ging 1996 in die Gesamtvollstreckung. Im Jahr 1998 wurden in einem zweiten Anlauf die fünf geschaffenen Auffanggesellschaften allesamt privatisiert, allerdings mit nur wenigen Beschäftigten. In einem Fall entstand eine völlig neue Produktion: die Herstellung von Komponenten für Windenergieanlagen. Der Aufschwung der erneuerbaren Energien hat den Magdeburger Schwermaschinenbauern in die Hände gespielt. Die Verfügbarkeit großer Industrieflächen war ebenfalls förderlich für diese Branche, ebenso die Kompetenzen in der Bearbeitung großer Maschinenteile. Auch andere Geschäftsfelder des früheren Schwermaschinenbau-Kombinats leben in Form mittelständischer Unternehmen fort: die Entwicklung und Herstellung von Maschinen zur Verarbeitung von Ölsaaten, Maschinen in den Bereichen Kabel- und Stahlseiltechnik, Walzwerksausrüstungen sowie EDV-Dienstleistungen.
P20|Testing Environmental Kuznets Curve in the Selected Transition Economies with Panel Smooth Transition Regression Analysis|The Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) introduces an inverted U-shaped relationship between environmental pollution and economic development. The inverted U-shaped curve is seen as complete pattern for developed economies. However, our study tests the EKC for developing transition economies of European Union, therefore, our results could make a significant contribution to the literature. In this paper, the relationship between carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, gross domestic product (GDP), energy use and urban population is investigated in the Transition Economies (Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia). Environmental Kuznets Curve is tested by panel smooth transition regression for these economies for 1993 – 2010 periods. As a result of study, the null hypothesis of linearity was rejected and no-remaining nonlinearity test showed that there is a smooth transition exists between two regimes (below $5176 GDP per capita is first one and above $5176 GDP per capita is second one) in the related period for these economies.
P20|The impact of loan financing on SMEâ€™s from transitional countries|This study considers the impact of finance (loans) on the performance and productive efficiency of a sample of 8037 SMEs from transitional countries. An extensive macro-economic literature supports the importance of finance to growth. For this to be truly convincing it is necessary to show that firm performance is strengthened by loans. There are very few firm level studies of the linking loans and firm performance. This study extends the firm level literature using the 2013 BEEPS survey .It uses three different methodologies, all incorporating firm heterogeneity. Firstly, we use propensity score matching to test whether loans result in enhanced performance and finds that loans did indeed improve performance. Secondly, we re-enforce these conclusions using inverse probability weighted regression adjustment (IPWRA) analysis. Finally we employ a stochastic frontier approach to (a) measure firm inefficiency and (b) to show that loans create a statistically significant reduction in this inefficiency.
P20|Inward FDI and innovation in transitional countries|This study empirically examines the relationship between innovation and foreign ownership for a large sample of firms in 29 transitional countries, taken from the 2013 BEEPS survey. The analysis is based on two different aspects of FDI theory â€“ technology transfer and strategic asset seeking (with respect to R&D). It finds that firms who innovate with respect to new products, new processes and new management techniques have, on balance, more foreign ownership than those who do not. The evidence supports a view that strategic asset seeking is associated with inward FDI. It also supports the view that technology transfer is also an important feature of the relationship between innovation and FDI in transitional countries. Of the two effects the technology transfer effect is of more consequence than the strategic asset seeking effect.
P20|Antecedents of corporate social responsibility in the banks of Central-Eastern Europe and in the countries of the former Soviet union|This article explores the determinants of corporate social responsibilities (CSR) in the banking sector of the transition countries of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), as well as those of the former Soviet Union (FSU). Our panel fixed-logit results for 237 banks, covering the period 2000-2012, show that while financial performance is not associated with CSR, larger banks are more likely to engage in CSR. Additionally, a governmentâ€™s effectiveness and its regulatory quality increase the likelihood that the banks will engage in social activities. A range of possible approaches that governments can take to encourage social activities in the banking sector of transition countries are provided. Overall, our results are consistent with the theory that the necessary conditions must be in place to support CSR, which seem to be absent in the countries under investigation.
P20|Public Debt Sustainability In Serbia Before And During The Global Financial Crisis|We have analyzed the behaviour of primary fiscal balance and public debt in Serbia before and in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. The results of our analysis are: i) public debt to GDP ratioexhibits (near) unit root behaviour with an overall upward time trend; ii) the response of primary fiscal balance to public debt has been insufficient to mean revert the upward trend in government debt; iii) the efforts of the Serbian government to repay the debt principal after the fiscal rule breach have not been persistent, providing empirical support to the fiscal fatigue hypothesis; iv) the government budget constraint has deteriorated since the beginning of the global financial crisis; v) the response of primary fiscal balance to public debt from the onset of the global financial crisis has dropped more severely in comparison to other European economies.
P20|Radicalism Versus Gradualism: An Analytical Survey Of The Transition Strategy Debate|Academic debate on a transition strategy for former socialist economies continues even a quarter century after the collapse of the communism in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. In this paper, through an analytical survey of 137 preceding studies, we present an overall picture of the debate and examine the relationship between the debate attitudes and the literature attributes in related studies. We found that the radicalists maintain a consistent debate attitude from the viewpoints of time speed and policy sequence of economic transition, while the debate attitude of the gradualists is more diversified. We also found that there is another group of researchers that stays within the framework of the radicalism-versus-gradualism debate while at the same time keeping at arm's length from both the radicalists and the gradualists. In addition, our cross tabulation analysis and regression estimation of qualitative selection models provide interesting findings on the relationship between the debate attitudes and the literature attributes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P20|Worker Flows and Labour Market Adjustment during the Great Recession: Evidence from a Large Shock|This paper analyzes how the labor market adjusts to the Great Recession. To this aim, we use the data for Latvia, a country that has experienced one of the most severe recessions in Europe and a subsequent remarkable recovery. Employing longitudinal EU SILC data and a panel data set constructed by us from various waves of the Latvian Labour Force Survey (LLFS), we estimate worker transitions between labor market states. Labor market adjustment takes place predominantly at the extensive margin since it is driven by flows from permanent wage employment to unemployment. We also show that older, non-Latvian and above all less skilled workers are especially hard hit by the economic crisis. Estimated transitions between four mutually exclusive occupational groups demonstrate that downward mobility is very limited even during the Great Recession. Finally, wage regressions suggest that job mobility is not associated with increased labour productivity during and immediately after the crisis.
P20|What are the biggest obstacles to growth of SMEs in developing countries? – An empirical evidence from an enterprise survey|SMEs are drivers of economic growth and job creation in developing countries. It is paramount to determine the factors that hinder their growth. This paper uses the Enterprise Survey from the World Bank which covers data from 119 developing countries to investigate the biggest obstacles SMEs are confronting and the determinants that influence the obstacles as perceived by enterprise managers. The results show that SMEs perceive access to finance as the most significant obstacle which hinders their growth. The key determinants among firms' characteristics are size, age and growth rate of firms as well as the ownership of the firm. The latter – the role of the state in financing SME – is particularly intriguing. External reasons for the financing dilemma are also examined. It is shown that the main barriers to external financing are high costs of borrowing and a lack of consultant support.
P20|Le système financier chinois : un développement difficile à maîtriser|Since the 2008 Great financial crisis, the Chinese financial system, largely shaped by its ??Soviet?? past, has continually evolved. This has allowed China to absorb the huge amount of savings that has kept accumulating. The growth of a shadow banking system is a major feature of this evolution. It has helped enlarge existing financing channels and respond to the needs of an increasingly diverse range of borrowers and to investors seeking high returns. While useful, this largely ??spontaneous?? development is nevertheless a source of risks for financial stability, the more so since the amount of lending extended to non-financial agents has now reached extremely elevated levels. Classification JEL: E21, G23, P20.
P20|Determinants of Chinese Government Size: An Extreme Bounds Analysis|This paper studies the factors associated with the size of the public sector as measured by government spending at the level of Chinese provinces using the method of extreme bounds analysis to identify robust correlates with public sector size. We find that almost all traditional “economic” and “social stability” factors are insignificant and not robust to model specification changes. In contrast, “political” factors such as the degree of fiscal decentralization and national transfers to provincial governments tend to be significant and robust. Our findings suggest that repeated government attempts to reduce the relative size of the Chinese government sector have failed because the political factors determining government spending haven’t changed.
P20|The Economic Costs of Mass Surveillance: Insights from Stasi Spying in East Germany|Based on official records from the former East German Ministry for State Security, we quantify the long-term costs of state surveillance on social capital and economic performance. Using county-level variation in the spy density in the 1980s, we exploit discontinuities at state borders to show that higher levels of Stasi surveillance led to lower levels of social capital as measured by interpersonal and institutional trust in post-reunification Germany. We estimate the economic costs of spying by applying a second identification strategy that accounts for county fixed effects. We find that a higher spy density caused lower self-employment rates, fewer patents per capita, higher unemployment rates and larger population losses throughout the 1990s and 2000s. Overall, our results suggest that the social and economic costs of state surveillance are large and persistent.
P20|Social ties for labor market access - Lessons from the migration of East German inventors|We study the impact of social ties on the migration of inventors from East to West Germany, using the fall of the Iron Curtain and German reunification as a natural experiment. We identify East German inventors via their patenting track records prior to 1990 and their social security records in the German labor market after reunification. Modeling inventor migration to West German regions after 1990, we find that Western regions with stronger historically determined social ties across the former East-West border attracted more inventors after the fall of the Iron Curtain than regions without such ties. However, mobility decisions made by inventors with outstanding patenting track records (star inventors) were not impacted by social ties. We conclude that social ties support labor market access for migrant inventors and determine regional choices while dependence on these ties is substantially reduced for star performers.
P20|Barriers to Entry and Economic Growth in Transition Economies|Some believe that temporary governmental policies are likely to have no permanent consequences. In this paper, we develop a mathematical model of crime and corruption. We show that even temporary imposition of the barriers to entry to a competitive industry may lead to permanent extortion development and substantial slow-down in the economic growth. Entry restrictions, if binding, lead to the excess profits, which create an incentive to extort. Emergence of the extorters reduces the expected profit from production, making the producers expect to get extorted in the future. If, after this adaptation of expectations, the government removes the barriers to entry, only few new firms enter the market. Hence, the total number of firms on the market is lower that it would have been under no barriers to entry. The low number of firms on the market allows each producer to earn relatively high pre-extortion profits which reinforces the desire of racketeers to take part on their wealth. Consequently, the part of the population is permanently diverted from the production to rent-seeking activities, which is likely slow down economic growth even in the long run.
P20|Regional capital flows and economic regimes: Evidence from China|Using provincial data from China, this paper examines the pattern of capital flows in relation to the transition of economic regimes. We show that fast-growing provinces experienced less capital inflows before the large-scale market reform, contrary to the prediction of the neoclassical growth theory. As China transitioned from the central-planning economy to the market economy, the negative correlation between productivity growth and capital inflows became much less pronounced. From a regional perspective, this finding suggests domestic institutional factors play an important role in shaping the pattern of capital flows.
P20|The happiness gap in Eastern Europe|Citizens in Eastern Europe are less satisfied with life than their peers in other countries. This happiness gap has persisted over time, despite predictions to the contrary by earlier scholars. It holds after controlling for a variety of covariates, such as the standard of living, life expectancy and Eastern Orthodox religion. Armed with a battery of surveys from the early 1990s to 2014, we argue that the happiness gap is explained by how citizens in post-communist countries perceive their governments. Eastern Europeans link their life satisfaction to higher perceived corruption and weaker government performance. Our results suggest that the transition from central planning is still incomplete, at least in the psychology of people.
P20|Social networks and migration decisions: The influence of peer effects in rural households in Central Asia|This study examines the influence of social networks on household decisions to emigrate from rural Central Asia. It identifies the peer effects of social networks by using a unique and detailed dataset derived from the author's field survey in a rural village in a post-Soviet Central Asian country. Extended versions of spatial autoregressive models are then estimated by using the generalized spatial two-stage least squares method. The empirical results suggest that peer effects positively influence household decisions to emigrate, whereas network position does not. It is suggested the existence of intense social networks, which can be sources of spillover effects, might increase migration from the village society.
P20|Housing price appreciation, investment opportunity, and firm innovation: Evidence from China|The impact of housing price appreciation on firm innovation may be negative. Housing price appreciation generates real estate investment opportunities with high returns, making manufacturing firms more likely to diversify into the real estate industry. With limited resources, once investing in real estate development, these firms will invest less in innovation. By examining manufacturing firms in China for the period 1999–2007, we provide evidence by finding that housing price appreciation negatively influenced manufacturing firms’ innovation propensities. Additionally, we further explore the underlying mechanism by examining the likelihood of listed firms’ diversification into the real estate industry, and how the diversification influenced their patenting. Consistent with the investment opportunity hypothesis, we find that (1) housing price appreciation stimulated firms to enter the real estate industry, and a firm's invention patenting was negatively influenced subsequent to its real estate diversification; (2) the negative effect was more pronounced where housing price growth rates were higher.
P20|Size and composition of public investment, sectoral composition and growth|After providing some descriptive evidence on the relationship between the size and composition of public expenditure and the sectoral employment composition of the economy, this paper develops an endogenous growth model with two private sectors, where the government provides, as pure public goods, both infrastructure investment, directly affecting the productivity of private capital in the ‘modern’ sector, and a flow of goods and services, enhancing the productivity of the otherwise labour-intensive ‘traditional’ sector. Government productive expenditure affects the long-run growth rate through its size and composition, both directly, by enhancing the productivity of private factors, and indirectly, by changing the employment sectoral composition of the economy.
P20|Minding the happiness gap: Political institutions and perceived quality of life in transition|Along with political and economic changes, the fall of the socialist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union brought about fundamental institutional reforms. Several studies have examined the causes of the increasing unhappiness that accompanied the transition process, including deteriorating public goods, rising inequality, income volatility, stagnating labor market conditions and changing norms. However, few papers have sought explanations for the life satisfaction differentials between transition and non-transition economies. In this paper, I specifically examine the life satisfaction gap between post-socialist and advanced countries and the role of political institutions for explaining this gap. My results imply that both macro-economic factors and the rule of law explain the overall life satisfaction differential between the advanced and transition societies. The rule of law played an additional role in reducing the happiness gap in the 1990s and may have even reversed it in the post-crisis years. As institutions and macro-economic conditions continue to improve, post-socialist countries may complete their transformation processes and achieve quality-of-life levels comparable with those in the West.
P20|A rational path towards a Pareto optimum for reforms of large state-owned enterprise in China, past, present and future|Since Deng Xiaoping’s historic move towards a market economy in post-Mao China during the 1980s, by far, the most challenging task in China’s reforms has been that related to the moribund state-owned sector due to a range of ideological, political, as well as economic reasons. Such reforms have so far been slow and hesitant, moving forward and backward with mixed results. This paper tackles the pros and cons of such reforms and aims to square a rational strategy based on what has been done so far in the state sector. Unlike a narrow approach currently prevailing in the literature, this paper establishes a partial equilibrium model which incorporates the principal-agent problem into a mixed oligopoly model to explore an optimal strategy for state-owned enterprise reforms in China. We argue that ceteris paribus the current illnesses of low efficiency and rent-seeking commonly suffered by China’s state-owned sector can be cured by a two-pronged strategy in which the importance of property rights holds the key. We have identified two ‘Coase Property Right Points’ in the commonly known choices of institutional changes in a reforming Soviet economy to firstly, make it more efficient, and then Pareto optimal. One institutional change is a ‘joint-stock reform’; the other, a ‘full privatisation reform’. In particular, this study regards ‘social-extra policy burdens’ as the main obstacle to improve much needed efficiency in the state sector. Coase Property Right Points show the necessity for a reduction of the social-extra policy burdens vis-à-vis the state sector’s true comparative advantage
P20|Social trust and use of banking services across households in 28 transitional countries|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to use survey data from a sample of 29,000 households from 28 transitional countries and Turkey to address two main questions: first, is there any effect of social trust on the use of banking services; and second, what are the household-level and country-specific determinants of using banking services in transitional countries. Design/methodology/approach - – The authors use binary probit models, instrumental variables methods and various econometric specifications to test the hypothesis. Findings - – The authors found that the higher level of trust in people predicts a greater level in use of banking services by households regardless of the model specifications and econometric adjustments employed. This association appears to be more prominent among less educated respondents and in countries with low levels of legal enforcement. The results also suggest that location, income and wealth of households, along with country income level, legal enforcement and inflation rates strongly affect the decisions made by households regarding their use of banking services. In contrast, the authors found either a very small or non-significant impact with regard to bank ownership structure on the use of banking services across households. Originality/value - – To the best of the knowledge this is the first study which specifically focusses on social trust and the usage of formal banking services across a large set of transitional countries.
P20|Comparability and Reliability of Financial Information in the Sector of Czech SMES (ten years of IFRS as a part of Czech accounting context)|The aim of this article is to analyse the form and extent of IFRS adoption in the Czech accounting and the main reasons of the lack of interest in IFRS reporting with a special attention to the segment of SMEs. This research is based on the qualitative analysis of present accounting regulation and on results of questionnaire survey of 260 Czech SMEs. As the main causes of the lack of interest in IFRS usage are the specific features of economic conditions, resulting in imbalances between the costs and benefits of practical implementation of IFRS and the lack of interest to report in accordance with IFRS on the side of business partners.
P20|Join to Prosper?|We ask whether EU membership has been associated with increased domestic economic growth. Using different causal identification strategies, different time periods, different country samples, and different datasets, we are unable to demonstrate the presence of a membership growth premium. This may reflect that GDP data are too noisy and/or causal identification too complicated, in which case we should remain agnostic about the EU’s growth impact. Alternatively, it may reflect that EU membership simply has no effect on prosperity.
P20|Decline and Growth in Transition Economies: A Meta-Analysis|Immediately after the collapse of socialism, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union fell into a serious economic crisis, after which they experienced a gradual recovery. Therefore, without exception, these countries followed a J-curved growth path. However, there were marked differences among them in the length and depth of the crisis and the speed of recovery. In this paper, we perform a comparative meta-analysis of the effect size and statistical significance of structural change, transformation policy, the legacy of socialism, inflation, and regional conflict in order to elucidate the mechanism that generated the J-shaped trajectory in transition economies. The meta-synthesis, which employs 3,279 estimates drawn from 123 previous studies, revealed that while the growth-enhancing effects of structural change and transformation policy were small yet significant, inflation and regional conflict had a highly significant and strongly negative effect on output. In addition, the legacy of socialism might exacerbate the decline in production in the early stages of transition. The meta-regression analysis that simultaneously controls for various research conditions and the assessment of publication selection bias provides supporting evidence for the results obtained from the meta-synthesis.
P20|Energy Efficiency in Transition Economies: A Stochastic Frontier Approach|The paper outlines and estimates a measure of underlying efficiency in electricity consumption for an unbalanced panel of 28 transition economies and 5 Western European OECD countries in the period 1994-2007, by estimating a Bayesian Generalized True Random Effects (GTRE) stochastic frontier model that estimates both persistent and transient inefficiency. The properties of alternative GTRE estimation methods in small samples are explored to guide the estimation strategy. The paper analyses the behaviour of underlying efficiency in electricity consumption in these economies after accounting for time-invariant technological differences. After outlining the specific characteristics of the transition economies and their heterogeneous structural economic changes, an aggregate electricity demand function is estimated to obtain efficiency scores that give new insights for transition economies than a simple analysis of energy intensity. There is some evidence of convergence between the CIS countries and a block of Eastern European and selected OECD countries, although other country groups do not follow this tendency, such as the Balkans.
P20|Social Ties for Labor Market Access - Lessons from the Migration of East German Inventors|We study the impact of social ties on the migration of inventors from East to West Germany, using the fall of the Iron Curtain and German reunification as a natural experiment. We identify East German inventors via their patenting track records prior to 1990 and their social security records in the German labor market after reunification. Modeling inventor migration to West German regions after 1990, we find that Western regions with stronger historically determined social ties across the former East-West border attracted more inventors after the fall of the Iron Curtain than regions without such ties. However, mobility decisions made by inventors with outstanding patenting track records (star inventors) were not impacted by social ties. We conclude that social ties support labor market access for migrant inventors and determine regional choices while dependence on these ties is substantially reduced for star performers.
P20|General versus vocational education: Lessons from a quasi-experiment in Croatia|This paper identifies the causal effect an educational reform implemented in Croatia in 1975/76 and 1977/78 had on educational and labor market outcomes. High-school education was split into two phases which resulted in reduced tracking, extended general curriculum for students attending vocational training, and an attachment of a vocational context to general high-school programs. Exploiting the rules on elementary school entry and timing of the reform, we use a regression discontinuity design and pooled Labor Force Surveys 2000–2012 to analyze the effect of the reform on educational attainment and labor market outcomes. We observe heterogeneity of the effects of the reform across gender, as for males we find that the probability of completing high school as well as the probability of completing university education decreased, while for females we do not observe any adverse effects. We explain this heterogeneity via different selection into schooling for males and females. The reform did not positively affect individuals’ labor market prospects; therefore, we conclude that the observed general-vocational wage differential is mainly driven by self-selection into the type of high school.
P20|The evolution of law under communism and post-communism: a system-theory analysis in the spirit of Luhmann|The paper suggests that Luhmannâ€™s theory of social systems and evolution offers a powerful approach for analyzing law and the economy. It considers Yugoslavia and some Central European countries before and after 1990. Luhmannâ€™s concept of evolution stands in stark contrast to mainstream economic theory. It enables us to clarify the concept of transformation. A transformation became necessary because communism was an evolutionary dead end. According to this view, in postcommunism the primacy of functional differentiation needs to be reestablished because it was partially reversed under communist rule. In these circumstances, the popular call for â€œsufficientâ€ public control over the market is asking for the impossible. Post-communist law is bound to fall behind the evolution of markets. This causes economic problems and retards financial deepening.
P20|Population Decline in Lithuania: Who Lives in Declining Regions and Who Leaves?|"Since the 1990s, Lithuania lost almost a quarter of its population, and some regions within the country lost more than 50% of their residents. Such a sharp population decline poses major challenges to politicians, policy makers and planners. This study aims to get more insight into the recent processes of socio-spatial change and the role of selective migration in Lithuania. The main focus is on understanding who lives in those regions which are rapidly losing population, and who is most likely to leave these regions. This is one of the first studies to use individual level Lithuanian census data from 2001 and 2011. We found that low socio-economic status residents and older residents dominate the population of shrinking regions, and unsurprisingly we found that the most ""successful"" people are the most likely to leave such regions. This process of selective migration reinforces the negative downward spiral of declining regions. As a result, socio-spatial polarisation is growing within the country, where people with higher socio-economic status are increasingly overrepresented in the largest city-regions, while the elderly and residents with a lower socioeconomic status are overrepresented in declining rural regions. This paper provides empirical evidence of selective migration and increasing regional disparities in Lithuania. While the socio-spatial changes are obvious in Lithuania, there is no clear strategy on how to cope with extreme population decline and increasing regional inequalities within the country."
P20|Does Joining the EU Make You Happy? Evidence from Bulgaria and Romania|Abstract We examine the effect of joining the European Union on individual life satisfaction in Bulgaria and Romania in the context of the 2007 EU enlargement. Although EU membership is among the most important events in Bulgaria and Romania’s modern histories, there is no evidence on how it affected the subjective well-being of ordinary people in the two countries. Using a difference-in-differences strategy and Eurobarometer data, we provide some of the first evidence that joining the EU increased average life satisfaction in Bulgaria and had a positive but statistically insignificant effect in Romania. One explanation is that after both countries joined in 2007, trust towards the EU only increased in Bulgaria but not in Romania. Furthermore, Romania’s political war of 2007 may have mired the country’s positive life satisfaction experiences related to EU membership. We also show that the younger, the employed and those with a high-school education were the winners from EU integration. Our results are robust to two placebo tests, in which we use two fake entry dates to the EU, as well as an estimation using bootstrapped standard errors. Our findings have implications for EU integration policy and future enlargements.
P20|The effects of privatization on exports and jobs|The privatization of state-owned enterprises (SOE) in transition economies has often been found to improve employment and productivity of privatized SOEs, despite policymakers’ fears regarding possible job cuts. This positive effect can be enhanced if privatization also promotes firms’ exports. A recent firm-level analysis of China reveals that privatization has indeed a positive effect on export propensity, employment, and productivity in both the short and long term. The effect mostly stems from changes in firms’ attitudes about profits and risks due to competitive pressure.
P20|From planning to chaos to market: Ethnic inequality in Bulgaria|We document changes in relative earnings of the ethnic Turkish workers in Bulgaria through the country’s transition from planning to markets. Using data from four periods: pre-transition communist era (late 1980s), early transition years (early 1990s), late transition years (early 2000s), and post-transition (late 2000s), we find that the level of raw ethnic inequality (measured as earnings differences between Turkish and Bulgarian workers) increased immediately after the regime change and plateaued throughout the course of transition. Ethnic inequality measures adjusted for observable characteristics follow a similar pattern but post-transitional differences between ethnic groups disappear. Changes over time in the ethnic earnings gaps differ for men and women. The raw and adjusted male ethnic gaps increased steadily during transition years but dropped post-transition, while the raw female ethnic gap fluctuated across the four periods. The adjusted female ethnic gap disappeared completely in the postransitional years. We identify different sources of the changes in the level of ethnic inequality, such as changes in the labor market characteristics and in the wage structure. Evidence suggests that the decline in the relative earnings of Turkish men was due primarily to the widening of the wage structure. Turkish working women improved their relative standing mainly from more favorable changes in labor market characteristics. These changes were only partially due to a selection in labor force participation.
P20|Merre vezessen a magyar kapitalizmus útja?. Látkép Ronald Coase világítótornyából<BR>[Which course for Hungary s capitalism?. A view from Ronald Coase s lighthouse]|"A tanulmány - amely Coase és az új intézményi közgazdaságtan alapján keresi a címbeli kérdésre adható választ - a kapitalizmus alapvető interakciós formájaként a kölcsönösen előnyös cserét azonosítja, amely az emberi együttműködés megnyilvánulása. A gazdasági fejlődés feltétele e kooperáció költségeit csökkentő társadalmi játékszabályok, intézmények kialakítása. A jól működő kapitalizmus intézményi rendje sűrű és sokrétű, a részleteit tekintve időben és térben igen változó, jelentős részben nem állami, hanem magáneredetű. Ez a rend nem tervezhető meg, és jelenlegi tudásunk alapján nem is érthető meg konzisztens, összefüggő rendszerként. A magyar gazdaság fejlődési célját ezért nem lehet nemzetgazdasági szintű rendszerként vagy modellként megfogalmazni. A tényleges feladat az intézményi rend középszintű elemeinek fokozatos, kísérletező változtatása, figyelembe véve a már létező intézményi környezet történetileg adott, helyhez és időhöz kötött sajátosságait. De az intézményi ""barkácsolásnak"" mindvégig szem előtt kell tartania a kapitalizmus alapelvét: az önkéntes, kölcsönösen előnyös tranzakciók támogatását. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: K10, P10, P20, L14, O17."
P20|Wladimir Andreff (Ed.), Disequilibrium Sports Economics: Competitive Imbalance and Budget Constraints|The economics of professional team sport leagues has been built on three main pillars in the US literature: economic equilibrium for the product market and labour market for talent; profit maximisation; and competitive balance between teams (sporting equilibrium). The European literature has brought a fourth pillar: win maximisation with a hard budget constraint (break-even accounting rule). These four pillars have remained little questioned until recently. This emerging literature is one of the motivations for launching a book dealing with disequilibrium. Another is the editor’s conviction that the reality in team sport leagues does not fit with general equilibrium solutions. The first chapter introduces the previous elements and more generally the book while the seven following chapters develop a specific aspect related to disequilibrium: an attempt at modelling; a dynamic non-equilibrium simulation; the metrics of competitive imbalance; gender imbalance on the sports programme market; and the last three chapters on soft budget constraints with three different focuses (comparison between European and US leagues; governance and agency problem; regulation regarding the new UEFA club licensing and Financial Fair Play). As a whole, the book provides an original and realistic view that can and perhaps even must shape the future of sports economics.
P20|Lessons from Enterprise Reforms in China and Vietnam|This paper surveys a few key features of SOE reforms in China and Vietnam, focusing particularly on the evolution of ownership structures and on the relative weight of market regulatory mechanisms, and discusses their general implications for socialist development. It tentatively concludes that some broad principles informing and constraining any feasible socialist-oriented economic strategy can indeed be identified.
P20|Decline and Growth in Transition Economies: A Meta-Analysis|Immediately after the collapse of socialism, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union fell into a serious economic crisis, after which they experienced a gradual recovery. Therefore, without exception, these countries followed a J-curved growth path. However, there were marked differences among them in the length and depth of the crisis and the speed of recovery. In this paper, we perform a comparative meta-analysis of the effect size and statistical significance of structural change, transformation policy, the legacy of socialism, inflation, and regional conflict in order to elucidate the mechanism that generated the J-shaped trajectory in transition economies. The meta-synthesis, which employs 3,279 estimates drawn from 123 previous studies, revealed that while the growth-enhancing effects of structural change and transformation policy were small yet significant, inflation and regional conflict had a highly significant and strongly negative effect on output. In addition, the legacy of socialism might exacerbate the decline in production in the early stages of transition. The meta-regression analysis that simultaneously controls for various research conditions and the assessment of publication selection bias provides supporting evidence for the results obtained from the meta-synthesis.
P20|Corporate Governance Quality in Selected Transition Countries|Important questions that concern the notion of good corporate governance focus on what good corporate governance is, who benefits from good corporate governance, and how corporate governance quality can be measured. The aim of our study was to broaden our understanding of the role of standards and codes of good corporate governance in improving governance practices.We found that not only formal regulations, standards, and governance codes, but also corporate governance indices-which make the assessment of companies’ governance practices possible-are important in measuring and improving governance quality. The results of the research based on the SEECGAN Index methodology indicated that mandatory requirements and voluntary recommendations of high governance standards had a positive impact on the corporate governance practice in Slovenia.
P20|Worker flows and Labour Market Adjustment during the Great Recession: Evidence from a Large Shock|This paper analyzes how the labor market adjusts to the Great Recession. To this aim, we use the data for Latvia, a country that have experienced one of the most severe recessions in Europe and a subsequent remarkable recovery. Employing longitudinal EU SILC data and a panel data set constructed by us from various waves of the Latvian Labour Force Survey (LLFS), we estimate worker transitions between labor market states. Labor market adjustment takes place predominantly at the extensive margin since it is driven by flows from permanent wage employment to unemployment. We also show that older, non-Latvian and above all less skilled workers are especially hard hit by the economic crisis. Estimated transitions between four mutually exclusive occupational groups demonstrate that downward mobility is very limited even during the Great Recession. Finally, wage regressions suggest that job mobility is not associated with increased labour productivity during and immediately after the crisis.
P20|Does the Russian economy need human capital? Ten doubts|Positive impact of human capital on economic growth seems to be undisputable but its magnitude depends on to what extent high quality education and skills are demanded and valued by the labour market. This essay argues that the lack of demand for human capital cannot be cured by growing supply if other things remain intact. The author formulates 10 doubts concerning human capital absorption in the Russian economy. These doubts, supported by statistical and anecdotal evidence, relate to low quality of the Russian institutional environment which limits demand for labour and distorts its structure.
P20|How to destroy a country. The economics and the politics of the Greek crisis|"(On the book by J. K. Galbraith ""Welcome to the poisoned chalice: The destruction of Greece and the future of Europe"" and not only) The economic future of Europe depends on the combination of many processes, not only strictly economic ones. Currently, the situation is becoming quite complicated, with a number of particularly adverse tendencies overlapping and mutually strengthening one another. Adding to the classical problems involving the economic slowdown, high unemployment rate and insufficient innovation of the European economy, is the immigration crisis, the escalating terrorist threat and Brexit, as well as the risk of Grexit. The potential overlapping of Brexit and Grexit could be fatal for European integration. Solving the Greek syndrome requires a radical change in the way the European Union, especially Germany, approaches this problem. On the one hand, specific structural reforms and fiscal adjustments are necessary in Greece, but on the other hand, there’s a necessity for a conditional reduction of the Greek public debt by half. What is needed in the long run, is to ensure that some countries’ surpluses are not financed with others’ deficits and debts."
P20|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of state-owned companies and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 of the largest Russian companies, we estimated direct and indirect state participation as a percentage of shareholdings for direct and indirect federal property during the time period of 2006–2014. We used two methods to estimate the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with OECD and Rosstat statistics for a broader sample of Russian companies owned by the public sector. This study revealed a decline in SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market and a slight increase in their share of total revenues and employment. The results indicated that public SOEs demonstrated significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies had a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over a 9-year period, we observed that this gap narrowed. This may be due to conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy that result in certain advantages for SOEs in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control experienced a rapid growth in revenue and productivity compared to other firms. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
P20|State-owned enterprises in the Russian market: Ownership structure and their role in the economy|This article analyzes the ownership structure of companies with state participation and their role in the Russian economy. Using a sample of 114 largest companies we have estimated direct and indirect state participation as percentage of shareholdings which are in direct and indirect federal property in 2006—2014. We have used two methods for estimating the role of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which allowed us to compare our results with those of OECD and Rosstat statistics for the broader sample of Russian companies in the public sector. This article reveals the decline of SOEs’ share in the capitalization of the Russian stock market as well as a slight increase of their share in total revenue and employment. The results show that public SOEs, demonstrate significantly higher productivity compared to non-public SOEs and private companies have a distinct advantage in productivity compared with public SOEs. Despite the significant advantages in productivity of private companies over the SOEs, over 9-year period we observed a reduction of this gap. This may be due to the fact that in conditions of high financial volatility and stagnation of the economy SOEs had certain advantages in terms of access to sources of long-term funding and other forms of state support. However, SOEs with indirect state control had a rapid growth in revenue and productivity in comparison with the rest of them. This may indicate the presence of a specific stock selection mechanism for transferring more effective SOEs from direct state ownership to indirect control as an alternative to privatization.
P20|Od Mao Zedonga do Xi Jinpinga. Cechy, cele, kierunki i narzędzia zagranicznej polityki gospodarczej Chińskiej Republiki Ludowej / From Mao Zedong to Xi Jinping. The foreign economic policy of the PRC – characteristics, objectives, directions and tools|The aim of the paper is to evaluate the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) foreign economic policy and to indicate the consequences of that policy for China’s position on the international scene. The paper presents the characteristics, objectives, directions and tools of its foreign policy, with special emphasis on economic aspects. The most important conclusion from the analysis is that in the last 65 years, since the establishment of the PRC, a unique style of Chinese foreign policy was formed, which is based on money, not arms. China has experienced significant economic and social development, but is still facing opportunities as well as challenges and threats.
P20|Privatization In China: Technology And Gender In The Manufacturing Sector|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep12071-abs-0001""> This paper examines the impact of privatization on gender discrimination in China across firms with different technology intensities. Using a comprehensive firm-level survey, the paper identifies gender wage-productivity differentials by directly estimating the relative productivity levels of workers from the production function of firms. The panel structure of the survey is taken advantage of by following firms that were fully state-owned in the initial year, and distinguishing them from firms that were later privatized. The main results show that privatization was associated with an increase in relative productivity of female workers in high technology industries, and a reduction in relative productivity of female workers in low technology industries. Time varying coefficient results suggest that the improvements in gender outcomes in high technology industries may not be maintained in the long run as the relative wage and productivity ratios tend to deteriorate, potentially due to low supply of highly educated female workers. At the same time, outcomes in privatized low technology industries increase over time, lowering the wage and productivity gaps between male and female workers. (JEL J16, J31, P20)"
P20|Could climate change affect government expenditures? Early evidence from the Russian regions|This paper explores the implications of climate change for government expenditures. Using a rich sub-national dataset for Russia covering 1995–2009, we estimate the impacts of changes in climatic conditions through short-term variation and medium-term changes in average regional temperatures and precipitation. We show a strong and robust negative (but non-linear) relation between regional budget expenditures and population-weighted temperature. The results indicate that an increase in temperature results in a decrease in public expenditures and that the magnitude of this effect diminishes the warmer the region. Further, our results suggest that the benefits from warming accumulate and that adaptation measures could help leverage those benefits. The estimated decreases in regional government expenditure are, however, quite small. It should be noted that our results are estimated for a scenario of mild temperature increase (1–2 °C). Larger temperature increases are likely to have dramatic consequences e.g. from loss of permafrost and methane release that are impossible to predict with available historical data.
P20|Let the markets begin: The interplay between free prices and privatisation in early transition|This paper revisits the period of early post-communist transition to study the immediate impact on economic growth of the interplay between price liberalisation and large-scale privatisation in 27 economies. The trajectories along these two dimensions were quite different across transition economies in the period under scrutiny – this diversity is well mirrored by available indicators, which I use to approach empirically the interaction between that pair of reforms. My estimates suggest that the negative short-run effect of privatisation may be counterweighted by the existence of a system of non-distorted price signals. These results seem to be in broad agreement with previous analyses, which I review briefly. Given the small size of my sample and other possible data issues, particular care is taken when examining the robustness of the findings. While not rejecting earlier explanations (e.g. based on the importance of initial conditions, namely the dimension of inherited distortions in production), this paper offers the suggestion of an additional view on why the so-called transformational recession was deeper in some countries than in others – countries which have privatised without fully liberalising prices may have experienced more economic harm.
P20|Imprese cooperative e democrazia economica|In a recently published book, Bruno Jossa (2015) proposed an economic system composed mainly of co-operative firms (democratic enterprises), where means of production are publicly owned and wage labour is forbidden. Jossa argues that a system of co-operative firms, not a system of planned economy, is the true socialism, fully compatible with the letter of Marx’s writings. Jossa’s proposal is compared with that of Meade (1989, 1993) involved in the use of a special kind of co-operative, DLCP, defined as a firm in which workers and capitalists negotiate an agreement which fixes the firm’s profit appropriation criterion and provides for the issuance of two different categories of shares, labour shares and capital shares. Meade’s project also provides a large state intervention in the economy. Both proposals lead, according to their authors, to reduce unemployment and to an improvement in the material and moral condition of individuals. Strengths and weaknesses of the two proposals are highlighted.
P20|Implications of the Transformation of the State-Owned Banking System into System of Foreign-Owned Banks in New Member States for Macroeconomic and Financial Stability|All studied CEECs represent heterogeneous entities with different starting positions in their transition to market economies as well as chosen paths that have constrained or enabled the emergence of macro-economic and financial fragility, associated with the dominance of foreign-owned banks in the transition economies of CEE region. The implications of foreign ownership for macro-economic stability have to be presented and interpreted with caution. When drawing conclusions on the effects of different ownership structure, one has to bear in mind that in the case of CEECs, specific historical context needs to be acknowledged, as several problems and obstacles in achieving the macroeconomic stability with the state-ownership in the banking sector were related to the transition process from socialist production regime to the introduction of market economy institutions. In the 2000s, on the other hand, the activities of foreignowned banks took place in the context of increasing global liquidity and asset prices’ boom that was taking place in the Western world. Hence, ownership as such has not mattered so much for the macro-economic stability in the CEECs, but rather internal developments, that is, transition to market economy with associated challenges in the 1990s that rendered these economies unstable, and external factors, such as international capital flows in the 2000s that incurred imbalances through the activities of the banking sector.
P20|Anomie And Alienation In The Post-Communist Area: A Reapplication Of The Middleton Scale In Russia And Kazakhstan|Unlike commonly used, anomie and alienation not only have different theoretical backgrounds, but also different indicators and predictors. I examine the highly institutionalized alienation scale originally introduced by Middleton (1963), reapplied as a measurement of alienation (Seeman, 1991) and anomie (Huschka and Mau 2005, 2006) in a very relevant context for an anomic situation – the post-Communist countries Russia and Kazakhstan (round six of the World Values Surveys fielded the alienation question in just these two countries). Based on confirmatory factor analysis and multiple group comparisons, I find that the scale consists of two dimensions, which can be described as an anomie and alienation. The anomic dimension consists of indicators “normlessness” and “powerlessness,” whereas the alienative one is comprised by “social isolation”, “meaninglessness,” and “job dissatisfaction.” Though the structure proves to have full invariance in both countries, the predictors for anomie and alienation are different. For both countries, only income is an important predictor for anomie, and though to a lower degree, for alienation. In Kazakhstan, the level of urbanization also provides an impact on the level of anomie. Apart from income, in Russia alienation can be predicted by gender, and type of occupation (manual or intellectual), whereas in Kazakhstan it can be predicted by age
P20|25 Years of the Transition Strategy Debate: Radicalism versus Gradualism|In this paper, we trace the academic debate on the transition strategies that former socialist countries have adopted and implemented in evolving towards a market-oriented economy through a comprehensive review of the preceding literature. The debate has developed as an argument between two conflicting reform philosophies, namely, radicalism and gradualism. Despite that a quarter century that has passed since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we found that academic discussion regarding these two reform alternatives has continued, and there is no sign of convergence. We also found a close relationship between the debate attitudes and the literature attributes, such as authorship, research contents and publication media.
P20|Socialist Legacies of Personnel and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies: An Analytical Review|Socialist legacies of personnel / human resource management are examined, reviewing 83 studies based on the context of transition from the socialist management to the modern management in European transition economies. The results show that the studies tend to exhibit a relatively strong preference to explain transitions accompanied by institutional legacies of socialist personnel management as associated with the traditional industrial sectors inherited from the socialist period. Cultural legacies are relatively focused widely throughout all European transition economies, but EU accession of these countries gives negative impact on maintaining studies on Socialist-specific cultural legacies. Socialist legacies in personnel and human resource management remain strong contextual characteristics in European transition economies.
P20|G. Warren Nutter’s “Traveler’s tale of the Soviet economy”: A witness to the actual world|The text of G. Warren Nutter’s 1956 “Traveler’s tale of the Soviet economy” challenges the belief that only credentialed experts offer useful economic analysis. Nutter’s introduction is a remarkable statement of an approach in which an expert attempts to see the world through eyes unfiltered by theoretical propositions. His distrust of theory is such that his “Tale” was hurriedly written so that these presuppositions did not creep in to “correct” the naïve impressions of a tourist. Two decades after Nutter’s trip, Alain Besançon (Survey: A Journal of East and West Studies 25(4): 143–159, 1980 ) pointed out the inconsistency between the Soviet world described by witnesses and that described by orthodox Western economic models. More recently an inconsistency in the sequences of models in American economic textbooks—faster Soviet growth without catching up to American levels—has been detailed (Levy and Peart Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization 78: 110–125, 2011 ). A difference between the witnessed world and the modeled world in the sequence of textbooks is that the modeled world was not possible. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P20|Entrepreneurship and the intergenerational transmission of values|There is mounting empirical evidence that there is intergenerational transmission of parental preferences for entrepreneurship. However, much of the work on this topic is not explicit about the role of values in this transmission process. Furthermore, nearly all studies neglect potential heterogeneity of values among entrepreneurial parents. This paper contributes to the literature by making use of a natural experiment that allows (1) identifying a group of entrepreneurial parents who have a distinct priority of challenging existing conditions (“mastery”) and (2) detecting whether this value orientation is transmitted. Comparing German entrepreneurs two decades after Reunification reveals that the children of self-employed parents who encountered a great deal of resistance in the socialist German Democratic Republic due to their self-employment are much more likely to give mastery as the reason for running their own venture compared to entrepreneurs whose parents did not have to overcome this sort of challenge. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P20|Establishment Mode Choices of Emerging Multinationals: Evidence from Poland|This study identifies and investigates the determinants of FDI modes in the context of outward foreign direct investment (OFDI) undertaken by companies from Poland. The analysis covers the interfaces between selected host-country variables and firm resources with FDI modes. A conceptual framework for FDI mode determinants is presented as a basis for the ensuing empirical analysis. The research hypotheses based on previous research are subjected to statistical verification using survey data of 60 Polish foreign investors collected throughout 2013. The main findings show that an increase of previous host-country exposure, as well as host country market attractiveness, favour the choice of green-field mode, while the lack of such exposure and the related knowledge favours acquisitions. Moreover the said green-field operations tend to be located in politically stable markets. The possession of intangible resources turns out to be irrelevant for FDI mode choice.
P20|The Real Value of China's Stock Market|China is the world’s largest investor and greatest contributor to global economic growth by wide margins, and will remain so for many years. The efficiency of its financial system in allocating capital to investment will be important to sustain this growth. This paper shows that China’s stock market has a crucial role to play. Since the reforms of the last decade, China’s stock market has become as informative about future corporate profits as in the US. Moreover, though it is a segmented market, Chinese investors price risk and other stock characteristics remarkably like investors in other large economies. They pay up for large stocks, growth stocks, and long shots, and they discount for illiquidity and market risk. China’s stock market no longer deserves its reputation as a casino. In addition, the trend of stock price informativeness over the last two decades is highly correlated with that of corporate investment efficiency. China’s stock market appears to be aggregating diffuse information and generating useful signals for managers. On the buy side, because of its low correlation with other stock markets and high average returns, China’s stock market offers high alpha to diversified global investors who can access it. Yet this high alpha amounts to an inflated cost of equity capital, constraining the investment of China’s smaller, more profitable enterprises. Further reforms that open this market to global investors and improve stock price informativeness will be important to increase China’s investment efficiency and fuel its continued economic growth. Finally, we interpret the stock market’s recent gyrations through the lens of this research, arguing that its post-crisis lag was a rational downward adjustment to competition from the rapidly expanding shadow banking sector, and its enormous rally last year is a cheer for the roll out of deposit insurance and other Third Plenum reforms. More than ever, China’s stock market is a crucial counterpart to its extraordinary, relationship-driven, but opaque banking sector. China’s stock market may now be the world’s most important crystal ball.
P20|The Economic Crisis in Russia: Causes, Deployment Mechanisms, and the Possible Consequences|"The current economic crisis in Russia has been caused by a combination of situational and ""systemic"" factors. The former group of factors includes (inter alia) a fall in international oil prices; the political revolution in Ukraine; a decrease of public trust in political power institutions in 2008-2014; and a low quality analytical support of political decision-making process. The most important ""systemic"" factors are a traditional dependence of Russia on raw materials' export and the crisis of national identity. The long-term effect of the crisis will be a narrowing of the spectrum of positions that Russia could take in the world economic and political system. Before the crisis, the spectrum of options was limited by a position of regional power (at best) and a position of emerging state/country with an uncertain status, survived in or experiencing a de jure or de facto territorial disintegration. As a result of the crisis the best possible option seems to be a position of a country at the periphery of the developed world deprived of any decisive influence on the politics of its neighbors."
P20|Political Constraints on Modernization of National Economy|The main political constraints blocking modernization of Russian economy are a low quality of official concepts of modernization, prevalence of authoritarian values and attitudes in Russian political culture, and excessive military expenditures. The recently formulated economic doctrines tend to minimize the import of technology and to restrict access of foreign capital into the most attractive industries. The most likely effect of such doctrines (if implemented) is - at best - stagnation, and at worst - the prevalence of an archaic economy, which supplies low-quality products and maims the environment. In Russian political culture today one can see a prevalence of a conflicting mixture of right and left authoritarian value-orientations, poorly compatible with requirements of the XXI century modernization. In 2010-2014 Russian military expenditures increased steadily. Meanwhile, limited by the GDP size, these expenditures are not able to provide Russia with a place among the world leading military powers, but they can easily undermine the financial basis of Russian modernization. The presence of these constraints is largely due to the worldview of a significant part of Russian political elite. And this cultural problem is much more complicated than any political issue.
P20|Political-Economic Symbioses: Towards a Political Economy of Bulgarian Transition|Transition is usually referred to as ‘the Transition’, with a capital letter and in singular, and as ‘from – to’ (‘from totalitarianism and state economy to democracy and market’). This study speaks not of a single, transparent, manageable ‘Transition’ but of many transitions as spontaneously occurring transformations and as legitimating strategies of the actors taking part in them. The key concept to describe these processes is ‘political-economic symbioses – a concretion of political and economic networks whose immediate origin can be found in the last period of the ‘former regime’. They take place at diverse levels and in diverse fields as transformations and restructuring of diverse types of capital (political, economic and social). The network analysis to which I adhere here is close to the sociology of Michel Callon, Bruno Latour, John Law etc., known as ‘actor-network sociology’, combined with that of Pierre Bourdieu, used by Laszlo Bruszt and David Stark in the analysis of the economic transformation in Hungary in the early 1990s. Combining these approaches provides the key to understanding that critical weakening of the state and institutions that is observed in the transition years.
P20|"The Historic ""March"" of the Bulgarian Economy in the Space of the Liberal and the State Capitalism"|"The research uses as methodology the cluster analysis of the types of capitalism made in a project funded by the SRA of UNWE ""The clusters of capitalism (typology and dynamics of the capitalist economies)"" defended and published as a monograph. The historic ""march"" of the Bulgarian economy in the space of the liberal and the state capitalism for the period from 1925 to 2005 is studied. Economic, demographic, infrastructure and social indicators of the Bulgarian economy are examined. The comparative analysis of the socio-economic development of Bulgaria and Greece is made."
P20|Capitalism [Capitalismul]|Although Romanian authorities said they aim to establish free market economy, many officials and opinion makers and, unfortunately, quite a few economists do not seem to know very well even now – a quarter of a century since the fall of communism – what this type of economy is and how it works. The analysis of the features of this economic and social system is therefore useful.
P20|Assessing Fdi Determinants In Cee Countries During And After Transition|The aim of this paper is to identify if the drivers of inward foreign direct investments’ stocks in Central and Eastern European countries changed in the last 20 years, given two substantial economic evolutions encountered in this period: the transition process and the adhesion at the European Union. We are interested if foreign investors are attracted by the quality of institutions, the labour market or by the telecommunications infrastructure, expressed by 10 variables, in the 11 newest EU member states. Therefore, we use a fixed effects panel data approach during 1994-2013 which we apply in two stages. In the first stage, we find the variables that strongly influence FDI in each of the three groups of determinants. In the second stage, the panel data analysis is applied only for the variables previously find as significant for FDI, to which we add traditional FDI determinants, such as trade openness and GDP per capita. Also, the mentioned years are divided into two sub periods, the first representing the transition period (from 1994 until 2003) and the second one the years comprising the EU adhesion process (from 2004 until 2013). The results confirm that there are changes in FDI determinants in these countries. During 1994 to 2003, investors were mostly interested in the quality of institutions, the openness of the economies and the environments capable of growth, where the products can be sold. For the period starting with 2004, the analyzed countries are attractive mainly through their capacity of providing labour force with low costs and created resources, such as the development of the mobile networks. The results obtained are of particular importance for the public policy decision makers, as the changes in FDI determinants require the adaptation of public policies in the CEE countries in order to remain attractive for foreign investors.
P20|“Fettered” and “unfettered” capitalism in J.A. Schumpeter’s concept of Tax State and economic development|Economic development and transformation processes, have become much more intense in economic reality in the last years than they have ever been before. At this time has raised a lot of questions about the causes of the actual Global Crisis, future crises, the factors affecting the modern economy, about the essence of contemporary capitalism, demographic problems and overgrown bureaucracy. The most spectacular threat to capitalism, (based on private entrepreneurship) according to Schumpeter, stems from the high, growing and progressive taxation. Schumpeter saw clearly that the financing of public goods and services (requiring taxes, maybe even relatively high) is something other than a clerical control of the economic system that violates the natural economic mechanism. Moreover Schumpeter says explicitly, that entrepreneur does not have to be one person, he even states that the country (state) itself, or its agenda, can act as an entrepreneur. Therefore can be concluded that we may have to deal with “Tax State” which is typical for “fettered capitalism” and with “entrepreneurial state” which is typical for “unfettered capitalism”. The main goal of this paper is to present two different approaches to economic development concept: Schumpeter’s “fettered” and “unfettered” capitalism in the context of “Tax State” and interventionism.
P20|George Orwell and the Incoherence of Democratic Socialism|George Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen-Eighty Four were intended to advocate democratic socialism by portraying undemocratic forms of socialism as totalitarian. For Orwell, democracy was a political institution which would limit the abuse of power. But there are several problems with democratic socialism which ensure its failure. In Orwell's novel A Clergyman's Daughter, Orwell's views of economics and politics are inconsistent and conflicting in a way that ensures democratic socialism will not succeed on Orwell's terms. Democratic socialism in general is criticized according to F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom and John Jewkes's The New Ordeal by Planning, whose arguments differ crucially from those against market socialism by Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny. An economic analysis of the political institutions of democratic socialism shows that democratic socialism must necessarily fail for political (not economic) reasons even if nobody in authority has ill-intentions or abuses their power.
P20|Two Opposing Economic-Literary Critiques of Socialism: George Orwell Versus Eugen Richter and Henry Hazlitt|Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four criticized totalitarian forms of socialism from a Public Choice perspective, assuming that socialism would work as an economic system as long as the proper political institutions were in place to curb the potential for the abuse of power. This is contrasted with two novels by others who took the opposite approach: Richter's Pictures of the Socialistic Future and Hazlitt's Time Will Run Back. These two assumed that the political implementation of socialism would be perfect but that socialism would necessarily turn totalitarian because of the problem of economic calculation. These novels assumed away the Public Choice problem of institutions and the abuse of power and focused on the political implications of socialism as a purely economic system. Contrasting these two sets of novels shows how the Austrian and Public Choice schools criticize socialism in two entirely different ways.
P20|George Orwell as a Public Choice Economist|George Orwell is famous for his two final fictions, Animal Farm (Orwell 1945a) and Nineteen Eighty-Four (Orwell 1949a). These two works are sometimes understood to defend capitalism against socialism. But as Orwell was a committed socialist, this could not have been his intention. Orwell's criticisms were directed not against socialism per se but against the Soviet Union and similarly totalitarian regimes. Instead, these fictions were intended as Public Choice-style investigations into which political systems furnished suitable incentive structures to prevent the abuse of power. This is demonstrated through a study of Orwell's non-fiction works, where his opinions and intentions are more explicit.
P20|Socialist Calculation and Market Socialism|"This paper focuses on the debate held in the twenties and thirties of the last century between libertarian economists and socialist economists, following the denial by the first ones of the feasibility of a socialist economy. This controversy is well known to specialists and has been widely commented. It seemed to me useful to initiate non-specialists in an original way: by having the controversy speaking by itself. We review the main contributions and summarise their arguments with, initially, the bare minimum of personal comments. Walrasian general equilibrium serves as a reference for the defenders of market socialism in the controversy. But the concept of competition behind this theory is very incomplete; it is purely passive. It follows that the market socialism which emanates from it is not really a MARKET socialism. It is lacking the competition which innovates. Markets for capital goods are also lacking in theses models. Our paper then turns to a new generation of socialist models involving this real competition. We review two models proposed by Bardhan and Roemer and then exhibit a personal model. This type of model is facing a modern criticism whose central concept is the ""soft budget constraint""."
P20|Two Opposing Economic-Literary Critiques of Socialism: George Orwell Versus Eugen Richter and Henry Hazlitt|Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four criticized totalitarian forms of socialism from a Public Choice perspective, assuming that socialism would work as an economic system as long as the proper political institutions were in place to curb the potential for the abuse of power. This is contrasted with two novels by others who took the opposite approach: Richter's Pictures of the Socialistic Future and Hazlitt's Time Will Run Back. These two assumed that the political implementation of socialism would be perfect but that socialism would necessarily turn totalitarian because of the problem of economic calculation. These novels assumed away the Public Choice problem of institutions and the abuse of power and focused on the political implications of socialism as a purely economic system. Contrasting these two sets of novels shows how the Austrian and Public Choice schools criticize socialism in two entirely different ways.
P20|Savings and Inflation Using the Example of Russia in 1992|Savings are a huge boon for the economy. This means both growth today and prospects for growth tomorrow. This is both an investment resource and a medicine for inflation. However, mistakes made in managing the savings by economic authorities, may turn everything upside down and then the savings become a cause of inflation and many other economic woes. This is exactly what happened in the far-off 1992 in Russia. Two approaches: reliable tools and advantages of the bond type form of savings would enable Russia to quickly create a significant stock of «long» money and increase the GDP and, at the same time, significantly reduce inflation.
P20|Bitcoin Mission Statement. Or What does it mean Sharing Economy and Distributed Trust?|Technological advancements in the means of production are the driving force behind the changes in the prevailing system of socio-economic relations. Feudalism was transformed into capitalism as a result of such advancements. While man obtained physical freedom, the financial freedom remained under the control of the centralized authority. A deep level of collaboration is required to attain the next level of productivity provided by new technological advancements. However, the present system with a centralized control of governance and finance appears to constrain and restrain the value producing economy. This constriction becomes especially evident when the business environment requires collaboration to create, as it underlines the inherent conflict of centralized control. The most recent tech sector innovations, such as smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, are poised to disrupt the system of centralized control. The removal of a centralized authority from the position of control will change the fabric of the society to reflect the mesh network of shared resources. The society will transform to the new form of socio-economic relations – the era of Crypto-Socialism.
P20|Why Did China’s Population Grow So Quickly?|By the 1970s, China’s communist government faced a looming resource constraint in “caring” for its nearly 1 billion citizens, necessitating a policy to alleviate the crippling aftermath of nearly 30 years of rapid population growth. The one-child policy of 1979 was the result, and it has since become heralded as an effective government policy to save humans from their lack of reproductive restraint. In this article we explain why population growth in China was so strong from 1949-79, and why the one-child policy was seen as the best solution. Under the leadership of Mao Zedong, the government promoted pro-natalist policies and remunerated families not according to their productivity but by the number of workers. Faced with general economic scarcity from the communist regime’s poor economic policies, parents pursued children as the sole means to avoid an otherwise bleak lifestyle.
P20|Economic development of Comecon countries|In 1949, Soviet Union and some of its satellites created Comecon with the announced goal to facilitate economic cooperation between the socialist countries. The inefficiency of socialist systems affected the performances of Comecon members. However, the analysis of economic development from some of these countries should take into consideration the substantial subsidies received from other Comecon members.
P20|An integrative view on managerial discretion: A study of a Russian firm in transition|What are the forces that influence strategic managerial decisions in the context of economic transition? In this paper, we analyse how strategic and governance forces influence the degree of discretion perceived by managers operating in the context of the transition economy of Russia. An exploratory case study provides insights about the managerial decision-making process in a transition economy through the exploration of context-specific factors that shape the perceived degree of managerial discretion. The findings of the paper redefine the concept, indicating the existence of a relationship between strategic and governance forces and their joint influence on managerial discretion. Our results provide a number of practical and theoretical implications for the managerial decision-making process in Eastern Europe.
P20|The Relationship between Health Care Expenditures and Income in the Selected Transition Economies: A Panel Smooth Transition Regression Analysis|The relationship between health care expenditure and income of transition economies which are members of the European Union are evaluated for the 1995 – 2011 period by Panel Smooth Transition Regression Model. In the study, a second model is established in order to evaluate the effect of age structure, which is an important factor in explaining changes in health care expenditures, by adding the ratio of population under 15 and the ratio of population over 65. In addition, the lagged value of the ratio of public expenditures on health care is added to the model. As a result of the study, there is only one relatively sharp transition observed if income and time are considered as explanatory variables in the related period, but actually by adding age structure variables this transition shows two rather smoother transition structures.
P20|Property management of the state treasury of the Russian Federation: some of the current trends<BR>[Управление Имуществом Государственной Казны Рф: Некоторые Актуальные Тенденции]|The article analyzes the current problems of the property management of the state treasury as part of the public sector of the Russian economy. Focus is on the property complex of the treasury in the narrow sense (excluding the budget funds, securities and land), that is, the area of ??property relations, which, despite the considerable scale, until the mid-2010s remain outside as a coherent state regulation, and detailed investigation. The authors analyze the quantitative parameters of the property of the treasury in the structure of federal property in the 2000s, the formation and limited approach to the management of treasury assets in government programs. The principles and directions of the further implementation of the state policy in this sphere.
P20|The advantages of Serbia for Foreign Direct Investments|The aim of this paper is to explain the advantages of Serbia for foreign direct investment. Nowadays, foreign direct investment represents actual topic, due to Serbia is in transition period last fifteen years, and the influx of foreign direct investment is increasing, especially after the mitigation of global economic crisis. Foreign investments promote basic economic goals: stability, development and sharing of knowledge. With regard to the problem of the extremely high foreign trade deficit and the poor economic performance of Serbia, as well as the lack of financial resources for export growth and economic expansion, foreign investment is the most optimal form of investments in Serbian economy. The results of this study shows that the advantages of Serbia for foreign investments are: favorable geographic location (the heart of South-Eastern Europe), high level of education of the population, most people speak good English and have excellent personal skills, free trade agreements between countries such as Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the country's of North-Eastern Europe, the EFTA states and the EU member states. The conclusions drawn from this study will be greatly beneficial to potential investors who would like to invest in Serbia.
P20|25 Jahre Deutsche Einheit: eine Erfolgsgeschichte?|Twenty-five years after reunification, economic fundamentals between East Germany and West Germany continue to differ. Massive financial transfers could not close the significant “prosperity gap” between the two former countries, but they did reduce it noticeably. This is most obvious with respect to indicators such as GDP per capita and unemployment. Fast convergence is unlikely to occur, as economic development is strongly driven by technology that might generate economies of scale, thereby favouring regions which are already well developed. Therefore, economic policy should no longer aim at convergence but rather at economic growth. Despite considerable progress, more structural change will be necessary for further convergence. Furthermore, the decades-long division generated fundamental political and psychological differences, which continue to be felt. One important factor in the continued economic disparity between the two is that East Germany has had to follow the West German development path, which only makes the catching up process more difficult. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
P20|The Great Recession and social preferences: Evidence from Ukraine|We use detailed survey data to document stark differences between West and East Ukraine when it comes to household attitudes toward market-based economies and democratic institutions. Along both of these dimensions, Eastern Ukrainians are decidedly less supportive of liberal systems. We also find that economic attitudes changed in response to the global financial crisis. West Ukrainian households who were affected more extensively by the crisis were more disappointed with the market and private ownership, while in Eastern Ukraine economic attitudes became less pro-market across the board. Our evidence suggests that attitudes and values are determined by both deep-rooted factors and more transient macroeconomic shocks.
P20|Single Motherhood in East and West Germany: What Can Explain the Differences?|The share of single mothers is higher in East Germany than in West Germany. Using data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP), we examine two transmission channels leading to single motherhood, namely out-of-partnership births and separations of couples with minor children. Women in East Germany have both a higher probability of out-of-partnership birth and a higher probability of separation. We find no evidence that availability of child care plays a role in the differences between East and West Germany. The differences in single motherhood appear to be rather driven by different gender role models and partially also by economic circumstances.
P20|Entrepreneurship and transition in the European transition countries|Objectives: This paper aims to examine the transition process from the development and state of entrepreneurship in 15 former European socialist countries during 2006-2012. Our focus here is not on the full but on just one dimension of transition, entrepreneurship. While it is surely the case that certain transition tasks, like privatizing state-owned enterprises, remain unfinished, a perhaps more interesting question is whether the fundamental characteristics of these economies has changed to the point where starting and growing a new business in the former socialist countries is substantively different from starting and growing a new business elsewhere. Thus, we ask whether it is possible to discern differences with respect to entrepreneurship between the post-socialist countries of Europe and the non-post-socialist countries, controlling for level of economic development. Methodology: Unlike previous analyses that applied single activity related entrepreneurship measures like self-employment, or the GEM's TEA rate, we use a complex entrepreneurship measure, the Global Entrepreneurship and Development Index (GEDI). GEDI incorporates both individual and institutional factors of entrepreneurship in order to explain the role of entrepreneurship in economic development. The GEDI, with its three sub-indexes and fourteen pillars, is a particularly suitable tool for examining the level, the components, and the configuration of the National System of Entrepreneurship. Findings: Investigating the former transition countries, we can conclude that the overall level of entrepreneurship in the Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries fits their level of economic development. While the examined CEE countries have lower GEDI scores as well as institutional development than developed European innovation-driven economies; they possess slightly higher institutional and individual level of development than similarly developed efficiency-driven economies. We anticipated some kinds of characteristic differences between the former socialist and the efficiency-driven countries that would reveal that transition has not been completed. However, our results are more consistent with the conclusions that, while the post-socialist economies were qualitatively different twenty some years ago, those differences have vanished today with the exception of only one of the countries included in our analysis: Russia. Thus, these post-socialist countries (excepting Russia) are on a normal capitalist path with any differences being due to different levels of economic development rather than to having a different economic system. Originality/value: While our results imply that transition is over, there are some shared characteristics of the former socialist countries that most likely stem from their socialist heritage, such as the relatively low level of opportunity perception or cultural support. The results have important implications as they reinforce our argument that, rather than homogeneous entrepreneurship support policies, effective implementation of policies in CEE should fit the profile of the targeted territory.
P20|From independence to the Euro introduction: varieties of capitalism in the Baltic States|The Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, are very successful in transformation. From 1991 to 2015 they regained independence and transformed their economies from socialist central planning into functioning mar-ket economies, joined the EU in 2004 and became member of the Euro zone. Estonia introduced the Euro al-ready in 2011 while Latvia followed in 2014 and Lithuania in 2015. Thereof follow two questions. First, why all three Baltic countries are so successful? And secondly, do we really find everywhere the pattern of the “Shining star” Estonia, followed by Latvia and at least Lithuania? According to modern Varieties of Capitalism theory all three economies can be classified as Central and Eastern European Countries in the style of Liberal Market Economies (CEEC-LME). As can be shown, there are also differences in the institutional setups of all three Baltic States. During the period of transformation a pattern of Estonia followed by Latvia and at least Lithuania evolved which is also reflected by the sequence of joining Euro area. But institutional patterns are not determined in the long run. Since the crisis of 2008/09 the pattern within the Baltics changed. While Estonia remains on the first rank Lithuania overtook Latvia in terms of growth and wealth. Deregulation in Lithuania – which may be observed by the development of the Economic Freedom Index of the Heritage Foundation within the last ten years – may be the main reason. But also, the low sophistication of the Lithuanian banking system as well as Latvia’s massive suffering from the crisis may explain the last change of the pattern in the Baltics. There are several possibilities to illustrate the different paths of development of the Baltic States. While Geography Hypothesis is not able to explain the differences, the extractive political institutions in Estonia and Latvia can illustrate the lead of both countries in contrast to Lithuania till the crisis in 2008/09. Additionally, different basic values in all three Baltic States are responsible for the different developmental paths. They can also be traced back to the different history and culture of the three Baltic countries.
P20|Im Fokus: Industrielle Kerne in Ostdeutschland und wie es dort heute aussieht – Das Beispiel des Chemiestandorts Bitterfeld-Wolfen|Der Erhalt industrieller Kerne war eines der wirtschaftspolitischen Ziele beim Aufbau Ost. Einer dieser Kerne ist der Chemiestandort Bitterfeld-Wolfen in Sachsen-Anhalt. Der Beitrag untersucht, wie es nach 25 Jahren Deutscher Einheit um diesen industriellen Kern bestellt ist. In einem Satz: Der Kern ist nicht mehr der alte. Die Kombinate der Großchemie waren als Ganzes nicht privatisierbar. An ihre Stelle sind moderne mittelständische Chemiebetriebe getreten. Daneben haben sich neue Branchen, etwa die Glasindustrie, angesiedelt, und in Gestalt einer attraktiven Seenlandschaft ist aus den Braunkohlentagebauen etwas völlig Neues entstanden. Bei den Forschungsaktivitäten kann die Region aber mit westdeutschen Verhältnissen nicht mithalten. Die vielleicht größte künftige Herausforderung wird in einer demographisch bedingt rückläufigen Erwerbspersonenzahl liegen.
P20|Смещение Неоклассической Экономической Парадигмы ‒ Предпосылка Повышения Качества Макроэкономического Образования<BR>[Removal of the neoclassical economic paradigm – condition for the improving of macroeconomic education]|Russian. В работе расматривается необходимость смещения современной господствующей неоклассической экономической теории. Показывается, что она с предпосылками равного качества и значения всех деятельности, и всемогущества саморегулирующего рынка, не имеет возможности и сил объяснить факторы экономического развития, появления и расширения бедности. Причём, это относится как к одной отдельно взятой стране, так и к международным обстоятельствам. В качестве новой парадигмы, которая должна заменить неоклассическую, выдвигается Другой канон, обосновывающийся на многовековой традиции и биологических метафорах. Он происходит из эпохи Возрождения, был подтверждён многовековым опытом современных развитых экономик, через применение политик которые в современном мире запрещают применять неразвитым странам, пока они сами их применяют. В отличие от неоклассических политик, воплощённых в (нео)либеральной политике Вашингтонского консенсуса, приводящих к дезиндустриализации, политики Другого канона, обоснованные на политиках образца плана Маршалла, приводят наоборот к индустриализации как предпосылке выхода неразвитых стран из кризиса и бедности. Смещение неоклассической экономической парадигмы появляется в этом смысле как предпосылка повышения качества макроэкономического образования и должна обеспечить лучшее понимание экономических проблем и процессов. English. The article considers a need for displacement of the contemporary neoclassical economic theory. This theory and its presumptions of equal quality and importance of all the economic branches, as well as the power of the self-regulating market, have proven unable to explain the economic development factors, nor the appearance of poverty and its growth. This has been demonstrated in cases of individual countries, as well in the international context. The Other Canon, based on many centuries’ tradition and biological metaphors, represents a new paradigm, which is suggested as a substitute for the neoclassical one. It dates back to the Renaissance period, and it has proved successful in many centuries’ experiences of the contemporary developed countries. In the contemporary world, the developed countries forbid the underdeveloped one from using these policies, at the same time applying them themselves. The neoclassical policies embodied within the Washington Consensus neoliberal policies lead to deindustrialization. On the contrary, the Other Canons policies, based on the policies such as Marshall Plan, lead to industrialization, which is the main requisite for the underdeveloped countries to find a way out of crisis and poverty. The dismissal of the neoclassical economic paradigm appears to be the condition for an improvement of macroeconomic education and is ought to secure a better understanding of economic problems and processes.
P20|Innovation in Small and Medium Enterprises in the Czech Republic|The success of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) is crucial for the development of the Czech economy. Czech SMEs contribute to innovation and economic growth; they provide employment opportunities and stimulate economic growth. The aim of this research is to determine the key elements of growth and innovation in Czech SMEs. A questionnaire survey of innovation in SMEs in the Czech Republic was used; the research was held in the second quarter of 2013. The research results show that innovation has a positive impact on the growth of Czech SMEs and hence it should become a top priority for the Government strategies and policies that aim to promote economic growth and business development in the Czech Republic.
P20|New Member States of the European Union and the Current Trends in the World Economy|This paper describes the specifics of the current development of the world economy and discusses implications for new member states of the European Union, the EU NMS, with a small case study on the Czech Republic. The paper is divided into four parts: the trends, the EU NMS and the effects of the trends in the EU NMS and in the Czech Republic. The paper is based on a general economic analysis of data provided by the World Bank (WB), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Eurostat, the European Central Bank (ECB) and by the Czech Statistical Office (CZSO). Being familiar with recent macroeconomic trends is nowadays important for Central and Eastern European managers in order to efficiently adapt their strategies to the constantly changing business environment.
P20|Blockholding and organisational diversity: the case of a transition economy|We approached the issue of blockholding effectiveness and behaviour by studying some exemplary organisational transformations in the Republic of Srpska. We found two distinct clusters of blockholdings. The first cluster is worker-entrenched blockholdings, where most workers are unionised. The second cluster constitutes worker-liberal blockholdings, where most workers are not unionised. There are two distinct subgroups in this cluster. The vast majority of blockholdings in the first subgroup developed a prevailing role of the capital owner, heavyweight management and a less trained workforce. The second subgroup nurtures reciprocity of management and core workers’ cognitive assets, and is also the most productive.
P20|An empirical analysis of the trade balance in postcommunist Albania|In this study we empirically analyze the relationship between real exports and real imports during the postcommunist transition in Albania. The country liberalized its trade in the early 1990s after the fall of communism and has seen its trade deficit increase since then. The continuous deterioration of the country's trade balance can create serious problems for its economy. We employ the ARDL bounds testing approach to a transformed equation derived from the Husted's (1992) model of inter-temporal budget constraint. The data used are annual observations from 1992 to 2012 obtained from the World Development Indicators 2013. Results show that a long term relationship exists between real exports and real imports. In addition, we find that imports grow faster than exports and the country's trade deficit is likely to increase with the increase of imports. More specifically, a 10 percents increase of real imports is accompanied by a 9.61 percents increase of real exports. The rising trade deficit should be a cause of concern for the country's policymakers. They should try to adopt effective export promoting policies as such policies would be particularly suitable in reducing the trade deficit in Albania.
P20|Vietnam’s political economy: a discussion on the 1986-2016 period|Being a member of the thriving ASEAN and successfully implementing economic renovation (Doi Moi) have drawn the world's attention on Vietnam around the turn of the millennium. Some even expected a much faster pace of transformation, and renewed economic, AND political, reforms in Vietnam, or Doi Moi II.However, in the recent transition turmoil the Vietnamese economy has experienced some significant setback, and the solution for getting the country out of the downward spiral of low productivity, waning purchasing power and increasing costs of doing business cannot be worked out without addressing those political economy issues that have shaped the modus operandi of the nation's economic system. This article discusses the post-Doi Moi political economy in Vietnam, from 1986 to 2016 – when the 12th Congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam takes place – and prospects of reviving reform momentum in subsequent years.
P20|Schumpeter and the end of Western Capitalism|Schumpeter’s forecast in his Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy ( 1942 ) that ‘a socialist form of society will inevitably emerge from an equally inevitable decomposition of capitalist society’ did great damage to his reputation. This was especially so after the fall of the Berlin wall, when the spectre of Communism seemed to have been finally exorcised. The current financial crisis, however, has vindicated him. For Schumpeter, capitalism rightly meant, not just individual property rights, but the ability to ‘create money from nothing.’ This is such an enormous and dangerous power that it obviously has to be subject to the strictest constraint, which was traditionally provided, however imperfectly, by denial of incorporation with limited liability to those who dealt in money. The decline of capitalism began when financiers were released from this discipline, and it ended with the catastrophe caused by belief that bureaucratic control could replace it. The cause of the change was the progressive capture of democratically elected politicians by interests. On this, Schumpeter’s The Crisis of the Tax State ( 1918 ) was almost as insightful as his later book. When Governments could not allow banks to fail, they signalled the definitive arrival of centralized financing, which is a fundamental characteristic of a socialist economy. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P20|EU-Osterweiterung: eine Bilanz nach zehn Jahren|Ten years after the biggest enlargement in the history of the EU, the integration of the new member states is assessed positively. It is considered an economic success when looking at the income levels. However, due to overly optimistic assumptions and the crisis, economic integration and the catching-up process will take much longer for the new EU member states than originally expected. Moreover, new challenges are looming, especially as the Central and Eastern European accession countries adopt the euro. Smaller countries introduced the euro as quickly as possible, whereas larger countries have been much more hesitant, thinking twice not only because of several unsolved problems in the euro area but also because they use the exchange rate tool much more intensively. All new member states have to make sure they continue to increase their productivity and competitiveness. Findings suggest that after having entered the EU, the new eastern member states appear to have been developing rather stringent competition cultures. Bulgaria and Romania’s transition performance significantly differs from the pattern in the 2004 accession countries, both in terms of quantitative growth and institutional quality. These countries show that EU funds can be highly counter-productive since they help to conserve old structures. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P20|Does Governance Impact on the Foreign Direct Investment- Growth Nexus in Sub-Saharan Africa?|The central question this paper sought to tackle was “does the quality of institutions matter for the relationship between Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and economic growth?” Using macroeconomic data on 27 Sub Saharan African (SSA) economies and six distinct measures of governance the findings showed that control of corruption, political stability and government effectiveness matter for the influence of FDI on economic growth in SSA. This key fi nding was found to be robust even in models where these three governance indicators were interacted with FDI. Furthermore, the results from threshold-type sample splitting showed that in the sample containing countries with a higher level of governance, the positive impact of FDI on growth has larger magnitude vis-à-vis the comparator group with poorer governance indicators. This significant threshold effects remained robust across specifications. JEL Classification: F23, L13, O16, P20
P20|The Relationship between Foreign Banking and Credit Access: Panel Analysis Method|After 1990, the crises in planned economies has resulted with accept of the free market system and disintegration of this country blocks. The transition economies are defined as process of approaching work to the free market system of markets. Privatization efforts especially in finance markets of transition economies have increased interest to these markets of foreign banks. From the studies concern with enter of foreign banks to the market show that there are both advantages and disadvantages. In this study, the relationship between the allocation of credit and the presence of foreign banks in transition economies examined for the period of 1995-2010. In the study panel data method is used. The aim of the study is examine aspects and effects between the presence of the foreign banks and the loans to the private sector. Also the effect of foreign bank on accessing to credit in transition economies examined in macroeconomic level. Findings obtained from the study empirical applications and theoretical supports from literature supports that when the existence share of foreign banks numerically and in the banking sector is examined, it is observed that foreign banks make the credit accessibility of the firms more difficult.
P20|The Relationship between Foreign Banking and Credit Access: Panel Analysis Method|After 1990, the crises in planned economies has resulted with accept of the free market system and disintegration of this country blocks. The transition economies are defined as process of approaching work to the free market system of markets. Privatization efforts especially in finance markets of transition economies have increased interest to these markets of foreign banks. From the studies concern with enter of foreign banks to the market show that there are both advantages and disadvantages. In this study, the relationship between the allocation of credit and the presence of foreign banks in transition economies examined for the period of 1995-2010. In the study panel data method is used. The aim of the study is examine aspects and effects between the presence of the foreign banks and the loans to the private sector. Also the effect of foreign bank on accessing to credit in transition economies examined in macroeconomic level. Findings obtained from the study empirical applications and theoretical supports from literature supports that when the existence share of foreign banks numerically and in the banking sector is examined, it is observed that foreign banks make the credit accessibility of the firms more difficult.
P20|The Relationship between Foreign Banking and Credit Access: Panel Analysis Method|After 1990, the crises in planned economies has resulted with accept of the free market system and disintegration of this country blocks. The transition economies are defined as process of approaching work to the free market system of markets. Privatization efforts especially in finance markets of transition economies have increased interest to these markets of foreign banks. From the studies concern with enter of foreign banks to the market show that there are both advantages and disadvantages. In this study, the relationship between the allocation of credit and the presence of foreign banks in transition economies examined for the period of 1995-2010. In the study panel data method is used. The aim of the study is examine aspects and effects between the presence of the foreign banks and the loans to the private sector. Also the effect of foreign bank on accessing to credit in transition economies examined in macroeconomic level. Findings obtained from the study empirical applications and theoretical supports from literature supports that when the existence share of foreign banks numerically and in the banking sector is examined, it is observed that foreign banks make the credit accessibility of the firms more difficult.
P20|Making sense of China's Economic Slowdown|"This paper aims to review the factors inducing China's successful economic transformation, so as to find the causes of the subsequent economic slowdown, from the New Institutional Economics (NIE) viewpoint and the Marxian viewpoint, respectively. The former school is primarily concerned about the ""supply-side"" driver (changing rules of game for producers) of increasing economic output and efficiency, while the latter is basically sharing with the Marxian concern of the ""demand-side"" driver (an egalitarian pattern of income distribution which underpins mass-consumption) of increasing economic output and sustainability. NIE emphasize that unless a free and open market for ideas is created, China cannot sustain its economic growth or advance itself into a global centre of technological innovation or scientific discovery. However, this paper points out that the creation of an active market for ideas would not always guarantee the sustainability of economic growth, drawing the lessons from Japan's experiences. This paper suggests that it takes more or less several years to create an active market for ideas to transform to a new phase of post-industrialization. In addition, in the phase of post-industrialization, rapid product obsolescence is brought by severe competition in which rival firms are accelerating the introduction of competitive products to the market, which may expose innovative firms to fundamental uncertainty."
P20|Making sense of China's Economic Slowdown|"This paper aims to review the factors inducing China's successful economic transformation, so as to find the causes of the subsequent economic slowdown, from the New Institutional Economics (NIE) viewpoint and the Marxian viewpoint, respectively. The former school is primarily concerned about the ""supply-side"" driver (changing rules of game for producers) of increasing economic output and efficiency, while the latter is basically sharing with the Marxian concern of the ""demand-side"" driver (an egalitarian pattern of income distribution which underpins mass-consumption) of increasing economic output and sustainability. NIE emphasize that unless a free and open market for ideas is created, China cannot sustain its economic growth or advance itself into a global centre of technological innovation or scientific discovery. However, this paper points out that the creation of an active market for ideas would not always guarantee the sustainability of economic growth, drawing the lessons from Japan's experiences. This paper suggests that it takes more or less several years to create an active market for ideas to transform to a new phase of post-industrialization. In addition, in the phase of post-industrialization, rapid product obsolescence is brought by severe competition in which rival firms are accelerating the introduction of competitive products to the market, which may expose innovative firms to fundamental uncertainty."
P20|Zehn Fragen zur Deutschen Einheit|Internationale Medien haben ein anhaltend großes Interesse an den wirtschaftlichen Entwicklungen nach der Herstellung der Einheit Deutschlands. Dies gilt in spezieller Weise für Südkorea, das die Erfahrung eines geteilten Landes mit Deutschland gemeinsam hat. Dort wird der 25. Jahrestag des Mauerfalls zum Anlass genommen, über die deutsche Entwicklung zu berichten und wenn möglich für die Zukunft des eigenen Landes Lehren zu ziehen. Am 20. März 2014 wurde Dr. Gerhard Heimpold, kommissarischer Leiter der Abteilung Strukturökonomik des IWH, von einem Team des Fernsehsenders „Korean Broadcasting Systems“ (KBS), einem öffentlich-rechtlichen Fernsehsender in der Republik Korea, zur Deutschen Einheit sowie zum wirtschaftlichen Aufholprozess der Neuen Länder und speziell Sachsen-Anhalts interviewt. Eine Schriftfassung dieses Gesprächs wird nachfolgend wiedergegeben.
P20|Do the Drivers of Loan Dollarization Differ between CESEE and Latin America? A Meta-Analysis|In this paper we compare the determinants of loan dollarization in two emerging market regions, namely Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe (CESEE) and Latin America, through a meta-analysis of 32 studies that provide around 1,200 estimated coefficients for six drivers of foreign currency lending. As a common pattern, we find macroeconomic instability (as expressed by inflation volatility) and banks’ funding in foreign currency to play a significant role in explaining loan dollarization in both regions. In contrast, the interest rate differential appears to be a key determinant only in Latin America, while the positive impact of exchange rate volatility on dollarization implies a more prominent role for supply factors in the CESEE region. While the robustness of the results has been verified, our meta-analysis shows that estimates reported in the literature tend to be influenced by study characteristics such as the methodology applied and the data used.
P20|Growth And Industrial Policy During Transition|After twenty-five years of economic transition economic performance varies considerably in transition countries, while in most cases current outcomes show that the desired effects have not been achieved. In this paper we elaborate on why industrial policy has been a key missing element in the transition and has greatly contributed to the unexpectedly small and slow pace of economic recovery. After discussing the achieved level of economic development we undertake an empirical analysis in order to define the role of several important factors of growth, as seen at the beginning of transition (reform progress, macroeconomic stabilisation, initial conditions) and those that attracted particular attention during the global crisis (industrial/manufacturing output, exports). The analysis shows that the growth model in transition economies has altered both over time and in relation to the progress of transition reforms. The most important change concerns the share of industrial output in GDP, which is found to be one of the most important factors of growth after the initial phase of reform. These results suggest that transition economies should implement industrial policy measures as an integral part of their reform strategy instead of just speeding up reforms as the key (if not the only) element of government policy. Based on these results, we explore what would be a viable and proper industrial policy in transition countries, particularly what should be done in current conditions after the damaging effects of the recurrent global recession, and make some policy suggestions.
P20|The Spatial Dimension of Trade- and FDI-driven Productivity Growth in Chinese Provinces: A Global Cointegration Approach| This paper analyses the major determinants of long- and short-run labour productivity evolution for Chinese provinces between 1978 and 2010. The role played by openness to trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) constitutes the main focus of this analysis. From a methodological perspective, our main contribution is the inclusion of spatial effects into a dynamic error correction modelling framework. The results show that, in addition to domestic factors such as investment intensity and infrastructure use, trade openness and inward FDI also exert a direct impact on labour productivity. Furthermore, the geographical environment has a strong indirect influence on productivity: The more a region is surrounded by high-productive regions with good infrastructure and linkages to the world economy, the higher are its productivity level and growth rate. The magnitude of these impacts varies by spatial regime (coastal, interior provinces) and time period in focus. Especially in the recent past, trade and FDI activity appear to be increasingly important drivers of regional productivity evolution, both for coastal and interior regions. These findings have important policy implications: In order to fully exploit the benefits from such spillovers, coordinated industrial policies which foster regional complementarities and support the free movement of production factors across regional borders are crucial.
P20|Book Translations As Idea Flows: The Effects Of The Collapse Of Communism On The Diffusion Of Knowledge| We use book translations as a new measure of international idea flows and study the effects of Communism's collapse in Eastern Europe on these flows. Using novel data on 800,000 translations and difference-in-differences approaches, we show that while translations between Communist languages decreased by two thirds with the collapse, Western-to-Communist translations increased by a factor of 4 and quickly converged to Western levels. Convergence was more pronounced in the fields of applied and social sciences, and was more complete in Satellite and Baltic than in Soviet countries. We discuss how these patterns help us understand how repressive institutions and preferences towards Western European ideas shaped the international diffusion of knowledge.
P20|The Possibility of Achieving Economic Catch-up in North Korea: Policy Options under Transition Scenarios (in Korean)|North Korea proposed 'leapfroggingas an alternative to overcome its economic difficulties in the early 2000s; and undertook limited reforms in 2002 (7.1 Measures) and 2012 (6.28 Directives). However, they have yet to realize the intended results. This paper focuses on the policy options available to North Korea to achieve economic catch-up. To this end, three possible scenarios, i.e., gradual transition, socialist market economy like China, and economic integration of two Koreas, are set up and policy options under such scenarios are explored. The following policy options can be considered for North Korea's economic catch-up: (i) the export-oriented, labor-intensive industrialization of Fujian Province in China based on the massive inflow of capital from overseas Chinese; (ii) India's IT-oriented export model using international linkages, low cost and well-educated labor pool; and (iii) development strategy utilizing the export revenue from natural resources. To accomplish catch-up growth based on these options, North Korea needs to shift its focus from limited reforms to overall reforms and opening up, and also to utilize much of South Korean capital as well as international linkages.
P20|Long Term Trend Analysis in the Capital Market – The Case of Serbia|The paper explores the possibility of making investment decisions in emerging markets by using the trend analysis method on a particular example of the capital market in Serbia. The authors, starting from the common features of technical analysis, have analysed the common share index value in the capital market in Serbia, in the Belgrade Stock Exchange – Belexline from 1 March 2006 to 31 March 2009, by the usage of two moving averages method - Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD): an intermediate term of 50 days and a long-term one of 100 days. The above mentioned moving averages identify the establishment of a trend, the cessation of the existing one, a change and an establishment of the new one. The capital market in Serbia had two distinctive long-term trends within the above mentioned observed period of time. The method of two moving averages in combination with the MACD indicator analysis gave quite reliable signals of weakening and change of the long-term trend direction. Analysis of the long-term trend has not been considered for the period from 2009 to date because the market during this period was illiquid with little trading volume, while some stocks that are entered in the Belexline are not more subject of trade.
P20|Questioning the Soft Budget Constraint|"First, this paper claims that the soft budget constraint is a contradiction in terms by showing that each ""soft"" budget line is in fact an incorrect one. By classifying the problems that were formerly conglomerated under the name of the ""soft budget constraint,"" we show that a ""hard"" budget constraint exists for each specific problem. This leads to the realization that each of these problems originally belonged in a different analytic framework, and does not need to be related to the soft budget constraint. Finally, we illustrate how the former conclusions drawn from the ""soft"" perspective can be adjusted to form better interpretations under the original frameworks. Hence, we conclude that there is no such thing as the soft budget constraint."
P20|Monetary policy, exchange rates and labor unions in SEE and the CIS during the financial crisis|The objective of this paper is to assess whether the levels of unionization and the rigidity of exchange rates represent a constraint for the monetary policy in South-Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States, with a particular focus on the recent economic crisis. Toward that end, a New Keynesian model with price and wage rigidities is used. The results show that monetary policy responded counter-cyclically during the crisis only in countries with weak trade unions and in countries with flexible exchange rates, which indicates that fixed exchange rates and strong trade unions constrain monetary policy in countries in these regions. Also, the findings show that the main driver of price inflation in these countries is not economic activity, but wages, which are affected to a large extent by trade unions. Therefore, trade unions should be active partners in the decision-making processes in these countries.
P20|Fairness and inequality tolerance: Evidence from the Life in Transition Survey|This paper examines the link between inequality and individual well-being using household survey data from 27 transition economies, where income inequality increased considerably since 1989. A test of inequality aversion in individual preferences that draws on the Fehr and Schmidt (1999) specification of inequality aversion is proposed, and the difficulties of implementing it in a non-experimental setting are discussed. Estimates based on this model confirm aversion to inequality among individuals both in the pooled sample and separately among the EU and non-EU countries. The Gini index, on the other hand, is unable to capture this negative effect of inequality on well-being. Notably, inequality aversion is not intrinsic. Rather, it appears to be tied to a concern with the fairness of the institutions underlying the distribution of fortunes in society. The evidence is suggestive of inequality of opportunity driving attitudes toward overall inequality.
P20|Prospects of upward mobility and preferences for redistribution: Evidence from the Life in Transition Survey|This paper investigates empirically the link between the prospects of upward mobility and preferences for redistribution using data for a large number of countries from the Life in Transition Survey. The survey is unique in that it provides a detailed account of expected future mobility, and makes it possible to differentiate respondents by their degree of risk aversion — both key pillars of the POUM model. The results from the pooled sample, and those for the EU member states confirm the theoretical predictions of Benabou and Ok (2001) — individuals' expectations of upward mobility reduce their preference for redistribution, but only when the degree of risk aversion is low. The POUM hypothesis is not borne out by the data in the non-EU countries.
P20|Financialisation and the Financial and Economic Crises: The Case of Estonia|This study on Estonia examines the long-run changes between the financial and the non-financial sectors of the economy, and in particular the effects of financialisation on key variables / categories of the real economy as well as the their contribution to the financial crisis of 2007/08. The first part provides the background historical overview of last 20 years in Estonia with some descriptive statistics on GDP, growth contributions of the main demand aggregates, and the financial balances of the macroeconomic sectors since early 1990s, and it classifies the Estonian development path as following the ‘debt-led consumption’ one. The following chapters examine the effects of financialisation and their extent, accompanied by transition processes, on income distribution, financing of capital stock investments, consumption and current account dynamics in detail. The final parts deal with the elaboration on the causes of the financial and economic crisis as well as the policy response in Estonia.
P20|A small macro econometric model for Kazakhstan: a retrospective of alternative economic policies undertaken during the transition process|This paper presents a quarterly macro econometric model of Kazakhstan. The main goal is to provide a stylized representation of the Kazakh economy in order to simulate the consequences of several economic policies viewed by the authorities as essential during the period of transition to a market economy. The policy simulation potential of the model is illustrated by five types of simulations: interest rate shocks, foreign direct investment shocks, world oil price shocks, foreign demand shocks and nominal wages shocks. These sets of simulations show the importance of foreign direct investments in terms of theirs global positive effect, as well as the demand effect of an increase in the wages. We also find that effect of the tight monetary policy is not unambiguous; we argue that in some cases it is not the most efficient policy instrument to sustain the economy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
P20|A small macro econometric model for Kazakhstan: a retrospective of alternative economic policies undertaken during the transition process [Working papers]|This paper presents a quarterly macro econometric model of the Kazakhstan. The main goal is to provide a stylized representation of the Kazakh economy in order to simulate the consequences of several economic policies viewed by the authorities as essential during the period of transition to a market economy. The policy simulation potential of the model is illustrated by five types of simulations : interest rate shocks, foreign direct investment shocks, world oil price shocks, foreign demand shocks and nominal wages shocks. These sets of simulations show the importance of foreign direct investments in terms of theirs global positive effect, as well as the demand effect of an increase in the wages. We also find that effect of the tight monetary policy in not ambiguous ; we argue that in some cases it is not the most efficient policy instrument to sustain the economy.
P20|Breaking the Unbreakable Union: Nationalism, Trade Disintegration and the Soviet Economic Collapse|The breakup of the Soviet Union provides evidence for the detrimental effects of secessionist conflict on domestic integration and economic growth. This paper shows that the increased likelihood of secessions by the UnionÕs member republics in the late 1980s strongly reduced internal Union trade. Economic disintegration thus proceeded along internal borders and preceded the Soviet UnionÕs official dissolution. This helps to explain the severity of the output fall in the late Soviet period. Methodologically, these results stem from an empirical gravity framework, which is derived from first principles by a game-theoretic modeling of Soviet internal trade. Exogenous variation in nationalist agendas, namely the desire to preserve national languages, is used to preclude endogeneity running from trade patterns to secession.
P20|A Provocative Event, Media, And Religious Choice: The Pussy Riot Case As A Natural Experiment|This paper uses the famous events related to Pussy Riot as a natural experiment to examine the effect of alternative media on church membership. A differences-in-differences strategy is used to explore the effect in question. The hypothesis is that, given a lack of religious background on the majority of the population and strong temporal interest in religious issues promoted by some provocative event, mass media can substantially affect religious choice. To check if this is the case, we compare the dynamics of religious choice of those exposed to alternative media reports on church topics and the rest of the people. As a proxy of familiarity with an alternative view, we use a dummy variable for using Internet. Our main result is that, during the experiment run over the year 2012, the growth of self-reported Orthodox and strict Orthodox believers was significantly lower in the treatment group than in the control group. Exposure to alternative media coverage turned out to heavily affect religious choice.
P20|急進主義 対 漸進主義－－移行戦略論争の体系的レビュー－－|旧社会主義諸国の移行戦略を巡る議論は，いまもなお脈々と続いている。本稿は，その本流である急進主義対漸進主義論争に寄与した先行研究135 点の体系的レビューを通じて，同論争の全体像を提示すると共に，これら先行研究の主張態度と文献属性の相関関係を検証した。その結果，主張態度という観点から，総じて急進主義派は一枚岩的であるのに対して，漸進主義派の内部では，反急速主義，段階主義，並びに双方の折衷的な見解を表明する3 つの研究者集団がほぼ拮抗している様が見出された。また，急進主義対漸進主義論争の枠内には止まりつつも，急進主義からも漸進主義からも一定の距離を置く，いわゆる中立派的な研究者集団の存在も確認された。更に，主張態度と文献属性の相関関係に関するクロス表分析及び質的選択モデルの回帰推定は，論争の背景像や今日に至る道筋を理解する上で，大変示唆に富んだ事実関係を明らかにした。
P20|Facets of China's Influence in the Economic Development and Integration of Asia|China's economic pathway subsequent to 1978 is the greatest and most spectacular catching-up process ever succeded in the hystory of development. This countryâ€™s unprecedented race to regain the statute of a great economic power - lost in the 19th century, against the backdrop of the western industrial revolution â€“ has developed at unequalled pace and produced exceptive results, overturning previous global hierarchies and exerting influence to the farthest corners of the world. Yet, nowhere else has its impact been more ample than in Asia, where China has become the largest regional economy, overriding Japan (2010), a highly developed country, although China itself is still an emerging economy. The channels which these influences are transmitted through are complex, pertaining to both the market mechanisms and to institutions and policies. In this paper we look at some of the influences exerted and changes triggered by China in Asia, through market mechanisms.
P20|Industrial Development in the EU: What Lessons for the Future Member States?|The paper analyzes the main characteristics and major changes in manufacturing industry in the old EU member states over the past twenty years, in order to draw some lessons for the Southeast European economies in transition, often referred to as the Western Balkans (WBs) - Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. During the last twenty years the more developed EU member states have experienced substantial changes in the structure of their economies, with services becoming the prevalent sector in terms of the most important indicators. Nevertheless, there is great heterogeneity within the EU regarding the contribution of manufacturing to employment and value added. The global financial and economic crisis from late 2008 onwards has revived the debate about the role of industry, its importance for economic growth and for international competitiveness. In this context, there has also been a renewed interest in industrial policy and reindustrialization. The ongoing analysis of trends in the EU could be extremely relevant for the WB countries, since these countries have gone through a process of strong deindustrialization. Given that their level of economic development is still low, manufacturing industry remains indispensable for future economic growth. The EU experience could offer useful guidelines for formulating future policies in this area.
P20|Shrinking Regions in a Shrinking Country: The Geography of Population Decline in Lithuania 2001-2011|Shrinking populations have been gaining increasing attention, especially in post-socialist East and Central European countries. While most studies focus on the population decline of capital cities and their regions, much less is known about the spatial dimension of population decline on the national level. Lithuania is one of the countries which have experienced very high levels of population decline in the last decades. This study uses Lithuanian Census data from the years 2001 and 2011 to get insight into the geography of population change for the whole country. The results show a sharp population decline in Lithuania of 17.2% between 1989 and 2011, with the decrease being more intense during the second decade of the period. The population dropped in most areas, including the main cities, but increased in the regions surrounding these cities. The predictive models show a clear geographical dimension of population decline, but also reveal that population composition and investments play a role in the process of decline.
P20|Employment protection legislation in transition and emerging markets|Employment protection legislation aims to shield employees against unfair dismissal and earning reductions at the time of job loss. Theory suggests that employment protection stabilizes employment over cyclical upturns and downturns without necessarily increasing general unemployment. However, recent evidence from transition and emerging economies shows that employment protection legislation tends to raise unemployment among disadvantaged groups, particularly youth, and may increase informal work. Employment protection policies thus require careful consideration of their unintended effects.
P20|A hiány újratermelése<BR>[The reproduction of shortage]|"Sporadic lack of consumer articles, the housing shortage, disturbances of material supply, and shortages of investment goods and of labour may be traced back to a common main cause. Shortage is constantly reproduced by specific features of the economic mechanism. The first part of the article consists of micro-analysis, mainly of the productive enterprise. Efforts to increase production may run up against ceilings of three kinds: constraints on physical resources, constraints on demand, and the budget constraint on enterprises. It is an important feature of a system which of these constraints takes effect. Resource-constrained systems can be distinguished from demand-constrained ones here. In the former, production is limited by production bottlenecks, in the latter by buyer demand. The socialist economy in its classical"" form belongs to the former type. It is related to whether the budget constraint on the enterprise is hard"" or soft"". If hard, enterprise spending is limited by its financial scope, if soft (its losses offset almost automatically) its demand becomes almost insatiable. The second part performs a macro-analysis, showing the mechanism of suction"" with the aid of a hydraulic analogy. The enterprise sector pumps away"" reserves and surpluses of the system, mainly due to the investment hunger"" that appears in the wake of expansionist efforts. Finally the article discusses briefly the interrelations between shortage and inflation."
P20|Past and Future of the Chinese Economy|"(On the Book by J. Y. Lin ""Demystifying the Chinese Economy"") The article is a review of the book ""Demystifying the Chinese Economy"" written by the famous Chinese economist J. Y. Lin. The book is about the China economic decline in the XVIII — beginning of the XX centuries; Lin also analyzes the country’s uneasy path towards market economy. Special attention according to the author should be paid to the success story of socio-economic modernization of People’s Republic of China in the last decades, which Lin explains using the comparative advantages concept."
P20|State and Business in the Arbitrazh (Commercial) Litigation|This article seeks to answer the question whether Russian Arbitrazh (Commercial) courts tend to decide cases in favor of defendant versus plaintiff or state versus business. We have found that courts favor business entities in civil cases, while in administrative cases courts take decisions in favor of governmental bodies other things being equal. In addition, the plaintiff bias persists regardless of the type of the process. However, the plaintiff bias decreases with the rise of the case complexity. The article is based on the regression analysis of a random sample of 10 000 cases decided by the Russian Arbitrazh (commercial) courts in 2007—2011.
P20|"The ""Alternative"" Socialism of Professor Alexander Tsankov"|The paper presents the economic views and political activities of one of the most influential Bulgarian political economists – Alexander Tsankov. They were strongly influenced by his socialist worldview. The socialism of professor Tsankov is alternative only if one accepts the self-definition of Marxism as the sole scientific socialism. Then any deviation from orthodoxy should be considered as alternatives to scientifically based ideas. In the context of what is seen as socialism during the nineteenth and almost up to the end of the twentieth century, the views of professor Tsankov are not a departure from, but a variant of the socialism. He combined the elements which are characteristic of social democracy and conservative statist (and hence nationalistic) socialism
P20|Boris Brutzkus and the Socialist Calculation Debate|The paper discusses the contribution of the Russian economist Boris Brutzkus to the socialist calculation debate during the 1920s and 1930s. He was among the first economists to prove that the socialist economy could not be organized on a rational basis, because under common ownership of the means of production economic calculation is impossible. In his published theoretical works in Russian and in English Brutskus debunks some of the basic ideas of Marxism and in doing this he uses arguments that others (far more famous) critics of the socialist economic system (Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek) reached much later. Among the main contributions of Brutzkus are his views on the role of entrepreneurs in a market economy and the inability central authority to collect and process the huge amount of data required for allocation of production between different industries.
P20|Drama of the Bulgarian National Character during the Years of Transition|The character of a nation is a system of sustainable and lasting repetitive stereotypes that create a bright /even unique/ but conscious, public outspokenness, the distinctive features, which the representatives of a nation posses, manifested in specific social activities. This study examined the achievements in character development of the Bulgarian nation in recent decades. The author argues, that in the presence of a strong state, developed economy and a functional system for the production of cultural products, the Bulgarian national character observes a peak phase (from the 60s to the 80s of the twentieth century) in the development of its democratic potential. Politically and ideologically unprepared (and chaotically executed) the transition to democracy after November 10, 1989 in Bulgaria, creates a situation, where the Bulgarian national character experiences a civilization breakdown. Rapid deterioration of the socio-economic situation in the country led to unprecedented impoverishment of the broad masses and created significant changes in the thoughts, feelings, emotions, motivations and forms of adequate human behavior in both the private and the public life of the population. Thus the previously existing condition of comfort has been largely lost and the individual is faced with unfamiliar alternatives for planning of their personal and family future.
P20|Etyka a globalny lad gospodarczy/Ethics and the Global Economic Order|It is a great developmental challenge to create the global economic order. Economic and ethical values must be taken into account to manage this task, otherwise the prosperity of the global economy is in danger.
P20|Institutions, the resource curse and the transition economies: further evidence|Based on the various works on the relevance of the institutional arrangements for a country’s economic performance, this paper studies the role and the determinants of the reform policies for the development paths of the transition countries. Looking at the U.S.S.R breakdown as an extremely powerful “experiment” and considering the nature of its consequences, the paper investigates the importance of policy reforms for the productivity growth looking for possible structural break and differences among of the nations in transit. The paper studies the different patterns of reforms using a synthetic measure treated as endogeneous and instrumented by the rents coming from the natural endowments, the extent of the democratic progress and the trade openness. The paper proves that these determinants have played a different role in explaining the pattern of reform policies of the transition countries, which in turn has affected their productivity growth paths. Empirically, the paper develops a dynamic approach implementing the more advanced econometric techniques.
P20|Corporate Profit, Entrepreneurship Theory and Business Ethics|Economic profit is produced by entrepreneurs, those special individuals able to detect and seize as yet unexploited market opportunities. In general capitalist firms manage to deliver positive profits even in the most competitive environments. They can do so thanks to internal entrepreneurs, a subset of their employees able to drive change and develop innovation in the workplace. This paper argues that the goal of profit maximization is fully consistent with the corporation doing good for society. However, there is little justification for corporations to transfer the whole economic profit to shareholders. Economic agents entitled to receive the economic profit are precisely those who create this profit, namely the internal entrepreneurs.
P20|Determinantes y restricciones estructurales del crecimiento económico en Cuba|El presente trabajo representa un intento de explicar el crecimiento del sector productivo cubano e identificar sus principales determinantes y restricciones, en un período en que las mayores restricciones comerciales y financieras obligaron al país a reorientar su modelo económico y su patrón de inserción en la economía mundial. En el análisis se incorpora la dimensión institucional en la explicación del producto interno bruto (PIB), condicionando la selección del modelo, las variables y la metodología utilizada a las particularidades y especificidades de la realidad económica cubana.
