P22|CasP's 'Differential Accumulation' versus Veblen's 'Differential Advantage' (Revised and Expanded)|This paper clarifies a common misrepresentation of our theory of capital as power, or CasP. Many observers tend to box CasP as an ‘institutionalist’ theory, tracing its central process of ‘differential accumulation’ to Thorstein Veblen’s notion of ‘differential advantage’. This view, we argue, betrays a misunderstanding of CasP, Veblen or both. First, we are not Veblenians and certainly not institutionalists: Veblen’s theory was evolutionary, while CasP is deeply dialectical, and institutionalism, particularly its ‘new’ varieties, emphasizes and often promotes what holds capitalism together, whereas CasP critically examines both the underpinnings of capitalized power as well as the forces that threaten and undermine it. Second, CasP’s notion of differential accumulation is not only different from, but also diametrically opposed to Veblen’s differential advantage. Veblen, who wrote at the turn of the twentieth century, before the appearance of business indices and financial benchmarks, emphasized the absolute drive for ‘maximum profit’ and saw strategic sabotage merely as a power means to an economic end. By contrast, CasP, which was developed at the end of the twentieth century, sees power not only as a means of accumulation, but also – and perhaps more importantly – as its ultimate purpose. Accumulators, it argues, are conditioned and driven to augment not their profits and assets as such, but their relative power, and this means that, as symbolic bearers of power, these profits and assets should be measured not absolutely, but relatively to those of others – hence the imperative of differential accumulation.
P22|Energy price reform in China|China has determined to assign the market a decisive role in allocating resources. To that end, getting energy prices right is crucial because this sends clear signals to both producers and consumers of energy. While the overall trend of China’s energy pricing reform since 1984 has been moving away from the prices set by the central government in the centrally planned economy and towards a more market-oriented pricing mechanism, the pace and scale of the reform differ across energy types. This article discusses the evolution of price reforms for coal, petroleum products, natural gas, electricity and renewable power in China, and provides some analysis of these energy price reforms, in order to allow the market to play a decisive role in resource allocation and help China’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
P22|Energy Price Reform in China| The Chinese leadership has determined to assign the market a decisive role in allocating resources. To have the market to play that role, getting the energy prices right is crucial because this sends clear signals to both producers and consumers of energy. While the overall trend of China’s energy pricing reform since 1984 has been moving away from the prices set by the central government in the centrally planned economy and towards a more market-oriented pricing mechanism, the pace and scale of the reform differ across energy types. This article discusses the evolution of price reforms for coal, petroleum products, natural gas, electricity and renewable power in China, and provides some analysis of these energy price reforms, in order to have the market to play a decisive role in allocating resources and help China’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
P22|Economic convergence and exchange rate misalignments in the European Union|We investigate (i) the characteristics of real economic and price convergence, (ii) the relationship between economic growth (convergence) and real exchange rate (RER) misalignments within the European Union (EU) during the period 1995–2016. In addition to the relative external price level of GDP, we quantified an alternative indicator for the RER: the internal relative price of services to goods, as measured from the expenditure side of GDP. We interpreted RER-misalignments as deviations from levels consistent with levels of economic development among EU countries. Regarding real convergence, the “catching up” of the less developed member states to the more affluent ones within the EU was expressly rapid in terms of relative per capita growth measured at current PPPs; it was less impressive if measured at constant PPPs, and rather modest in terms of relative real GDP-growth. As for price levels and the relative price of services to goods, a rapid convergence could be observed until the international financial crisis, but this process halted in 2008. Using pooled OLS and dynamic panel techniques, we found that within the EU there is a negative relationship between the contemporaneous sign of RER-misalignment (based on both the external price level and internal relative prices) and economic growth: over- (under-) valuations are associated with lower (higher) growth. This is mainly due to developments in countries operating under fixed exchange rate regimes. Our results indicate that the level of development does not influence the strength of the growth-misalignment relationship within the EU. These results are robust to the applied panel estimation method. Regarding the external price level, we find that the positive relationship between undervaluation and growth diminishes with increasing size of undervaluation. The aggregate effect of misalignments is significantly negative on both export market shares and the ratio of gross fixed capital formation to GDP: both the competitiveness and the investment channel play an important role in the relationship between growth and RER misalignments. As an extension, we analyse the relationship between growth and the misalignment of wages from productivity levels; “wage-misalignments” are also negatively associated with economic growth. Although our study carries policy messages – in particular, mild real exchange rate undervaluations are positively, while overvaluations are negatively associated with growth and real economic convergence – the RER is an endogenous variable, which is not under direct policy control. Our results point to the importance of a growth strategy avoiding overvaluation on the one hand, and to the futility of aiming at excessive undervaluation, on the other.
P22|Market of the Novosibirsk Oblast in the System of Regional Markets|This paper studies integration of the Novosibirsk Oblast market for final goods with markets of all other Russian regions. It considers an aggregated market represented by a basket of basic foods (staples basket). The law of one price serves as the criterion of market integration. It is the base for constructing time series models of the regional costs of the staples basket over 2001–2015 relative to its cost in the Novosibirsk Oblast. Regional markets are divided into four groups: perfectly integrated with the Novosibirsk Oblast market, conditionally integrated with it, not integrated but tending towards integration, and neither integrated nor tending towards integration. Nonlinear time series models with asymptotically decaying trends describe the movement towards integration (price convergence).
P22|Пространственная Интеграция Региональных Рынков Сибири<BR>[Spatial Integration of Siberian Regional Markets]|This paper analyzes integration of 13 regions constituting Siberia with all country’s regions. The criterion of market integration is the law of one price. The data analyzed are time series of the cost of the staples basket over 2001–2015. Pairs of regional markets are divided into four groups: perfectly integrated, conditionally integrated, not integrated but tending towards integration (converging), and neither integrated nor converging.
P22|Spatial Integration of Siberian Regional Markets|This paper studies market integration of 13 regions constituting Siberia with one another and all other Russian regions. The law of one price serves as a criterion of market integration. The data analyzed are time series of the regional costs of a basket of basic foods (staples basket) over 2001–2015. Pairs of regional markets are divided into four groups: perfectly integrated, conditionally integrated, not integrated but tending towards integration (converging), and neither integrated nor converging. Nonlinear time series models with asymptotically decaying trends describe price convergence. Integration of Siberian regional markets is found to be fairly strong; they are integrated and converging with about 70% of country’s regions (including Siberian regions themselves).
P22|The stationarity of inflation in Croatia: anti-inflation stabilization program and the change in persistence|Abstract This study examines the impact of the anti-inflation stabilization policies on the behavior of inflation in Croatia in the early 1990s and through the subsequent post-stabilization period using fractional integration techniques. Indeed, the implementation of the stabilization program in October 1993 brought immediate deflation with a relative high degree of inflation stability in the post-stabilization period. With allowance for a structural break corresponding to the stabilization program in October 1993, the degree of persistence was substantially reduced with the fractional differencing parameter being positive but close to zero in the post-stabilization period.
P22|Russian Real Wages Before and After 1917: in Global Perspective|The paper measures real wages in St Petersburg, Moscow, and Kursk between 1853 and 1937 and compares them to real wages in Boston, Manchester, Bombay, and Cairo. Russian living standards grew little between 1853 and 1913 and were like Egypt and India. Wages in the UK and USA were 2.5 - 5 times greater. Real wages in Russia almost doubled between 1913 and 1928. When seen in a Russian perspective, this looks like a big advance; when seen internationally, it is much less so. Real wages dropped to their pre-War level between 1928 and 1937 during the industrialization drive.
P22|Russian Real Wages Before and After 1917: in Global Perspective|The paper measures real wages in St Petersburg, Moscow, and Kursk between 1853 and 1937 and compares them to real wages in Boston, Manchester, Bombay, and Cairo. Russian living standards grew little between 1853 and 1913 and were like Egypt and India. Wages in the UK and USA were 2.5 - 5 times greater. Real wages in Russia almost doubled between 1913 and 1928. When seen in a Russian perspective, this looks like a big advance; when seen internationally, it is much less so. Real wages dropped to their pre-War level between 1928 and 1937 during the industrialization drive.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|On green production taxes|Proposals are often made to tax goods which are environmentally damaging. Many such goods are consumed both directly by households and industry at large: for example, carbon-intensive fuel, waste water or congested road space. This paper adopts a tax-reform setting to evaluate such a policy. The welfare impact is shown to depend on an input-substitution effect and an output effect on final consumption, where the latter effect can be conveniently analysed via the standard concept of the marginal welfare cost of a commodity tax. Finally, it is shown that raising a production tax is welfare enhancing if the current tax is below marginal external cost and revenues are recycled via the commodity tax with the highest marginal welfare cost.
P22|Hyperinflation bulgare de 1997 : transition, fragilité bancaire et change|Cet article suit deux objectifs : étudier l’hyperinflation bulgare de 1997 et confronter cette analyse à l’approche théorique post-keynésienne. Celle-ci met en avant le rôle de trois composantes observées simultanément afin de saisir l’apparition de l’hyperinflation : un conflit de répartition virulent, la présence de mécanismes d’indexation et finalement, la fuite devant la monnaie domestique au profit d’une ou plusieurs devise(s). L’article révèle qu’une économie en transition comme la Bulgarie des années 1990 est susceptible de générer de l’hyperinflation en l’absence d’un conflit de répartition violent : la transition ainsi que la crise bancaire engendrent l’inflation. Le taux de change, quant à lui, est décisif dans l’apparition de la dynamique hyperinflationniste (et donc la défiance envers la monnaie domestique). Enfin, cette interprétation de l’hyperinflation est vérifiée par une analyse économétrique.
P22|The Moscow market in the country’s economic space|This paper studies integration of the Moscow market for final goods with markets of all other Russian regions. It considers an aggregated market represented by a minimum food basket. The law of one price serves as a criterion of market integration. It is a base for constructing time series models of the regional costs of the staples basket over 2001–2015 relative to its cost in Moscow. Regional markets are divided into four groups: integrated with the Moscow market, conditionally integrated with it, not integrated but tending towards integration with the Moscow market, and neither integrated nor tending towards integration. Nonlinear time series models with asymptotically decaying trends capture a movement towards integration (price convergence).
P22|Understanding the effect of international remittances on undernourishment in Sub-Saharan Africa: A spatial model approach|This paper investigates the impact of remittances on undernourishment in Sub-Saharan Africa using panel data from 35 countries spanning the years 2001-2011. The panel Spatial Error Model (SEM) was used after taking into account the spatial interaction between countries. We find that remittances contribute to the reduction of undernourishment in Sub-Saharan African. However, the elasticity of calorie consumption to remittances is narrow. Moreover, the impact of remittances is more pronounced in intermediate income deciles countries than in the countries in lower income deciles and higher income deciles.
P22|The Arab and Post-Communist Transitions: Similarities, Differences, and Common Lessons|At the onset of the mass protests in 2010–2011, many politicians and experts suggested that Arab countries could learn from the experiences of the post-communist transition of the early 1990s. However, the geopolitical, historical, and socio-economic context of the Arab transition was different in many respects from that of the former Soviet bloc countries 20 years earlier. These differences became even more obvious five years later, in early 2016, when most Arab transition attempts ended either in a new wave of authoritarianism, or protracted bloody conflicts. Nonetheless, there are some common lessons to be learnt from the history of both transitions. They concern interrelations between the political and economic transition, the role of institutional checks and balances and the rule of law, the speed of reforms, the dangers of ethnic and sectarian conflicts, and the role of external support.
P22|Macroeconomic performance of oil price shocks: Outlier evidence from nineteen major oil-related countries/regions|As a special energy commodity, oil price shocks can affect not only the energy market but also the performance of the macroeconomy. This research provides complementary explanations for nineteen major oil-related countries/regions' macroeconomic effects caused by unexpected oil price changes. It focuses on the macroeconomic performance of oil price shocks from outlier perspective, investigating the inner hidden factors of co-movements between oil price shocks and macroeconomy. Three methods called Empirical Covariance (EC) method, Robust Covariance (RC) method and one-class Support Vector Machine (SVM) method are used in the outlier detection. Empirical results show that: (a) one-class SVM method has the best environmental adaptability for detecting the outlier performance of the co-movements between oil price shocks and macroeconomy, followed by EC and RC methods; (b) according to the time axis, the outlier performances of gross domestic production, consumer price index and unemployment rate are all concentrated in 2005–2014, which is highly consistent with the oil price shock process; and (c) according to the spatial axis (countries), four categories with similar outlier performances are obtained. Outlier performance of macroeconomy of oil-related country/region in lower levels seems to be worse than that of the country/region in higher levels, which can be attributed to more attentions paid by higher-leveled oil-related countries on the oil price shock response system to relieve the severe macroeconomic impacts caused by oil price shocks.
P22|Export restrictions – Do consumers really benefit? The wheat-to-bread supply chain in Serbia|Our approach combines price transmission and gross margin analysis at different stages of the wheat-to-bread supply chain. Results suggest that the effects of export restrictions on the end consumer prices for bread, and thus food price inflation, heavily depend on the price behavior of the intermediates. In contrast to theory, consumers in Serbia experienced welfare losses despite comprehensive governmental market interventions. In particular, consumers were confronted with increasing flour and bread prices, which cannot be fully explained by increasing production costs, whereas mills, bakeries and retailers increased their profits. Thus, export controls in combination with high price volatility in the supply chain have to be considered as a further factor driving food price inflation.
P22|To get the prices right for food: a “Gerschenkron state” versus the market in reforming China, 1979–2006|This article provides an empirical assessment of China’s state price policies and strategies in relation to (1) market-rebuilding for the agricultural sector and (2) food security for China.1 It traces main changes in government grain pricing, urban food subsidies, grain procurement and the administrative control over food circulation from 1979 to 2006 in a bid to transfer a non-market economy to a market one, commonly known as the post-Mao reforms.
P22|Oil demand and price elasticity of energy consumption in the GCC countries: A panel cointegration analysis|This paper examines the cointegrating relationship between oil demand and price elasticity of energy consumption in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) countries during the period 1980-2010. The paper has applied the recently developed panel cointegration techniques, Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) and panel DOLS in a panel of GCC countries. The region is being recognized as the major region of oil production and export in the global economy. In recent times, the region is emerging as a fastest growing oil consuming region globally. This fast increase in the level of oil consumption in the major oil exporting countries raises the energy security implications in the sphere of the growing oil demand in the world economy. This is likely to bring many pitfalls in the form of price distortions and reduced growth rates in and outside the oil export region. The empirical finding reveals a cointegrating relationship among the variables and indicates an income elastic and price inelastic demand for oil in the long-run in the GCC countries. The outcomes of income elastic and price inelastic demand for oil are also consistent in the short-run. The income and price inelastic demand for oil though exists for a full panel of countries but vary across the GCC countries. The result of the Granger Causality test also depicts a unidirectional causality running from income to oil consumption and bidirectional causality running between oil prices and income in the GCC countries. Moreover, the outcomes reveal that demand for oil varies positively with the growth of income and negatively with the price level in the economy.
P22|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P22|Distribution dynamics of Russian regional prices|Abstract The objective of this paper is twofold: first, to show an application of the distribution dynamics approach developed in the literature on economic growth and income inequality to spatial price analysis, and second, to study the behaviour of Russian regional prices for staples during the decade of 2001–2010. The study includes three veins: first, tracing the evolution of price dispersion and changes in the shape of the cross-region price distribution over time; second, analysing changes in price ranking of regions (rank mobility); and third, analysing quantity mobility with the use of stochastic kernel. Results obtained evidence that regional relative prices in Russia remained fairly stable during 2001–2010. No significant changes are found in price dispersion and cross-region price distribution over this time span. Rank mobility was very low with seasonal surges. The pattern of quantity mobility manifests neither convergence nor divergence of regional prices. However, a long-run price distribution has an unpleasant feature, predicting potential emergence of a price convergence club in the Russian Far East. Given that potentialities for price convergence among Russian regions existed by 2001, the pattern obtained can be termed stagnation rather than stability.
P22|Data as a common in the sharing economy: a general policy proposal|It is nowadays a common place to say that the sharing economy is not really about sharing but about making profits and benefiting a few much more than others. A movement that takes the best of the technologies of sharing economy platforms but orients it to benefiting all, platform cooperativism, is on the rise. Nonetheless, it is far from being popular and nothing indicates that it will. This paper investigates the reasons why dominant platforms remain dominant and proposes a policy that aims at curtailing their dominance, fostering platform cooperativism and maximizing the beneficial societal effects that can be derived from exploiting the data generated in platforms. The paper is structured as follows. Section 1 reviews current definitions of the sharing economy, points out their contributions and limitations and offers a novel and more accurate definition. Section 2 briefly introduces platform cooperativism to show why it can be a tool to fix many of the problems of the sharing economy. Section 3 explains and discusses market power mechanisms specific to the sharing economy that help dominant platforms to remain dominant. Some already existing and proposed solutions to counter these market power mechanisms such as reputation passports, a market for personal data and antitrust remedies are evaluated. Section 4 presents a general policy proposal based on making data a common in the sharing economy using reciprocity licenses. Section 5 offers some clarifications regarding the proposal and sketches some of its shortcomings and open questions that arise from it.
P22|Trade Diversion and High Food Prices: The Impact of the Russian Pig Meat Import Ban| In this paper we analyze the impact of the Russian ban on import of pig meat originating in the EU on the domestic pig meat price developments in Russia. We use a regime-switching price transmission model in order to identify possible changes in the long-run equilibrium between the pig meat prices of Russia and its main non-EU trading partners. Our results indicate the reduction of transaction costs in pig meat trade between Russia and its main non-EU trading partners, followed by the increase in transmission of price changes in the long-run. Though, our results indicate completely opposite results concerning domestic price relations between wholesale and end consumer pig meat prices in Russia. Overall, faced with the scarcity of pig meat on the domestic market, Russian consumers bear the biggest burden from the ban in the medium term by being faced with the significant increase in end consumer pig meat prices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|Trade diversion and high food prices - The impact of the Russian pig meat import ban| In this paper we analyze the impact of the Russian ban on import of pig meat originating in the EU on the domestic pig meat price developments in Russia. We use a regime-switching price transmission model in order to identify possible changes in the long-run equilibrium between the pig meat prices of Russia and its main non-EU trading partners. Our results indicate the reduction of transaction costs in pig meat trade between Russia and its main non-EU trading partners, followed by the increase in transmission of price changes in the long-run. Though, our results indicate completely opposite results concerning domestic price relations between wholesale and end consumer pig meat prices in Russia. Overall, faced with the scarcity of pig meat on the domestic market, Russian consumers bear the biggest burden from the ban in the medium term by being faced with the significant increase in end consumer pig meat prices.
P22|Are current EU cereal prices correlated?| This paper evaluates the correlations between European cereal prices in up to 87 markets of 24 Member States. History and geography play a role: The highest correlations are observed between closely located internal markets of the “old” Union; prices are more correlated along transport routes, in particular rivers. We observe that 10 years after the Accession (8 in the case of Romania and Bulgaria) we do not have a complete integration between the “old” and the “new” Member States. We advance several possible explanations: Weaker producers’ organisations, lack of storage facilities, less efficient transport facilities.
P22|The Imlact of the Russian Import Ban on Domestic Pig Meat Prices in Russia| In this paper we analyze the impact of the Russian ban on import of pig meat originating in the EU on the domestic pig meat price developments in Russia. We use a regime-switching price transmission model in order to identify possible changes in the long-run equilibrium between the pig meat prices of Russia and its main non-EU trading partners. Our results indicate the reduction of transaction costs in pig meat trade between Russia and its main non-EU trading partners, followed by the increase in transmission of price changes in the long-run. Though, our results indicate completely opposite results concerning domestic price relations between wholesale and end consumer pig meat prices in Russia. Overall, faced with the scarcity of pig meat on the domestic market, Russian consumers bear the biggest burden from the ban in the medium term by being faced with the significant increase in end consumer pig meat prices.
P22|Changes in nominal rigidities in Poland – a regime switching DSGE perspective|We estimate a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model that allows for regimes Markov switching (MS-DSGE). Existing MS-DSGE papers for the United States focus on changes in monetary policy or shocks volatility, contributing the debate on the Great Moderation and/or Volcker disinflation. However, Poland which here serves as an example of a transition country, faced a wider range of structural changes, including long disinflation, EU accession or tax changes. The model identifies high and low rigidity regimes, with the timing consistent with menu cost explanation of nominal rigidities. Estimated timing of the regimes captures the European Union accession and indirect tax changes. The Bayesian model comparison results suggest that model with switching in both analyzed rigidities is strongly favored by the data in comparison with switching only in prices or in wages. Moreover, we find significant evidence in support of independent Markov chains.
P22|Impact of the global crisis on spatial disparities in Russia|This paper seeks an answer to the question of whether the global crisis had a persistent effect on inter-regional income equality and spatial market integration in Russia. Results obtained suggest that the answer is generally negative.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|Regional Inflation and Financial Dollarization|Abstract: We exploit variation in consumer price inflation across 71 Russian regions to examine the relationship between the perceived stability of the local currency and financial dollarization. Our results show that regions with higher inflation experience an increase in the dollarization of household deposits and a decrease in the dollarization of (long-term) household credit. The negative impact of inflation on credit dollarization is weaker in regions with less-integrated banking markets, suggesting that the asset-liability management of banks constrains the currency-portfolio choices of households.
P22|Turbulence in Chinese Stock Markets. Occurrence, Interventions, After-Effects|Bull markets, bear markets, boom and bust, speculative bubbles are frequent phenomena with stock markets. All the more so with imature stock exchanges such as Chinaâ€™s, where unwary investors, lured by the prospect of quick and easy gains, trade instinctively, in accordance with the prevailing market sentiment, so that the ups and downs in securities values may be ample, unexpected and dangerous. Besides, the repeated interventions of a government which aims at tightly controlling the functioning of such markets may generate abrupt responses, which risk to get out of hand. Such an episode took place in June-July 2015, when, following 12 months of exuberant growth, Chinese stock markets, which were already in a bubble, started a sudden descent, generating panic among investors, thrills and worry amid foreign analysts. This paper radiographs this episode, looking at its causes and at the risks entailed for both the domestic and foreign markets, trying to explain the seemingly unjustified and excessive interventionist reaction of the government to the market-inflicted price corrections and to shed light on the expected consequences of the stock market fall on domestic consumption and demand for imports, on foreign demand for Chinese exports, as well as on the economies of the partner countries and the global economy as a whole.
P22|Money Monetization and Economic Growth in Pakistan|Purpose: Money plays an important role in determining the national income that economic theory is a widely accepted concept. The study economic development in Pakistan and Money monetization investigate the relationship between the long- terms. Methodology: Based on endogenous growth theory, this study empirically developed models of standard gross domestic product (GDP) based on examination term is negative and significant.Money supply, the study applies error correction model. This study from 1980 to 2012 time series data uses. Findings: Co- integration results show that the variables are co- integrated. That long stable equilibrium relationship has ended. Error correction results a dependent variable and inflation, income gap, investment money supply (M-2) independent variable, Auto- regressive distributive share to the integration interval (ARDL) bound testing approach to long- term equilibrium relationship between the variables included in the model to check is used to examine short -run relationship between money and economic growth. Recommendations: This study open new directions for further research.
P22|Анализ Официальных И Альтернативных Оценок Инфляции<BR>[Analysis of official and alternative estimates of inflation]|The mass media frequently accuse official statistics of underestimating the inflation rate (consumer price index – CPI) by half to two-thirds. This paper analyzes potential sources of distortion of the official CPI, concluding that systematic errors causing underestimating are absent, and deliberate distortions are impossible. It also analyzes a number of alternative estimates of inflation and demonstrates that they are based either on the use of a consumer baskets that do not correspond to any real pattern of consumption and deliberately overstate rise in the price level, or on some indirect rationale that does not bear criticism. The only alternative estimate that can be taken seriously is greater than the 2005 official CPI by 2 percent points, that is, by 20% rather than by a factor of 2 to 3.
P22|Changes in nominal rigidities in Poland – a regime switching DSGE perspective|We estimate a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model that allows for regimes Markov switching (MS-DSGE). Existing MS-DSGE papers for the United States focus on changes in monetary policy or shocks volatility, contributing the debate on the Great Moderation and/or Volcker disinflation. However, Poland which here serves as an example of a transition country, faced a wider range of structural changes, including long disinflation, EU accession or tax changes. The model identifies high and low rigidity regimes, with the timing consistent with menu cost explanation of nominal rigidities. Estimated timing of the regimes captures the European Union accession and indirect tax changes. The Bayesian model comparison results suggest that model with switching in both analyzed rigidities is strongly favored by the data in comparison with switching only in prices or in wages. Moreover, we find significant evidence in support of independent Markov chains.
P22|A Robust Search for Determinants of Price Convergence in European Union – Known “Suspects” or New “Villains”?|The article sheds some light on the problem of determinants of comparative price levels in the EU. A thorough search for determinants is carried out with help of the Bayesian approach (Bayesian model averaging). This state-of-the-art econometric approach allows researchers to deal with problems such as model uncertainty and open-endedness. Consequently, these cause problems with empirical modelling when using ‘classical’ approaches (e.g. cross-sectional estimations). We utilize dataset consisting of a broad range of variables both already utilized in empirical studies and new ones associated with broadly defined institutional environment and covering the period 1997–2011 for EU-26. Our benchmark results confirm the importance of some ‘traditional’ determinants such as labour costs and output gap and broadly defined environment (institutional factors) including a monetary regime. An extension of the basic model so that a potentially differentiated impact of determinants in old and new EU member states can be accommodated does not provide sufficient evidence for differentiated effects of individual price level determinants in new and old EU member states.
P22|A Comparative Analysis of the Price Index in Transition Countries in the Time of Globalisation|Globalisation with all its features can be divided in two segments - good and bad. When we look at the good side of globalisation, it is obvious that it has erased boundaries between countries in terms of trade, education, knowledge sharing, and other new technologies, while on the other hand, the bad side is that it has created a considerable gap between developed and developing countries, then different types of commercial, political and other conditioning, and dependence on strong, developed states. A great contribution to the negative part of globalisation was of economic instability that occurred at the beginning of this century and which consequences are still present in the world. In this article, we presented the impact of economic instability on the price index trough a comparative analysis of transition countries such as Montenegro, Serbia and Croatia over a period of five years (Croatia has just recently become a member of the European Union and due to that fact it was included in this study). The survey covered price indices relating to the prices of industrial products for the domestic markets, consumer price indices, indices of the hospitality services and the prices of the agricultural products.
P22|Price dynamics in the Belarusian black market for foreign exchange|Using unique data from an internet-based foreign-exchange trading platform, we show that the black market efficiently incorporated public information on the state of the Belarusian economy during the Balance of Payments crisis of 2011. Between May and October 2011, the government repeatedly devalued the Belarusian ruble and eventually abandoned its fixed exchange rate regime. Measures derived from black market transaction data have significant predictive power for these devaluations. The significance of these black market measures survives even when we include standard macroeconomic indicators in our forecasting model. In line with standard economic theory, activity in the black market has dried up subsequently.
P22|Switching the lights off: The impact of energy tariff increases on households in the Kyrgyz Republic|This paper describes an analysis of the impact that higher energy tariffs would have on households in the Kyrgyz Republic using micro-data from the 2009 Kyrgyz Integrated Household Survey. This analysis was conducted to determine which households would be most affected by higher energy tariffs and to what extent mitigation measures, such as lifeline tariffs or direct cash transfers, might lessen the impact for poor and vulnerable households. The analysis focused on first-order effects and used benefit incidence analysis and static micro-simulation to estimate the expected costs and benefits of higher energy prices and the corresponding mitigation measures. The results suggest that both the type of energy and the level of connectedness matter. Increasing tariffs for thermal power used for central heating and hot water mainly affects richer households in urban areas. Reducing implicit electricity subsidies affects the entire population due to nearly complete country coverage with electricity connections. Both lifeline tariffs and direct cash transfers could mitigate the effect of higher electricity tariffs at lower costs than universal subsidies.
P22|Winners and losers in Vietnam equitisation programs|This article develops a computable general equilibrium model of Vietnam to assess the long-run likely effects of the country's equitisation programs on its national economic outcomes and industries. Equitisation is found to be pro-growth as reflected in its contribution to increasing real GDP growth rate in the long run. In terms of industrial output growth rates, the winners include electrical, steel and other manufacturing, while the losers include rice and paddy, and oil, gas and petroleum. To achieve better economic outcomes, the coverage of equitisation should be extended to include medium to large state-owned enterprises across all industries.
P22|Successes and Failures of the Russian Energy Market Reforms|The partial privatization of the Russian energy industry with retained state regulation has made it impossible to produce targeted market models. In the paper the paths of the 2001 and 2008 reforms in the electricity and gas industries and in the associated petroleum gas market are discussed. Successes and failures of the reforms are evaluated in terms of the public interest. It has been shown that the reforms in all the three industries have not yet been completed and require further development.
P22|The Symbiosis of Economic Science and Practice in Reforming|"(On the Book by S. Ya. Chernavsky ""Reforms of the Energy Regulated Branches in Russia"") The book by S. Chernavsky is devoted to the reform of the Russian energy sector and the economy as a whole. The author assesses in detail carried out reforms and develops policy recommendations in the interest of the society. In some chapters of this book the author plays the role of an analyst, in the others — that of one of the participants directly involved in the reform or its main developer. In all cases, the analysis is combined with the use of modern economic theory, mathematical models of the behavior of economic agents and empirical data. Many mathematical models presented have been developed and evaluated in cooperation with the leading Russian experts in the field of mathematical modeling and econometrics analysis that determines their validity. The obtained results and policy recommendations allow us to count on lower transformation costs and higher probability of successful implementation of reforms."
P22|Institutions, experiences and inflation aversion|Are preferences exogenously given? Or do individual tastes and values evolve endogenously within a particular socio-economic environment? In this paper, we make use of a natural experiment to analyse the role of inflation experiences and institutions in the formation of individual inflation preferences. In particular, we exploit the division of post-war Germany to investigate to what extent the factual non-experience of inflation and 40 years of Communism have affected inflation preferences in East and West Germany. We find that historical experiences have a significant and long-lasting effect on people's preferences. Due to their specific political and economic background, East Germans are significantly more inflation averse than West Germans, even 20 years after reunification.
P22|External competitiveness of EU candidate countries|As the current financial crisis has shown, macroeconomic imbalances such as persistent current account and trade deficits, can seriously undermine a country's resilience to economic shocks. Maintaining and enhancing external competitiveness has thus become of increasing concern, particularly to European Union (EU) candidate countries whose economic growth models have been challenged in recent years. Drawing on previous studies, this paper assesses developments in the external competitiveness of EU candidate countries between 1999 and 2011. Taking a broad approach to the issue of competitiveness, the paper considers various indicators of both short and long-term competitiveness, including those related to domestic prices and costs, export performance, and institutional and structural issues. In the context of EU integration, comparisons are drawn with developments in the EU12. We find that, during the pre-crisis period, all candidate countries experienced robust export market growth, but also suffered losses in price and cost competitiveness. In terms of export characteristics, progress has been heterogeneous and also fairly slow when compared with the EU12. All candidate countries have increased their number of export products and trading partners, but only a few have been able to export more complex products. As regards structural issues such as corruption and bureaucratic efficiency, all countries have performed quite poorly with the exception of Iceland. JEL Classification: F1, F43, O52, P22
P22|Africa’s Development: Institutions, Economic Reforms and Growth|The paper examines the importance of relative prices, institutional quality and other factors which are regressed on the estimated total factor productivity (TFP). With panel data of 26 African countries for the period 1980-2011, the results show that relative prices have significant effects on TFP. Also the quality of institutions is an important determinant of noninput component of output growth. The macroeconomic measures to get “prices right” in sub Saharan Africa may also be constrained by the linkages of institutions to the macroeconomic variables. Thus, policies of getting prices right with establishing strong institutions are worth continuously pursuing with vigor.
P22|Inflationary effect of oil-price shocks in an imperfect market: A partial transmission input–output analysis|This paper aims to examine the impacts of sectoral price control policies on oil price pass-through into China's aggregate price level. To that end, we develop a partial transmission input–output model that captures the uniqueness of the Chinese market. We hypothesize and simulate price control, market factors and technology substitution – the three main factors that restrict the functioning of a price pass-through mechanism during oil-price shocks. Using the models of both China and the US, we separate the impact of price control from that of other factors leading to China's price stickiness under oil-price shocks. The results show a sharp contrast between China and the US, with price control in China significantly preventing oil-price shocks from spreading into its domestic inflation, especially in the short term. However, in order to strengthen the economy's resilience to oil-price shocks, the paper suggests a gradual relaxing of price control in China.
P22|Models To Manage Pricing In Mining Industry|Given that economic analysis of extractive industry is fundamentally different from the analysis of agriculture, manufacturing and services, this paper deals with finding and applying the political and economic principles of pricing in mining industry (in the first part), and with demonstrating the relationship between the level of extraction and price trend resulted in time (in the second part)
P22|Residential Property Prices in Central, Eastern and Southeastern European Countries: Stocktaking of Data and a View on New Developments in Data Availability|Residential property prices play an important role in many areas of economics and finance. They are used, for example, to determine the value of a major component of real wealth, as an indicator of financial stability risks stemming from residential property price gyrations, or to monitor inflation developments. However, the specific characteristics of residential property make primary data collection and index calculation difficult tasks. Against this background, the aim of this paper is to compare different residential property price indices in terms of price developments and methodologies for the ten Central, Eastern and Southeastern EU Member States (CESEE-10). In doing so, we focus on new developments in data availability for the CESEE-10, in particular the recent release of the Eurostat house price index (HPI). This index is a major step forward, providing improved EU-wide cross-country comparability of housing transaction prices. The comparison of the different data series with the new Eurostat index indicates some differences in the timing of local price peaks and the degree of price dynamics. Moreover, price movements diverged in some CESEE countries in the past two years. The comparison of the new Eurostat index to a price index that is purely based on asking prices exhibits a slightly lower correlation. Panel data research is set to benefit from Eurostat’s compilation of national house price indices, while time series analysis will continue to rely on the longer series of national statistics for the time being.
P22|Bruno Leoni and the Socialist Economic Calculation Debate|The Italian contribution to the Socialist Economic Calculation Debate (SECD) cannot be limited to the important and fundamental works by Pareto and Barone. In fact, if their contributions are still ambiguous and we have to wait for the Mises’ paper in 1920 in order to get the needed clarifications, during the 1960s Bruno Leoni follows the Austrian footsteps on the topic, stimulating in Italy a great debate. Bruno Leoni’s role is important because of the debate he promotes and the scholars he involves, but also because he places the matter of the socialist economic calculation in the broader context of the rule of law.
P22|Relative inflation dynamics in the new EU member countries of Central and Eastern Europe|Following their EU accession, the new member countries from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) must achieve sustainable price stability as one of the pre-conditions for joining the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) and adopting the euro. This article examines the distribution dynamics of inflation rates in ten new EU members from CEE relative to the EMU accession benchmark inflation over the period 1990–2009. In contrast to previous studies, we use nonparametric methods to test for convergence in inflation rates between CEE and the EMU benchmark as well as within the CEE sample. Over the entire sample period, we detect a general shift in the CEE inflation distribution toward the EMU benchmark along with intradistributional convergence. However, this process is not uniform. In the early years, it was equally likely for CEE inflation rates to move toward or away from the benchmark. The resulting multimodal distribution gave way to a unimodal distribution in the years leading up to the EU accession, accompanied by a marked shift toward the EMU benchmark. In more recent years, emergence of a bimodal distribution signaled the stratification of relative inflation in CEE into two convergence clubs, which has intensified since the start of the global economic crisis. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2013
P22|Eliminating Indirect Energy Subsidies in Ukraine: Estimation of Environmental and Socioeconomic Effects Using Input–Output Modeling|Energy subsidies are causing adverse effects on the economy and environment stimulating inefficient resource allocation and excessive energy consumption. Therefore, multiple positive effects are likely to be obtained if subsidies are reduced or removed completely. This study estimates indirect end-user energy subsidies in gas and electricity sectors of Ukraine and assesses short-term environmental and socioeconomic effects of a hypothetical elimination of these subsidies. Consumer subsidies are quantified utilizing the price-gap approach that compares end-user prices and reference prices that would predominate in competitive markets where no subsidies are provided. Input–output analysis is undertaken to investigate impacts in the short-term. First, a price model is utilized to estimate price changes resulting from subsidy elimination and then a demand-driven IO model is adopted for estimation of associated changes of environmental and social variables. As a result of elimination of energy subsidies, total energy consumption and GHG emissions would decline by about 2.5 % and 3.6 %, respectively. In addition, distributional effects of a subsidy reform are analyzed utilizing data on consumption patterns of different income groups. JEL Classification: D57, P22, P28, Q41. Copyright I. Ogarenko, K. Hubacek; licensee Springer 2013
P22|Regional Inflation and Financial Dollarization|We exploit variation in consumer price inflation across 71 Russian regions to examine the relationship between the perceived stability of the local currency and financial dollarization. Our results show that regions with higher inflation experience an increase in the dollarization of household deposits and a decrease in the dollarization of (long-term) household credit. The negative impact of inflation on credit dollarization is weaker in regions with less-integrated banking markets, suggesting that the asset-liability management of banks constrains the currency-portfolio choices of households.
P22|Switching off or switching source : energy consumption and household|Access to energy is fundamental to improving quality of life and is a key imper-ative for economic development Energy Poverty Action. This is particularly truein Central Asia where winters are harsh and long. Changes in energy prices affectthe purchasing power of households, hitting the poor in particular. The impact verymuch depends on a households energy basket and the available strategies for switching to alternative energy sources. Using data from the Kyrgyz Integrated Household Survey KIHS 2011, this paper analyzes the prole of household energy consumption and the impact of electricity tariff increases on the probability that households would switch to alternative energy sources. Results suggest that households would respond to an electricity price increase by increasing consumption of fuels households would tend to move away from electricity-only heating source towards the use of stove-only.
P22|Romania Foreign Trade in Global Recession, Revealed by the Extended Method of Exchange Rate Indicators|In this article the authors propose an extended method for assessing foreign trade, which is capitalized on in the analysis of foreign trade/external marketing, under the influence of two of the most difficult recession of the Romanian economy, placed in the last interwar decade and in the first decade of the new millennium. The selection of the periods for the analysis, despite and beyond the methodological shortcomings concerning the provision of statistical comparability, which is relatively overcome by the advantages of the method, was dictated by the regulator impact of the major recessions in Romanian foreign trade, which offers the possibility to identify a national profile of economic behaviour. The structure of the article includes, after an introductory reference to approaching external marketing in the main economic theories, the first section dealing with the repertoire of foreign trade theories, with main emphasis on the specific contemporary issues and trends, but also a section for detailing the extended method proposed and the original statistical tools that are proposed (from the spread of the mobile rates of the contrary flows, to the indices and coefficients of the Hirschman and Gini-Struck type in curve ABC), and of the databases. Once applied in the results section, the extended method manages to quantify the broad outline of a reactive profile, slightly lagging and inertial, of the external marketing / foreign trade of the national economy, in relation to crisis or recession in both time analyses, which is relatively stable for eight decades, providing space for comments that allow greater macro-economic self-awareness. The main final remark shows that a small starting gap, apparently favourable, of Romanian foreign trade, in response to crisis or recession type phenomena, cannot however compensate the inertial trend of these cyclic phenomena, which is slightly longer than one year, and whose negative impact is strongly felt and amplified.
P22|Input–output analysis in an oil-rich economy: The case of Azerbaijan|This paper aims to provide empirical research to identify the linkages between final demand–total output, final demand–total supply, value-added ratios and prices, and also to analyze total factor productivity growth using input–output framework for 25 sectors. Studying the input–output tables for 2001 and 2006, the research estimates impact and response multipliers of non-oil sectors, as well as non-oil trading sectors. The results are important from the view of development of non-oil trading sectors and diversification of the economy in order to avoid the “resource curse”.
P22|Evaluating conditions in major Chinese housing markets|High and rising prices in Chinese housing markets have attracted global attention. Price-to-rent ratios in Beijing and seven other large markets across the country have increased by 30% to 70% since the beginning of 2007. Current price-to-rent ratios imply very low user costs of no more than 2%–3% of house value. Very high expected capital gains appear necessary to justify such low user costs of owning. Our calculations suggest that even modest declines in expected appreciation would lead to large price declines of over 40% in markets such as Beijing, absent offsetting rent increases or other countervailing factors. Price-to-income ratios also are at their highest levels ever in Beijing and select other markets, but urban income growth has outpaced price appreciation in major markets off the coast. Much of the increase in prices is occurring in land values. Using data from the local land auction market in Beijing, we are able to produce a constant quality land price index for that city. Real, constant quality land values have increased by nearly 800% since the first quarter of 2003, with half that rise occurring over the past two years. State-owned enterprises controlled by the central government have played an important role in this increase, as our analysis shows they paid 27% more than other bidders for an otherwise equivalent land parcel.
P22|What We Expect from a New Government|New government to be formed after the inauguration of newly elected President of Russia, must solve a number of tasks. The priorities, in authors opinion, are: macroeconomic stability, public administration reform, decentralization policy, the reduction of excessive state presence in the economy etc. The real progress in these areas, supported by at least a partial success in the areas that go beyond the actual authority of the government (reducing corruption, improving the judicial system), will provide significant progress toward creating sustainable, competitive economy.
P22|The Complete Issue|The last decade has seen a significant increase in the exports of several Latin American and Caribbean countries to destinations within and beyond the region. The increase in trade links has not, however, been accompanied by a proportional increase in reciprocal investments among the trading partners. This precludes making the most of clear advantages, including the possibility of diversifying and upgrading trade links by overcoming trade barriers imposed by distance and cultural differences, and by the greater availability of capital and knowledge flowing to recipient countries. In these countries, there is the additional creation of new jobs and the mitigation of the social costs generated by mismatches in labor markets that are the result of trade and integration among sometimes widely differing trading partners. It is also worth remembering that the increase in trade ties and the behavior of investors show important differences among Latin American and Caribbean subregions alike, and also in relation to the rest of the world. From the region’s point of view, these differences are reflected in various different patterns of specialization and modalities of international integration, each of which opens up real and, above all, potential spaces for cooperation and mutual learning. The most dynamic in the last decade has been the export of resource-intensive goods, with low -albeit variable- degrees of processing ...
P22|Presentation|The last decade has seen a significant increase in the exports of several Latin American and Caribbean countries to destinations within and beyond the region. The increase in trade links has not, however, been accompanied by a proportional increase in reciprocal investments among the trading partners. This precludes making the most of clear advantages, including the possibility of diversifying and upgrading trade links by overcoming trade barriers imposed by distance and cultural differences, and by the greater availability of capital and knowledge flowing to recipient countries. In these countries, there is the additional creation of new jobs and the mitigation of the social costs generated by mismatches in labor markets that are the result of trade and integration among sometimes widely differing trading partners. It is also worth remembering that the increase in trade ties and the behavior of investors show important differences among Latin American and Caribbean subregions alike, and also in relation to the rest of the world. From the region’s point of view, these differences are reflected in various different patterns of specialization and modalities of international integration, each of which opens up real and, above all, potential spaces for cooperation and mutual learning. The most dynamic in the last decade has been the export of resource-intensive goods, with low -albeit variable- degrees of processing ...
P22|Copper Mining and its Impact on Chile’s Development|Copper mining has become key in the Chilean economy because of its expansion, which began in the late 1980’s, and its recent price boom. This article documents this expansion and explains how copper has contributed to the country’s development. We study the multiplying effect of copper and we explore how to boost it and accelerate its contribution to development. The conclusions drawn here are also significant for countries where mining and the exploitation of other natural resources have fueled price booms.
P22|Foreign Investment in Agriculture and High Commodity Prices: A Contribution to Understanding MERCOSUR's Present Challenge|The aim of this article is to analyse the main incentives for foreign investment in agriculture in the four original Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) countries. This study constitutes a contribution to the debate about the effects of the present high agricultural commodity prices. Although there is substantial scholarly research on trade patterns, dependency and Dutch Disease, there is a much less understanding of the connection between commodity prices and foreign investment. The goal of this article is to provide some starting points to understand this dynamic. This paper argues that the incentives of domestic and international actors are aligned to investing more capital into commodity farming activities. Particularly, in this scenario of high prices. In this sense, it submits that there are limited probabilities that foreigners will get involved in food processing or distributing activities, except for projects seeking to serve the regional market or very specific sectors. In addition, although the MERCOSUR governments may have an interest in curbing a potential excess in commodity farming (to prevent dependency or a Dutch Disease), the paper explains why the interaction of private and public incentives shifts government attitudes to self-indulgence.
P22|Trade Policy for Natural Resources: What are the issues?|Natural resources account for 20 per cent of global merchandise trade, and have a number of distinctive features. Prices are volatile; resources dominate many countries’ exports, and are of vital importance for importers. They carry large rents, the distribution of which depends on world prices. Development and production of extractive resources often requires the participation of multinational corporations in contractual and fiscal relationships with local governments. There are major incentives for active policy yet, since policy is often implemented through export restrictions and through domestic tax instruments, it is largely outside WTO disciplines. This paper investigates the incentives and means by which governments can use policy to alter their international terms of trade, to redistribute rents within the national economy, and to encourage resource processing industry. It is argued that the policy equilibrium is inefficient, leading to a wide dispersion of international prices, highlighted in examples such as fuel subsidies and taxes, and restrictions on food exports. There is a need to bring export restrictions within WTO disciplines and also to use international agreements to supplement bilateral investment treaties in providing an environment supportive of high levels of investment in the sector.
P22|La Revista Completa|En el último decenio se verifica un significativo incremento de las exportaciones de varios países de América Latina y el Caribe, hacia destinos dentro y fuera de la región. Dicho incremento de los vínculos comerciales no ha estado acompañado, sin embargo, de un aumento proporcional en las inversiones recíprocas entre los socios comerciales. Este hecho impide aprovechar indudables ventajas, entre las que vale destacar la posibilidad de diversificar y escalar la calidad (upgrade) de los vínculos comerciales mediante la superación de las barreras al comercio impuestas por la distancia y las diferencias culturales, así como por la mayor disponibilidad de capital y conocimiento que fluye hacia los países receptores. A esto se agrega, en ellos, la creación de nuevos empleos y la mitigación de los costos sociales generados por los desajustes en los mercados de trabajo que son producto del intercambio y la integración entre socios comerciales a veces muy distintos. También vale destacar que el incremento de los vínculos comerciales y el comportamiento de la inversión registran importantes diferencias tanto entre subregiones de América Latina y el Caribe como en relación con el resto del mundo. Desde el punto de vista de la región, estas diferencias se traducen en patrones de especialización y modalidades de inserción internacional diversos, cada uno de los cuales abre espacios reales, pero sobre todo potenciales, para la cooperación y el aprendizaje mutuo. El más dinámico en el último decenio ha sido la exportación de bienes intensivos en recursos naturales, con bajos aunque variables grados de procesamiento ...
P22|Presentación|En el último decenio se verifica un significativo incremento de las exportaciones de varios países de América Latina y el Caribe, hacia destinos dentro y fuera de la región. Dicho incremento de los vínculos comerciales no ha estado acompañado, sin embargo, de un aumento proporcional en las inversiones recíprocas entre los socios comerciales. Este hecho impide aprovechar indudables ventajas, entre las que vale destacar la posibilidad de diversificar y escalar la calidad (upgrade) de los vínculos comerciales mediante la superación de las barreras al comercio impuestas por la distancia y las diferencias culturales, así como por la mayor disponibilidad de capital y conocimiento que fluye hacia los países receptores. A esto se agrega, en ellos, la creación de nuevos empleos y la mitigación de los costos sociales generados por los desajustes en los mercados de trabajo que son producto del intercambio y la integración entre socios comerciales a veces muy distintos. También vale destacar que el incremento de los vínculos comerciales y el comportamiento de la inversión registran importantes diferencias tanto entre subregiones de América Latina y el Caribe como en relación con el resto del mundo. Desde el punto de vista de la región, estas diferencias se traducen en patrones de especialización y modalidades de inserción internacional diversos, cada uno de los cuales abre espacios reales, pero sobre todo potenciales, para la cooperación y el aprendizaje mutuo. El más dinámico en el último decenio ha sido la exportación de bienes intensivos en recursos naturales, con bajos aunque variables grados de procesamiento ...
P22|El cobre y su impacto en el desarrollo de Chile|El cobre ha alcanzado una gran importancia para la economía chilena fruto de su expansión iniciada a fines de la década de los años ochenta y al reciente boom de precios. En este artículo se documenta esa expansión y la forma en que está contribuyendo al desarrollo del país. Se estudia el impacto multiplicador del cobre y se discute cómo acentuar y acelerar su contribución al desarrollo. La discusión presenta conclusiones relevantes para otros países que están gozando de la bonanza de precios en la minería o en otros recursos naturales.
P22|La inversión extranjera en agricultura y los altos precios de los productos primarios : un aporte para comprender el actual desafío del MERCOSUR|El propósito de este artículo ha sido analizar el comportamiento de las inversiones extranjeras en el sector agrícola de los cuatro miembros originales del Mercado Común del Sur (MERCOSUR). Este estudio ha pretendido contribuir al debate sobre los efectos de los altos precios de los productos primarios agrícolas. Si bien existen numerosos trabajos de investigación que analizan las estructuras comerciales, la dependencia y la enfermedad holandesa, es mucho menos lo que se sabe acerca de la conexión entre los precios de los productos primarios y la inversión extranjera. El objetivo de este trabajo es plantear algunos puntos de partida que ayuden a comprender esta dinámica. En mi opinión, los incentivos que mueven a los actores del escenario tanto nacional como internacional contribuyen a que se invierta más capital en el cultivo de productos primarios, sobre todo en este contexto de precios elevados. En este sentido, este trabajo considera poco probable que los extranjeros se involucren en actividades de procesamiento o distribución, excepto para atender las necesidades del mercado regional o de sectores muy específicos. Más aún, si bien los gobiernos del MERCOSUR pueden tener interés en poner freno al potencial exceso en la producción de productos primarios (para evitar caer en dependencias o en la enfermedad holandesa), en este trabajo se explican las razones por las cuales la interacción de los incentivos públicos y privados lleva a esos gobiernos a adoptar actitudes de autoindulgencia.
P22|La política comercial en materia de recursos naturales : qué cuestiones se plantean?|Los recursos naturales representan el 20 porciento del comercio global de mercancías y poseen varias características distintivas. Tienen precios volátiles, dominan las exportaciones de muchos países y revisten vital importancia para los importadores. Generan grandes rentas cuya distribución depende de los precios mundiales. En la explotación y la producción de los recursos extractivos, suele ser necesaria la participación de corporaciones multinacionales en relaciones contractuales y fiscales con los gobiernos nacionales. Si bien existen incentivos muy importantes para aplicar políticas activas, como éstas suelen adoptar la forma de restricciones a la exportación y de impuestos nacionales, se encuentran en gran medida al margen de las disciplinas de la OMC. En el presente trabajo se analizan los incentivos y los mecanismos de los que se valen los gobiernos a fin de poder utilizar las políticas para modificar sus términos de intercambio internacionales, redistribuir las rentas en la economía nacional y promover la industria de procesamiento de recursos naturales. Se plantea que el equilibrio de las políticas es ineficiente y da lugar a una gran dispersión de los precios internacionales, hecho que se pone de manifiesto en, por ejemplo, los subsidios e impuestos aplicables a los combustibles y las restricciones a la exportación de alimentos. Es necesario que las restricciones a la exportación estén amparadas por las disciplinas de la OMC así como que los países recurran a acuerdos internacionales para complementar los tratados bilaterales de inversión con el fin de crear un entorno que propicie mayores niveles de inversión en el sector.
P22|Inflation Dynamics in the New EU Member States: How Relevant Are External Factors?|In this paper we evaluate the relative influence of external versus domestic inflation drivers in the 12 new European Union (EU) member countries. Our empirical analysis is based on the New Keynesian Phillips Curve (NKPC) derived in Galí and Monacelli (2005) for small open economies (SOE). Employing the Generalized Method of Moments (GMM), we find that the SOE NKPC is well supported in the new EU member states. We also find that the inflation process is dominated by domestic variables in the larger countries of our sample, whereas external variables are mostly relevant in the smaller countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|Price convergence and market integration in Russia|Following the price-liberalization reforms implemented by Russia in 1992, an initial period of disconnect between regional markets began to transform around 1994. This paper analyzes the spatial pattern of goods market integration that evolved within Russia in 1994-2000, classifying country's regions into three categories: integrated with a benchmark region, not integrated but tending towards integration, and not integrated and not tending towards integration. To quantify tendencies towards integration, an AR(1) model of regional price differentials is augmented with a trend term that is capable of displaying asymptotic decay (indicating price convergence). The results obtained suggest that only about one-fifth of Russia's regions appear as not integrated and showing no tendency towards integration over the sample period.
P22|Analyzing price level in a booming economy: the case of Azerbaijan|The study analyzes price level in Azerbaijan economy over the period of 2000-2007 by employing a specific approach. The paper concludes that price increases caused by a resource boom differs from the price increases generated by a non-booming economy. Thereby, inflation mainly caused by resource boom has its own specific features in terms of impact on economy and therefore requires specific policy response. Some policy recommendations related to monetary and fiscal policies are suggested for elimination of harmful effects of resource boom and for preventing high price level in Azerbaijani economy.
P22|Empirická analýza průběhu cenové konvergence ČR a nových členských zemí EU k eurozóně<BR>[An Empirical Analysis of Price Convergence of the Czech Republic and the New EU Member States towards the Euro Area]|The main goal of this paper is to analyse the process of price convergence (beta and sigma convergence) in new EU Member States towards the Euro area (EU-12). The theoretical part of the paper consists of a brief overview of methods that are employed for analyses of the process of price convergence. Both main concepts - sigma and beta convergence are covered including various tests that are described in greater detail. The empirical part of the paper is focused on testing hypotheses of sigma and beta convergence using macroeconomic data (comparative price levels for GDP) for twelve new EU Member States in the period 1995-2008. Various econometrical methods (OLS, 2SLS, and two dynamic methods) are utilised in order to deal with problems associated with this particular type of analyses. Our results show that both hypotheses (sigma and beta price convergence) do hold for the new EU Member States. The estimated time to close a half of the remaining gap of comparative price levels towards the Euro area average for the group consisting of all new EU Member States (NMS12) is estimated to be approximately 9.6 years, for the group of more advanced countries (NMS5) is approximately 7.1 years.
P22|Relative Inflation in the EU Accession Countries of Central and Eastern Europe|Following their EU accession, the new member countries from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) must achieve sustainable price stability as one of the pre-conditions for joining the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) and adopting the euro. This paper examines the distribution dynamics of inflation rates in ten EU members from CEE relative to the EMU accession benchmark inflation over the period 1990-2009. In contrast to previous studies, we use nonparametric methods to test for convergence in inflation rates between CEE and the EMU benchmark as well as within the CEE sample. Over the entire sample period, we detect a general shift in the CEE inflation distribution towards the EMU benchmark along with intradistributional convergence. However, this process is not uniform. In the early years, it was equally likely for CEE inflation rates to move towards or away from the benchmark. The resulting multimodal distribution gave way to a unimodal distribution in the years leading up to the EU accession, accompanied by a marked shift towards the EMU benchmark. In more recent years, emergence of a bimodal distribution signaled the stratification of relative inflation in CEE into two convergence clubs, which has intensified since the start of the global economic crisis.
P22|Agenda For Marketing Excellence In The Deregulated Petroleum Down-Stream Sector|Deregulation in the petroleum down-stream sector tends to be treated by the masses. Oftentimes, the fear is that it will fuel the exploitative proclivities of the petroleum marketers and constitute a lee-way to corruption by government officials. For example, petroleum products may sell at prohibitive prices, at least in the short run and bureaucrats may exhibit corrupt tendencies in the process. These are genuine fears! However, there is a way out! Thus this paper is based on the imperative that the situation is not as hopeless as it may seem. It offers a marketing blueprint for the implementation of deregulation in the petroleum down-stream sector in such a manner that every stakeholder in the in-dustry will be reasonably satisfied. Thus the marketing model of deregulation reduces conflict situations by taking into account the needs, desires and preferences of all stakeholders. It succeeded in Chile, Thailand etc. why can’t it work in Nigeria?
P22|The Role Of Internal Assignment Prices In The Evaluation Of The Transactions Between Profit Centers|The internal assignment price, also called transfer price, represents the value at which the trans-fers between profit centers within the same economic entity are assessed. These transfers are determined by the organizational and functional structure of the economic entity. The internal the in-ternal exchanges between the responsibility (profit) centers of the entity must be evaluated at the assignment price. Moreover, the performances of these centers are influenced by the existence of in-ternal assignments, and the explanation lies in the fact that what the “buying” center considers a cost will become an income for the “selling” center. Despite all these, the internal assignment price does not influence the general income of the economic entity, but only the analytical income of each re-sponsibility center.`The problem of the internal assignment price was scientifically approached in 1920 by General Motors, followed by other companies in the USA (1930s, 1940s) and then by France, starting with 1950.
P22|Anatomy of Russia’s market segmentation1|Based on a relationship between price difference and demand difference among locations, the role of various market frictions in causing segmentation of the Russian goods market is analysed. The spatial sample covers most of Russian regions (70 of the 89); the data are annual, spanning 1992 to 2000. Spatial disconnectedness of regions is found to be responsible for about 70 percent of the average price differential, while the rest is caused by ‘artificial’ impediments to market integration such as regional protectionism, organized crime and intra‐region shipping conditions.
P22|Oil price shocks and their short- and long-term effects on the Chinese economy|A considerable body of economic literature shows the adverse economic impacts of oil-price shocks for the developed economies. However, there has been a lack of similar empirical study on China and other developing countries. This paper attempts to fill this gap by answering how and to what extent oil-price shocks impact China's economy, emphasizing on the price transmission mechanisms. To that end, we develop a structural vector auto-regressive model. Our results show that an oil-price increase negatively affects output and investment, but positively affects inflation rate and interest rate. However, with price control policies in China, the impact on real economy, represented by real output and real investment, lasts much longer than that to price/monetary variables. Our decomposition results also show that the short-term impact, namely output decrease induced by the cut in capacity-utilization rate, is greater in the first 6 periods (namely half a year), but the portion of the long-term impact, defined as the impact realized through an investment change, increases steadily and exceeds that of short-term impact in the 7th period. Afterwards, the long-term impact dominates, and maintains for quite some time.
P22|Círculos y Cuadraturas: Presiones inflacionarias y Enfermedad Holandesa en la Venezuela Bolivariana|"The analysis of inflationary pressures in Bolivarian Venezuela, in their origins and causes (historical and contemporary ones) has to be put into relation to the economic and monetary policy options adopted by the current Venezuelan government, in the framework of the challenges and choices a developing Economy has to face. For getting out of that complicated and involved cycle of underdevelopment. Inflationary pressures deconstruction is achieved by mean of interactions between the main aggregates and the behavior of such variables as public expenditure, prices and consumption. They are placed into relation to the socio-economic and historical background of Venezuelan development. Particularly, the ""Dutch disease"" theoretical and practical co-ordinates are used here."
P22|Money Demand in Post-Crisis Russia: Dedollarization and Remonetization| This paper assesses the monetary determinants of inflation in Russia using money demand functions. We find a stable money demand relation for Russia following the 1998 crisis. Higher income boosts demand for real ruble balances and the income elasticity of money is larger than unity, reflecting remonetization in the Russian economy. Inflation affects the adjustment toward equilibrium, whereas broad money shocks lead to higher inflation. We also show that exchange rate fluctuations considerably influence Russian money demand. Our results for system stability and the predictive value of money justify using the money stock as an information variable. They also suggest that the strong influence of exchange rate on money demand is likely to continue, despite the dedollarization of the Russian economy.
P22|Sustainable fishing in Irish waters: Assessment of Current Practices, Policies and Alternative Approaches|Irish fishing waters are currently governed as part of the Common Fisheries Policy of the European Union. Under this regime, policies of strict regulation are employed to provide both an ecologically sustainable resource and an economically sustainable industry. These measures, however, have not been sufficiently effective in achieving the desired goals. In this paper we examine the reasons for this deficiency and provide an analysis of the alternatives. In doing so, a critical assessment of current and proposed measures, in terms of ecological and economic sustainability is carried out. It is argued that the current measures of regulation have failed due to both theoretical and practical deficiencies in their application. A proposed policy alternative of a community based rights-based management regime is discussed.
P22|Equilibrium Prices Model for Sectors of Azerbaijan Economy Based on Input-Output Tables|In the study conducted comparative analyses by constructing “Equilibrium prices” models based on intersectorial balance tables of production and distribution of goods and services for 2001 and 2006 in Azerbaijan economy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|Цены На Жилье И Паритет Покупательной Способности Валют В Странах Снг<BR>[Real estate prices and purchasing-power parity in CIS countries]|This article takes into consideration the connection between the real estate prices and the purchasing-power parity of currencies in the countries of CIS. It is shown that the exceeding growth of dollar real estate prices in these countries was the part of the rising of dollar prices for all goods and services. It is clear now that the currency exchange rates and purchasing-power parity of currencies have become closer in the countries of CIS. That’s why the considerable changes of dollar prices for most goods and services are not expected in the nearest future.
P22|Udržitelnost vývoje cen bytů v České republice<BR>[The Sustainability of House Price Trends in the Czech Republic]|"On the background of current global mortgage crisis the article discusses the housing market theory and particularly the methods and indicators used for the evaluation of long-term sustainability of house price trends. The authors provide the time series of such indicators for selected OECD countries, critically examine the past research studies evaluating pre-crisis house price development and argue that house price falls present in many developed countries are more the causes than the consequences of mortgage crisis. The change in house price trends in 2007 in many developed countries could be thus interpreted as the result of the previous record house price growth, often labeled as a price bubble. In view of this hypothesis the authors try to assess the sustainability of house price development in the Czech Republic, using several indicators, error correction models and different data sources. The methods for construction of reliable house price indices are also discussed here. The results show that house prices in the Czech Republic could be above their ""equilibrium"" levels at the end of 2007 but this deviation was far lower than in countries like UK, Spain, Netherlands or Ireland."
P22|The Law of One Price in the Russian Economic Space|Taking the law of one price as a test for market integration, the spatial structure of Russia’s market integration is analyzed with the use of time series of consumer goods prices across Russian regions. An effort is made to explain the pattern obtained, identifying forces responsible for interregional price disparities
P22|Measuring Core Inflation in Romania Using the Dobrescu Method – A Comparative Approach|The paper focuses on the persistent and non-persistent changes in relative prices and their relation with the volatility of the aggregated price index. From the methodological perspective, the paper analyzes the implications of the hypotheses of five main methods for calculating core inflation with respect to the persistent and non-persistent changes in relative prices. From the empirical perspective, the paper ranks the methods based on volatility and discusses the relation between volatility and the persistent and non-persistent changes in relative prices, focusing on the relation between the changes in the components of the CPI that tend to be irreversible and the CPI. In the context of the analysis, the main conclusion of the paper indicates that there is a long-term tendency of the CPI, which is reflected by the irreversible changes in relative prices
P22|Price mobility of locations| This article applies the concept of mobility to cross-location price dynamics. Exploiting data on prices across Russian regions over 1994-2000, a contribution of relative and absolute mobility of regions to price convergence among them is analysed.
P22|Determinants of Farm Policies in the United States, 1996-2008| This paper focuses on the political economy of U.S. farm policy since the Uruguay Round trade negotiations concluded in 1994 and established the WTO. The continued ability of the powerful farm lobby in the United States to elicit support in the political arena is evident from this analysis. Yet there have been some substantial changes in policy that have reduced their distortionary effects, as well as some setbacks to liberalizing reform. New Doha Round commitments could put further constraints on subsidies provided by some U.S. policy instruments. And despite the ability of the farm lobby to retain its support programs through 2012, there are several political uncertainties about the alignments that have allowed U.S. farm support to endure.
P22|Political Economy of Agricultural Distortions in Transition Countries of Asia and Europe| The paper analyzes the political and institutional factors which are behind the dramatic changes in distortions to agricultural incentives in the transition countries in East Asia (China and Vietnam), Central Asia (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, etc), the rest of the former Soviet Union, and in Central and Eastern Europe. The paper explains why these changes have occurred and why there are large differences among transition countries in the extent and the nature of the remaining distortions.
P22|The Responsiveness of Remittances to the Oil Price: The Case of the GCC|We investigate the responsiveness of remittances from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries to the changes in the price of crude oil. Most of the GCC countries rank in the top 20 remitting countries in the world. We find that oil price elasticity of remittances is around 0.4. While most studies have examined the impact of remittances on the real economic activities in the receiving countries, this study emphasises the impact of remittances on the remitting countries. We examine various policy implications with regard to macroeconomic shocks, monetary policy and fiscal policy of the GCC countries.
P22|The mechanism of pricing adjustment and tendencies of its development in Uzbekistan|The paper argues in favor of pricing adjustment to support competitiveness of national economy in Uzbekistan. The special attention was given to the factors of decreasing production costs in condition of global financial crisis environment. Measures in tax legislation unification, optimizing tax rates and structure are considered important to support competitiveness of national production.
P22|Queue-rationed equilibria with fixed costs of waiting|No abstract is available for this item.
P22|Goods market integration in Russia during the economic upturn| This article finds an evolving pattern of goods market integration in Russia, considering the period of economic upturn since the second half of 2000 to the end of 2007. In an integrated market, the price of a tradable good at any location is determined by the national market, not local demand. Based on this, the strength of dependence of local prices on local demand is used to detect and measure market segmentation. The costs of a staples basket across almost all Russian regions with a monthly frequency are used as the empirical material. The pattern found suggests that over the time span under consideration the degree of Russia's goods market integration was relatively stable, fluctuating around some level; no significant improvements or deteriorations were detected.
P22|Choosing between alternative measures of core inflation using bounded rationality and cognitive biases|The paper intends to synthetically present a possible use of bounded rationality and cognitive biases in the evaluation of different core inflation measurements. As a consequence, the paper starts by synthetically presenting the main approaches to computing core inflation. We continue by analyzing the concept of bounded rationality and cognitive biases and their possible use in understanding the movement in different prices. The paper computes different measures of core inflation using methods based on excluding certain categories of prices from overall inflation rate and methods based on excluding from the overall inflation rate temporary movements of various prices which on different moments register extremely high volatility (using trimmed methodology). We analyze the impact of bounded rationality and cognitive biases on the movement of different prices and we suggest criteria for choosing between different measurement of core inflation and for computing a compound measurement of core inflation which takes into account the manifestation of cognitive biases. The natural continuation of the analysis will be to conduct an experiment which will allow us to quantitatively measure the impact of cognitive biases and consequently to determine the weights used in constructing the compound core inflation measurement.
P22|Anatomy of Russia's Market Segmentation|"Based on a relationship between price difference and demand difference among locations, the role of various market frictions in causing segmentation of the Russian goods market is analyzed. The spatial sample covers most of Russian regions (70 of all the 89); the data are yearly, spanning 1992 through 2000. Spatial disconnectedness of regions is found to be responsible for about 70 percent of average price differential, while the rest is caused by ""artificial? impediments to market integration such as shipping conditions, regional protectionism, and organized crime."
P22|Is The Cost Of Living In Russia Really That Low?|There is a widespread opinion that goods, especially foods, and services in Russia are very cheap as compared to the US. A number of Russian statistical indicators characterizing the cost of living, either directly or indirectly, seemingly corroborate this opinion. This paper demonstrates that these indicators are biased, sufficiently understating the cost of living in Russia. A comparison of Russian actual prices for foods with those in the US evidences that they are comparable. Moreover, the Russian prices are tending to catch up with the US prices.
P22|Some thoughts on nominal convergence, its drivers and determinants for the new eu member states preparing the euro adoption|The article analyses the process of nominal convergence of the new EU member states (NMS) with particular attention paid to some applied and theoretical aspects, which may have impact on the process of the euro adoption. Chapter two addresses selected theoretical and methodological issues connected with the International Comparison Project (ICP). It discusses determinants and influences affecting price level convergence and some issues that have set off new trends, such as the globalization or process of the on-going European integration. This chapter also presents a brief summary of the main trends of price convergence observed by focusing on changes of comparative price levels (CPL) for various disaggregated items of GDP. It also deals with potential issues and problems arising in this context. Chapter three is aimed at an empirical verification of price convergence and at a search for main driving factors using data for the NMS and the old EU member states over 11 years (1995-2006). There are some differences in results depending on the applied econometric method. The most important determinants of price level are GDP and population, the openness and public finance's indicators are not significant. The last section summarises the main findings.
P22|Alternative Measures of Core Inflation in Romania|The paper intends to present synthetically the main approaches to computing core inflation, taking into consideration the importance of core inflation for conducting monetary policy. At the same time, the paper computes different measures of core inflation using methods based on excluding certain categories of prices from overall inflation rate and methods based on excluding from the overall inflation rate temporary movements of various prices which at different moments register extremely high volatility (using trimmed methodology). For the monetary policies it is important to select the inflation indicator with the lowest volatility. In this respect, the paper analyzes the efficiency of the computed core inflation indicators using a statistical approach. At the same time, the paper analyzes the usefulness of core indicators for monetary policy measures.
P22|Is the cost of living in Russia really that low?|There is a widespread opinion that goods, especially foods, and services in Russia are very cheap as compared to the US. A number of Russian statistical indicators characterizing the cost of living, either directly or indirectly, seemingly corroborate this opinion. This paper demonstrates that these indicators are biased, sufficiently understating the cost of living in Russia. A comparison of Russian actual prices for foods with those in the US evidences that they are comparable. Moreover, the Russian prices are tending to catch up with the US prices.
P22|Monetary Impacts and Overshooting of Agricultural Prices in a Transition Economy: The Case of Slovenia| The paper focus on the time adjustment paths of the exchange rate and agricultural producer and industrial prices in response to unanticipated monetary shocks following model developed by Saghaian et al. (2002). We employ Johansen's cointegration test along with a vector error correction model to investigate whether agricultural producer prices overshoot in a transition economy. Results indicate that agricultural prices adjust faster than industrial prices to innovations in the money supply, affecting relative prices in the short run, but strict long-run money neutrality does not hold. The impulse response analysis shows that an exogenous shock to the money supply has a significant and volatile effect on the three price variables. Initially, both the agricultural producer prices and industrial prices undershoot their long-run path. Industrial prices recover in the fourth, agricultural producer prices in sixth month. The extent of overshooting in agricultural prices is twice as large as for exchange rates or industrial prices. This indicates that in the case of monetary shocks the sectors associated with flexible changes bear the burden of adjustment vis-à-vis the sectors with sticky changes. The exchange rate pass-through on agricultural producer prices revealed by the forecast error variance analysis indicates the relatively greater importance of the exchange rate than the money supply in explaining the expected variation of the agricultural producer price. This is consistent with floating exchange rate policy, while agricultural trade policy for sensitive products has been more restricted until Slovenia joined the European Union.
P22|Understanding price developments and consumer price indices in south-eastern Europe|The primary goal of monetary policy in most economies of the world is to achieve and maintain price stability. This paper evaluates price developments and consumer price indices in south-eastern European countries, i.e. countries that have either recently joined the EU or are candidate or potential candidate countries. It is motivated by the fact that, in transition countries, inflation has generally been higher and more volatile than in advanced economies. The analysis reveals that the subindex housing/energy appears to be the main driving force behind overall inflation in the region. In most of the countries under review, administered prices prove to be an important factor in consumer price developments, with their weights increasing over time. Inflation volatility in south-eastern Europe is significantly higher than in the euro area. While this is partly due to a higher level of inflation, it also reflects a more pronounced share for the most volatile sub-indices as well as the marked impact of administered prices on the overall price index, a phenomenon which has also been seen in the central and eastern European countries. While in most south-eastern European countries no HICP has been calculated yet, there is little evidence suggesting that the future use of the HICP will result in a systematic change in inflation patterns in the respective countries. However, as deviations have been observed in a few countries for certain periods, without further information on the structure of the respective national CPI and the HICP such differences cannot be fully excluded. JEL Classification: E21, O52, O57, P22
P22|Food markets in Russia: dynamics of their integration|In the context of an integrated market, a price of any product in regions depends on its demand in a national market rather than in a regional one. Applying the econometric model based on this theoretical statement, the paper assesses to what degree the markets of some food products are integrated. The fact that since nearly 1994 the growth of segmentation in such markets changes to the tendency of their integration has been observed. The authors conclude that there is an integrated food market in Russia, and its integration has been just the same as that one in the counties of developed market economy.
P22|Food markets in Russia: dynamics of their integration|In the context of an integrated market, a price of any product in regions depends on its demand in a national market rather than in a regional one. Applying the econometric model based on this theoretical statement, the paper assesses to what degree the markets of some food products are integrated. The fact that since nearly 1994 the growth of segmentation in such markets changes to the tendency of their integration has been observed. The authors conclude that there is an integrated food market in Russia, and its integration has been just the same as that one in the counties of developed market economy.
P22|Влияние Организованной Преступности На Региональную Дифференциацию Цен|Оценивается влияние организованной преступности на межрегиональный разброс цен для каждого года с 1992 по 2000 г. и за период 1993-2000 гг. по выборкам, включающим 70 регионов России и 50 регионов ее европейской части. В большинстве случаев связь между ценами и преступностью оказывается статистически значимой и положительной. Организованная преступность вносит весомый вклад в средний межрегиональный разброс цен. Вместе с тем роль организованной преступности со временем снижается.
P22|Russia's common market takes shape : price convergence and market integration among Russian regions|This paper analyzes the spatial structure of goods market integration in Russia, characterizing regions into three states: (a) integrated, (b) not integrated but trending toward integration, and (c) not integrated and not trending toward integration.Using time series of the cost of a staples basket across 75 regions of Russia for 1994-2000, I exploit a nonlinear cointegration relationship with an asymptotically subsiding trend to capture movement toward integration.The analysis suggests that 36% of Russian regions were integrated with the national market over 1994-2000, 44% were in the process of integrating with the national market, and 20% of regions were not integrated and not trending toward integration. JEL classification: C32, P22, R10, R15 Keywords: market integration, law of one price, price dispersion, convergence, Russian regions.
P22|Biases in cross-spave comparisons through cross-time price indexes : the case of Russia|Lacking data on price levels across locations (countries, national regions, etc.) for crossspace comparisons, researchers resort to local consumer price indexes (CPIs) over time to evaluate these levels.This approach unfortunately fails to specify, even generally, the exactness of such proxies.Worse, the method is silent on whether the results are consistent, at least qualitatively, with those obtained using actual price levels.This paper aims to find an answer empirically, using data across Russian regions.Through comparison of CPIproxied price levels with direct evaluations of regional price levels (i.e.Surinov spatial price indexes and the costs of a purchasing power basket), biases that distort the qualitative pattern of inter-regional differences are identified.Cross-region distributions for real income (calculated with CPI-proxied and directly evaluated price levels) for several points in time are estimated and compared.The CPI-induced biases are found to generally overstate inter-regional disparities. JEL Classification: C43, E31, P22, R19 Keywords: consumer price index, spatial price index, real income, nonhomothetic preferences, Russia, Russian regions
P22|Modelarea inflaţiei în România|The purpose of the paper is to present an efficient instrument for simulation and research of inflation and its determinants in Romania, with a focus on the short-term impact of changes in money, foreign exchange and wage policies and controlled prices as well as the impact of external shocks as international price of oil on future inflation in Romania.
P22|Interpretation of Regressions with Multiple Proxies| Multiple proxy variables are typically available for an unobserved explanatory variable in a regression. We provide a procedure by which the coefficient of interest can be estimated from a regression in which all the proxies are included simultaneously. This estimator is superior in large samples to the common practice of creating a summary measure of the proxy variables. We examine the relationship between parents' income and children's reading test scores in the United States, and between parents' assets and children's school enrollment in India, and demonstrate that the reduction in attenuation bias from a better use of proxy variables can be significant. Copyright by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
P22|Energy Expenses in Households with Different Standards of Living|This article provides results of an analysis of energy expenses in households with different income and expenditure levels. The authors have used the Statistical Office of Estonia Household Income and Expenditure Survey data for the period 2000-2005. The analysis was conducted across household income deciles, expenditure deciles and also across regions (counties). For background information the authors have examined the development of electricity consumption and electricity price trends. Price dynamics of boiler fuels used in energy enterprises in the period 2000-2005 have also been analysed, with the main focus on price trends of renewable energy sources. The structure of Estonian householdsÃ­ dwelling expenditure has been compared to FinlandÃ­s respective data in 2003
P22|Price Linkages of Russian Regional Markets|Exploiting time series of the cost of a staples basket across 75 Russian regions over 1994-2000, price linkages of the regions are analyzed with the use of Granger causality as a tool. Price linkages of Russian regions are found extensive: on average, an individual regional market is linked through prices with 62% of others. Neither isolated clusters of regions nor autarkic regions are revealed; each region is linked with all others either directly or indirectly, through a chain of no more than two intermediate regions. Spatial autocorrelation is found to be widespread, taking place in two thirds of regions.
P22|The Influence of Macroeconomic Variables on the Hungarian Agriculture| This paper focus on the time adjustment paths of the exchange rate and prices in response to unanticipated monetary shocks following model developed by Saghaian et al. (2002). We employ Johansen's cointegration test along with a vector error correction model to investigate whether agricultural prices overshoot in a transition economy. The empirical results indicate that agricultural prices adjust faster than industrial prices to innovations in the money supply, affecting relative prices in the short run, but strict long-run money neutrality does not hold.
P22|Monetary Impacts and Overshooting of Agricultural Prices in a Transition Economy| The paper focus on the time adjustment paths of the exchange rate and prices in response to unanticipated monetary shocks following model developed by Saghaian et al. (2002). We employ Johansen's cointegration test along with a vector error correction model to investigate whether agricultural prices overshoot in a transition economy. The empirical results indicate that agricultural prices adjust faster than industrial prices to innovations in the money supply, affecting relative prices in the short run, but strict long-run money neutrality does not hold.
P22|Price Convergence in EU-Accession Countries: Evidence from the International Comparison|The authors analyse price convergence in new EU countries. They estimate the price level elasticity with respect to the GDP in PPP to be 0.7–0.9 percent. They also analyse additional sources of price level convergence, such as terms-of-trade changes or price deregulation. The average speed of real exchange rate appreciation is estimated at about 3 percent a year, and its implications for fulfilling the Maastricht criteria are discussed. Focusing on adjustments in the structures of relative prices, the authors find that it may take about 10–25 years for new EU countries to converge to that of the least developed EU countries.
P22|Price Level Convergence: Croatia, Transition Countries and the EU|This paper analyses changes in price levels and real income in European countries on the basis of data from the International Comparison Project (ICP) and estimates the potential pressures on prices ensuing from the convergence process. Regression results for determinants of price levels indicate the importance of the Balassa-Samuelson effect for an explanation of observed differences in price levels across countries. A particular emphasis is put on the position of Croatia in international comparisons by using disaggregated data collected within the ICP. The paper suggests that a relatively high level of Croatian prices could be an advantage in the EU integration process due to lesser needs for future corrections of the exchange rate and prices. The presented regression estimate of factors of price level convergence indicates that over the next few years Croatia, among all European transition countries, may experience the least upward pressure on the general price level.
P22|Inter-Regional Price Convergence and Market Integration in Russia|The paper analyzes a spatial pattern of goods market integration in Russia. By the spatial pattern is meant a state of each individual region of the country: whether it is integrated, and if not, whether it moves towards integration. Time series of the cost of the basket of 25 basic foods across 75 regions of Russia for 1994-2000 with monthly frequency are used as the empirical stuff. With the use of nonlinear cointegration relationship that includes asymptotically subsiding trend capturing movement towards integration, 36% of Russian regions are found to be integrated with the national market; 44% of them are non- integrated, but are tending to integration with the national market; and 20% of regions are non-integrated and having no such a trend. It is found that s-convergence of regional prices takes place, implying that, despite the presence of regions not tending to integration, the predominant trend is the improvement in market integration.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|A Model To Forecast The Monthly Inflation In Romania|This paper is organized in two parts, the presentation of the model of inflation for Romania, and the results of different scenarios starting from the base model. The purpose of the paper is to present an efficient instrument for the simulation and research of inflation and its determinants in Romania, with a focus on the short-term impact of the changes in money, foreign exchange and wage policies and controlled prices, as well as the impact of the external shocks, such as the international oil price, on the future inflation in Romania.
P22|Impulse Analyses Of The Romanian Inflation|This paper is organized in two parts, an overview of the evolution of inflation, highlighting the factors that influenced the persistent inflation in Romania, and a VAR model for the impulse analyses. The purpose of the paper is to present an efficient instrument for simulating and researching the short-term impact of the changes in money, foreign exchange and the impact of external shocks (such as international price of oil) on the development of inflation.
P22|How would a fixed-exchange-rate regime fit the transition economies?. The cases of the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland|This paper is devoted to an extension of Dibooglu and Kutan?s work [Journal of Comparative Economics, June 2001], in two directions. First, a bivariate VAR, including the real effective exchange rate (REER) and inflation, is tested not only for Hungary and Poland, but also for the Czech Republic, over the 1993:1-2002:12 time-period, which excludes the early transition years. Second, industrial production and the nominal interest rate are incorporated in a multivariate VAR to investigate the effects of policy shocks on the exchange rate. This helps to illustrate the possible gains and costs of the present exchange-rate regime in these CEECs and to draw some conclusions on the likely economic outcomes of adopting a firmly fixed exchange-rate regime like ERM II. Three main conclusions emerge: (1) contrary to Dibooglu and Kutan (2001), results testify to a high degree of flexibility in the CPI; (2) in contrast to the Czech Republic and Hungary, nominal shocks have a strong effect on the REER in Poland and, more specifically, there is evidence that the fluctuations in the nominal exchange rate explain a large part of REER fluctuations in this latter country; (3) in Poland, the policy mix seems more credible than in the other two countries. We infer from these conclusions that moving to the ERM II and the EU will be of less benefit to Poland than to the Czech Republic and Hungary. JEL classifications: C50, E63, F31, P22
P22|Real exchange rate dynamics in transition economies|Real exchange appreciation has been a common feature in transition economies since the launching of stabilization and reform programs at the beginning of the 1990s. Previous literature has described this phenomenon as an equilibrium adjustment that followed a sharp undervaluation at the start of the reforms. This Paper argues that real appreciation had different sources over time and across countries. Building on a simple analytical framework, the Paper disentangles these differences and stresses the role of structural reforms and factor reallocation in determining the behavior of the real exchange rate. The empirical results show that the nature of the real appreciation was significantly different in the countries of the Former Soviet Union (FSU), except for the Baltic countries, and in Central and Eastern Europe. The role of structural change and transitional reallocation of resources across sectors diminishes through time, and stabilizes around the fifth or sixth year into the transition. The dynamics of the real exchange rate in several Central-Eastern European countries (CEE) in the process of accession to the European Union, can be now assimilated to that of previously acceding countries such as Spain, Portugal, and Greece, with the Harrod-Balassa-Samuelson effect playing a dominant role at later stages of transition. The Paper concludes by discussing the implications for exchange rate policy for transition economies and potential drawbacks of the Maastricht criteria once CEEs enter the European Union.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|Integration of the Russian Market. Empirical Analysis|The paper analyzes a spatial pattern of goods market integration in Russia, and characterizes the movement of the national market as a whole to integration. By the spatial pattern is meant a state of each individual region of the country: whether it is integrated, and if not, whether it moves towards integration. Time series of the cost of the basket of 25 basic foods across 75 regions of Russia for 1994-2000 with monthly frequency are used as the empirical stuff. With the use of nonlinear cointegration relationship that includes asymptotically subsiding trend capturing movement towards integration, 36% of Russian regions are found to be integrated with the national market; 44% of them are non-integrated, but are tending to integration with the national market; and 20% of regions are non-integrated having no such a trend. Analyzing distribution dynamics, σ-convergence is found to take place; and the shape of the across-region distribution of prices tends to be more regular over time. To characterize intra-distribution mobility, a stochastic kernel (the generalization of a transition probability matrix, pioneered by Danny T. Quah) is estimated. Such a kernel is also used to estimate the long-run limit of the price distribution. This limit is unimodal, predicting that “price convergence clubs” will not arise in the long run.
P22|Analysing changes in market integration through a cross-sectional test for the law of one price| This paper presents a theoretical argument that the relationship between price differences and per capita income differences across locations can be used as a cross-sectional test for the law of one price. Since the relationship should be statistically insignificant or very weak in an integrated economy, its strength can measure the extent of goods market integration. A sequence of cross-sectional estimations for a number of points in time provides the temporal pattern of integration, so enabling changes in integration to be traced. The basic equation may be augmented by additional variables representing potential culprits behind market segmentation so as to estimate their impeding impact to integration. This methodology is empirically verified by applying it to the Russian domestic market. It is found that integration of Russia's goods market tends to improve with time; a number of culprits behind market segmentation are identified. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
P22|Modeling Inflation In Romania|This paper is organized in three parts: a discussion of general issues, an overview of evolution of inflation, highlighting the stages of the persistent inflation in Romania, and a model of Romanian inflation using VAR methodology. The purpose of the paper is to present an efficient instrument for simulation and research of inflation and its determinants in Romania, with a focus on the short-term impact of changes in money, foreign exchange and wage policies as well as the impact of external shocks.
P22|The Evolution of Cross-Region Price Distribution in Russia|The behavior of the entire cross-section distribution of prices in Russian regions is analyzed from 1992 through 2000, using non-parametric techniques. The cost of a staples basket is used as a price representative. Price dispersion measured as the standard deviation of prices is found to be diminishing since about 1994; and the shape of the cross-region distribution of prices tends to be more regular over time. To characterize intra-distribution mobility, a transition probability function (stochastic kernel) is estimated. It is also used to derive a long-run limit of the price distribution. Overall, the results suggest that, excluding a few years following the price liberalization, price convergence has been happening among Russian regions.
P22|Market integration in Russia during the transformation years| A cross-sectional relationship among Russian regions between price dispersion and per capita income dispersion is used to measure the degree of integration between regional commodity markets. The sequence of cross-sectional estimations for each month of the period spanning 1992 through 2000 provides the temporal pattern of market integration in Russia, yielding an integration trajectory. The regional fragmentation of the national market increased during the early years of transition but integration has subsequently tended to improve notwithstanding occasional deviations from this trend. Copyright (c) The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 2003.
P22|A New Application of Taylor Rules: Model Evaluation|Taylor rules posit a linear relationship between the output gap, inflation, and short-term nominal interest rates. Previous work has shown that the relationship between these key economic variables as captured by the Taylor rule is quite robust both across countries and monetary policy regimes. Consequently, the Taylor rule has become a useful characterization of monetary policy with much recent work focussed on the optimal formulation of the Taylor rule and the properties of equilibrium. Our interest in the Taylor rule is from a quite different perspective: we ask whether a calibrated monetary model can produce Taylor rule behavior similar to that seen in the data. That is, since the Taylor rule is a useful summary of the characteristics of a monetary economy, it seems reasonable to ask whether a monetary model, when calibrated to the data, produces a similar relationship. For our analysis, we employ a version of the limited participation model of Christiano, Eichenbaum, and Evans (1997) that permits both technology and money shocks. We find that this model, when the shock process is calibrated to US data, is able to replicate qualtitatively the correlation of interest rates with inflation implied by the Taylor rule but fails dramatically to match that between nominal interest rates and output.
P22|Recent Claims of China's Economic Exceptionalism: Reflections Inspired by WTO Accession|"The desirability of WTO membership for China depends on whether its economic successes have been the result of its discovery of new institutional forms (e.g. dual track pricing, SOE contracts, and fiscal contracts) that are optimal for China''s particular economic circumstances, or have been the result of the convergence of its economic institutions to those of a typical advanced member of WTO. If the experimentalist interpretation of China''s phenomenal growth is correct, then WTO membership is a negative development because it could be a straitjacket for WTO-enforced institutional harmonisation that would constrain China''s scope for experimentation. But if the experimentalist interpretation is wrong, then WTO membership is a positive development that will lock China on to the path of deepening economic reform. We assess several recent claims of China''s economic exceptionalism, and conclude that they neglected the considerable costs associated with the use of these innovative mechanisms (which have led to the repeal of every one of these """"optimal"""" mechanisms) and that these mechanisms were unlikely to have produced positive results in the transition economies in Europe. Because a major reason for the failure of Gorbachev''s reforms was opposition from the entrenched interests within the ruling structure, China''s forthcoming WTO accession could be seen as an attempt by reformers to lock economic policies on to a market-oriented course that is costly to reverse."
P22|Price Convergence to the EU: What Do the 1999 ICP Data Tell Us?|The paper analyses the price convergence in the Czech Republic and other Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries towards the European Union (EU). Cross-country comparisons based on the International Comparison Project (ICP) 1999 are used. The authors conclude that in a benchmark convergence scenario, the equilibrium real exchange rate appreciation of the Czech koruna (CZK) should reach roughly 1.5-2.0 percent a year. They also warn, however, that there may be additional sources of real appreciation such as terms-of-trade changes or price deregulations, which may lead to a higher pace in the medium run. Studying a more detailed breakdown of commodities, the authors find that no clear distinction can be made between tradable and non-tradable goods, the 'degree of non-tradability' varying between 10 and 85 percent. The implications of this for differences in the structures of relative prices in the CEE countries compared with the EU are analysed. The paper concludes that it may take about 15 years for the Czech relative price structure to converge to the least-developed EU countries.
P22|Price Convergence: What Can the Balassa-Samuelson Model Tell Us?|The paper provides a theoretical reference point for discussions on adjustments in price levels and relative prices. The authors present a 'nested' model integrating the Balassa-Samuelson model of the real equilibrium exchange rate with a model of accumulation of capital and with the demand side of the economy. Consequently, they show how the model can be generalised to a case of numerous commodities with different degrees of tradability. The predictions of the model are generally consistent with empirical findings for Central and Eastern European countries. The authors show how the theoretical model can be used for internally consistent simulations of the future convergence process in a transition economy.
P22|Price Convergence: What Can the Balassa-Samuelson Model Tell Us? (in English)|The article contributes to the theory of convergence in the price level and relative prices. The authors present a model integrating the Balassa-Samuelson model of real equilibrium exchange rate with a model of capital accumulation and with the demand side of the economy. They also show how the Balassa-Samuelson model can be extended to the case of more than two goods. The predictions of the Balassa-Samuelson model are generally consistent with empirical findings in Central and Eastern European countries. The authors show how the model can be used toward projecting price convergence in a transition economy.
P22|Real Exchange Rates in Transition Economies|Paper attempts to develop a model suitable for an analysis of the real exchange rate determination in transition economies. The main distinction from other approaches to the real exchange rate determination is an introduction of the pre-transition period which enables one to separately examine the role of adverse initial conditions and labor market reallocation between the tradable and non-tradable good sectors believed to characterize the extent of structural reforms in transition economies. Empirical findings seem to confirm that transition - when looking only at the real exchange rate behavior - is over once the progress in structural reforms does not affect the real exchange rate determination relative to other factors. Along the lines of research on growth prospects in transition economies, the effect of structural changes on the real exchange rate in more advanced transition economies has on average diminished in the fifth year of the transition process. The results for less advanced economies are in line with other studies on transition.
P22|Integration: An Empirical Assessment of Russia|In the process of implementing market reforms, many post-socialist countries have struggled to preserve economic and political integration. Using a statistical model of commodity trade, we quantify the evolution of economic integration observed among regions within Russia during 1995-1999, and then explore potential determinants of the patterns of integration we observe. Our measure of integration exhibits rich regional variation that, when aggregated to the national level, fluctuates substantially over time. In seeking to account for this behavior, we draw in part on theoretical models that emphasize the potential role of openness to international trade, regional disparities in income, and inflation volatility in threatening economic and political integration. Controlling for a host of additional regional- and national-level variables, we find a strong negative correspondence between openness to international trade and internal economic integration within Russia. We also find negative links but weaker links between integration and regional-income disparities and inflation volatility.
P22|Balassa-Samuelson Effect in Transition Economies: The Case of Slovenia|Paper presents a first-hand examination of the Balassa-Samuelson effect in Slovenia. Different measures of real exchange rate are presented in order to provide arguments for the Balassa-Samuelson effect estimation using external real exchange rate measure. It is argued that on average one percent increase in productivity differential between labor productivities in industry and services appreciated external real exchange rate by almost 1.5 percent in the period from 1993:1 to 2001:2. At the same time, one percent increase in productivity differential caused about 1.7 percent increase in CPI. The results are in line with other studies on real exchange rate behavior in transition economies.
P22|Recent Claims of China's Economic Exceptionalism: Reflections Inspired by WTO Accession|"The desirability of WTO membership for China depends on whether its economic successes have been the result of its discovery of new institutional forms (e.g. dual track pricing, SOE contracts, and fiscal contracts) that are optimal for China's particular economic circumstances, or have been the result of the convergence of its economic institutions to those of a typical advanced member of WTO. If the experimentalist interpretation of China's phenomenal growth is correct, then WTO membership is a negative development because it could be a straitjacket for WTO-enforced institutional harmonisation that would constrain China's scope for experimentation. But if the experimentalist interpretation is wrong, then WTO membership is a positive development that will lock China on to the path of deepening economic reform. We assess several recent claims of China's economic exceptionalism, and conclude that they neglected the considerable costs associated with the use of these innovative mechanisms (which have led to the repeal of every one of these ""optimal"" mechanisms) and that these mechanisms were unlikely to have produced positive results in the transition economies in Europe. Because a major reason for the failure of Gorbachev's reforms was opposition from the entrenched interests within the ruling structure, China's forthcoming WTO accession could be seen as an attempt by reformers to lock economic policies on to a market-oriented course that is costly to reverse."
P22|Recent claims of China's economic exceptionalism: Reflections inspired by WTO accession|No abstract is available for this item.
P22|Пространственное Поведение Уровней Цен|На данных о динамике уровней цен продовольственных и промышленных товаров по регионам Западной Сибири за 1994-1998 гг. изучается, имеет ли место сходимость к единой цене. Дано теоретическое обоснование эконометрических моделей, используемых для проверки выполнения закона в строгой и слабой формах. Оценены скорости сходимости региональных уровней цен к среднероссийскому и к уровням цен других регионов, а также величины порогов на пути межрегионального товарообмена.
P22|Price Convergence toward the EU: A Few Open Issues|This article attempts to answer a few open questions related to price convergence in the Czech Republic and in other Central and Eastern European Countries toward prices in the European Union. The authors address the following issues: First, what, from the theoretical viewpoint, should the quantitative relationship be between price level and GDP? Second, does the existing empirical data allow for a clear distinction between tradable and non-tradable commodities, as assumed by standard theory? Third, what is the relationship between price levels and coefficient measuring differences in the structures of relative prices in individual countries? Fourth, what are the likely forms of relative price convergence in the Czech Republic toward accession to the European Union? Fifth, what is the reason for the significantly negative residual of the Czech economy in the cross-country regressions of the average price level on GDP.
P22|Lange and Hayek Revisited: Lessons from Czech Voucher Privatization|A fundamental question in economics since the 1930s has been whether an administrative price system could simulate the results of perfect competition even without a true market for the means of production. The theoretical possibility of such a system has been known since the introduction of market socialism by Oskar Lange. We have used the artificial bidding market involved in the Czech voucher privatization process to test whether a sequential process of trial-and-error can set administrative prices close to equilibrium. It would appear from this natural experiment that Robbins and Hayek were correct in doubting the real-world feasibility of market socialism.
P22|Road to EMU: Do We Need a Flexible Exchange Rate?|The authors consider the current exchange-rate regime in the Czech Republic as the Czech economy prepares for entry into the EU and the EMU. The macroeconomic impacts of a single-currency regime are classified according to traditional OCA theory. Using quantitative measures, the authors find the degree of macroeconomic convergence between the Czech and German (EU) economies sufficient enough to preclude major obstacles to the implementation of a fixed-currency regime in the Czech Republic. Also examined are the transitional specifics of the Czech economy. The paper analyzes the real appreciation of the Czech currency and its competitiveness and finds that the development of cost factors exert depreciationary pressures on the exchange rate. Conversely, a fixed regime might alleviate problems related to the influx foreign capital and consequent nominal appreciation?an idiosyncrasy of the Czech economy. However, once labor market rigidities are removed, a fixed regime offers the Czech economy a basis of sustainable competitive advantage, growth, and convergence to the EU.
P22|Towards the EMU: A Need For Exchange Rate Flexibility?|We address the question of exchange rate regime for the Czech Republic before it enters the EU and the EMU. We classify macroeconomic impacts of a single currency regime according to the traditional OCA theory. Using quantitative measures, we find the degree of macroeconomic convergence between the Czech and German (EU) economies high enough not to form a major obstacle to a common currency regime. In addition, we look at transitional specificities of the Czech economy. We analyse the real appreciation of the Czech currency and its relationship to competitiveness and find that development of cost factors exercise depreciationary pressures on the exchange rate. Conversely, a fixed regime may alleviate problems of the foreign capital influx and ensuing nominal appreciation - another idiosyncrasy of the Czech economy. However, once labour market rigidities are removed, a fixed regime may become a source of a sustainable competitive advantage, growth, and convergence.
P22|Reform without Losers: An Interpretation of China's Dual-Track Approach to Transition|"We develop a simple model to analyze the ""dual-track"" approach to transition to a market economy as a mechanism for implementing efficient Pareto-improving economic reform, that is, reform achieving efficiency without creating losers. The approach, based on the continued enforcement of the existing plan while simultaneously liberalizing the market, can be understood as a method for making implicit lump sum transfers to compensate potential losers of the reform. The model highlights the critical role of enforcement of the plan and full liberalization of the market track. We examine how the dual-track approach has worked in product and labor markets in China's economic reform in practice.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
P22|The Evolution of Market Integration in Russia|We use a statistical model of commodity trade to measure the extent of integration between regional commodity markets within Russia. Monthly time-series data on regional commodity prices spanning 1994 through 1999 indicate substantial temporal fluctuations in integration over this period: an initial period of widespread integration gradually gave way to a period of disconnectedness in 1995 through 1997, which seems to have subsided by mid-1998. These temporal fluctuations exhibit strong statistical relationships with a host of aggregate variables; most notably, internal integration exhibits a strong negative relationship with international trade.
P22|Russia's internal border|In integrated economies, inter-city price differences can be explained largely by transportation costs. This is not the case in Russia. Here, we argue that this is due to an internal border that separates a region we denote as the Red Belt from the rest of Russia. Regions within the Red Belt exhibit high degrees of price dispersion and thus seem isolated. Moreover, these regions have been relatively slow to adopt economic reforms, and have suffered relatively low growth rates. The impact of the border on price dispersion is shown to be comparable to the impact of the U.S.-Canadian border.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P22|Inflation and Money in Ukraine|This paper treats inflation in Ukraine between 1993 and 1996 as an essentially monetary phenomenon : price increases are determined in such a way as to bring the real value of the supply of money into balance with real money demand. Cointegration techniques are used to estimate long-run money demand. A vector error correction model explains the month-to-month dynamics of inflation, real money are interest rates. The policy variable which determines the medium term value of inflation is the monetary base. If money supply is not accomodating, the effect on inflation of administered price shocks is transitory. These conclusions are illustrated by simulating the effects of a hypothetical increase of 10% in the monetary base of April, 1996, and comparing them with the inflationary effects of a hypothetical administered price shock of 10% in the same month. The money supply raises prices slowly and durably. The administered price shock causes a transient jump in inflation which begins to be reserved after one month.
P22|Does Devaluation of the Renminbi Improve China’s Balance of Trade?|The objective of this paper is to test the relationship between the exchange value of the renminbi (RMB) and China’s trade balance over the 1991-1996 period. Using some recent econometric techniques designed to evaluate the existence and the direction of causality, we find no evidence to support the hypothesis that the new reformed foreign trade regime has made the balance of trade much responsive to changes in the exchange rate. JEL Classification: F31, F14, P22
P22|Nominal-Real Tradeoffs and the Effects of Monetary Policy: the Romanian Experience|Due to the persistence of relatively soft budget constraints and poor government credibility, the survival strategy of Romanian state-sector firms means eschewing profit maximization in the short run in favor of insider utility maximization. This takes the form of attempts at both reducing layoffs and minimizing real wage losses on the background of substantial adjustment in real output. Nominal adjustment (especially pricing and arrears) is favored over riskier and more costly real adjustment, since firms are risk-averse in the longer run. From an operational viewpoint, the representative firm's objective becomes that of maximizing liquidity flows subject to constraints regarding labor hoarding systemic limits to debt default and spontaneous restructuring. Empirical evidence supports the idea of an inflation-output tradeoff (in terms of variations around trends) where increases in expected inflation and/or expected gross nominal arrears have a significant negative impact on real industrial output, while unexpected inflation (and defaulted debt) exhibits positive but insignificant coefficients. The tradeoff persists even when controlling for demand-side factors. Monetary variables do not appear to cause this tradeoff, but rather seem to be mediating it. Persistence is also much more pronounced in inflation than it is in real output. Monetary policy measures then tend to have an asymmetric impact: they are likely to affect the nominal side more than the real one; monetary aggregates tend to have a sharp short-run impact compared to the stronger and longer-lasting effects induced with a lag by changes in interest rates; required reserves, because of their lesser political visibility, have for a long period been a more effective instrument of monetary policy management compared to refinancing rates, when the central bank's independence was ambiguous. Finally, in the context of a specific credit channel fueled both by commercial bank loans and by differential access to defaulted debt, short-term credit to the state sector exhibits adverse selection features compared to loans extended to private-sector firms, with the latter being in the position of net creditor due to the predominance of hard budget constraints. Firm immunity (given by size, political sensitiveness of the respective industry, importance as regional employer, etc.) to punitive interventions either on the part of government authorities or creditors seems to play a large role in the proliferation of financial indiscipline as a repeated game, with large, poorly efficient firms initiating arrears growth and other firms following either voluntarily (due to cost-of-credit differences) or involuntarily (because of a liquidity squeeze). Interestingly, arrears are not perfect substitutes for credit, while both M2 and nongovernment credit appear to accommodate increases in gross arrears. The transmission of monetary policy via a credit channel is also interesting in the post-1996 context of central bank deposit taking meant to sterilize excess liquidity due to relatively high capital inflows. The policy conclusions point to the limited effectiveness of monetary policy in macrostabilization of structuural reforms, privatization, financial discipline and improvements in corporate governance are absent or slow; the need for austere monetary policy in sustaining these measures; and the danger of expansionary policy aimed at growth and/or employment objectives. Institutional reforms at the central bank level (improvements in the independece of the monetary authority, stating price stability as the paramount objective of monetary policy, instituting multi-annual inflation targets in the context of a consistent macro policy mix, etc) are also examined.
P22|Pareto-improving economic reforms through dual-track liberalization|"Pareto-improving economic reforms that also simultaneously achieve efficiency can be implemented through a strategy of ""dual-track"" liberalization. Its success requires the feasibility of the original plan and its continued enforcement by the state. The Chinese experience demonstrates that such a strategy works. Keywords: economic reform, transition, political economy, dual track, China. JEL classification: P21<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
P22|Money-Credit Policy Impact on Inflation and Output: The Ukrainian Case|"Different speed and aftermath of the transition of twenty post-communist Central and Eastern European countries to free-market economy has posed a question about political and economical reasons led only some countries being successful in their transformation. The attempt was done in this paper to analyse five-year history of three stabilisation programmes undertaken in Ukraine where eventually economy seems to reach ""low output - high inflation"" equilibrium. The first chapter of the paper was devoted to the peculiar characteristics of monetary policy with special attention to inflation trend correlation with different monetary aggregates. The regression analysis showed that broad money with three-months lag and banking credits to the state sector of economy were mainly responsible for inflation hikes. Second part of the paper concentrates on reasons of steep output fall registered in the economy. As the Ukrainian government being faced with ""inflation-unemployment (output)"" trade-off has steadily tried to minimise output losses for the account of accommodative high-inflationary policy, output began to shrink and move to shadow economy in spite of persistent flow of direct government financial support to the economy. Any attempts to conduct contractionary monetary policy led on impact to worsening of arrears problem. The arrears chain appeared in the economy since 1993, and inter-enterprise arrears fast growth has caused severe financial crisis through whole economy resulted in the appearance with three-year lag socially dangerous tax arrears, wage arrears, and pension arrears. The cross-section regression analysis clarified that arrears can be mainly linked to the presence of the bulk of ineffective state-owned loss-making enterprises existed under soft budget constraints."
P22|Relative Price Convergence in Russia|Following price and exchange rate liberalization, domestic consumer prices in Russia moved closer to market levels. This paper quantifies the magnitude of the associated relative price changes. It also shows that relative price variability has been positively correlated with inflation. It is further established that convergence toward international relative and absolute price levels is far from complete, and that geographical price dispersion within Russia has declined since early 1992 but remains fairly high.
P22|Macroeconomic Stabilization in Russia: Lessons of Reform, 1992-1995|In this paper we outline the main theories of persisting high inflation and test them informally by reference to the three main attempts to stabilise the Russian macroeconomy between 1992-4. We then assess the prospects for the success of the fourth and current effort.
P22|Food Market Liberalization Against Public Opinion: Some Bitter Lessons from the Physiocratic Experiment in Eighteenth-Century France|No abstract is available for this item.
P22|Shortages under Free Prices: The Case of Ukraine in 1992|This paper examines whether shortages may occur in an economy in transition, even for goods whose prices are free. The empirical relevance of this phenomenon is suggested by a case study of Ukraine during 1992. The paper presents a model of enterprise behavior in an environment where key inputs are centrally allocated at preferential prices. It shows that the allocation of key inputs according to perceived need may create incentives for enterprises to perpetuate shortages, despite formal price liberalization. The analysis suggests that central allocation must be abolished for price liberalization to have its full efficiency effects.
P22|A Monetary Model of a Shortage Economy|"During the transition from centrally planned economies to market economies, many countries have experienced macroeconomic instability. This paper develops a monetary model to show how macroeconomic stability and instability can materialize in a rigidly planned economy with inherent structural imbalances and an irrational price system. The study shows that, without hardening enterprise budget constraints, wage and price liberalization may destabilize an economy and lead to persistent budget deficits and inflation. The paper also analyzes household savings and money demand in a shortage economy, clarifying the somewhat confusing concept of ""monetary overhang"" in the literature."
P22|La política de precios de los combustibles y la distribución del ingreso en el Perú: 1985-1990|Este documento evalúa los efectos sobre la distribución del ingreso de la política de precios e impuestos a los combustibles aplicada entre julio de 1985 y julio de 1990, período en el cual el gobierno manipuló activamente dichos precios e impuestos para combatir la inflación y mejorar la distribución del ingreso.
P22|Forced Saving and Repressed Inflation in the Soviet Union, 1986-90: Some Empirical Results|In countries like the former Soviet Union, where wealth is mainly stored in monetary assets, the behavior of the money-income ratio is a poor indicator of the growth of undesired monetary balances (monetary overhang). In those countries a monetary overhang is primarily a wealth overhang, which has to be analyzed by evaluating deviations of actual from desired wealth holdings; this requires an empirical analysis of consumption and saving decisions. In this paper, a consumption function for the Soviet Union is estimated, from which an evaluation of the monetary overhang existing at end-1990 is derived.
P22|Economic Equilibrium and Soviet Economic Reform|The paper, prepared for a Roundtable on Major Economic Problems in the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., discusses some aspects of price theory ñ in particular, the theory of general equilibrium -ñ which may offer some theoretical insights about the economic problems to be encountered during the transition from Socialism to private markets in the Soviet Union.
P22|Money and Inflation in Yugoslavia|Yugoslav inflation unfolded as a classic wage-price-exchange rate spiral through the 1970s and 1980s, exploding into hyperinflation in the last quarter of 1989. Monetary accommodation of inflation, the behavior of demand for money, and the interaction between the two in Yugoslavia are examined. The asset-liability structure of the central bank, together with the policy stance on exchange and interest rates, led to a significant feedback from inflation to money supply. Despite their explosive and seasonal nature, real money balances were cointegrated with other economic variables, and hence, in long-run equilibrium relationship.
P22|Механизм договорных цен (Mekhanizm dogovornykh tsen)<BR>[The Mechanism of Negotiated Prices]|We describe the negotiated-price mechanism, introduced in the USSR in 1985, to increase flexibility of retail prices. We discuss a possibility to improve interactions between manufacturing and retailing through negotiated prices, and demonstrate a methodology to estimate them, using consumer surveys. Suggestions for improvement of the negotiated-price system are formulated.
