P23|Trade and jobs: a description of Swedish labor market dynamics|We perform a granular analysis of Swedish labor market dynamics, using matched employer employee and firm level trade data for Sweden over a 15-year period. The employment share in firms that are directly exposed to international trade has decreased, due to a shift in employment towards personal and public services. Analyzing the dynamics, we find that workers in firms that change export status are slightly less likely to obtain the same wage rise as their peers. However, workers that stay in the same job in trading firms are less affected by changes in export and offshoring volumes, with the exception of high-skilled workers in manufacturing firms who face a downward pressure on wages from services offshoring, but higher wages from services exports. Finally, we find that exports and offshoring of goods and services stimulate labor demand. While exports and offshoring of services increase relative demand for skilled workers, exports and offshoring of goods stimulate relative demand for middle and low skilled workers.
P23|Labor Market Dynamics in Urban China and the Role of the State Sector|This paper studies the effect of state-owned enterprises on the dynamics of the Chinese urban labor market. Using longitudinal monthly panel data, we document very low dynamics in the labor market, especially in the state sector. We develop and calibrate an equilibrium search and matching model with three differences between the state and the non-state sector: labor productivity, labor adjustment cost, and workers’ bargaining power. Counterfactual analysis shows that the lack of dynamics is mainly driven by the strong bargaining power of state-sector workers. Eliminating the differences between the two sectors substantially reduces the unemployment rate and long-term unemployment rate.
P23|Labor Market Dynamics in Urban China and the Role of the State Sector|This paper studies the effect of state-owned enterprises on the dynamics of the Chinese urban labor market. Using longitudinal monthly panel data, we document very low dynamics in the labor market, especially in the state sector. We develop and calibrate an equilibrium search and matching model with three differences between the state and the non-state sector: labor productivity, labor adjustment cost, and workers' bargaining power. Counterfactual analysis shows that the lack of dynamics is mainly driven by the strong bargaining power of state-sector workers. Eliminating the differences between the two sectors substantially reduces the unemployment rate and long-term unemployment rate.
P23|Gorbachev versus Deng: A Review of Chris Miller's 'The Struggle to Save the Soviet Economy'|Chris Miller’s book is a historian’s account of Mikhail Gorbachev’s efforts to save the Soviet economy. Miller focuses on the question of why Gorbachev did not follow Deng Xiaoping and did not manage to reform the economy. Miller argues that it was not for the lack of understanding (Gorbachev did invest in learning China’s approach to reform and did understand it well), nor for the lack of trying. In fact, Gorbachev did try to implement Deng’s agricultural and industrial enterprise reforms. However, Gorbachev’s reforms were blocked by powerful vested interests. An inability to tackle the agricultural and industrial lobbies eventually resulted in the bankruptcy and collapse of the Soviet Union. While I generally agree with the political economy argument, I discuss a number of alternative explanations. I also discuss sources of Gorbachev’s weak state capacity and offer an evaluation of Gorbachev’s and post-Gorbachev reform efforts and mistakes based on the political economy research carried out in the last twenty-five years.
P23|Foreign Investments Mostly Robust Despite Global Downturn; Shift into Services. FDI in Central, East and Southeast Europe|Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows to Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) declined by 13% in 2018. The decline was almost exclusively on account of lower inflows into Russia, which halved compared with 2017. Inflows to the new EU Member States (EU-CEE11) were largely unchanged from the previous year, despite strong economic growth. By contrast, inflows into the Western Balkans rose by 28%, thanks in particular to rising investor interest in Serbia and North Macedonia. Turkey received a bit more FDI than in 2017, but the overall amount is still very low relative to the size of the economy. The decline in FDI to Russia in 2018 was particularly striking. Russia is becoming more and more inward looking, due to the exchange of sanctions with the West and (related) import-substitution economic policies. Efforts to stimulate the return of capital from abroad do not seem to be working FDI outflows were three times greater than inflows in 2018. Services accounted for the bulk of FDI in most countries in CESEE last year. In particular, producer-related business activities such as ICT, business process outsourcing and shared service centres expanded across the region. Services are not capital intensive, and thus are barely reflected in FDI data. However, the increasing share of services in announced greenfield FDI projects, and of commercial services in total exports, both point to a growing importance for foreign investors in these sectors. Germany and the US are the most important ultimate sources of FDI in CESEE. The share of Austrian outward FDI in CESEE is shrinking, at the expense of Asia and the US. Tax havens, the Netherlands, Cyprus and Luxembourg in particular are among the largest immediate investors but not among the important ultimate investing countries. Several trends shaping the future of FDI that are given special attention in this study. First, we find that the link between FDI inflows and GDP growth has become less strong since the crisis. Second, FDI inflows and participation in global value chains are strongly and positively correlated. Third, using a gravity model we highlight several CESEE countries attracting FDI at a level above their potential, particularly Montenegro and Bulgaria. By contrast, Belarus and Moldova could attract more FDI if business conditions improve. Finally, we note that business sentiment has a significant impact on greenfield investment decisions. Given that economic confidence across EU-CEE11 countries appears to be declining, we expect lower FDI inflows in 2019, which could lead to lower GDP growth. This is owing to faltering global and European economic activity, and restrictive policies in the US, Russia and China. Tax reform in the US will likely continue to have a particularly important negative impact on global FDI activity. The wiiw FDI Database is available online This online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database
P23|Die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung Sachsen-Anhalts seit 1990|In diesem Beitrag wird die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung Sachsen-Anhalts seit 1990 im Kontext des ostdeutschen Transformationsprozesses von einer Zentralverwaltungswirtschaft zu einer Marktwirtschaft beschrieben. Die wirtschaftliche Leistungsfähigkeit Sachsen-Anhalts hat in den frühen 1990er Jahren zunächst schnell gegenüber Westdeutschland aufgeholt, vor allem weil der Kapitalstock modernisiert und erweitert worden ist. Seit einiger Zeit stagniert der Aufholprozess jedoch, und das Bruttoinlandsprodukt je Erwerbstätigen liegt etwa 20% unter dem westdeutschen Niveau. Die wirtschaftspolitische Herausforderung besteht darin, den Aufholprozess durch die Förderung von Forschung und Innovation und durch bessere Qualifizierung der Erwerbstätigen weiter voranzubringen.
P23|Foreign Direct Investments: A Comparison of EAEU, DCFTA and Selected EU-CEE Countries|Foreign direct investment (FDI) has been the main driver of restructuring and modernisation in Central and Eastern Europe. This paper looks into FDI stocks and flows in a dynamic and cross-country perspective, comparing the key EAEU countries (Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia) as well as DCFTA countries (Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine) with selected EU-CEE peers (Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovakia) in the neighbourhood. The study shows that EAEU and DCFTA countries have not been particularly attractive for foreign investors taking out round tripping inflows from offshore destinations, the accumulated FDI would be even lower. This explains a lot why restructuring in the region stalls. This pattern can change only with marked improvements in the domestic regulatory environment and investment climate.
P23|Declines due to Disinvestment|This report presents and analyses the basic features of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) as reported in the balance of payments, following the directional principle and the international investment position. The data reveal that FDI in the region fell by as much as 25% in 2017 against the previous year, and by 20% in the new EU Member States (EU-CEE). These developments are not in line with buoyant economic growth. It was not that surprising, however, as FDI inflow data have been volatile and not much correlated with the rate of economic growth in individual economies. Part of this volatility is caused by disinvestment – i.e. capital withdrawals by foreign investors – which account for a significant component of (net) FDI inflows in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, where national capital took over foreign subsidiaries in banking, utilities and communications, often with government support. In 2017, for the third year in a row, CESEE received increased greenfield FDI commitments in terms of the number of projects (7.4%), while the amount of capital investment pledged fell only 26% short of the extraordinarily high level of 2016 (data based on fdimarkets.com). In the EU‑CEE, greenfield investments rose both in terms of project numbers and capital investments. The biggest greenfield boom in 2017 was recorded in Poland, where FDI inflows reported in the balance of payments halved due to the domestic takeover of some assets, including a large bank. The strained labour market situation may hinder further FDI in the EU-CEE unless investors successfully cope with new challenges, such as immigrant workers, automation (which would trigger new investments) or moving further to the east (which might lead to a withdrawal of capital from existing locations). Relocation to the potentially promising neighbouring destination, Ukraine, is hampered by poor business conditions. New data allow us to identify the substantial gap between inward FDI stocks by the immediate investor (generally available information) and by the ultimate investing country (information available for five countries). These show that the Netherlands and Luxembourg are usually overrated as immediate investors; Germany and the USA turn out to be the most important ultimate investors. Austria remains the third most important investor in EU-CEE, but with declining shares in both home- and host-country reported stocks. Still, the FDI income gained from the region is high in international comparison, amounting to 1.1% of GDP or 10% of the outward FDI stock. The income earned by Austrian investors in EU-CEE is far larger than Austria’s net contribution to the EU budget (0.79% of its GDP). The wiiw FDI Database is available online This online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database
P23|Kazakhstan’s cotton sector reforms since independence|" With the goal of reducing the dependency on oil revenues, the Government of Kazakhstan has recently increased its budget allocations to prop up the domestic agricultural sector. Yet, many observers agree that it is less the amount of public spending that induces long-term growth than the quality of the regulatory environment. Against this background, the current paper analyses the nature and effects of state regulation in the cotton sector. In the early 2000s, it was considered to be the only example of private vertical coordination in Kazakhstani agriculture, which contrasted sharply with the state mandates imposed on producers in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. However, in 2007, regulation in Kazakhstan forced ginneries to use a complex warehouse receipt system without making sure that it was accepted by stakeholders and without appropriate institutions for implementing it in place. At the same time, it imposed financing restrictions on ginneries, which were major loan and input providers to farmers. Further measures included the establishment of a special economic zone to host a ""cotton cluster"". In the following years, private producers and investors turned away from cotton, and cotton area and output fell substantially. We argue that the cotton sector performance after 2007 shows how ill-designed regulation and government interference can turn a promising economic sector into decline. As an unintended side effect, the regulation promoted more diversified crop rotations based on high value crops.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
P23|Does high growth persist? A focus on growth formulas and the influence of firm exits|This study investigates the development of firms after high-growth. We argue that the formula used for measuring growth determines results. Implications from different formulas are tested with data from Amadeus on Bulgarian firms for the years 2001-2010. We provide first evidence for an absolute growth formula and its systematic comparison to alternative choices. The focus is on growth in employees, but we offer additional evidence for sales and profits. Using a two-part regression model with separate equations for survival and growth, we find that high-growth does not persist when size of exits is accounted for. Losses by exiting high-growth firms outweigh further gains in size by survivors. This result equally holds for the 1 percent fastest growers in absolute terms, the top 1 percent in terms of log growth and high-growth firms defined according to Eurostat-OECD. Implications for the future study of high-growth firms and policies focused at them are discussed.
P23|Informal employment relationships and the labor market: Is there segmentation in Ukraine?|One of the most important factors that determine individuals’ quality of life and wellbeing is their position in the labor market and the type of jobs that they hold. When workers are rationed out of the formal segment of the labor market against their will, i.e., the labor market is segmented, their quality of life is limited, and their wellbeing is reduced. When they can freely choose between a formal or informal employment relationship, i.e., the labor market is integrated, their wellbeing can reach high levels even in the presence of informal employment. We, therefore, test whether the Ukrainian labor market is segmented along the formal-informal divide, slicing the data by gender and age. The analysis that we perform consist in the analysis of short-term and medium-term transitions between five employment states, unemployment and inactivity. We also analyze wage gaps of mean hourly earnings and across the entire hourly earnings distribution, controlling for time-invariant unobserved heterogeneity. According to our results segmentation is present for dependent employees: for a large part of informal employees informal employment is used as a waiting stage to enter formal salaried employment and is not voluntarily chosen. As far as self-employment is concerned the evidence is mixed regarding segmentation in the Ukrainian labor market. This heterogeneity in outcomes implies that not all informal work is associated with a low quality of life and reduced wellbeing in post-transition economies.
P23|Valuing the Urban Hukou in China: Evidence from a Regression Discontinuity Design in Housing Price| This paper explores the demand side of hukou (household registration) acquisition in China by estimating the market valuation of urban hukou. According to the provisions in Jinan City’s “Acquiring Hukou by Purchasing Houses” policy, this paper uses houses slightly larger than the minimum required floor area as the treatment group, and houses slightly smaller than the minimum required floor area as the control group to perform regression discontinuity design. Empirical results show that residents’ willingness to pay for urban hukou in Jinan City was between approximately 90,000 and 126,000 yuan (RMB) in 2017. Our finding is robust to both parametric and nonparametric estimates and different model specifications. We also perform falsification tests by assuming a false policy introduction date and placebo tests based on rental data. Our analysis also offers insights for reform of the hukou system and designs for the provision of public services or welfare.
P23|Job market outcomes for IDPs: The case of Georgia|Internally displaced people (IDPs) constitute a serious economic, social and cultural problem for many countries, including countries in transition. Despite the importance of the problem, there are only a handful of previous studies investigating the issue of labour market outcomes for IDPs. Moreover, the impact of protracted displacement has not been addressed in academic work at all. We aim to fill this gap in the literature using 13 years (2004–2016) of Integrated Household Surveys from Georgia, which has experienced a large flow of internal migrants from the early 1990s until now. Our analyses indicate that the labour market outcomes for IDPs are much worse than those for local residents. Specifically, IDPs are 3.9–11.2 percentage points less likely to be in the labour force, depending on the period and duration of IDP status. IDPs are also up to 11.6 percentage points more likely to be unemployed, even after 20 years of forced displacement. Finally, IDPs residing in a locality for more than five years receive persistently lower wages than local residents with similar characteristics, with the gap widening over time, reaching some 11% in the last period under analysis.
P23|Income inequality and trust in national governments in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe|Using unique evidence from the OeNB Euro Survey, this paper sheds light on the correlation between the distribution of income and trust in national governments in ten Central, Eastern and Southeastern European (CESEE) countries between 2009 and 2015. By applying multilevel modeling to account for the hierarchical structure of the data, our main findings indicate that trust in national institutions increases with the individual’s position in the regional income distribution but it overall declines with the increase of regional and country income inequality. This result is valid across different measures of income inequality and despite the slight decrease of income inequality over the period. Our analysis shows that perceived high corruption and weak rule of law are key determinants of distrust in national governments, while the negative link between income inequality and trust in national governments is more pronounced in the non-EU countries in our sample.
P23|Firm performance after high growth: A comparison of absolute and relative growth measures|Do high-growth firms continue to create jobs after the high-growth period or is high-growth a one-time event? Does the answer to this question depend on the definition of high growth? This paper analyzes data from Amadeus on Bulgarian firms for three consecutive 3-year periods (2001-2004, 2004-2007, and 2007-2010). Previously, high growth has been defined in terms of relative growth or composite measures such as recommended by Eurostat-OECD. We additionally apply an absolute measure of growth, i. e. the actual change in headcount. Using a two-part model with separate equations for sur-vival and growth, we moreover specifically account for the impact of firm exits on aggregate effects. We find that definitions are central for outcomes. In terms of relative and Eurostat-OECD high growth our results for Bulgarian firms largely confirm what has been found for high-income countries: surviv-ing relative high-growth firms are characterized by negative future growth rates. High growth firms defined according to Eurostat-OECD continue to grow positively after high growth. If growth is meas-ured in absolute terms, then high growth firms only continue to create more jobs than non-high growth firms as far as surviving firms are concerned. Taking firm exits into account, absolute high-growth firms are outperformed by average firms due to the job losses of large exiting high-growth firms – with one notable exception: absolute high-growth firms of initially small size (10-49 employees) continue to grow faster than other firms even if exits are accounted for and indeed seem a worthwhile target for policies promoting high-growth entrepreneurship.
P23|Foreign Investment and Aggregate Concentration - Evidence from Southeast Europe|The purpose of the paper is to provide empirical evidence on regularities concerning the relationship between foreign direct investment and aggregate economic concentration. Based on company data two types of concentration indices are computed – concentration ratio and Gini coefficient. The results suggest that aggregate concentration among the examined countries varies considerably. Although correlated, both measures of concentration seem to measure different aspects of economic concentration. The concentration ratio appears to be higher in smaller economies with higher export and labor intensities. Higher levels of foreign investment appear to be related with higher values of the Gini coefficient, that is with skewer firm size distribution.
P23|Local Competitiveness and Labour Market Returns in a Transition Economy: Evidence from Vietnam|This paper examines the relationship between the quality of provincial governance and labour market returns in Vietnam. We find that better provincial governance has a positive effect on labour market wages for wage-earning workers. The finding is consistent across estimators, even after controlling for worker characteristics, geographic regions, urban context, economic sector and industry type. A better competitive environment for business attracts more firms to enter the market, which in turn creates greater demand for labour. Subsequently, higher demand for labour pushes up wages. Our unique contribution is that we considered the influence of provincial governance on the business environment and labour market returns.
P23|Why Does China Allow Freer Social Media? Protests versus Surveillance and Propaganda|In this paper, we document basic facts regarding public debates about controversial political issues on Chinese social media. Our documentation is based on a dataset of 13.2 billion blog posts published on Sina Weibo--the most prominent Chinese microblogging platform--during the 2009-2013 period. Our primary finding is that a shockingly large number of posts on highly sensitive topics were published and circulated on social media. For instance, we find millions of posts discussing protests, and these posts are informative in predicting the occurrence of specific events. We find an even larger number of posts with explicit corruption allegations, and that these posts predict future corruption charges of specific individuals. Our findings challenge a popular view that an authoritarian regime would relentlessly censor or even ban social media. Instead, the interaction of an authoritarian government with social media seems more complex.
P23|Human Capital and China's Future Growth|In this paper, we consider the sources and prospects for economic growth in China with a focus on human capital. First, we provide an overview of the role that labor has played in China's economic success. We then describe China's hukou policy, which divides China's labor force into two distinct segments, one composed of rural workers and the other of urban workers. For the rural labor force, we focus on the challenges of raising human capital by both increasing basic educational attainment rates as well as the quality of education. For the urban labor force, we focus on the issues of further expanding enrollment in college education as well as improving the quality of college education. We use a regression model to show the typical relationship between human capital and output in economies around the world and demonstrate how that relationship has evolved since 1980. We show that China has made substantial strides both in the education level of its population and in the way that education is being rewarded in its labor markets. However, as we look ahead, our results imply that China may find it impossible to maintain what appears to be its desired growth rate of 7 percent in the next 20 years; a growth rate of 3 percent over the next two decades seems more plausible. Finally, we present policy recommendations, which are rooted in the belief that China continues to have substantial room to improve the human capital of its labor force.
P23|Toothless Reforms? The Remarkable Stability of Female Labor Force Participation in a Top-Reforming Country|Low Female Labor Force Participation (FLFP) constitutes a foregone opportunity at both the macro and at the micro levels, potentially increasing the vulnerability of households and lowering the long-run development perspectives of a country. Most international organizations and national policy makers see low FLFP as a serious issue that needs to be addressed by adopting appropriate policies. We investigate the possible reasons of the remarkable stability of FLFP in a top-reforming upper-middle income country. Our goal is to in disentangle the different forces at work and to draw useful lessons for the design of participation-enhancing policies. Using data from a nationally representative Household Survey covering the period 2003-2015, we employ Blinder-Oaxaca (Blinder, 1973 and Oaxaca, 1973) type decomposition to decompose changes over time in FLFP levels into parts that are due to changes in observable factors versus changes in the strength of impact of these factors. This allows us to identify possible shifters of the FLFP rate and propose areas of special interest for policy making. We show that the stability of FLFP in Georgia during the period 2003-2013 is due to offsetting socio-economic changes taking place in the country, and that the increase in the last period covered by our dataset – 2013-2015 – can be attributed to the emergence of new labor opportunities for women. We conclude that, while useful, supply-side economic reforms are not sufficient to increase FLFP and need to be complemented by demand-side policies aiming at creating more and better work opportunities for women.
P23|Employment discrimination in a former Soviet Union Republic: Evidence from a field experiment|We provide the first experimental evidence about ethnic and gender discrimination in the labor market of a former Soviet Union country, Georgia. We randomly assign Georgian and non-Georgian, male and female, names to similar resumes and apply for jobs as advertised on help-wanted websites in Georgia. We find that gender has no effect on the probability of callback, but a job applicant who is ethnically Georgian is more than twice as likely to be called for a job interview than an equally skilled ethnic non-Georgian (Azerbaijani or Armenian). The 113% ethnic gap in callbacks (167% among males and 79% among females), which is substantially larger than the gap typically documented in the existing literature for both developed and developing countries, is statistically significant and cannot be abridged by having more experience or education. There is no evidence of gender discrimination in callbacks, both within the Georgian group and the non-Georgian group.
P23|Sectoral change and labour productivity growth during boom, bust and recovery in Central and Eastern Europe|Abstract This paper assesses the extent of structural or sectoral change and its importance for aggregate productivity growth during times of boom, bust and recovery. The analysis covers 10 EU countries from Central and Eastern Europe over the years 2001–2012. The reallocation of labour across sectors was substantial during the boom, very extensive in 2009 at the depth of the crisis and modest in the subsequent recovery period. The contribution of sectoral change to aggregate productivity growth is computed using various decomposition methods. Changes in labour productivity within sectors play the dominant role for aggregate productivity growth, while reallocation of labour between sectors is less important. This pattern is found through most of the sample period despite large differences in the extent of sectoral change during the boom, crisis and recovery.
P23|Insight into the Hungarian Automotive Industry in International Comparison|The paper examines the features of the Hungarian automotive industry1 in international comparison, in the form of a descriptive analysis. The comparison focuses primarily on the automotive industry of the Visegrád region, Germany and Austria, as well as on processes in the EU. The analysis reviews the academic background of the sector, and then provides an insight into the history of the automotive industry of the Visegrád region, focusing on the socialist past of the automotive industry and the consequences thereof. In the last part of the analysis, we compare contemporary Hungarian industry trends with the features of it in the Visegrád countries and Europe, based on the statistics of Eurostat, by company size and ownership structure, as well as on the corporate income tax return database of the Hungarian tax authority (NAV). The main conclusion of the paper is that the automotive industry shows outstanding productivity within the Hungarian national economy, but on the other hand, the SMEs of the sector are less productive than large enterprises and this difference is the highest in Hungary within the region. In order to change the situation, large foreign enterprises should outsource their higher value added activity in the region and raise wages accordingly, and on the other hand, it would be necessary to strengthen and advance Hungarianowned SMEs within the value chain.
P23|Russian Real Wages Before and After 1917: in Global Perspective|The paper measures real wages in St Petersburg, Moscow, and Kursk between 1853 and 1937 and compares them to real wages in Boston, Manchester, Bombay, and Cairo. Russian living standards grew little between 1853 and 1913 and were like Egypt and India. Wages in the UK and USA were 2.5 - 5 times greater. Real wages in Russia almost doubled between 1913 and 1928. When seen in a Russian perspective, this looks like a big advance; when seen internationally, it is much less so. Real wages dropped to their pre-War level between 1928 and 1937 during the industrialization drive.
P23|Urbanisation and household consumption in China|This paper focusses on the link between urbanisation and consumption behaviour in China. Urbanisation is defined here as rural people moving to cities to work and migrant workers in cities obtaining urban residential status, against the backdrop of government plans to settle 100 million rural dwellers into cities and grant urban residential status to another 100 million migrant workers who already reside in cities. Using household data of the China Family Panel Studies dataset, the paper investigates the impact of those residential status changes on household consumption. The results of the analysis suggest that moving up the residential ladder in this way will likely result in increased consumption by almost 30% for both groups of people and thus contribute to rebalancing of the economy. Higher incomes and longer times in education are important drivers of this process, while a greater number of children in the family discourages consumption. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of China (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm).
P23|Russian Real Wages Before and After 1917: in Global Perspective|The paper measures real wages in St Petersburg, Moscow, and Kursk between 1853 and 1937 and compares them to real wages in Boston, Manchester, Bombay, and Cairo. Russian living standards grew little between 1853 and 1913 and were like Egypt and India. Wages in the UK and USA were 2.5 - 5 times greater. Real wages in Russia almost doubled between 1913 and 1928. When seen in a Russian perspective, this looks like a big advance; when seen internationally, it is much less so. Real wages dropped to their pre-War level between 1928 and 1937 during the industrialization drive.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P23|On green production taxes|Proposals are often made to tax goods which are environmentally damaging. Many such goods are consumed both directly by households and industry at large: for example, carbon-intensive fuel, waste water or congested road space. This paper adopts a tax-reform setting to evaluate such a policy. The welfare impact is shown to depend on an input-substitution effect and an output effect on final consumption, where the latter effect can be conveniently analysed via the standard concept of the marginal welfare cost of a commodity tax. Finally, it is shown that raising a production tax is welfare enhancing if the current tax is below marginal external cost and revenues are recycled via the commodity tax with the highest marginal welfare cost.
P23|Coal mining in Central-East Europe in perspective of industrial risk|Due to increasing economic and sector risk coal mining in Europe is treated as a declining industry. In post-transition economies such approach is a threat for energy security and local and regional economic development. Nowadays, coal mining survival in Central-East Europe is additionally threatened by accumulative global risk factors, especially by price differentiation and shale gas revolution in United States of America. Revealed circumstances require deepen research and diagnosis in the area of risk and corporate management in mining enterprises in Central-East Europe. The main aim of the article is to assess industrial risk in coal mining in Central-East Europe. The research is divided into three parts. In the first one the situation of coal mining in Central-East Europe is characterized. It is the basis for selection of the countries for the detailed analysis. In the second part the industrial risk factors are assessed and described. Finally, in the third part their influence on financial results in the examined mining enterprises is evaluated. In the summary the international comparison is made and general assumptions for risk and corporate management are formulated. In the article a risk checklist is used to identify the economic and industrial risk factors. To determine their influence on financial results on the first stage of research Pearson’s coefficients are used. Than regression functions are developed. The data are collected on the basis of public statistics and financial statements of the examined mining enterprises. On the basis of research results it may be stated that there are only a few countries in Europe in which mining enterprises still operate as separate economic units and all of them have experienced serious financial troubles in the last years. Risk intensification contributed mostly to revenues reduction and negative financial results.
P23|Measuring the M&A Value of Control and Synergy in Central and Eastern European Transition Economies with the Case of Avast -AVG Acquisition|We examine the valuation of synergies and control in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) in Central and Eastern European (CEE) transition economies. We determine this value based on comprehensive contemporaneous financial findings extracted from the Thomson Reuters database. Worldwide the market of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) is increasing, reaching in 2016 a value of 6.000 billion EUR globally. Among the CEE transition economies, the M&A total value in the same period was 50 billion EUR. It is widely accepted that between 60% and 80% of M&As are unsuccessful in value creation, so we further research evidences about an alternative framework to value the M&A also qualitatively. We develop a valuation model for prediction of the value of control and synergy in M&A deals. We suggest further directions for analysis in the field of M&A value creation, and recommend an alternative to the most used earning per share metric to enhance the predictability and transparency of valuation worldwide.
P23|Employment Discrimination in a Former Soviet Union Republic: Evidence from a Field Experiment|We provide the first experimental evidence about ethnic discrimination in the labor market in Georgia. We randomly assign Georgian and non-Georgian, male and female, names to similar resumes and apply for jobs as advertised in help-wanted web sites in Georgia. We find that gender has no effect on the probability of callback, but a job applicant who is ethnic Georgian is twice more likely to be called for a job interview than an equally skilled ethnic non-Georgian (Azeri or Armenian). The almost 100% gap in callbacks is statistically significant and cannot be abridged by having more experience or education. Both taste-based discrimination and statistical discrimination models are consistent with the evidence provided in this study. Labor market discrimination tends to aggravate in economic busts.
P23|Who persistently creates jobs? Absolute versus relative high-growth firms|This paper examines the economic contribution of high-growth firms after their high-growth event. While the central role of high-growth firms for job creation is well-established, little is known about their dynamic development in coming periods. We address this question for the first time by comparing absolute with relative growth measures and use data on private firms in Bulgaria for three consecutive 3-year periods (2001-2004, 2004-2007, and 2007-2010). Next to calculating transition probability matrices to investigate growth in employees in coming periods, we model future employment growth by means of a two-part model with separate equations for the probability of survival and exit as well as for growth of survivors and growth of exits. The decomposition of aggregate growth effects shows that it is central for outcomes whether growth is measured in absolute or relative terms. High-growth firms defined according to an absolute measure show the biggest potential for job creation in coming periods while those measured in relative terms without size threshold tend to be outperformed by other firms. In that regard, both public support programs for high-growth firms as well as researchers should refrain more from exclusively applying relative growth measures.
P23|Who persistently creates jobs? Absolute versus relative high-growth firms|This paper examines the economic contribution of high-growth firms after their high-growth event. While the central role of high-growth firms for job creation is well-established, little is known about their dynamic development in coming periods. We address this question for the first time by comparing absolute with relative growth measures and use data on private firms in Bulgaria for three consecutive 3-year periods (2001-2004, 2004-2007, and 2007-2010). Next to calculating transition probability matrices to investigate growth in employees in coming periods, we model future employment growth by means of a two-part model with separate equations for the probability of survival and exit as well as for growth of survivors and growth of exits. The decomposition of aggregate growth effects shows that it is central for outcomes whether growth is measured in absolute or relative terms. High-growth firms defined according to an absolute measure show the biggest potential for job creation in coming periods while those measured in relative terms without size threshold tend to be outperformed by other firms. In that regard, both public support programs for high-growth firms as well as researchers should refrain more from exclusively applying relative growth measures.
P23|Recovery amid Stabilising Economic Growth|The economic environment for foreign direct investment (FDI) has improved. A cautious upturn in economic activities across the Central, East and Southeast European (CESEE) region is based on expanding private consumption. Investments have started to recover, increasing opportunities for foreign business. Also, the most important foreign markets for CESEE products in Europe and overseas have stabilised, albeit amid increasing uncertainty. The CESEE region has maintained its cost competitiveness, despite surging wages and occasional labour shortages, by benefiting from considerable productivity improvements. FDI inflows to the CESEE countries increased by 45% in 2016, compared with the revised 2015 data. The invested amount of EUR 90 billion is the highest since 2008, marginally surpassing the inflows reported in 2011 and 2012. The 2016 recovery was 23% in the EU’s Central and East European region and almost 150% in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and Ukraine; meanwhile the Western Balkans and Turkey booked a decline of 25%. The 2016 changes were in just the opposite direction to 2015, when FDI in the Western Balkans and Turkey boomed, while it declined in the other two regions. A special section of this report analyses the position of Austria as investor and investment destination for CESEE countries. A separate section presents new features of greenfield investments in 2016 an increasing number of projects and higher capital investments that increasingly focused on the manufacturing sector. Forecasts for FDI in 2017 point upwards again, because the international environment is positive, although plagued by uncertainties, and also economic growth in most of CESEE is bound to be more robust than in the previous year. The second part of this report contains two sets of tables Tables I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by components and related income; Tables II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. The section ‘Methodological Explanations’ highlights important recent changes in reporting standards and their application in the wiiw FDI Database and wiiw FDI Report. The wiiw FDI Database is available online This online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database
P23|Slump despite Global Upturn|Content and General Description (PDF) In 2015, the FDI inflow to the Central, East and Southeast European (CESEE) countries fell to its lowest level since 2008, while global FDI recovered. The decline was especially severe in the EU Member States of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as in Russia, while expansions were recorded in the Western Balkans and Turkey. The first part of this report provides an analysis of the 2015 FDI trends in 23 countries, highlighting uneven developments. New features of FDI have appeared recently in the Central European countries, which are deeply integrated into multinational production networks. FDI inflows fluctuate more wildly than before and have lost their close connection with economic growth or changes in the business environment. Capital relations between subsidiaries and parent companies have become more complex capital reserves, losses and profits are shifted around within multinational conglomerates in various forms of FDI and income. Moreover, tax optimisation by multinational enterprises has become one of the main factors determining the economic sector or the immediate host country chosen by investors when they reorganise their assets into holdings. Round-tripping domestic capital distorts the FDI statistics, of Russia in particular. Special sections of this report analyse the Russian FDI collapse, the Chinese expansion, and the position of Austria as investor and investment destination of CESEE countries. A further section presents new features of greenfield investments in 2015 a declining number of projects and lower capital investments that increasingly focus on the manufacturing sector. Forecasts for FDI in 2016 point downwards again, because the international environment may not support capacity expansions, and also economic growth in most of the CESEE will be less robust than last year. The second part of this report contains two sets of tables Tables I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by components and related income; Tables II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. Methodological explanations highlight important recent changes in reporting standards and their application in the wiiw FDI Database and wiiw FDI Report. The wiiw FDI Database is available online This online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database
P23|The Labor Market in Azerbaijan|This paper analyzes the development of the labor market in Azerbaijan from the early 1990s until the early 2010s. The analysis shows that the labor market has a range of positive characteristics such as high labor force participation and employment, low youth and female unemployment, flexibility, and a low share of the “working poor”, all of which can beneficially influence future economic prospects. However, the Azerbaijani labor market also experiences certain undesirable developments, such as an increase in the share of labor with primary education, a shift towards elementary occupations, a high share of self-employment, and an excess of labor cost growth over productivity growth, all of which can threaten further economic development.
P23|Russia's Billionaires|Using data collected by Forbes since the 1990s, I examine the emergence and survival of the super-wealthy in Russia over the past two decades and compare Russia's record to those of other countries. The major surge in the number of Russian billionaires came in the mid-2000s, mirroring the dynamic worldwide. While early billionaires were predominantly found in the oil, gas, metals, and banking sectors, the distribution has become more diverse, now including some in trade, real estate, chemicals, and information technology. Only a minority of today's Russian billionaires acquired significant assets in the privatization of the 1990s.
P23|Internal Geography, International Trade, and Regional Specialization|We introduce an internal geography to the canonical model of international trade driven by comparative advantages to study the regional effects of external economic integration. The model features a dual-economy structure, in which locations near international gates specialize in export-oriented sectors while more distant locations do not trade with the rest of the world. The theory rationalizes patterns of specialization, employment, and relative incomes observed in developing countries that opened up to trade. We find regional specialization patterns consistent with the model in industry-level data from Chinese prefectures. (JEL F11, O18, P23, P25, P33, R12, R32)
P23|Kobieta w zakładzie pracy w Polsce Ludowej i po 1990 r. Analiza stanu prawnego / The Legal Aspects of the Employment of Women in the Polish People’s Republic and Today|The article deals with the mechanisms of female employment. The author has set herself the task of comparing the conditions of employment of women during the Polish People’s Republic (PRL) and contemporary times. The main aim was to indicate the evolution of labour law relating to women workers from a series of instructions and regulations of the Council of Ministers defining the protection of women's work before 1974, through a variety of general rules applicable to all employees, to the regulations contained in the Labour Code and also current legislation. The article attempts to assess the ethical actions taken by the state to improve the conditions of employment of women in the workplace. The text indicates the importance of the work in the lives of women. Occupational status and income level strongly influenced the behaviour of women, who in many cases took up work intended only for men due to the fact that during PRL it was only such work which would allow them to obtain a higher salary. The article indicates that today there is a special emphasis placed on the prohibition of restricting the employment of women in jobs and on the conditions of the employment of pregnant women. The author of this article has evaluated the legislation introduced by the state, which contributed to the increase in female activity in the labour market. However, in ethical terms of ethical it is very difficult to unambiguously assess the actions taken by the state for the protection of women's work in the PRL, but also in contemporary times.
P23|The Labor Market in Azerbaijan|This paper analyzes the development of the labor market in Azerbaijan from the early 1990s until the early 2010s. The analysis shows that the labor market has a range of positive characteristics such as high labor force participation and employment, low youth and female unemployment, flexibility, and a low share of the “working poor”, all of which can beneficially influence future economic prospects. However, the Azerbaijani labor market also experiences certain undesirable developments, such as an increase in the share of labor with primary education, a shift towards elementary occupations, a high share of self-employment, and an excess of labor cost growth over productivity growth, all of which can threaten further economic development.
P23|Worker Flows and Labour Market Adjustment during the Great Recession: Evidence from a Large Shock|This paper analyzes how the labor market adjusts to the Great Recession. To this aim, we use the data for Latvia, a country that has experienced one of the most severe recessions in Europe and a subsequent remarkable recovery. Employing longitudinal EU SILC data and a panel data set constructed by us from various waves of the Latvian Labour Force Survey (LLFS), we estimate worker transitions between labor market states. Labor market adjustment takes place predominantly at the extensive margin since it is driven by flows from permanent wage employment to unemployment. We also show that older, non-Latvian and above all less skilled workers are especially hard hit by the economic crisis. Estimated transitions between four mutually exclusive occupational groups demonstrate that downward mobility is very limited even during the Great Recession. Finally, wage regressions suggest that job mobility is not associated with increased labour productivity during and immediately after the crisis.
P23|Les symbioses industrielles : un nouveau champ d’analyse pour l’économie industrielle|If industrial symbiosis can be defined as a commitment of independent firms in a collaborative chain to take advantage of trading materials and energy flows, it may also become an interesting field for industrial organization. The environmental issue and especially industrial ecology are a new step in the evolutionary process of industrial organization. From new theories (conventions, stakeholders, industrial districts) and new facts (study of metabolism, waste repurposing, circular economy), industrial ecology foreshadows the study of change as announced for the field of industrial organization. JEL Codes: L11, L22, L25, P12, P23, Q57
P23|Education-job mismatch in Ukraine: Too many people with tertiary education or too many jobs for low-skilled?|This paper examines changes in the incidence of education-job mismatch in Ukraine over 10 years and the determinants of overeducation and undereducation at the regional level, with a particular attention paid to the differences between younger and older workers. It also analyzes shifts in the occupational and sectoral structure of employment driven by technological changes and restructuring of the Ukrainian economy. A job polarization in Ukraine seems to stem from deindustrialization, expansion of subsistence farming, rapid growth of retail trade and other less-knowledge intensive services, rather than from routine-based technological changes observed in developed countries. Our results, obtained from the Hausman–Taylor panel data model, suggest that fairly high and persistent education-job mismatch results from both the supply (too many people with tertiary university education) and demand (too many jobs for low-skilled workers) factors. Taking into account that older workers are often more prone to overeducation in Ukraine than their younger peers, the major concern is that overeducation is likely to be a dead-end for many workers.
P23|Export restrictions – Do consumers really benefit? The wheat-to-bread supply chain in Serbia|Our approach combines price transmission and gross margin analysis at different stages of the wheat-to-bread supply chain. Results suggest that the effects of export restrictions on the end consumer prices for bread, and thus food price inflation, heavily depend on the price behavior of the intermediates. In contrast to theory, consumers in Serbia experienced welfare losses despite comprehensive governmental market interventions. In particular, consumers were confronted with increasing flour and bread prices, which cannot be fully explained by increasing production costs, whereas mills, bakeries and retailers increased their profits. Thus, export controls in combination with high price volatility in the supply chain have to be considered as a further factor driving food price inflation.
P23|The impacts of capital market distortion on wage inequality, urban unemployment, and welfare in developing countries|This paper employs the general equilibrium approach to investigate how the change of rural–urban capital market distortion influences skilled–unskilled wage inequality and urban unemployment in developing countries. Our basic model shows that a decrease in capital market distortion will reduce the wage inequality and the urban unemployment rate. Our extended model confirms the main results of our basic model. Furthermore, this paper also analyzes the effect of capital market distortion on social welfare, and finds that an alleviation of capital market distortion will generate a welfare gain in both basic and extended models.
P23|Economic integration, product cycles and regime effects|By adopting the modified north–south product cycle model of Grossman and Helpman (G&H, hereafter) (1991a) and adding “two-way” FDIs to form a complete economic integration, we obtain the opposite conclusion for such regime effects from that of both Krugman (1979) and G&H (1991b) in different frameworks, while G&H (1991a) have similar results in the same oligopolistic framework (without FDIs) we adopt. This demonstrates that the relative wage rate between the north and south will not be affected by the size of labor markets and that there are no regime effects on relative wage rate, regardless of their existing FDIs.
P23|The Relationship Between Entrepreneurial Drive And Challenges Among Minority Entrepreneurs In The United States|Research shows that minority entrepreneurs experience challenges with growth of their businesses in the United States. The challenges that minority entrepreneurs experience and the impact of growth in their businesses are not clearly defined. Research explores the levels of entrepreneurial drive among entrepreneurs and the effect of growth in their businesses in the United States. Previous studies about entrepreneurial drives does not provide an in-depth analysis about minority entrepreneurs and the influence of business growth in the United States. This paper shows the existing challenges and various levels of entrepreneurial drive among minority entrepreneurs in the United States. It reveals the relationship of existing challenges and various levels of entrepreneurial drive among minority entrepreneurs and the impact of business growth in the United States
P23|The Lasting Effect of Sex Ratio Imbalance on Marriage and Family: Evidence from World War II in Russia|How does a shock to sex ratios affect marriage markets and fertility? I use the drastic change in sex ratios caused by World War II to identify the effects of unbalanced sex ratios on Russian women. Using unique archival data, the results indicate that male scarcity led to lower rates of marriage and fertility, higher nonmarital births, and reduced bargaining power within marriage for women most affected by war deaths. The impact of sex ratio imbalance on marriage and family persisted for years after the war's end and was likely magnified by policies that promoted nonmarital births and discouraged divorce.
P23|Informal Employment in China: Trends, Patterns and Determinants of Entry|We empirically deconstruct informal employment in China into private business owners and casual workers without job contracts. Survey data from 2007 and 2013 document a rise in informal employment to the point where it exceeds formal employment, potentially an unintended consequence of the 2008 New Labour Contract Law. Compared with formal employees and business owners, casual workers report the lowest monetary and subjective wellbeing although business owners work longer hours with less social protection. Descriptive statistics and multivariate modelling reveal formal employees tend to have more favoured characteristics, often being educated, male, healthy and able bodied. Casual workers are more likely to have the characteristics of vulnerable groups, so the growth of casual employment is particularly concerning. There are indications that running small business is not always a sign of vulnerability and it may provide job flexibility for those with dependents to care for.
P23|Earnings among Nine Ethnic Minorities and the Han Majority in China's Cities|This paper asks if economic growth and steps towards a market economy have affected earnings gaps between the Han and nine large urban ethnic minorities: Zhuang, Hui, Manchurian, Tujia, Uighur, Miao, Tibetan, Mongol and Korean. It also asks how earnings premiums and earnings penalties have changed for the nine ethnic minorities. For the analysis we use a subsample of the 2005 China's Inter-Census Survey. We find examples of three different changes over time in earnings premiums and earnings penalties: One ethnic minority for whom the development has been more favourable than for the Han majority; a second category in which development has been similar; and a third category for which development has been unfavourable. We conclude from the analysis that it can be misleading to infer the experience of one ethnic minority from that of another.
P23|Encouraging women’s labor force participation in transition countries|Increasing women’s labor force participation is important to sustainable economic development, especially in economies with highly educated women and an aging population. Women’s participation varies across transition countries, driven by such economic and social factors as traditional views of gender roles and limited government support for caregivers. Still, in all countries there is clear scope for policies aimed at increasing women’s participation. In particular, in countries where women’s educational attainment is already high, policies to support a better work−life balance and female entrepreneurship look particularly promising.
P23|Estimating the return to schooling using the Mincer equation|The Mincer equation—arguably the most widely used in empirical work—can be used to explain a host of economic, and even non-economic, phenomena. One such application involves explaining (and estimating) employment earnings as a function of schooling and labor market experience. The Mincer equation provides estimates of the average monetary returns of one additional year of education. This information is important for policymakers who must decide on education spending, prioritization of schooling levels, and education financing programs such as student loans.
P23|Worker flows and Labour Market Adjustment during the Great Recession: Evidence from a Large Shock|This paper analyzes how the labor market adjusts to the Great Recession. To this aim, we use the data for Latvia, a country that have experienced one of the most severe recessions in Europe and a subsequent remarkable recovery. Employing longitudinal EU SILC data and a panel data set constructed by us from various waves of the Latvian Labour Force Survey (LLFS), we estimate worker transitions between labor market states. Labor market adjustment takes place predominantly at the extensive margin since it is driven by flows from permanent wage employment to unemployment. We also show that older, non-Latvian and above all less skilled workers are especially hard hit by the economic crisis. Estimated transitions between four mutually exclusive occupational groups demonstrate that downward mobility is very limited even during the Great Recession. Finally, wage regressions suggest that job mobility is not associated with increased labour productivity during and immediately after the crisis.
P23|The Limits of Meritocracy: Screening Bureaucrats Under Imperfect Verifiability|Does bureaucratic ability predict promotion in governments? We show that self-reported performance in enforcing the One Child Policy predicts mayoral promotion in China. However, misreporting handicaps screening—a non-manipulated performance measure does not predict promotion. We show that this is consistent with a model where a government has a meritocratic objective but underestimates the imperfect verifiability of performance, rather than a model where a government is only interested in the illusion of meritocracy. Thus, despite meritocratic intentions, we challenge the notion that a successful promotion system effectively substituted for democratic institutions in explaining Chinese growth.
P23|On the methodology of institutional studies|"(To the 80th anniversary of Ronald Coase’s ""Nature of the Firm"") The paper deals with the comparative analysis of discrete institutional alternatives operationalized by referring to institutional design on different levels of interaction between economic agents and their groups. Theoretical differences between an institutional set of economic exchanges and an institutional boundary­ of exchanges has been accounted for, as well as the differences between compensating and eliminating the failures of institutional arrangements used to organize economic exchange. Three examples illustrating the proposed research approach are analyzed: contracting on large diameter pipes for PJSC ""Gazprom"" infrastructure projects; contracting in the area of commercial real estate renting with ""currency component""; the choice of mechanisms of governance for companies on highly concentrated markets with significant double-sided switching cost."
P23|Looks matter: Attractiveness and employment in the former soviet union|The rigid soviet policy of full employment ensured employment for all able-bodied population. By removing this policy, the collapse of the system has made discrimination less costly. Has it also become prevalent? This paper studies the labour market discrimination on the basis of looks using data from three post-soviet countries of the caucasus: Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. I estimate a large positive effect of attractive looks on males' probability of employment. Using partial identification approach, I show that this relationship is likely to be causal. The results are potentially consistent with taste-based discrimination in favour of attractive males.
P23|Lessons from Enterprise Reforms in China and Vietnam|This paper surveys a few key features of SOE reforms in China and Vietnam, focusing particularly on the evolution of ownership structures and on the relative weight of market regulatory mechanisms, and discusses their general implications for socialist development. It tentatively concludes that some broad principles informing and constraining any feasible socialist-oriented economic strategy can indeed be identified.
P23|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P23|Strategic decisions on industrialization: case of Galati Steel Works|The industrialization under a communist regime has some particularities generated by the state ownership, centralized administrative planning and, last but not least, by the communist leaders’ visions on the roles of industries. During the reign of Josef Stalin, who considered that major role in the economy had to be played by the heavy industries, in the Soviet Union there were built large industrial complexes where the former peasants were transformed in industrial workers. His successor, Nikita Khruhschev, who had a different vision on industrialization, assigned increasing roles to the consumer-oriented industries and agriculture. He promoted also the specialization among the economies of Soviet Union and its Eastern European satellites. This new orientation met the opposition of Gheorghe Gheorghiu - Dej, the Romanian communist leader who initiated, since the late 1950s, a gradually emancipation from the Soviet tutelage. An episode of confrontation between the Romanian and Soviet communists on the industrial policies was the 1960 decision of building a gigantic steel mill at Galati, a town from the South – East of Romania where Gheorghiu - Dej spent his youth. Despite the De – Stalinization process launched in the Soviet Union in 1956, the Romanian communists’ initiative followed a Stalinist type of industrialization. Moreover, when the Soviet Government proposed, in the spirit of the division of labor within the socialist camp promoted by Khruhschev, that the new plant should transform in steel the pig iron produced by their industrial complexes, Romanian communists viewed this plan as a threat to the country’s economic development and they rejected it. This paper explores some circumstances of the decision on building of the new steel mill which dramatically changed the economic and social profile of Galati.
P23|Impact of Population on Economic Growth: A Case Study of Pakistan|The study analyzed the effects of population on economic growth in case of Pakistan. In some years the population has a real problem for all over the world. The study examines the impacts of population and the problems due to population increased and its influence on economic growth. We take the time series data with the sample size from 1981 to 2010. The study used the Unit root test of ADF, co integration and Auto-regressive distributed lags test to analyze the results. The study used economic growth as dependent variable and independent variables are population, investment, fertility rate, employment rate and education expenditure. The study concluded that population creates negative impacts on economic growth of Pakistan and create lot of problems adding more in unemployed population of the country. The study suggested that awareness programs about population control can be effective in controlling the increasing population of the country. Moreover, the Government of Pakistan should take some solid steps towards the overpopulation problem to maintain its economic pace.
P23|Changes in Alcohol Consumption and Governmental Alcohol Policy in Russia<BR>[Изменение Структуры Потребления Алкоголя В Контексте Государственной Алкогольной Политики В России]|This paper focuses on structural changes in alcohol consumption observed in Russia since the late 20th century. It explores the Soviet structural patterns of alcohol consumption shaping in the 1960–1980s. Governmental attempts to combat illegal production and sales of homemade distilled spirits (samogon) are overviewed. We analyze how the Soviet drinking patterns were broken down by two exogenous political and economic shocks and how the new trends in consumption of manufactured and homemade alcohol emerged in the 2000s. We also discuss an impact of the ongoing anti-alcohol campaign on changes in alcohol consumption. Three complementary data sources are used. They include the Rosstat official statistics on the level of alcohol consumption, expert statistics on illegal alcohol consumption in the Soviet period, and data on percentage of drinkers of main alcoholic beverages collected from the RLMS-HSE nationwide panel survey of individuals aged 15+ years in 1994-2015. Both statistical and survey data demonstrate similar trends. We observe recurrent cycles in consumption of licit and illicit alcohol that may move in parallel or in opposite directions in different periods of time. These changes in alcohol consumption are explained by the combined impact of economic and policy factors that may vary over time. The new trends were interrupted, and new patterns of alcohol consumption emerged in Russia in the 2010s. These patterns are not sustainable yet. However, they gradually move away from the traditional Northern style of drinking.
P23|The High Profitability of Big Chinese State-Owned Banks and China’s Growth Model|Abstract A striking feature of China’s amazing growth in the last 35 years or so is the declining share of labor income as a share of the overall national income of China. This article makes a contribution to the ongoing discussion of how to explain this empirical finding by analyzing the sources of the high profitability of big Chinese state-owned banks. Using the methodology of an international peer group financial indicator analysis combined with a simple regression model it can be shown that the comparatively high profitability of Chinese banks depends on their ability to wield some monopoly power on both the product as well as the labor market. Other than stressed in the relevant financial literature the high profitability is not merely the result of an artificially high interest rate margin. The empirical findings indicate that it is above all the result of comparatively low staff expenses, which in turn explains why the share of labor income is declining.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 31, No. 1|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Informal Employment in a Growing and Globalizing Low-Income Country|We document several facts about workforce transitions from the informal to the formal sector in Vietnam, a fast growing, industrializing, and low-income country. First, younger workers, particularly migrants, are more likely to work in the formal sector and stay there permanently. Second, the decline in the aggregate share of informal employment occurs through changes between and within birth cohorts. Third, younger, educated, male, and urban workers are more likely to switch to the formal sector than other workers initially in the informal sector. Poorly educated, older, female, rural workers face little prospect of formalization. Fourth, formalization coincides with occupational upgrading.
P23|Trade Liberalization and Markup Dispersion: Evidence from China's WTO Accession|In this paper, we empirically investigate whether trade liberalization affects markup dispersion, a potential source of resource misallocation. The identification uses China's WTO accession at the end of 2001. We show that trade liberalization reduces markup dispersion within a narrowly defined industry. We also examine both price and cost responses to trade liberalization, as well as heterogeneous effects across firms and across locations. Our study contributes to the literature by identifying another potential channel through which free trade benefits a nation. (JEL F13, L11, O14, O19, P23, P31, P33)
P23|Adolescence and the Path to Maturity in Global Retail|"We argue that, over the past several decades, the adoption and diffusion of ""modern retailing technology"" represents a substantial advance in productivity, providing greater product variety, enhanced convenience, and lower prices. We first describe modern retailing, highlighting the role of modern formats, scale (often transcending national boundaries), and increased coordination with upstream and downstream partners in production and distribution. In developed markets, the transition to modern retailing is nearly complete. In contrast, many low-income and emerging markets continue to rely on traditional retail formats, that is, a collection of independent stores and open air markets supplied by small-scale wholesalers, although modern retail has begun to spread to these markets as well. E-commerce is a notable exception: the penetration of e-commerce in China and several developing nations in Asia has already surpassed that of high-income countries for some types of consumer goods. To understand the forces governing the adoption of modern technology and the unique role of e-commerce, we propose a framework that emphasizes the importance of scale and coordination in facilitating the transition from traditional to modern retailing. We conclude with some conjectures regarding the likely impact of increased retail modernization for the developing world."
P23|The Pursuit Of A Remedy For Gender Inequality In Wider Europe: Comparison Of Policies And Indices In The Eu, Nordic Countries, And South East Europe|This paper explores the differences between gender regimes in Europe, with an emphasis on EU policies, the Nordic women-friendly welfare states, and the former socialist policies of South Eastern European (SEE) countries. The main premise is that culture and differing institutionalization of gender equality contribute to different perceptions of women’s role in society and to a different perception of gender equality in general. The paper examines the theoretical standpoints and historical background of different gender regimes in Europe. Gender equality indices are analyzed in order to investigate if any patterns exist among European countries with distinct cultural, political, and social backgrounds. Nordic countries are overachievers in gender equality in Europe, mainly due to the prevailing egalitarianism and institutionalization of women-friendly welfare policies, which can serve as a good benchmark for wider Europe, especially for countries from South East Europe. However, cultural differences exist between Scandinavian and other European countries, which cannot be considered homogeneous. The paper raises important issues of gender equality such as multiculturalism and immigration, questioning to what extent future EU enlargements will increase the risk of greater gender inequality in the EU.
P23|Crisis, Stimulus Package and Migration in China|Authors of this paper trace the influence of the 2008 global crisis and the impact of the subsequently implemented stimulus package on the characteristics of migrant flow in China until 2012. They analyze the consequences of the temporary but dramatic economic set-back on migrant employment and that of the booming investments incited by the stimulus package. The paper reveals that the set-back caused dramatic temporary rise of migrant unemployment; it also had regional character due to the coastal concentration of exports hit by the crisis, determining earlier the direction of migrant flow. Regional priorities of the stimulus package reinforced the redirection of migrants away from the coast towards central and western regions. Migration routes also shortened partly because migrants's destination shifted closer to their home-town region and also by increasingly finding workplace within their own province during the researched period. The stimulus package restructured migrant routes of the pre-crisis period not only according to its regional priorities, but also according to sectoral priorities from manufacturing towards the construction sector. The restructuring, combined with increased number of migrants, shows both temporary and steady features as migrants adapt to the dynamics of the impact of the stimulus package and to respective economic reactions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P23|Job Search Channels, Neighborhood Effects, and Wages Inequality in Developing Countries: The Colombian Case|" type=""main""> This paper analyzes the relationship between social networks and the probability of finding a job. We explore geographic closeness as the social interaction to explain the job search function. Using data from Colombia in 2009, we calculate how neighborhoods have an effect on the channel used to find a job (social network versus no social network). In addition, we study how wage premium relates to using a social network in finding a job, exploring the inequality that can arise using a different job search method. Our results show that neighborhood affects the individual's job search method and that referred workers earn less at the bottom of the wage distribution with respect to non-referred workers. Colombia presents persistent high levels of informality and inequality with the existence of spatial clusters that impose important social and economic costs with strong informational asymmetries on the job market."
P23|Banking Structure, Marketization, and Small Business Development: Regional Evidence From China|This paper provides an empirical examination of the regional banking structures in China and their effects on entrepreneurial activity. Using a panel of 27 provinces and four directly controlled municipalities from 1997 through 2008, we find that the presence of large banking institutions negatively correlates with small business development in local markets and that this negative relation is driven mainly by participation of large banks in the short-term loan market. Rural banking institutions, in contrast, are found to promote regional entrepreneurial activity. Moreover, large state banks facilitate small business development in concentrated markets. When we interact measures of banking financing by state banks and rural banking institutions with a set of provincial level marketization indexes, we find that extensive marketization, factor market development, and sophistication of legal frameworks mitigate the negative effect of large state banks on small business development. In provinces with advanced market development, efficient factor markets, and favorable institutional settings, the positive effect of rural banking institutions on small business growth is even stronger. Finally, we present evidence that banks do a better job of promoting regional entrepreneurship when it occurs in conjunction with policies to foster innovation activity and assure protection of intellectual property rights.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P23|Dynamic labor demand in China: public and private objectives|" type=""main""> This article studies dynamic labor demand by private and public manufacturing plants in China. The analysis uncovers the objectives of public and private enterprises and estimates labor adjustment costs by ownership. Public plants maximize the discounted present value of profits without a soft budget constraint. There is strong evidence of quadratic and linear firing costs at the plant level. The higher quadratic adjustment costs of the public plants may reflect their internalization of social costs of employment adjustment. Domestic private plants and collective plants have about the same discount factor, much lower than state-controlled plants."
P23|Bank Ownership And Cost Efficiency In Russia, Revisited|This paper adds to the literature on banking in transition with regard to the comparative efficiency of public, private and foreign banks. We perform stochastic frontier analysis (SFA) of Russian bank-level quarterly data from 2005 to 2013. The method of computation of comparative cost efficiency is amended to control for the effect of the revaluations of foreign currency items in bank balance sheets. All public banks are split into the core and other state-controlled banks. We employ the generalized method of moments to estimate a set of distance functions measuring the observed differences in the SFA scores of banks and bank clusters, depending on the heterogeneity in risk preference and asset structure. These distance functions explain the changes in bank efficiency rankings. Our results on comparative bank efficiency are qualitatively different from those in mainstream papers. The efficiency scores of Russian banks are higher and less volatile, and spreads between the scores of different bank types are narrower than hitherto believed. Foreign banks appear as the least cost-efficient type of market participants, while the core state banks are, on average, nearly as efficient as domestic private banks. We suggest that foreign banks are capable of being more cost efficient than others if they increase loans-to-assets ratios above the sample median level. Core state banks, conversely, lead in terms of cost efficiency if their loans-to-assets ratio falls below the sample median level. Our approach is potentially applicable to the analysis of bank efficiency in other dollarized emerging markets
P23|In the shadow of the Gulag: Worker discipline under Stalin|An ‘efficiency wage’ model developed for Western economies is reinterpreted in the context of Stalin’s Russia, with imprisonment – not unemployment – acting as a ‘worker discipline device’. The threat of imprisonment allows the state to pay a lower wage outside the Gulag than otherwise, thereby raising the “surplus” left over for investment: this externality provides a reason for coercion over and above the direct productivity of those in custody.
P23|Reestructuración sectorial en el Putumayo: una dinámica de “tres velocidades”|"Resumen Entre 2000 y 2011 el departamento colombiano del Putumayo vivió una rápida restructuración sectorial incentivada por el aumento en la producción de hidrocarburos y paralela a una contracción notable del sector agropecuario. Este patrón de ""triple velocidad"" de la economía -similar al que nacionalmente impulsó el ""boom petrolero"" - generó una mayor dependencia económica de los recursos naturales y reprodujo allí el modelo tradicional de ""estado extractivo"". El objetivo de esta investigación es analizar este fenómeno y determinar cómo lo afectaron algunos factores exógenos como los cambios en las reglas del negocio petrolero -después de 2004- y la seguridad interna. Para esto, se calcularon índices de localización, especialización y concentración sectorial y luego con ellos se estimaron dinámicas departamentales de convergencia absoluta, condicional y por clubes, tratando de observar la posición del Putumayo frente a otras regiones. El resultado principal muestra que el Putumayo continúa presentando un patrón de ""estado extractivo""."
P23|Does Foreign Entry Spur Innovation?|Our estimates, based on large firm-level and industry-level data sets from eighteen countries, suggest that FDI and trade have strong positive spillover effects on product and technology innovation by domestic firms in emerging markets. The FDI effect is more pronounced for firms from advanced economies. Moreover, our results indicate that the spillover effects can be detected with micro data at the firm-level, but that using linkage variables computed from input-output tables at the industry level yields much weaker, and usually insignificant, estimated effects. These patterns are consistent with spillover effects being rather proximate and localized.
P23|Sectoral change and labour productivity growth during boom, bust and recovery|This paper assesses the extent of structural or sectoral change and its importance for aggregate productivity growth during times of boom, bust and recovery. The analysis covers 10 EU countries from Central and Eastern Europe over the years 2001–2012. The reallocation of labour across sectors was substantial during the boom, very extensive in 2009 at the depth of the crisis and modest in the subsequent recovery period. The contribution of sectoral change to aggregate productivity growth is computed using various decomposition methods. Changes in labour productivity within sectors play the dominant role for aggregate productivity growth, while reallocation of labour between sectors is less important. This pattern is found through most of the sample period despite large differences in the extent of sectoral change during the boom, crisis and recovery
P23|The impact of firm financing constraints on R&D over the business cycle|This paper studies financing constraints on R&D over the most recent boom and bust episode in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Given that financial and venture capital markets in CEE are thin in comparison to those in high-income economies and that many of CEE countries experienced a credit crunch during the last recession, it is proposed that financing constraints have a significant adverse effect on R&D activity in these countries. The paper uses two complementary firm-level data-sources from ten CEE countries. We find that financing constraints have a substantial effect on R&D expenditures, as the probability of credit constrained firms undertaking R&D activities is around 70% lower than for other firms and firmsï¿½ R&D expenditure sensitivity to cash flow is very high. Despite the severity of the crisis, the adverse effect of financing constraints for R&D did not increase during the financial crisis. We also find that, conditional on credit constraints, firmsï¿½ R&D activity is higher during a recession
P23|China's outward foreign direct investment and domestic investment: An industrial level analysis|In the past decade, China's outward foreign direct investment (FDI) has increased significantly. On the other hand, the Chinese economic growth model is heavily reliant on domestic investment. Our study examines the important issue of how China's domestic investment responds to its FDI outflows. We investigate this issue analyzing, for the first time, China's domestic investment at industrial level. We specifically account for the factor of government support given the significant role played by the state in the Chinese economy. Using industrial level data, we further evaluate whether domestic investment reacts to outward FDI differently between state dominated and non-state dominated industries. Our study adopts an accelerator model where the system-Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) is employed for our estimations. Our empirical results suggest that domestic investment responds positively to outward FDI in China, Furthermore, the FDI outflows influences domestic investment differently depending on the level of government support in the particular industries. Such influence is much stronger in state dominated industries than in the non-state dominated ones.
P23|Yuan and Roubles: Comparing wage determination in urban China and Russia at the beginning of the new millennium|Earnings inequality and earnings determination in urban China 2002 and Russia 2003 are compared by using samples covering large parts of the two countries. The results from estimated earnings functions are put in perspective of the outcome from a similar comparison made at the end of the 1980s. We confirm that earnings inequality has increased rapidly in both countries and is found to be similar across countries. As at the end of the 1980s, the gender wage gap is larger in Russia where earnings reach a maximum at a lower age than in China. The association between education and income in China has increased to become stronger than in Russia. The earnings penalty of being employed in the public service sector in Russia has increased while the publically employed in China enjoy a positive payoff of limited magnitude.
P23|The impact of socio-economic policy on total fertility rate in Russia|This paper analyzes the early/initial effect of change in social policy, namely passing the Federal Law of the RF No. 256-FZ from 12.29.2006 titled, “On Additional Measures of State Support of Families with Children,” on total fertility rate in Russia. Using fixed effects econometric model we confirm that introduction of the Federal Law positively influenced Russian total fertility rate. The policy impact is small in size and unlikely to induce the population to fully reproduce itself. Several other socio-economic and demographic variables have been included in the model as the control variables. Our results indicate that the large impact of unemployment, both urban and rural, emigration, and death rates on fertility rates suggests that economic policies directed at creating more jobs in Russia care would be more likely to have a larger positive impact, via increasing income per capita and lowering emigration rates of young people at the peak of their reproductive age, on total fertility rate than the current policy. Similarly, major health reform is in order to lower very high death rates among population of the reproductive age.
P23|The Great Housing Boom of China|China's housing prices have been growing nearly twice as fast as national income over the past decade, despite a high vacancy rate and a high rate of return to capital. This paper interprets China's housing boom as a rational bubble emerging naturally from its economic transition. The bubble arises because high capital returns driven by resource reallocation are not sustainable in the long run. Rational expectations of a strong future demand for alternative stores of value can thus induce currently productive agents to speculate in the housing market. Our model can quantitatively account for China's paradoxical housing boom.
P23|Perception of Risks Associated with Economic Sanctions: The Case of Russian Manufacturing|This paper is focused on assessing the factors of risks for Russian manufacturing firms due to the sanctions imposed on Russia by the EU, US and other countries in 2014. While there is extensive literature on assessing the successes and failures of international sanctions on the economies of both senders and targets on a macroeconomic level (Hufbauer et al., 2007; Drezner 1998, 2003; Morgan et al, 2009; Krustev, 2010; Morgan et al, 2009 among others), we are more interested in trying to understand the corporate response, i.e. which firms evaluate the introduction and increasing scale of economic sanctions as a threat to their corporate strategy and their possible reactions aimed at adjusting to a changing environment due to the geopolitical shock. Our research, based on a recent survey of manufacturing companies, provides evidence that Russian manufacturing firms have in the last decade become much more integrated into the global economy than is commonly assumed, via FDI, foreign trade, including both the importing of technological equipment and intermediates, via establishing international partnerships and extensively supplying foreign companies which operate in Russia. Considering the self-selection effect of the top performing firms in terms of foreign trade, we can state that sanctions could be the most harmful effect for the better performing and globalized firms and, thus, the impact of the sanctions on the prospects of the Russian manufacturing sector may be very strong in the medium and long-term perspectives
P23|Effects of the Qms ISO 9000 Certification on Russian Manufacturing Companies|Here is an analysis of the effect of the ISO 9000 certification on the economical results of Russian companies through the use of the propensity score matching (PSM) method, a method which had proven itself reliable at dealing with the selection problems that were highly likely to arise in this research. Informational dataset is built on the basis of a sample of the Industrial companies competitiveness monitoring project, conducted in 2009 by the Institute for Industrial and Market Studies at HSE. The empirical study methodology is given: hypothesis, informational dataset and model of effects evaluation. The main finding of the paper is that holding the ISO 9001 certificate by a Russian manufacturing company stimulates its profitability and reduces costs, but does not lead to sales and asset turnover rises
P23|Bank ownership and cost efficiency in Russia, revisited|This paper considers the comparative efficiency of public, private, and foreign banks in Rus-sia, a transition economy with several unusual features. We perform stochastic frontier anal-ysis (SFA) of Russian bank-level quarterly data over the period 2005–2013. The method of computation of comparative cost efficiency is amended to control for the effect of revalua-tion of foreign currency items in bank balance sheets. Public banks are split into core and other state-controlled banks. Employing the generalized method of moments, we estimate a set of distance functions that measure the observed differences in SFA scores of banks and bank clusters (heterogeneity in risk preference and asset structure) to explain changes in bank efficiency rankings. Our results for comparative Russian bank efficiency show higher efficiency scores, less volatility, and narrower spreads between the scores of different bank types than in previous studies. Foreign banks appear to be the least cost-efficient market participants, while core state banks on average are nearly as efficient as private domestic banks. We suggest that foreign banks gain cost-efficiency when they increase their loans-to-assets ratios above the sample median level. Core state banks, conversely, lead in terms of cost efficiency when their loans-to-assets ratio falls below the sample median level. The presented approach is potentially applicable to analysis of bank efficiency in other dollarized emerging markets.
P23|Skill biased labour demand and the wage growth of younger workers: Evidence from an unexpected pension reform|Large-scale pension reforms can have redistributive wage effects across generations and education groups when the labour market suffers from skill mismatch. A quasi-experimental retirement shock in Ukraine illustrates the effect of labour scarcity on wage growth and returns to education: it reveals that young and well educated workers enjoyed significant wage growth accelerations while older workers with outdated skills did not benefit from the retirement of their comparable peers. The estimated wage effects are in line with predictions from a simple heterogeneous labour demand model applied to a cross-section of Ukrainian firms. The paper illustrates that general equilibrium wage effects can be estimated in a policy evaluation framework if quasi-experiments fulfil very restrictive preconditions.
P23|Are China's Ethnic Minorities Less Likely to Move?|This study uses China's Inter-Census Survey 2005 to analyse the extent migration behaviour among 14 large ethnic minority groups and the Han majority. Results show that the probability to migrate to all types of destinations varies by province of origin, decreases by age, and in most cases, by expected income at the origin. Furthermore the probability to migrate is found to typically increase by length of education and decrease for females by the number of children. In most cases investigated, a minority ethnicity reduces migration probabilities for people registered in rural China. This is particularly the case for persons belonging to the Uyghur and Tibetan ethnic groups, but also for the Mongolian, Bai, Yao and Tujia groups. In contrast, Korean and Hui have a higher probability of migration than the majority. For people with an urban hukou there are fewer examples that minority ethnicity affects probability to migrate.
P23|Does Foreign Entry Spur Innovation?|Our estimates, based on large firm-level and industry-level data sets from eighteen countries, suggest that FDI and trade have strong positive spillover effects on product and technology innovation by domestic firms in emerging markets. The FDI effect is more pronounced for firms from advanced economies. Moreover, our results indicate that the spillover effects can be detected with micro data at the firm-level, but that using linkage variables computed from input-output tables at the industry level yields much weaker, and usually insignificant, estimated effects. These patterns are consistent with spillover effects being rather proximate and localized.
P23|Skill mismatch and overeducation in transition economies|Large imbalances between the supply and demand for skills in transition economies are driven by rapid economic restructuring, misalignment of the education system with labor market needs, and underdeveloped adult education and training systems. The costs of mismatches can be large and long-lasting for workers, firms, and economies, with long periods of overeducation implying a loss of human capital for individuals and ineffective use of resources for the economy. To make informed decisions, policymakers need to understand how different types of workers and firms are affected by overeducation and skill shortages.
P23|The Development of the Oil Sector in Russia|The article considers the development of the oil sector of the Russian economy, which plays a?leading role in forming state budget revenues and the country’s trade balance. It analyzes the main trends and the results of development of the Russian oil sector since 1990, including the production and refining of oil, oil export, domestic consumption of oil, the prices for oil and petroleum products, tax regulation. The author suggests measures for further development of the oil sector, including the improvements in the tax system.
P23|The impact of firm financing constraints on R&D over the business cycle|The paper studies financing constraints for R&D over the latest boom and bust episode in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). Given that financial and venture capital markets in CEE are thin in comparison to those in high-income economies and that many of CEE countries experienced a credit crunch during the last recession, it is proposed that financing constraints have a significant adverse effect on R&D activity in these countries. The paper uses two complementary firm-level data-sources from ten CEE countries. The results suggest that the role of financing constraints for R&D expenditures in CEE countries is substantial, as the probability of credit constrained firms undertaking R&D activities is around 70% lower and firms’ R&D expenditure cash flow sensitivity is very high. Despite the severity of the crisis, the adverse effect of financing constraints for R&D did not increase in the financial crisis. It is also confirmed that, conditional on credit constraints, firms’ R&D activity is higher in a recession.
P23|Do freight transport time savings translate to benefit for transport consuming companies?|It is common practice in Benefit - Cost analysis to consider freight transport time savings (FTTS) as a benefit for both transport producing and consuming companies. While transportation projects and policies resulting in FTTS are expected to have a positive effect on carriers’ performance reducing time related transport costs and improving service, this is not always the case for the demand side of the transport market. Using System Dynamics in order to model the internal supply chain of a transport using company and simulate several scenarios, we argue that FTTS do not necessarily translate to benefit for shippers, but their effect depends strongly on the structure of the company’s decision making process.
P23|Sustainability of Social Security Policies in Turkey: Cointegration Analysis with Multiple Structural Breaks|In this study, sustainability of social security policies in Turkey was analyzed by using 1989-2013 period annual data and 2007:M01-2014:M05 monthly data from by means of unit root test with multiple structural breaks of Carrion-i-Silvestre (2009) and cointegration test with multiple structural breaks of Maki (2012) and it was determined that there is a cointegration relationship between the series. Long-term cointegration coefficients were estimated by FMOLS and it was found that social security policies are sustainable in the weak form in Turkey. It was found that around 70% within 1989-2013 period and around 78% within 2007-2014 period of social security expenditures were met by income of social security institute. It was seen that sustainability of social security system has slightly improved in recent years.
P23|Determinants of Inflation: Evidence from Pakistan using Autoregressive Distributed Lagged Approach|Controlling inflation is one of the biggest challenges faced by the macroeconomic policymakers in Pakistan. This research article is aimed at highlighting the main sources of inflation in the economy of Pakistan using an autoregressive distributed lag model for the period from 1980 to 2012. Findings of this study reveal that the one percent rise in the long run money supply, exchange rate, total reserve, and the gross national expenditure change inflation by 0.16, 2.12, 0.36, and 1.78 percent points respectively. The Error Correction model with negative sign remains statistically significant with approximate 81% speed of adjustment to restore the equilibrium in the long run, which shows the quick convergence.
P23|Religious diversity and entrepreneurship in transition: lessons for policymakers|Using the 2010 Life in Transition Survey, we show that localities with higher religious diversity have more respondents who have tried to set up a business. Although religious diversity also correlates with a higher start-up probability (following trial), this effect is driven by access to finance and risk preferences. We provide suggestive evidence that the positive association between religious diversity and entrepreneurial trial is positively moderated by social capital (when measured as access to weak ties and the ability to bridge structural holes). Our results suggest that programs which encourage entrepreneurial attempts in diverse areas and develop such social capital are likely to be particularly effective. At the start-up stage, relaxing credit constraints should rank high on the policy agenda. JEL codes: J15; L26; P23 Copyright Nikolova and Simroth; licensee Springer. 2015
P23|Efficiency or bounded rationality? Drivers of firm diversification strategies in Vietnam|Considering the case of diversified firms within a developing/transition country such as Vietnam, this paper investigates diversification relatedness while taking into account both firm- and industry-specific components. The high volatility of the dynamics of diversification observed in Vietnam suggests the hypothesis that firms decide to enter into new industries following a trial and error process, initiated by boundedly rational herding behaviors, i.e., firms follow the most commonly observed business combinations. Using a survivor-based (SB) measure of relatedness, we test the hypothesis of boundedly rational behavior. We find that both the probability of exit and the different performance measures (Return on sales and Total factor productivity) are not or are negatively correlated with SB-related diversification. This is in contrast to what has been observed in developed countries. However, using the SIC distance approach, we obtain the expected positive relationship between performance and relatedness in diversified firms. The conflicting result between these two relatedness indices therefore suggests there has been a trend in follow-up among inexperienced firms that imitate the direction and intensity of the diversification of dominating players within the industry (herd behavior). However, diversified firms gain experience over time and choose more efficient business combinations in subsequent entries. When we use the classical SIC-based approach, we find that greater diversification raises profitability, but only to an optimum relatedness point, beyond which the positive effect fades away. To control for the endogeneity of diversification relatedness and the serial correlation in error terms, we adopt an instrumental-variable two-stage least-squares estimation approach (IV-2SLS) with GMM treatment. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 30, No. 1|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 30, No. 2|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Skill biased labour demand and the wage growth of younger workers: Evidence from an unexpected pension reform|Large-scale pension reforms can have redistributive wage effects across generations and education groups when the labour market suffers from skill mismatch. A quasi-experimental ‘retirement shock’ in Ukraine illustrates the effect of labour scarcity on wage growth and returns to education: it reveals that young and well educated workers enjoyed significant wage growth accelerations while older workers with outdated skills did not benefit from the retirement of their comparable peers. The estimated wage effects are in line with predictions from a simple heterogeneous labour demand model applied to a cross-section of Ukrainian firms. The paper illustrates that general equilibrium wage effects can be estimated in a policy evaluation framework if quasi-experiments fulfil very restrictive preconditions.
P23|Recovery in the NMS, Decline in the CIS|"Content The first part of the publication contains an analysis of the latest FDI trends. The analysis highlights the modest recovery of FDI in 2014. The second part of the publication contains two sets of tables Tables I total flow and stock data, FDI flow by components and FDI income, FDI per capita and other FDI reference parameter (2006-2014) Tables II detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country (last four years) The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. General Description (PDF) | Table of contents (PDF) Abstract The first part of this report provides an analysis of the 2014 foreign direct investment (FDI) trends in 23 Central, East and Southeast European (CESEE) countries, highlighting uneven developments. FDI inflows recovered in the new EU Member States (NMS), stagnated in the Southeast European countries and plummeted in Russia and Ukraine. Greenfield investments have declined in all three regions, but capital increases in foreign subsidiaries gathered momentum in the NMS. Even in this region, FDI inflow is still meagre in relation to gross fixed capital formation thus FDI is not a major driver of economic recovery. The countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), as well as Latvia and Lithuania, are receiving much less foreign investment than before, in the wake of the Ukraine crisis. Capital flight has hit Russia. Net FDI in the country has become negative as inflows declined by two thirds while outflows diminished only by one third. Chinese FDI contributes only a minor fraction to the FDI stock in the CESEE, but it is on the rise. More and larger greenfield projects originating in China and Hong Kong have been announced recently, first of all in Russia. Forecasts for economic growth in 2015 suggest a further recovery of FDI in the NMS, although first-quarter trends in FDI flows and greenfield investments do not support this expectation. The second part of this report contains two sets of tables Tables I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by components and related income; Tables II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. Methodological explanations highlight important recent changes in reporting standards. The wiiw FDI Database is available online This online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database"
P23|Hit by Deleveraging|"Content The first part of the publication contains an analysis of the latest FDI trends. The analysis highlights the modest recovery of FDI in 2013. The second part of the publication contains two sets of tables Tables I total flow and stock data, FDI flow by components and FDI income, FDI per capita and other FDI reference parameter (2005-2013) Tables II detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country (last four years) The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. General Description (PDF) | Table of contents (PDF) Abstract The first part of this report provides an analysis of the 2013 FDI trends in 23 CESEE countries, pointing to uneven developments. Inflows were decimated in the NMS first of all in Poland, they stagnated in the SEE countries and boomed in Russia. Declines were partly of a statistical nature, partly the result of the withdrawal of investment reserves. The high inflows to Russia were over-compensated by even higher outflows to other countries. There has been no correlation between economic growth and FDI inflow in the CESEE region over several years. But the diminishing amount of FDI in relation to GDP and gross fixed capital formation suggests that it is not FDI that drives economic growth. A diminishing number of greenfield investment projects underpins this conclusion for 2013. Forecasts for economic growth in 2014 and first-quarter trends in FDI flows and greenfield projects suggest a recovery in the CESEE countries which are not directly affected by Ukraine crisis. There are signs of a return of manufacturing FDI to the NMS while inflows to Russia are plummeting. The second part of this report contains two sets of tables Tables I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by components and related income; Tables II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. The wiiw FDI Database is available online This online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database"
P23|The Effect Of The Chinese International Trade On The Brazilian Trade Balance|According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD, 2012), after China officially joined the World Trade Organization, at the end of 2001, its share on world's exports increased from 4.34%, in 2001, to 10.50%, in 2011. At the same period, China's share on world's imports increased almost 150% - from 3.84% to 9.53%. The increase in international trade happened at the same time China's industrial sector changed the composition of its Gross Value of Production (GVP) towards products that use more scale and differentiated technologies, while natural resources and labor intensive products lost their share in total GVP (Diegues; Angeli, 2011). Most of researches in the field agree that China's economic growth is related somehow to its fast industrialization process on the last two decades, as a consequence of the transition process towards a more market oriented economy. In addition to that, it is also agreed that the exchange rate depreciation has played a major whole while setting up China as one of the most important players in the international market. Trade relations between Brazil and China have intensified in recent decades while caused changes in the list of imported and exported products of the country. In this context, the present study aimed to analyze the evolution of imports and exports of Brazil ? China between 2000 and 2011. Two different forms of sectorial analysis were analyzed which allowed the identification of the most significant exported sectors. The sectorial analysis was performed following two criteria: (i) technological intensity and (ii) types of technology. The study used import and export data between Brazil and China provided by the Brazilian Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade. It was found that the trade between Brazil and China has become more intense in the most recent years mainly because the Brazilian exports have been more focused on commodities and natural resource-based products. Chinese exports to Brazil, on the other hand, are more concentrated in products of high and medium-high-technology, based mainly on differentiated technology and scale, but with a wider range of products compared to the Brazilian exports. We conclude that a regressive specialization of Brazilian exports to China has been happening probably as a result of both the direct and indirect trade effects between the countries. Key-words: China; Brazil; trade; specialization
P23|Do Russian Firms Need ISO Certification for Exporting?|"We present some preliminary empirical results on impact of international certification on export behavior of Russian manufacturing firms. Our research is motivated, first, by the fact that little is known about the impact of ISO certification on the performance of Russian firms and, second, by unclear role of ISO certificate in week local institutional environment (where some firms simply buy these certificates without real audit and modernization of business processes). Russian medium and large enterprises in manufacturing are lagging far behind European peers both in terms of exporting activity and ISO certification level. We are trying to estimate the impact of international certification on the probability of a firm to be involved in foreign trade. We follow the general logic and methodology proposed in papers of Grajek (2004), Clougherty and Grajek (2008), Swann (2010), Otsuki (2011), Martincus et al. (2010), Masacure et al. (2009), Potoski and Prakash (2009). Empirical data comes from two rounds of nation-wide survey on the competitiveness of Russian manufacturing enterprises conducted in 2005 and 2009. We use a panel data from two rounds on approximately 500 firms in eight manufacturing industries. This gives us a unique opportunity to track the history of both availability of ISO certificate and exporting status of the firm. We use several different empirical models to examine the effect of certification on export activity and to control for possible endogeneity by estimating systems of simultaneous equations. We find evidence that ISO certification has a significant positive impact on probability of export if we control for self-selection effect for both export and ISO certification. Firms self-select for ISO by size and productivity as well as by being a supplier of a foreign-owned company in Russia. Then we compared two effects on export performance ? networking with foreign partners and ISO certification. We found out that while there is a direct positive impact of networking with foreign partners and certification on propensity to export, we were unable to find any significant impact of ISO certification on networking with foreign partners as a signal of ""common language"" that facilitate establishing partnership relations. We conclude that in the period analyzed these two institutions, both being important facilitators of exporting, worked individually."
P23|Wage determination in China during the reform period|The purpose of this paper is to ascertain how wages are being determined in China during the reform period. The paper focuses on the development of the regulatory framework since 1978 and proceeds by examining official regulations regarding labor market institutions and wage setting, and by evaluating their potential implications for actual wage setting. JEL codes: J3, J30, J31, J4, J41, J45, M5, M52, M54, M55, P2, P23 Keywords: wage determination, labor market institutions, minimum wages, wage classification system, wage level and structure, labor contracts, collective bargaining, public sector wages, wage-performance link
P23|Informal employment in transition countries: empirical evidence and research challenges|Even though informal employment is wide-spread in transition economies the literature on this phenomenon in the region is rather scarce. For policy makers it is important to know the incidence and the determinants of informal employment. In the first part of the paper we demonstrate that its incidence and to a lesser degree its determinants depend on the definition used. We then discuss studies that attempt to test for labor market segmentation in transition economies along the formal-informal divide. The presented results are inconclusive and we come to the conclusion that more work needs to be done before we can make definitive statements about whether labor markets are integrated or segmented in transition economies. Last but not least we introduce a new research area that links risk preferences and selection into labor market states. We show that if individuals have a choice, relatively risk loving workers have an increased likelihood to choose informal employment and self-employment.
P23|Economic Returns to Speaking the Right Language(s)? Evidence from Kazakhstan's Shift in State Language and Language of Instruction|This paper investigates the economic returns to language skills and bilingualism. The analysis is staged in Kazakhstan, a multi-ethnic country with complex ethnic settlement patterns that has switched its official state language from Russian to Kazakh. Using two newly assembled data sets, we find negative returns to speaking Kazakh and a negative effect of bilingualism on earnings while Russian was the official state language in the 1990s. Surprisingly, the Kazakh language continues to yield a negative wage premium 13 years after it has been made official state language. While we do neither find evidence for an ethnically segmented labor market nor for reverse causality, the low economic value of the Kazakh language can be explained by the comparatively poor quality of schools with Kazakh as language of instruction. Based on PISA data, we illustrate that scholastic achievements are substantially lower for pupils taught in Kazakh, despite the official support for the titular language. Our results suggest that switching the official state language without appropriate investments in school resources is unlikely to cure the economic disadvantage of a previously marginalized language.
P23|Educational Marketing: Factors Influencing The Selection Of A University|Competition in the higher education sector is forcing the higher educational institutions (HEI) to develop more competitive marketing strategies. For developing universities marketing strategies HEI need to understand the student choice process of a university. Understanding university choice process is not easy, this process involves complex decision which affects students’ life (future career, friends, residence, etc.). Therefore, this paper presents a conceptual framework to explore the factors that influence university choice decision, in general, by investigating factors, relevant in literature, which most influence this decision. Among the factors identified are: institutional reputation, cost, employment opportunities, parents’ influence, educational offer, location. This study has been done in order to find the most important factors that influence choice of a university among Romanian students.
P23|A Model Of Students’ University Decision-Making Behavior|Over the last decade the higher education institutional framework suffered a major transformation:the increasing influence of market competition on academic life - “marketization”.Consequently, HEI attention is increasingly focused on attracting high quality (human) resources and students. Such context demands a deeper understanding of students’ decision making process for HEI. Literature on higher education management provides a large number of models, which attempt to provide an understanding of student buying behavior and how they select a university. Based on literature review, this paper explores different university choice models (economic, status attainment, combined) that analyze the student behavior as consumers in the higher education marketplace and suggests a new one, considering the phases of the decision making process and the factors that influence university choice decision. Finally, implication of factors in different phases of the decision process are discussed.
P23|When does FDI have positive spillovers? Evidence from 17 transition market economies|We use rich firm-level data and national input–output tables from 17 countries over the 2002–2005 period to test new and existing hypotheses about the impact of foreign direct investment (FDI) on the efficiency of domestic firms in the host country (i.e., spillovers). We document that backward linkages have a consistently positive effect on productivity of domestic firms while horizontal and forward linkages show no consistent effect. We also examine how the strength of spillovers varies by sector, FDI source, institutional environment (corruption, red tape, level of development), firm’s distance to the technological frontier, and other firm- and country-specific characteristics.
P23|Understanding Urban Wage Inequality in China 1988–2008: Evidence from Quantile Analysis|This paper examines change in wage gaps in urban China from 1988 to 2008 by estimating quantile regressions on CHIPS data. It applies the Machado and Mata (2005) decomposition, finding sharp increases in inequality largely due to changes in the wage structure. During 2002–08, changes in the returns to education and experience have been equalizing. However, changes in other categories of wage differential—by sex, occupation, ownership, industrial sector, and province—widened inequality. The gender gap continued to rise, as did the gap between white collar and blue collar workers, and between manufacturing and other sectors.
P23|Orta Asya Turk Cumhuriyetlerinde Kent Nufus Buyukluklerinin Dagilimi: ZIPF Kanunu|Bu calismanin amaci Azerbaycan, Kazakistan, Kirgizistan, Tacikistan ve Ozbekistan’in kent nufus buyukluklerinin dagilimlarinin Sovyet Birligi ve sonrasi donemde farklilik gosterip gostermedigini Zipf Kanunu cercevesinde analiz etmektir. Bu amacla ulkelerin sosyalist donemde ve sonrasinda kent nufus verileri kullanilarak farkli yillari kapsayan yatay kesit verilerine dayali Zipf regresyon analizi yapilmistir. Analiz sonuclarina gore Azerbaycan ve Ozbekistan disinda kalan diger uc ulkede ekonomik sistemlerin farklilasmasi kent nufus buyuklerinin dagiliminda dikkate deger degisikliklere sebep olmamistir.
P23|The Role of Coresidency with Adult Children in the Labor Force Participation Decisions of Older Men and Women in China|Over the course of China's economic reforms, a pronounced divergence in the labor force participation patterns of rural and urban elders emerged – rural elders increased their rates of participation while urban elders reduced theirs. In this project, based on the data of the Chinese population censuses of 1982 and 2000, we employ a two-stage procedure to take into account the endogeneity of the residency and labor force participation decisions of older persons. We find that the effect of coresidency with adult children on the labor force participation of older adult differs by urban vs. rural residence. In 1982, the LFPR of urban elders who coresided with their adult children were significantly higher than those who did not coreside. By 2000, this effect completely disappeared. In contrast, in rural areas, coresidency with adult children had a large and significant negative effect on the labor force participation of both male and female elders. This effect diminished only slightly over the reform period. Finally, we decompose the changes over time in elders' labor force participation decisions and find that the response effect for all groups (male and female, urban and rural) is positive, such that, holding the levels of demographic and economic variables constant, each group of elders would have had higher rates of participation in 2000 than in 1982. The remarkable divergence in urban and rural elders' labor force participation trends are due to differences in the relative sizes of their attribute and response effects.
P23|Economic Returns to Speaking the Right Language(s)? Evidence from Kazakhstan's Shift in State Language and Language of Instruction|This paper investigates the economic returns to language skills and bilingualism. The analysis is staged in Kazakhstan, a multi-ethnic country with complex ethnic settlement patterns that has switched its official state language from Russian to Kazakh. Using two newly assembled data sets, we find negative returns to speaking Kazakh and a negative effect of bilingualism on earnings while Russian was the official state language in the 1990s. Surprisingly, the Kazakh language continues to yield a negative wage premium 13 years after it has been made official state language. While we do neither find evidence for an ethnically segmented labor market nor for reverse causality, the low economic value of the Kazakh language can be explained by the comparatively poor quality of schools with Kazakh as language of instruction. Based on PISA data, we illustrate that scholastic achievements are substantially lower for pupils taught in Kazakh, despite the official support for the titular language. Our results suggest that switching the official state language without appropriate investments in school resources is unlikely to cure the economic disadvantage of a previously marginalized language.
P23|Informal Employment in Transition Countries: Empirical Evidence and Research Challenges|Even though informal employment is wide-spread in transition economies the literature on this phenomenon in the region is rather scarce. For policy makers it is important to know the incidence and the determinants of informal employment. In the first part of the paper we demonstrate that its incidence and to a lesser degree its determinants depend on the definition used. We then discuss studies that attempt to test for labor market segmentation in transition economies along the formal-informal divide. The presented results are inconclusive and we come to the conclusion that more work needs to be done before we can make definitive statements about whether labor markets are integrated or segmented in transition economies. Last but not least we introduce a new research area that links risk preferences and selection into labor market states. We show that if individuals have a choice, relatively risk loving workers have an increased likelihood to choose informal employment and self-employment.
P23|Labor Markets in the Transition Economies: An Overview|This paper reviews labor market developments in the countries of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union since the beginning of transition. The paper examines the relationship between aggregate employment and macroeconomic developments in these countries, emphasizing the changing interaction between aggregate output and employment, the role of wages and of labor market flexibility in determining the ability of these economies to provide suitable employment for their citizens. Attention is also given to the role of starting conditions and how the excess employment of the Communist period was either liquidated or accommodated. The second part of the paper deals with microeconomic issues pertaining to labor market performance in the region. The role of the nature and extent of privatization on employment outcomes is examined as is the role of sectoral restructuring. The role of entrepreneurship and the creation of new SMEs, capital formation and the emergence of new labor market institutions are also described.
P23|Informal Employment in Russia: Definitions, Incidence, Determinants and Labour Market Segmentation|"This paper takes stock of informal employment in Russia analysing its incidence and determinants. Using the regular 2003-11 waves and an informality supplement of the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS) it develops several measures of informal employment and demonstrates that the incidence varies widely across the different definitions. We also show that the determinants of informal employment are roughly stable across the different measures: workers who are males, relatively young, unskilled and employed in construction and trade and related services have a higher likelihood to have an informal job. We also take a look at the issue of labour market segmentation along the informal-formal divide by estimating an informal-formal wage gap at the means and across the entire wage distributions. We find only weak evidence for labour market segmentation in Russia when estimating an informal-formal wage gap for salaried workers at the mean. The results of quantile regressions show a wage penalty in the lower half of the distribution and no gap in the upper half for informal employees. In contrast, informal self-employed and entrepreneurs have conditional mean wages that are higher than the mean wages for the formally employed. Across the entire wage distribution, however, we find a negative wage gap in the lowest quartile and a strongly positive wage gap in the highest quartile, pointing to a segmented informal sector with a lower free entry tier and an upper rationed tier. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 OECD Economic Survey of the Russian Federation (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/russia). L'emploi informel en Russie : Définitions, incidence, déterminants et segmentation du marché du travail Ce document de travail propose un bilan sur l'emploi informel en Russie et analyse son incidence et ses déterminants. En utilisant les données régulières 2003-11 et un supplément sur l'informalité de l'Enquête ""Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey"" (RLMS), nous suggérons plusieurs mesures de l'emploi informel et démontrons que l'incidence varie considérablement selon les différentes définitions. Nous montrons également que les déterminants de l'emploi informel sont à peu près stables avec les différentes mesures: les travailleurs hommes, relativement jeunes, non qualifiés et employés dans la construction et le commerce et les services connexes ont une probabilité plus élevée d'avoir un emploi informel. Nous examinons également la question de la segmentation du marché du travail en terme de division entre marché formel et informel en estimant l'écart de salaire entre secteurs en moyenne et sur l'ensemble de la distribution des salaires. Nous ne trouvons que de faibles signes de segmentation du marché du travail en Russie pour l'estimation à la moyenne. Les résultats des régressions par quantile montrent une pénalité salariale pour les employés informels dans la moitié inférieure de la distribution et pas de différence dans la moitié supérieure. En revanche, les indépendants et les entrepreneurs du secteur informel ont des salaires moyens conditionnels plus élevés que les salaires moyens pour l'emploi formel. Sur l'ensemble de la distribution des salaires, cependant, nous constatons un écart salarial négatif dans le quartile inférieur et un écart salarial fortement positive dans le quartile le plus élevé, indiquant un secteur informel segmenté avec libre entrée dans le bas et du rationnement dans le haut. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l’Étude économique de l’OCDE 2014 sur la Fédération de Russie (www.oecd.org/etudes/russie)."
P23|Is It Possible to Maintain Russian Textile and Apparel Industry|The case of the Russian textile and apparel industry is investigated on the?basis of statistical data and data collected from the surveys of enterprise managers. It is shown how lock in the local markets has led to a gradual deterioration of the observed industry. Influential studies of economists and sociologists are used to describe emergence and transformation of the global value chains in textile and apparel industry with a specific reference to the experience of China. Policy changes regarding raw materials and local production systems are suggested to encourage integration of this industry into the global economy.
P23|The Second Start of Transformation in Ukraine?|The Ukrainian socio-economic crisis has been developing for years and resulted in the open socio-political turmoil and armed conflict. The Ukrainian population didn’t meet objectives of the post-Soviet transformation, and people were disillusioned for years, losing trust in the state and the Future. The role of workers’ remittances in the Ukrainian economy is underestimated, since the personal consumption and stability depend strongly on them. Social inequality, oligarchic control of key national assets contributed to instability as well as regional disparity, aggravated by identity differences. Economic growth is slow due to a long-term underinvestment, and prospects of improvement are dependent on some difficult institutional reforms, macro stability, open external markets and the elites’ consensus. Recovering after socio-economic and political crisis will need not merely time, but also governance quality improvement, institutions reform, the investment climate revival — that can be attributed as the second transformation in Ukraine.
P23|La responsabilité sociale des entreprises dans l’industrie chinoise : une recomposition de la relation salariale ?|Cet article propose une analyse du mouvement de responsabilité sociale des entreprises (RSE) au regard des changements ayant affecté la relation salariale dans l’industrie chinoise. Alors que d’importantes lois censées régir l’usage du travail ont été promulguées depuis les années 1990, la faiblesse des droits collectifs octroyés aux travailleurs se pose toujours en obstacle au respect des réglementations en vigueur. Dans ce contexte de blocage institutionnel, le mouvement de RSE peut s’interpréter comme une tentative d’élaboration d’un niveau de règles intermédiaires, depuis l’entreprise. Mais dans leur grande majorité, les règles privées promues par les firmes multinationales (FMN) sont largement déconnectées de la pratique des acteurs et ne contribuent pas significativement à la stabilisation des règles encadrant la relation salariale. À partir d’un travail d’enquête, nous montrons que l’émergence de nouveaux acteurs dans le champ de la RSE pourrait annoncer un renouvellement de ce mouvement. À côté de l’approche basée sur les codes de conduite, apparaissent des dispositifs basés sur l’« expertise » ou promouvant la participation des travailleurs. En définitive, l’avenir de la place de la RSE dans la configuration de la relation salariale reste ouvert.
P23|Wage Policies of a Russian Firm and the Financial Crisis of 1998: Evidence from Personnel Data, 1997 to 2002|The authors use a rich personnel data set from a Russian firm for the years 1997 to 2002 to analyze how the firm adjusts wages and employment during this period in which local labor market conditions changed in the aftermath of the financial crisis in 1998. They relate the development of turnover and wages for various employment categories to alternative models of wage and employment determination. The authors argue that the firm's behavior is consistent with the predictions of efficiency wage models of the shirking and turnover type.
P23|The Harsh Reality of Pursuing Innovations: Emerging Market Perspectives|"This short conference paper serves as a distillation of a keynote address delivered at the the Second National Conference on Management and Higher Education Trends & Strategies for Management & Administration hosted by Bangkok-based Stamford International University (Thailand) on November 1, 2014.Innovation is discussed as the heart of entrepreneurial processes occurring in today's capitalist economic systems, including transition economies like China and Vietnam, which underscores economic competitiveness of firms and economies. But the innovation effort and process also face dilemma of ""entrepreneurial curse of innovation"". Advantages and disadvantages are weighed for a more balanced view, especially in the context of outnumbering SMEs and given existence of pitfalls and traps along the innovation path of development. Toward the end, the value of the market is once again stressed amid the concern of subjective assumption and illusion about availability of market opportunities in the mind of innovators, which may contrast totally with the dismal outcome the actual market realities may show ex post."
P23|The effect of the state sector on wage inequality in urban China: 1988--2007| This paper examines the effect of the public sector and state-owned enterprises (SOEs) on wage inequality in urban China using China Household Income Project data. It applies quantile regression analysis, the Machado and Mata decomposition to investigate how urban wage inequality was affected by the changes in wage structure and employment shares of the public sector and SOEs. We find that since the radical state sector reforms designed to reduce overstaffing and improve efficiency in the late 1990s, urban wage gaps were narrowed due to the reduction in the employment share of the state sector; the wage premium of the state sector in comparison with the non-state sector increased significantly; and changes in the wage structure of the labour market caused the rise in urban wage inequality.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 29, No. 1|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 29, No. 2|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Trade Liberalization and Embedded Institutional Reform: Evidence from Chinese Exporters|If trade barriers are managed by inefficient institutions, trade liberalization can lead to greater-than-expected gains. We examine Chinese textile and clothing exports before and after the elimination of externally imposed export quotas. Both the surge in export volume and the decline in export prices following quota removal are driven by net entry. This outcome is inconsistent with a model in which quotas are allocated based on firm productivity, implying misallocation of resources. Removing this misallocation accounts for a substantial share of the overall gain in productivity associated with quota removal.
P23|Marriage Networks, Nepotism, and Labor Market Outcomes in China|This paper considers the role of marriage in improving labor market outcomes through the expansion of an individual's networks. I focus on the impact of the relationship with the father-in-law on a young man's career using panel data from China. The identification strategy isolates the network effects related to a man's father-in-law by examining the post-marriage death of a father-in-law. The estimates suggest that the loss of the father-in-law translates into a decrease in a man's earnings of 7 percent.
P23|Informal Employment in Russia: Incidence, Determinants and Labor Market Segmentation|This paper takes stock of informal employment in Russia analyzing its incidence and determinants. Using the regular waves and an informality supplement of the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS) it develops several measures of informal employment and demonstrates that the incidence varies widely across the different definitions. We also show that the determinants of informal employment are roughly stable across the different measures: workers who are males, relatively young, unskilled and employed in construction and trade and related services have a higher likelihood to have an informal job. We also take a look at the issue of labor market segmentation along the informal-formal divide by estimating an informal-formal wage gap at the means and across the entire wage distributions. We find only weak evidence for labor market segmentation in Russia when estimating an informal-formal wage gap for salaried workers at the mean. The results of quantile regressions show a wage penalty in the lower half of the distribution and no gap in the upper half for informal employees. In contrast, informal self-employed and entrepreneurs have conditional mean wages that are higher than the mean wages for the formally employed. Across the entire wage distribution, however, we find a negative wage gap in the lowest quartile and a strongly positive wage gap in the highest quartile, pointing to a segmented informal sector with a lower free entry tier and an upper rationed tier.
P23|Long-run costs of piecemeal reform: Wage inequality and returns to education in Vietnam|In this paper, we examine changes in wage structure and wage premia during Vietnam’s transition from command to market economy. Relative to other work in this literature, our paper is unique in that we identify the policies that lead to such changes. By examining skill premium trends along the two dimensions of particular importance to the transition—state or non-state firms, and traded or non-traded industries—we are able to separate the contribution of external liberalization to wage growth and rising skill premia from that of domestic labor market reforms, and to examine potential interactions between the two types of reform. The results point to the high cost of incomplete reform in Vietnam. Capital market segmentation creates a two-track market for skills, in which state sector workers earn high salaries while non-state workers face lower demand and lower compensation. Growth is reduced directly by diminished allocative efficiency and reduced incentives to acquire education, and indirectly by higher wage inequality and rents for workers with access to state jobs.
P23|Which Type of Urbanization Better Matches China¡¯s Factor Endowment: A Comparison of Population-Intensive Old Puxi and Land-Capital-Intensive New Pudong|Based on a comparative study of New-Pudong (East Shanghai) and Old-Puxi (West Shanghai) in their respective ability to absorb rural migrants, the very essence of urbanization, this paper finds that, constrained by the current hukou (household registration) system and land tenure system, although New-Pudong has emerged as one of the most modernized urban areas in the world, it did so under an urbanization model that is government-dominant and characterized by high land-intensity and capital-intensity. This model represents a serious mismatch in terms of China¡¯s factor endowment that is characterized with a large but relatively poor rural population. In sharp contrast, guided by the market mechanism under private land ownership and free migration, Old-Puxi emerged as an urbanization model that was very adaptable to China¡¯s factor endowment and stage of development. Therefore, as a model of endogenous urbanization, Old-Puxi is more efficient and inclusive, at the same time more sustainable economically and environmentally, and for this reason more applicable to China at a time when China needs to urbanize most of its rural population urgently to avoid the further worsening of the rural/urban divide and income disparity.
P23|The Evolution Of Regional Wage Differentials In A Transition Economy: Evidence From Poland|This paper uses micro data from the Labor Force Surveys to examine regional wage differentials and their dynamics in Poland over 1994-2007. We find that controlling for observed worker characteristics reduces regional wage disparity by 30-50 percent, but remaining wage differentials persist and seem to intensify over time.
P23|Party Membership and State Jobs in Urban China|"The ""dual-track approach"" for transition would have to be facilitated by an endogenous movement of workers away from the state into private jobs. Yet, using the Chinese Household Income Project Series (CHIPs) data for the year 2002, we document preferences and premiums for state jobs in urban China over private jobs. The state sector attracted the best workers in more favorable industries and regions and offered higher earning premiums. In addition, family party membership is found to be instrumental in allocating workers into state jobs which explains a good deal of the earnings differentials in terms of an endogenous state premium."
P23|Re-defining Informal Employment and Measuring its Determinants: Evidence from Russia|Informal activities impact countries' economic development and overall growth. However, studying informal employment is not easy and it is crucial to provide a valid definition of it. This paper contributes to the recent discussion of the measures of informality by taking advantage of a rich dataset on Russia over the period 2003 - 2011, that is before and after the economic downturn, together with a special supplement on informality that allows to construct different measures of informal employment and to analyze its determinants. We demonstrate that the incidence of informal employment varies across the different definitions. However, the determinants of informal employment are roughly stable across the different measures as long as we exclude firm size as a criterion. We also show that risk-averse individuals, as expected, are less likely to select themselves into informal employment.
P23|The European Union – A Remarkable Framework for Social Marketing Implementation|"The extension of marketing frontiers beyond the border of economic activities, in different social areas, has currently become a reality. The new concept of social marketing is based on the fact that the marketing thinking, its essence, is constituted by transaction, by the manner in which the exchange of values between two parties is created, stimulated, enabled and capitalized. The prominent promoters of the social marketing - specific orientation and mode of action - are the non-profit organizations, which cover a large range of types, specific to their mission, of the causes that they planned to serve. Within their increasing concern with improving the performances, in a context in which the competition for financing sources necessary for their activity and for satisfying the requirements of the public they serve - with larger possibilities of choice - is growing, non-profit organizations adopted an increasing conspicuous orientation, from the exterior, adopting their decisions in the light of the requirements within their reference ""markets"" and of the insurance of the mutually beneficial exchange. The government institutions of the European Union and the Community countries sought to permanently provide support to this sector, to ensure an institutional framework adequate for strengthening the legitimacy of the respective organizations and increasing the efficiency of their activity."
P23|The Experience of Industrialization under NEP and Its Application in the Current Conditions|The article refutes popular belief about the necessity to abolish the New Economic Policy (NEP) of the 1920s for the purpose of industrialization. It is shown that it started successfully under NEP although due to a number of reasons the efficiency of the investments was low. The abolishment of NEP was caused not by the necessity to accelerate the industrialization but by the wrong policy towards the agriculture that stopped the development of farms. The article analyzes the discussion about possible rates of the domestic capital formation. In the course of this discussion, the sensible approach to finding the optimal size of investments depending on their efficiency was offered. This approach is still relevant today.
P23|The Trends Of Food Consumption In The Process Of Property Relations Transformation In Ukraine’S Agriculture|The article highlights the necessity of studying the level of food consumption in the context of major changes of property relations in agriculture. It was suggested to use the ratio of food consumption adequate per person as an important indicator of socio-economic efficiency of reforms in the agriculture sector. Also, it is performed a characteristic of the reforming stages of property relations in agriculture from the standpoint of the dynamics of the country’s food security indicators.
P23|Labor Allocation in China: Implicit Taxation of the Heterogeneous Non-State Sector|Using China’s Annual Survey of Industrial Production, we estimate the marginal revenue product of labor (MRPL) for all state-owned and above-scale non-state manufacturing firms for 2001-2004 and 2004-2007. We find that labor productivity varies systematically within industries by ownership type and thai non-state firms face implicit labor taxation relative to state-owned enterprises (SOEs). We also find that, in keeping with ongoing reforms of the state sector, ownership differentials fall over time, with gaps between non-state enterprises and SOEs falling by about half over time. Within the non-state sector, enterprises registered as legal persons have higher MRPL, on average, than do firms registered as collective or private enterprises. Disaggregating this group using information on equity shares reveals that firms registered as legal persons and majority owned by legal persons have the highest MRPL relative to SOEs. Indeed, these enterprises show significantly higher MRPL than those firms directly controlled by the state. Legal-person firms with majority state ownership have MRPL differentials similar to those for legal-person firms with majority private or majority collective ownership. This evidence is consistent with continuing, albeit diminishing, implicit labor subsidies for directly SOEs but not for firms whose shares are owned by the state, even if those shares are registered to legal persons.
P23|Labor Allocation in China: Implicit Taxation of the Heterogeneous Non-State Sector| Using China's Annual Survey of Industrial Production, we estimate the marginal revenue product of labor (MRPL) for all state-owned and above-scale non-state manufacturing firms for 2001--2004 and 2004--2007. We find that labor productivity varies systematically within industries by ownership type and that non-state firms face implicit labor taxation relative to state-owned enterprises (SOEs). We also find that, in keeping with ongoing reforms of the state sector, ownership differentials fall over time, with gaps between non-state enterprises and SOEs falling by about half over time. Within the non-state sector, enterprises registered as legal persons have higher MRPL, on average, than do firms registered as collective or private enterprises. Disaggregating this group using information on equity shares reveals that firms registered as legal persons and majority owned by legal persons have the highest MRPL relative to SOEs. Indeed, these enterprises show significantly higher MRPL than those firms directly controlled by the state. Legal-person firms with majority state ownership have MRPL differentials similar to those for legal-person firms with majority private or majority collective ownership. This evidence is consistent with continuing, albeit diminishing, implicit labor subsidies for directly SOEs but not for firms whose shares are owned by the state, even if those shares are registered to legal persons. (JEL codes: L16, O53, P23, P31) Copyright The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
P23|The Supply and Demand Factors Behind the Relative Earnings Increases in Urban China at the Turn of the 21st Century|All of the demographic and skill groups in China's urban labor market received increases in their real earnings from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s. This paper analyzes these relative earnings increases with respect to the relative supply and demand changes for each of these imperfectly substitutable labor inputs. The relative movements of both supply and demand were consistent with the relative earnings increases across experience groups, but only the relative demand movements were consistent across education groups, and neither of the movements could help explain the gender differences.
P23|Применение Почвозащитных Технологий В Регионах, Подверженных Ветровой Эрозии: Механизмы Мотивации Собственников Земли<BR>[Application of soil protection technologies in regions prone to wind erosion: mechanisms for motivating landowners]|The purpose is to reveal the factors of motivations of the agricultural enterprises and certain farmers in the course of application of the nature preservation technologies; the priority of protection the natural resources in motivation of farmers; to develop a technique of studying the social and economic mechanisms of use of the soil-protective systems. The novelty consists in complex studying of motivation of rural producers by means of the technique considering macro-social and micro-social factors of application of the nature preservation technologies for the regions subject to wind erosion of soils (Kazakhstan, the Volga region, Siberia, etc.). The results are as follows: the policy in the sphere of the nature preservation technologies has to consider the factors influencing the choice of decisions regarding the use of technologies. Among the factors are demographic situation, poverty level, the state policy, measure of sensibleness of the carried-out actions, access to information, and economic efficiency for the economic entity. The action program directed on formation of the social and economic mechanism, pricing, subsidies and trade policy in agriculture has been proposed, as well as creations of the monitoring system of soils condition, consumption of fertilizers, pesticides, soil cover and the ground waters. The scope of results is the following: professional communities, state authorities, municipalities, scientific and research and educational institutions.
P23|An analysis of the determinants of managerial pay in the czech republic|The purpose of this paper is to examine the determinants of the variation inCzech managers' pay levels. The main questions we attempted to answer: Arethe managers in stateowned firms compensated differently than those inprivate owned firms? How much of hte difference in pay is explained bydifferences in individual characteristics and job levels? What is theimportance of the regional location or the industry affiliation of the firmsfor managerial pay differentials? For this purpose we used data from across-section of Czech managers in 1996 and estimated earnings equationsaugmented with a host of explanatory variables related to firm and jobcharacteristics.
P23|Una mirada a la conformación del poder popular en Chile: la independencia hacia 1973|“La legitimidad, desde esta perspectiva, es un valor social que emana de la sociedad y se agrega e incorpora a los constructos sistémicos como el único valor legítimo de éstos.” Como explica Gabriel Salazar (2011), en un Estado neoliberal hay una escases de legitimidad y por lo tanto también una gobernabilidad intentando mostrar legitimidad. Sin embargo, el ciudadano quiere recuperar su soberanía y lo hace a través de “la gobernanza; o sea: el poder (y derecho) de mantener a políticos, tecnócratas y militares sujetos al control cívico y la razón histórica de la ciudadanía. Poco a poco, subrepticiamente, los movimientos de la sociedad civil tienden a exigir, proponer o construir un sistema político donde al gobernanza y no la mera gobernabilidad sea el componente legal de la política cotidiana”. En este contexto, se entiende la comunidad como base del desarrollo de la soberanía y la soberanía como base del poder popular.
P23|Princelings and Paupers? State Employment and the Distribution of Human Capital Investments Among Households in Viet Nam| Inequality in access to education is known to be a key driver of income inequality in developing countries. Viet Nam, a transitional economy, exhibits significant segmentation in the market for skilled labor based on more remunerative employment in government and state firms. We ask whether this segmentation is also reflected in human capital investments at the household level. We find that households whose heads hold state jobs keep their children in school longer, spend more on education, and are more likely to enroll their children in tertiary institutions relative to households whose heads hold nonstate jobs. The estimates are robust to a wide range of household and individual controls. Over time, disparities in educational investments based on differential access to jobs that reward skills and/or credentials help widen existing income and earnings gaps between well-connected “princelings” and the rest of the labor market. Capital market policies that create segmentation in the market for skills also crowd out investment in private sector firms, further reducing incentives for human capital deepening. © 2013 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 28, No. 1|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 28, No. 2|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Growth Engine Stutters|Content The first part of the publication contains an analysis of the latest FDI trends. The analysis highlights the modest recovery of FDI in 2012. The second part of the publication contains two sets of tables Tables I total flow and stock data, FDI flow by components and FDI income, FDI per capita and other FDI reference parameter (2004-2012) Tables II detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country (last four years) The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. General Description General Description (PDF) Abstract The first part of this report provides an analysis of the 2012 FDI trends in 22 CESEE countries, pointing to a modest recovery. The strongest growth in inflows in 2012 was observed in the NMS (+35%) following a year with extremely low inflows. But the exceptionally high FDI inflow in the Czech Republic and Hungary was mainly the result of capital in transit and financial flows not resulting in fixed investments. The decline in the SEE countries was 22% following a relatively successful year and caused by a one-time capital withdrawal from Serbia. Inflows to the CIS remained flat (+1%) and were strongly biased upwards by round-tripping Russian capital. FDI inflows declined in twelve CESEE countries, in line with the generally depressed business sentiment and unimpressive economic growth. The latter is even more reflected in the low number of greenfield investment projects and in their small size. Forecasts for economic growth in 2013 and first quarter trends in FDI flows and greenfield projects suggest a serious setback of FDI in most CESEE countries, with the possible exceptions of Poland, Slovenia and Kazakhstan. As another main cause, it is expected that Russian companies will be more reluctant and also restricted to use Cyprus as a stepping stone for investments at home thus both the outflow and inflow of Russian FDI is expected to diminish. The second part of this report contains two sets of tables Tables I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by components and related income; Tables II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. The wiiw FDI Report is the new title of the former publication ‘wiiw Database on Foreign Direct Investment in Central, East and Southeast Europe’. The printed report and the analysis therein is based upon the wiiw FDI Database which will be available online from July 2013. Examples Table of contents (PDF) NEW SERVICE The wiiw FDI Database is available online from July 2013 This new online access with a modern query tool supports easy search and download of data. The wiiw FDI Database contains the full set of FDI data with time series starting form 1990 as far as available. Access to wiiw FDI Database
P23|Short-lived Recovery|Content New coverage Kazakhstan Turkey The first part of the publication contains an analysis of the latest FDI trends. The analysis highlights the temporary recovery of FDI in 2011. The second part of the publication contains two sets of tables Tables I total flow and stock data, FDI flow by form and FDI income, FDI per capita and other FDI reference parameter (2003-2011) Tables II detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country (last four years) The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. General Description (PDF) Abstract FDI continues to be of great significance for the development of the former transition economies. The domestic engines of economic growth are still weak, and fiscal consolidation provides a drag on the economies. The short-lived recovery in 2011 was based mainly on external demand, which upgraded the importance of foreign investors, as they generate a major part of exports. The first part of this report, following detailed methodological explanations of FDI related terminology, provides an analysis of the latest FDI trends in 22 CESEE countries. The strongest growth in FDI in 2011 was observed in the SEE countries (64%) following a year with extremely low inflows. The growth of FDI in the NMS was 26% and in the CIS 18%, though both regions still recorded significantly lower amounts than in 2008. FDI inflows declined in only five countries, in line with the general upswing in business sentiment and economic growth, at least up until the fourth quarter of the year. Methodological problems have been identified that can distort the reporting of the home countries and economic sectors in terms of FDI flows and stocks. Special purpose entities, which are often financial holdings registered in the Netherlands and classified under ‘other business activities’, are the main sources of distortion. Home country statistics and greenfield project data suggest that Austria is the second-biggest investor in the NMS and the biggest in the SEE – one place above its ranking based on FDI stocks statistics. Also, if the Bank of Russia were to subtract the flows of Russian capital via offshore locations from the FDI statistics, Russian FDI would shrink to about a third of what is currently reported. Forecasts for economic growth and first quarter trends in FDI flows and greenfield projects suggest a setback for FDI in most CESEE countries in 2012, with the possible exceptions of Russia, Estonia and Croatia. The second part of this report contains two sets of tables the tables in Part I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by form and related income; the tables in Part II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. Examples Table of contents (PDF Related Publication The CD-ROM version contains Excel, CSV, TSV, HTML data (time series from 1990 onwards) PDF version of the hardcopy Available time series (XLS) wiiw Database on Foreign Direct Investment 2012 CD-ROM
P23|The End of Cheap Chinese Labor|In recent decades, cheap labor has played a central role in the Chinese model, which has relied on expanded participation in world trade as a main driver of growth. At the beginning of China's economic reforms in 1978, the annual wage of a Chinese urban worker was only $1,004 in U.S. dollars. The Chinese wage was only 3 percent of the average U.S. wage at that time, and it was also significantly lower than the wages in neighboring Asian countries such as the Philippines and Thailand. The Chinese wage was also low relative to productivity. However, wages are now rising in China. In 2010, the annual wage of a Chinese urban worker reached $5,487 in U.S. dollars, which is similar to wages earned by workers in the Philippines and Thailand and significantly higher than those earned by workers in India and Indonesia. China's wages also increased faster than productivity since the late 1990s, suggesting that Chinese labor is becoming more expensive in this sense as well. The increase in China's wages is not confined to any sector, as wages have increased for both skilled and unskilled workers, for both coastal and inland areas, and for both exporting and nonexporting firms. We benchmark wage growth to productivity growth using both national- and industry-level data, showing that Chinese labor was kept cheap until the late 1990s but the relative cost of labor has increased since then. Finally, we discuss the main forces that are pushing wages up.
P23|Survey of Empirical Studies of Market Power in Food Industries| The objective of this study is, based on the existing literature, to provide a general systematic characteristic of market structure models. We distinguish cost, production, profit, revenue functions, as well as the general identification approach as most plausible methods to measure the degree of market power. Using time-series data of the Ukrainian milk processing industry, as an example, we utilized the production approach to estimate the exercise of oligopsony power, test functional forms and verify estimation methods. The results of two-equation models did not produce any evidence suggesting the exercise of market power, whereas, the three-equation models revealed the presence of oligopsony.
P23|The Significance of Market Transaction Costs, Technical Efficiency and Risk in Agriculture: An Empirical Analysis for Tatarstan Republic| The paper investigates the significance of risk, external and internal transaction costs in the agriculture of the Tatarstan Republic. The analysis is conducted for two categories of organ-isational forms, independent farms and members of agroholdings. Although average prices do not differ among organisational forms, the results indicate that external transaction costs are more pronounced in independent farms, whereas agroholding membership entails higher in-ternal transaction costs, thereby making agroholdings more vulnerable to inefficiency than independent farms. In addition, the estimation suggests that this higher inefficiency results from the more enhanced risk management in agroholding members. Since this strategy leads to a more intensive factor use, members of business groups are able to allocate inputs so as to increase production at the same time.
P23|Firm-Level Labour Demand: Adjustment in Good Times and During the Crisis|Using a large panel of Czech manufacturing firms with 50 or more employees, we update the firm-level labour demand elasticity estimates for 2002-2009. The economic crisis of 2008-2009 provides a source of variation needed for getting estimates that cover not only times of growth, but also a period of economic contraction. We find that in normal times (until 2007), the short-term elasticity is -0.53 with respect to wages and 0.43 with respect to sales, while the long-term elasticities are close to or below unity, standing at -0.94 for wages and 0.76 for sales. Both the wage and sales elasticities increased during the crisis, suggesting that firms became demand constrained, but only the sales elasticity is significantly different. The long-term wage elasticity close to -1 in the period before and during the crisis suggests that firms' employment decisions are made within fixed budgets. Finally, we find that the inclusion of workers hired through temporary work agencies does not significantly affect the results, indicating that firms take into account total labour when deciding on employment and that hired workers are used as an equal labour demand channel with lower adjustment costs. As a robustness check, our results are qualitatively comparable with the narrative evidence from an ad-hoc firm-level survey on wage and price formation conducted in 2007 and 2009 within the ESCB Wage Dynamics Network.
P23|Earnings differentials between the public and private sectors in China: Exploring changes for urban local residents in the 2000s|This paper analyzes the changes in public–private sector earnings differentials for local residents in urban China between 2002 and 2007. We find that earnings gaps across ownership sectors decreased during this period and that the convergence trend has been in favor of the private and semi-public sectors as opposed to the public sector. This trend is in sharp contrast to what occurred at the turn of the 21st century when employees in the government and state-owned enterprises were found to enjoy a privileged situation. Differences in endowments are found to play a growing role in explaining earnings differentials. However, although it is becoming less of an issue, segmentation across ownership remains important, especially for high-wage earners.
P23|Mixed oligopoly, public firm behavior, and free private entry|We analyze a mixed oligopoly with free entry by private firms, assuming that a public firm maximizes an increasing function of output, subject to a break-even constraint. We establish an irrelevance result: whenever a mixed oligopoly is viable, then aggregate output, aggregate costs and welfare are the same with and without the public firm. However, replacing a viable mixed oligopoly with a public monopoly yields higher net welfare. Implications for privatization policy are suggested.
P23|Wage inequality and the labor market impact of economic transformation: Croatia, 1970–2008|In this paper, we examine wage inequality and wage differentials in Croatia from 1970 to 2008 using two long aggregate time series on the distribution of income. We focus especially on changing income inequality related to educational and vocational attainment, changing income inequality within those groups, and how these two components of inequality were affected by the economic transformation from socialism to capitalism. We find that income inequality between groups rose moderately post-transformation, while overall inequality increased more sharply. This finding is consistent with a growing importance of individual rather than group productivity in labor market compensation, a change broadly consistent with the economic transformation of the Croatian labor market.
P23|Effective Virtual Teams for New Product Development|At present, the existing literature shows that the factors which influence the effectiveness of virtual teams for new product development are still ambiguous. To address this problem, a research design was developed, which includes detailed literature review, preliminary model and field survey. From literature review, the factors which influence the effectiveness of virtual teams are identified and these factors are modified using a field survey. The relationship between knowledge workers (people), process and technology in virtual teams is explored in this study. The results of the study suggest that technology and process are tightly correlated and need to be considered early in virtual teams. The use of software as a service, web solution, report generator and tracking system should be incorporated for effectiveness virtual teams.
P23|Does more unemployment cause more fear of unemployment?|I21, J12, J620 Copyright Gimpelson and Oshchepkov; licensee Springer. 2012
P23|Long-Term Development Path of the Second Industry in Central Asia|In this paper, I compile 100-year statistics of the countries of Central Asia using declassified confidential documents of the Soviet Statistical Office obtained from the Russian State Archives and other materials and quantitatively characterize the long-term development path of the second industry in the region. The issue of the possible up-ward bias of the Soviet industrial statistics is also examined. Comparative analysis between the USSR and the Central Asian region and among Central Asian countries basing on the above long-term statistics provides valuable findings including the close relationship between the socialist industrial allocation policy and the growth rate of the second industry for deeper understanding of the economic development history in Central Asia during the socialist era and the following transition period towards a market economy.
P23|Challenges Faced by Textile Industry of Pakistan: Suggested Solutions|Attempt has been made to investigate the challenges faced by the textile industry of Pakistan. A specific objective is to find out main reasons through qualitative study and suggest solution for further progress. Pakistan is largest manufacture and exporter of textile goods and the total exports earnings of textile industry of Pakistan is about $ 13.8 Billion per year. The major markets of Pakistani textile goods is United State and European markets and its exports are about more than 63% of the total exports of the country and contributes 8.5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This study reveals that the textile industry is the backbone of the economy of Pakistan mainly this sector is facing great challenges from last several years. The main challenges are energy crises, fluctuating yarn prices, shortage of gas supply and load shading, law and order situation, devaluation of Pakistani currency, lack of research and development (R&D) institutions, lack of modern equipment and machinery and production cost. It is recommended that the textile sector can play a vital role for the development of the economy if challenges and barriers remove on time. Although, several challenges are uncontrollable but it can be resolved by well define policies and procedures by government institutions and textile association bodies in Pakistan.
P23|The Nested Variable Model of FDI Spillover Effects: Estimation Using Hungarian Panel Data| A new empirical model is presented that considers the productivity spillover effects of foreign direct investment (FDI) by focusing on the multi-layered structure of industrial classifications. In this model, the market presence of horizontal FDI in a host country is expressed using multiple spillover variables with a nested structure corresponding to the aggregated level of industrial classification. Using large-scale firm-level data from Hungary, we estimated the nested variable model and verified horizontal FDI spillover effects that cannot be captured with the conventional model having a single horizontal variable.
P23|A selection analysis of returns to education in China| This article estimates the economic returns to education in China from 1989 to 2009 using the China Health and Nutrition Survey (CHNS) dataset. We find that education returns for one additional year generally increase from 2.6% in 1989 to 7.9% in 2009. Education returns, however, may reflect signals of innate ability or the accumulation of human capital. Moreover, traditional ordinary least square estimates may be biased by selection problems and mix-ups of age group heterogeneity. We therefore estimate the marginal effects of schooling with increasing labour market experience using the Heckman selection model. We find that the education returns for one additional year decline with labour market experience, which supports the human capital hypothesis for all age groups except the group educated during the Cultural Revolution. Different dynamics of education returns in the four age groups are identified with the large influence of institutional reforms in the labour market, supporting the transition explanation of the evolution of education returns in China.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 27, No. 1|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 27, No. 2|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Sex Selection and Gender Balance|We model the equilibrium sex ratio when parents can choose the sex of their child. With intrinsic son preference, sex selection results in a male-biased sex ratio. This is inefficient due to a marriage market congestion externality. Medical innovations that facilitate selection aggravate the inefficiency. If son preference arises endogenously, due to population growth causing an excess supply of women on the marriage market, selection may improve welfare. Empirically, sex selection causes an excess of males and reduces welfare in China. In most parts of India, cohort sizes are growing, implying an excess supply of women. (JEL J12, J13, J16, O15, P23)
P23|Corrigendum: Sex Selection and Gender Balance|No abstract is available for this item.
P23|Scale Effects, Technical Efficiency and Land Lease in China| Using a panel dataset from Zhejiang province in China over the period 1995-2002, we propose a two-step estimation procedure to investigate the links between land lease activity and production efficiency. We find that the output elasticity with respect to land, the scale effect and the technical efficiency are higher for farmers involved in land-lease activities. In addition, technical efficiency and land-lease activity are endogenous, and farmers with higher technical efficiency are more likely to lease more land and adopt advanced technologies to achieve higher profits, which in turn alters the technical efficiency.
P23|Risk, Technical Efficiency And Market Transaction Costs In Different Organisational Forms: Evidence From The Oblast Tatarstan| The paper investigates the significance of external and internal transaction costs and risk in agriculture in the Tatarstan Republic. The analysis is conducted for independent farms and farms which are members of agroholdings. The result indicates that external transaction costs are more marked in independent farms than in agroholding members. However, average prices do not differ among the organisational forms. With regard to internal transaction costs (or inefficiency) the result is the opposite. Inefficiency in agroholding members is considerably higher than in independent farms. However, the estimation suggests that this result is due to more intense risk management in agroholding members. Thus, members of a business group have a more intense use of inputs; however, these are rather allocated to reduce uncertainty of production than to increase production.
P23|The Impact Of Food Price Shock On Heterogeneous Credit Constrained Firms| The paper analyses how the rising agricultural prices affect heterogenous farm access to inputs and production under credit market imperfections in the CEE transition countries. Using farm level panel data which contains 37416 observations, we estimate a farm credit constraint equation and find that small individual farms (IF) are on average more credit constrained than large corporate farms (CF). Using the estimated parameters we simulate the effect of the recent food price shock. Our results suggest that in the presence of credit market imperfections, the relatively less credit constrained CF benefit more from higher output prices than IF, as they are able to expand their production more flexibly. These findings have implications for the developing countries: not only consumers in the LDC may loose, but also producers, which on average are more credit constrained than farmers in developed countries, may loose their market shares and hence income in the log run.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P23|Migration as a Substitute for Informal Activities: Evidence from Tajikistan|How is migration related to informal activities? They may be complementary since new migrants may have difficulty finding employment in formal work, so many of them end up informally employed. Alternatively, migration and informality may be substitutes since migrants’ incomes in their new locations and income earned in the home informal economy (without migration) are an imperfect trade-off. Tajikistan possesses both a very large informal sector and extensive international emigration. Using the gap between household expenditure and income as an indicator of informal activity, we find negative significant correlations between informal activities and migration: the gap between expenditure and income falls in the presence of migration. Furthermore, Tajikistan’s professional workers ability to engage in informal activities enables them to forgo migration, while low-skilled non-professionals without post-secondary education choose to migrate instead of working in the informal sector. Our empirical evidence suggests migration and informality substitute for one another.
P23|Less social health insurance, more private supplementary insurance? Empirical evidence from Germany|Based on individual level data from Germany, we analyze the effect of changes in the compulsory benefit package of the social health insurance on the demand for supplementary private insurance, employing a difference-in-differences approach. The focus is on the exclusion of dental prostheses from the benefit package in 1997 and its re-inclusion in 1999. Individuals born prior to 1979 serve as control group because only the young were affected by the reform. No significant effect on the demand for supplementary health insurance is found. Thus, the notion of clients making informed choices about their health insurances' coverage is not supported.
P23|Analyzing the efficiency of Russian firms|Purpose - Did the Soviet development strategy of according high priority to firms in heavy industry give these firms an advantage during Russia's transition to a market-oriented economy? This paper seeks to answer this question. Design/methodology/approach - To document industry variation in efficiency between priority and non-priority sectors, the paper uses firm-level data collected in 1992 and 1995 to estimate a stochastic frontier production function for 11 industries. It then aims to investigate which firm characteristics contributed to variation in technical efficiency between 1992 and 1995. Findings - Firms in low-priority sectors exhibited higher efficiency in 1992 than firms in high-priority sectors; by 1995, efficiency differences diminish. Efficiency gains were relatively higher in industries which experienced the largest percentage output declines. Non-state ownership tends to improve efficiency, but the ownership effect varies by industry and over time. The paper rejects the hypothesis that export experience increases efficiency, and this result is especially strong in 1995. Location in Moscow proved to be a positive factor, and the benefit grew over time. Research limitations/implications - Panel data were not used because near-hyper-inflationary conditions and changes in capital valuation methods make it impossible to accurately adjust output and capital values between 1992 and 1995; and because firms that divided into multiple units or changed industry classification between 1992 and 1995 would need to be dropped, reducing sample size considerably and making industry-level analysis impossible. Practical implications - The paper provides a baseline for analyzing the impact of the transition on the performance of Russian manufacturing firms. It evaluates the influence of location (capital city effect) on firm performance, and demonstrates that privatization alone is not sufficient to improve efficiency. Originality/value - This is the first study to examine the initial impact of transition on the efficiency of Russian firms across 11 industries, with focus on differences between former priority and non-priority sectors. The results underscore the magnitude of structural dislocation caused by planners' preferences in the former Soviet economy.
P23|Effects of Minimum Wages on the Russian Wage Distribution|The available minimum wage literature is mostly based on evidence from developed countries or developing countries of Latin America. Little empirical work has been done on the effects of minimum wages in transition economies, where labour institutions experienced rapid changes and law enforcement differs in many important ways. This paper presents the first empirical evidence on minimum wage effects for Russia, the largest transition economy. I use regional variation in the relative level of the federal minimum wage to identify the impact of the threefold increase in the real value of the minimum wage on the Russian wage distribution between 2005 and 2009. The analysis suggests that the minimum wage can account for the bulk of the decline in the lower tail inequality, particularly for females.
P23|Entry into Export Markets as an Incentive to Innovate. Evidence from the Russian Manufacturing Industry Survey|This paper examines how export and export destination stimulates innovation by Russian manufacturing firms. The discussion is guided by the theoretical models for heterogeneous firms engaged in international trade which predict that, because more productive firms generate higher profit gains, they are able to afford high entry costs, and trade liberalization encourages the use of more progressive technologies and brings higher returns from R&D investments. We will test the theory using a panel of Russian manufacturing firms surveyed in 2004 and 2009, and use export entry and export destinations to identify the causal effects on various direct measures of technologies, skill and management innovations. We find evidence on exporters’ higher R&D financing, better management and technological upgrades. Exporters, most noticeably long-time and continuous exporters, are more active in monitoring their competitors, both domestically and internationally, and more frequently employ highly qualified managers. Exporters are more active in IT implementation. When it comes to export destination, we find that non-CIS exporters are more prone to learning. However, we cannot identify that government or foreign ownership shows any impact on learning-by-exporting effects.
P23|Can economic crises be good for your diet?|With fortuitously timed data - collected before, during and after a major macro-financial crisis in Bulgaria - we revisit several hypotheses in the economics and nutritional literature related to the tendency of households to smooth their nutritional status over time. We explore the dietary impact of both falling real incomes in the context of hyperinflation and crisis and changing relative prices and the changing responsiveness of different groups of people to these incomes and prices over six year of fundamental structural reforms of the economy. Our results highlight large and dramatically changing food and nutrient elasticities, which challenge the perception of household ability to smooth their nutrient stream during economic crises and transitions.
P23|Labor force participation in the Soviet and post-Soviet Baltic States|No abstract is available for this item.
P23|Can Economic Crises Be Good for Your Diet?|With fortuitously timed data – collected before, during and after a major macro-financial crisis in Bulgaria – we revisit several hypotheses in the economics and nutritional literature related to the tendency of households to smooth their nutritional status over time. We explore the dietary impact of both falling real incomes in the context of hyperinflation and crisis and changing relative prices and the changing responsiveness of different groups of people to these incomes and prices over six year of fundamental structural reforms of the economy. Our results highlight large and dramatically changing food and nutrient elasticities, which challenge the perception of household ability to smooth their nutrient stream during economic crises and transitions.
P23|Converging Wages, Diverging GRP: Directed Technical Change and Endogenous Growth. Empirical Analysis of Growth Patterns across Kazakh regions|The paper analyzes unequal regional development in Kazakhstan. Applying the nonlinear least squares method in presence of spatial correlation we estimate the convergence rate of wages across Kazakh regions for the period 2003–2009. The estimated convergence rate is about 3% which is somewhat higher than estimates obtained for the USA and Europe. At the same time there is slight divergence in the GRP per capita. It is argued that convergence in wages which coincides with divergence in the per capita GRP is consistent with the endogenous growth model where profit maximizing firms choose the capital intensity of the technology. This implies that the inequality between regions will only exacerbate and the central government may wish to invest more in low-growth regions to alleviate disproportional development.
P23|Migration as a Substitute for Informal Activities: Evidence from Tajikistan|How is migration related to informal activities? They may be complementary since new migrants may have difficulty finding employment in formal work, so many of them end up informally employed. Alternatively, migration and informality may be substitutes since migrants' incomes in their new locations and income earned in the home informal economy (without migration) are an imperfect trade-off. Tajikistan possesses both a very large informal sector and extensive international emigration. Using the gap between household expenditure and income as an indicator of informal activity, we find negative significant correlations between informal activities and migration: the gap between expenditure and income falls in the presence of migration. Furthermore, Tajikistan's professional workers ability to engage in informal activities enables them to forgo migration, while low-skilled non-professionals without post-secondary education choose to migrate instead of working in the informal sector. Our empirical evidence suggests migration and informality substitute for one another.
P23|The Effectiveness of Virtual R&D Teams in SMEs: Experiences of Malaysian SMEs|The number of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), especially those involved with research and development (R&D) programs and employed virtual teams to create the greatest competitive advantage from limited labor are increasing. Global and localized virtual R&D teams are believed to have a high potential for SMEs growth. Due to the fast growing complexity of the new product, coupled with new emerging opportunities of virtual teams, a collaborative approach is believed to be the future trend. This research explores the effectiveness of virtuality in SMEs virtual R&D teams. An online questionnaire emailed to Malaysian manufacturing SMEs and 74 usable questionnaires were received, representing a 20.8 percent return rate. To avoid the bias that may result from pre-suggested answer, a series of open-ended questions asked from expertise. This study based on analyzing an open-ended question; extract four main themes among expertise recommendations on the effectiveness of virtual teams for SMEs growth and performance. These are suitable for SMEs new product design manager to realize the key advantage and importance of virtual R&D teams in the process of NPD, which lead to increase the effectiveness of the new product's procedure.
P23|Lenin und die Volkszählung in Russland 1920|No abstract is available for this item.
P23|The Effect of Changes in the U.S. Wage Structure on Recent Immigrants' Earnings| Since recent immigrants tend to earn less than natives, their relative earnings have been adversely affected by an increase in the return to labor market skills over the past three decades. Using longitudinal Social Security records matched to cross-sections of the SIPP and CPS, I estimate the return to skills rose by 41% between 1980 and 1997. This reduced the relative earnings of immigrants who arrived in the 1980s and early 1990s by 10 to 15 percentage points. Examining solely the earnings of recent immigrants may lead to an overly pessimistic picture of their actual labor market skills. © 2011 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
P23|Patterns of Human Capital Development in Russia: Meeting the Challenge of Market Reforms and Globalization|This paper examines post-Soviet reforms on human capital development in Russia. The primitivization of economy in the first decade of reforms resulted in growing underemployment of skilled labour that drove out two streams of brain drain, viz. one, through classical emigration, and two, through the outflow of skilled labour into a wide range of survival activities from shuttle trade to subsistence farming. The consequences of this for the Russian economy were dire as it led to the depreciation and degradation of the national human capital stock. The second decade of reforms generated controversial implications for Russia’s national human capital. On the one hand, it was characterized by the emergence and exacerbation of a wide range of supply-demand human capital mismatches. On the other hand, the revival of labour demand and the partial substitution of direct brain drain for outsourcing widened opportunities for the preservation and accumulation of national human capital.
P23|Agglomeration Economies in Semi-industrialized Countries: Evidence from Argentina|This paper identifies and problematizes three gaps in the existing literature on agglomeration economies. First, it argues that the ontology of agglomeration economies, the way in which these economies are conceptualized, needs to be revised. Far from being something “in the air” for all firms to profit from them, tapping these economies requires a conscious and sustained effort from firms. Second, it takes issue with the idea that the functioning of agglomeration economies in semi-industrialized countries can be read off simply from the experience of industrialized ones. Third, the paper challenges current ideas on the geographical extent of urbanization and localization economies within a metropolitan area. The empirical evidence gathered from a detailed survey of 134 manufacturing firms in the automotive and steel sectors located in the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Region (BAMR, includes the city proper and the surrounding suburbs) allows us to conclude that localization economies are not necessarily confined to neighbourhoods.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 26, No. 1|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 26, No. 2|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 26, No. 3|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Asia-Pacific Population Journal Volume 26, No. 4|Published since 1986 by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Asia Pacific Population Journal (APPJ) brings out high-quality, evidence based and forward-looking articles on a wide range of population and development issues in the Asia and the Pacific.
P23|Childcare, Eldercare, and Labor Force Participation of Married Women in Urban China, 1982–2000|We employ Chinese population census data to consider married, urban women’s labor force participation decisions in the context of their families. We find that the presence in the household of a parent, parent-in-law, or person aged 75 or older increases prime-age women’s likelihood of participating in market work. The presence of preschool-aged children decreases it. The negative effect on women’s labor force participation of having young children in the household is substantially larger for married, rural-to-urban migrants than for their nonmigrant counterparts. Similarly, the positive effect of coresidence with elders is larger for rural-to-urban migrant women than for nonmigrants.
P23|Diverging Patterns of FDI Recovery|Content The first part of the publication contains an analysis of the latest FDI trends. The analysis highlights the diverging patterns of FDI recovery in 2010. The second part of the publication contains two sets of tables Tables I total flow and stock data, FDI flow by form and FDI income, FDI per capita and other FDI reference parameter (2002-2010) Tables II detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country (last four years) The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. General Description (PDF) Abstract FDI continues to be of great significance for the development of CEECs, in particular of the new EU members. The domestic engines of economic growth are still weak, and fiscal consolidation drags on the economies. Recovery started mainly based on external demand which has upgraded the importance of foreign investors that generate the major part of exports. The first part of the publication, following detailed methodological explanations of FDI related terminology, provides an analysis of the latest FDI trends. Modest and uneven recovery characterized the development of FDI in CEECs in 2010 which recorded an increase of 9% (in current euro terms). The strongest growth occurred in Russia, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Lithuania. Bulgaria, Romania and Southeast Europe booked another year of severe decline. FDI was attracted mainly by three factors domestic economic growth based on exports, improving financial stability reducing investment risk, and the recovery of the financial position of investors. All three factors coincided positively in the Czech Republic, while e.g. in Hungary investment risks were accumulated in the financial sector but new equity investments went into the export-oriented automotive industry. The number of new greenfield projects recovered strongly throughout the region but they promise less investment value than in the previous year. As for 2011, wiiw experts are more optimistic than global surveys and expect a 27% increase of FDI inflows to the CEECs. Most of the FDI growth will be allocated to Russia, much of it, as in the past, invested by Russian off-shore companies. The proximity to highly developed European countries with growing economies is expected to attract substantial FDI in the NMS (+10%) and the SEE (+29%). The second part of this publication contains two sets of tables Tables in part I cover FDI flow and stock data, FDI flows by form and related income; Tables in part II provide detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country. The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. Table of contents (PDF) Related Publication The CD-ROM version contains Excel, CSV, TSV, HTML data (time series from 1990 onwards) PDF version of the hardcopy Available time series (XLS) wiiw Database on Foreign Direct Investment 2011 CD-ROM
P23|State and market integration in China: A spatial econometrics approach to 'local protectionism'|In the past two decades, controversial evidence has been produced supporting the case for local protectionism in China. This paper overviews the most important contributions and presents a new approach which applies spatial econometrics on prefectural-level data. The main advantage of this method is to rely on a theoretically less biased and internal benchmark for assessing the impact of provincial borders on spatial interdependences, as we compare within province and across province growth spillovers for neighbouring prefectures. We show that provincial borders exert a strong impact on spillovers. Further, we also analyze spillovers of local public expenditures, which could be interpreted as proxies for government interventions. Again, provincial borders matter. Yet, we are cautious in interpreting this as evidence for local protectionism, and propose the notion of 'cellularity' as an alternative explanation. Cellularity results from a confluence of different factors, such as administrative structure, institutional changes and regional culture.
P23|FDI in the CEECs Hit Hard by the Global Crisis|Content The first part of the publication contains an analysis of the latest FDI trends complemented by detailed methodological explanations. The analysis highlights the impacts of the recession on FDI in 2009. The second part of the publication contains two sets of tables Tables I total flow and stock data, FDI flow by form and FDI income, FDI per capita and other FDI reference parameter (2001-2009) Tables II detailed FDI data by economic activity and by country (last four years) The main sources of data are the central banks of the individual Central, East and Southeast European countries. General Description General Description (PDF) Abstract After a year of stagnation in 2008, FDI inflows to the CEECs halved in 2009. The decline in the NMS was even more severe while less so in the SEE countries. Still, FDI was more resilient to the crisis than other forms of foreign investment. In 2010 FDI may increase moderately in the region as a whole, with uneven development in the individual countries. Growing FDI inflows are expected in Poland and Russia, the largest countries in the region where also economic growth is bound to pick up. Declines are expected in countries with a drawn out recession such as Bulgaria and Romania as well as in several Southeast European countries. Foreign investors' income earned from FDI in the past is high but declining due to the crisis, and repatriated to a large extent. The income outflow may surpass the amount of new capital inflow, but this negative direct effect of FDI on the balance of payments can was offset by the foreign trade surplus generated by foreign affiliates. In 2009 the current accounts of several CEECs turned positive or ran smaller deficits than before which could be financed by FDI to a higher extent than earlier. Examples Table of contents (PDF) Press Release English (PDF) Presentation (German) Related Publication The CD-ROM version contains Excel, CSV, HTML data (time series from 1990 onwards) PDF version of the hardcopy Available time series (XLS) wiiw Database on Foreign Direct Investment 2010 CD-ROM
P23|The Importance of Being Wanted|We identify birth wantedness as a source of better child outcomes. In Vietnam, the year of birth is widely believed to determine success. As a result, cohorts born in auspicious years are 12 percent larger. Comparing siblings with one another, those of auspicious cohorts are found to have two extra months of schooling. The Vietnamese horoscope being gender-specific, this difference will be shown to be driven by birth planning. Children born in auspicious years are more likely to have been planned, thus benefiting from a more favorable growth environment. (JEL J12, J13, O15, P23, Z13)
P23|Transition, Regional Features, Growth and Labour Market Dynamics|The aim of this paper is to throw some light on the institutional change, regional features, and growth and labour market performances in the eight transition countries that became EU members in May 2004 (8-CEECs). The consideration of a rather fine territorial disaggregation – at NUTS-3 Eurostat level – distinguishes this paper from previous studies. This allows for the investigation of some important tendencies such as the concentration of production around the capital cities. The main empirical finding is that, while transition countries – in particular the eight CEECs – are converging, with a reduction of disparities in per capita incomes across countries, within each single country divergence is prevailing, with leading regions (mainly the capital city areas) growing much faster than the rest of the country. Econometric investigations also highlight a positive role for institutional change. The main policy implications, concerning both European and national economic policies, are presented in the conclusive section.
P23|Contraintes migratoires et développement. Hukou et accumulation du capital en République populaire de Chine|The constraints on migration flows due to the hukou system have important implications for resources allocation in the People’s Republic of China. At the individual level, they act on rural people’s life cycle and on the allocation, not of their labor, but of their capital: if rural laborers, when young, are free to work wherever they wish, older, they are constrained to return to rural areas, and to invest there their savings. At the macroeconomic level, this article shows, through a simple model of a dual economy development with overlapping generations, that these constraints, despite an apparent suboptimality of resources allocation, hasten capital accumulation in China. Classification JEL : J61, O15, O24, P23.
P23|Reassessing the Standard of Living in the Soviet Union: An Analysis Using Archival and Anthropometric Data|Both Western and Soviet estimates of GNP growth in the USSR indicate that GNP per capita grew in every decade - sometimes rapidly - from 1928 to 1985. While this measure suggests that the standard of living improved in the USSR throughout this period, it is unclear whether this economic growth translated into improved well-being for the population as a whole. This paper uses previously unpublished archival data on infant mortality and anthropometric studies of children conducted across the Soviet Union to reassess the standard of living in the USSR using these alternative measures of well-being. In the prewar period these data indicate a population extremely small in stature and sensitive to the political and economic upheavals visited upon the country by Soviet leaders and outside forces. Remarkably large and rapid improvements in infant mortality, birth weight, child height and adult stature were recorded from approximately 1940 to the late 1960s. While this period of physical growth was followed by stagnation in heights and an increase in adult male mortality, it appears that the Soviet Union avoided the sustained declines in stature that occurred in the United States and United Kingdom during industrialization in those countries.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P23|Persönliches Einkommen in Ostdeutschland um ein Fünftel niedriger als im Westen|Ein erklärtes Ziel der deutschen Wirtschaftspolitik direkt nach der deutschen Vereinigung bestand in einer möglichst schnellen Angleichung der innerdeutschen Lebensverhältnisse. Die persönlichen Bruttoeinkommen der Ost- und Westdeutschen haben sich in den ersten zehn Jahren tatsächlich deutlich angenährt. Seitdem öffnet sich die Einkommensschere zwischen Ost und West aber wieder. Im Jahr 2007 lag der Rückstand der Ostdeutschen bei 30 Prozent. Unter Berücksichtigung von persönlichen Merkmalen der Einkommensbezieher und von strukturellen Charakteristika ihrer Wohnregionen reduziert sich der Abstand auf knapp ein Viertel. Stellt man zudem regionale Unterschiede in den Lebenshaltungskosten in Rechnung, ergibt sich eine Differenz in den realen persönlichen Einkommen von knapp einem Fünftel. Besonders groß ist die Differenz zwischen Ost- und Westdeutschen bei den höheren Einkommen, und es lässt sich eine relativ schlechte Einkommensposition der jüngsten Alterskohorten in Ostdeutschland feststellen. Transferleistungen können nicht die Angleichung aller Lebensumstände in Ostdeutschland herbeiführen. Ziel der Politik sollte es sein, durch Bildungs-, Infrastruktur und Innovationspolitik allen Einkommens- und Qualifikationsgruppen eine breite Teilhabe an der Wirtschaft zu ermöglichen und so die realen Lebensumstände zu verbessern.
P23|Croatian Wage Inequality and Wage Differentials, 1970-2008: Measurement and Determinants|We use newly-available data on income by educational and vocational attainment and grouped income-interval data to examine wage inequality and wage differentials in Croatia between 1970 and 2008. This is a time period during which Croatia experienced enormous institutional and structural change, including the fall of socialism, hyperinflation, the Homeland war and the creation of sovereign Croatia. We construct both Gini and Theil measures of inequality, using grouped data. We find a general compression of earnings differences by educational and vocational attainment, but with a slight increase in the capitalist period post-1990. The income interval data shows a clearer pattern of a secular increase in inequality that is sharper in the capitalist period. We also examine within-industry inequality to see whether industries that experienced stronger structural changes also experienced a greater increase in inequality. Our evidence on this is mixed.
P23|Wage Differentials and Wage Inequality in Croatia, 1970-2008: Assessing the Labor Market Impact of Economic Transformation|In this paper, we examine wage inequality and wage differentials in Croatia from 1970 to 2008. We focus especially on changing income inequality related to educational and vocational attainment, changing income inequality within those groups, and how these two components of inequality were affected by the economic transformation from Socialism to capitalism. We find that income inequality between groups was relatively stable, while overall inequality trended upward in the post-transformation period. This finding is consistent with a growing importance of individual rather than group productivity in labor market compensation, a change broadly consistent with the economic transformation of the Croatian labor market.
P23|The evolution of an industrial cluster in China|We use two rounds of surveys, taken in 2000 and 2008 in the Zhili Township children's garment cluster in Zhejiang Province, to examine in depth the evolution of this industrial cluster. Firm size has grown on average in terms of output and employment, and increasing divergence in firm sizes has been associated with a significant rise in specialization and outsourcing among firms in the cluster. Although the investment amount needed to start a business has more than tripled, this amount remains low enough that formal bank loans remain an insignificant source of finance. Because of low entry barriers, the number of firms in the cluster has risen, driving down profits and bidding up wages, particularly since the year 2000. Facing severe competition, more firms have begun to upgrade their product quality. By the year 2007, nearly half of the sampled firms had established registered trademarks and nearly 20 percent had become International Office of Standardization (ISO) certified.
P23|The effect of monitoring unemployment insurance recipients on unemployment duration: Evidence from a field experiment|Programme administration is a relatively neglected issue in the analysis of disincentive effects of unemployment benefit systems. We investigate this issue with a field experiment in Hungary involving random assignment of benefit claimants to treatment and control groups. Treatment increases the monitoring of claims -- claimants make more frequent visits to the employment office and face questioning about their search behaviour. Treatment has quite a large effect on durations on benefit of women aged 30 and over, while we find no effect for younger women or men.
P23|“It's not that I'm a racist, it's that they are Roma”: Roma discrimination and returns to education in South Eastern Europe|Purpose - This paper uses a unique survey of Roma and non-Roma in South Eastern Europe with the aim of evaluating competing explanations for the poor performance of Roma in the labour market. Design/methodology/approach - Following a descriptive analysis, econometric models are employed to identify the determinants of educational achievement, employment and wages for Roma and non-Roma. Limited information maximum likelihood (LIML) methods are employed to control for endogenous schooling and two sources of sample selection bias in the estimates. Non-linear and linear decomposition techniques are applied in order to identify the extent of discrimination. Findings - The key results are that: the employment returns to education are lower for Roma than for non-Roma whilst the wage returns are broadly similar for the two groups; the similar wage gains translate into a smaller absolute wage gain for Roma than for non-Roma given their lower average wages; the marginal absolute gains from education for Roma are only a little over one-third of the marginal absolute gains to education for majority populations; and, there is evidence to support the idea that a substantial part of the differential in labour market outcomes is due to discrimination. Research limitations/implications - The survey data employed do not include information on hours worked. In order to partially control for this, the analysis of wages is limited to employee wages excluding the self-employed. Practical implications - Explanations of why Roma fare so badly tend to fall into one of two camps: the “low education” and the “discrimination” schools. The analysis suggests that both of these explanations have some basis in fact. Moreover, a direct implication of the lower absolute returns to education accruing to Roma is that their lower educational participation is, at least in part, due to rational economic calculus. Consequently, policy needs to address both low educational participation and labour market discrimination contemporaneously. Originality/value - This is the first paper to attempt to econometrically distinguish between discrimination and educational explanations of Roma disadvantage in the labour market in Central and Eastern Europe. The survey data employed are unique and appropriate for the task. Unusually for analyses dealing with returns to education, the LIML econometric approach employed controls for both endogenous schooling and two sources of sample selection bias.
P23|Earnings Differentials between the Public and the Private Sectors in China: Explaining Changing Trends for Urban Locals in the 2000s|This paper analyzes the changes in public-private sector earnings differentials for local residents in urban China between 2002 and 2007. We find that earnings gaps across ownership have been reducing during this period and that the convergence trend has been in favor of the private and semi-public sectors as opposed to the public sector. This is in sharp contrast to what occurred at the turn of the century, when employees of public administration and enterprises were found to enjoy a very much privileged situation. On the one hand, differences in endowments are found to play a growing role in explaining earnings differentials. On the other hand, although starting to become less an issue, segmentation across ownership remains important, especially for high-wage earners.
P23|SMEs; Virtual research and development (R&D) teams and new product development: A literature review|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are indeed the engines of global economic growth. Their continued growth is a major subject for the economy and employment of any country. Towards that end, virtual research and development (R&D) could be a viable option to sustain and ease the operations of SMEs. However, literature shows there has not been a great deal of research into the diverse characteristic of virtual R&D teams in SMEs. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R&D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the literature review is to provide an outline on the structure and dynamics of R&D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the rationale and relevance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R&D team for SMEs and new product development (NPD) has been examined. It concludes with identifying the gaps and feebleness in the existing literature and calls for future research in this area. It is argued to form of virtual R&D team deserves consideration at top level management for venturing into the new product development within SMEs.
P23|Earnings Differentials between the Public and the Private Sectors in China : Explaining Changing Trends for Urban Locals in the 2000s|This paper analyzes the changes in public-private sector earnings differentials for local residents in urban China between 2002 and 2007. We find that earnings gaps across ownership have been reducing during this period and that the convergence trend has been in favor of the private and semi-public sectors as opposed to the public sector. This is in sharp contrast to what occurred at the turn of the century, when employees of public administration and enterprises were found to enjoy a very much privileged situation. On the one hand, differences in endowments are found to play a growing role in explaining earnings differentials. On the other hand, although starting to become less an issue, segmentation across ownership remains important, especially for high-wage earners.
