P24|Social Confusion and Corruption: Investigating the Causes and Effects of a Breakdown of Ethics|While studies of transitions to market economies have long focused on the issue of corruption, the perspectives from which their analyses have been based have diverged. Accordingly, this paper employs a systematic review through testing 14 hypotheses from the perspectives of political and economic causes, as well as culture and values, based on 559 works from the literature on the subject. Its findings make it clear that the liberalization and privatization of ownership both expand and contract corruption; the effects of culture and values also should not be overlooked, while mostly rejecting the so-called “greasing-the-wheels” hypothesis.
P24|Social Confusion and Corruption: Investigating the Causes and Effects of a Breakdown of Ethics|"While studies of transitions to market economies have long focused on the issue of corruption, the perspectives from which their analyses have been based have diverged. Accordingly, this paper employs a systematic review through testing 14 hypotheses from the perspectives of political and economic causes, as well as culture and values, based on 558 works from the literature on the subject. Its findings make it clear that the liberalization and privatization of ownership both expand and contract corruption; the effects of culture and values also should not be overlooked, while mostly rejecting the so-called ""greasing-the-wheels"" hypothesis."
P24|An Institutional Analysis of China's Reform of their Monetary Policy Framework|This paper traces the history of China's reform of its monetary policy framework and analyzes its success and problems. In the context of financial marketization and the failure of the quantity-targeting framework, the People's Bank of China transformed its monetary policy framework toward one that targets interest rates. The reform includes two important institutional changes: establishing an interest rate corridor and decreasing the difficulty the Open Market Operations room faces in estimating the market demand for reserves. The new monetary policy framework successfully stabilizes the interbank offered rate. However, this does not mean that the new framework is sufficient. One important problem remaining to be solved is how to manage the effects of fiscal activities on monetary policy operations. This paper analyzes the fiscal effects on reserves in China's Treasury Single Account system. The missing role of the Treasury in monetary policy operations increases the difficulty for the central bank to achieve its interest rate target. A further reform is therefore needed to provide a coordination mechanism between the Treasury and the People's Bank of China.
P24|Gorbachev versus Deng: A Review of Chris Miller's 'The Struggle to Save the Soviet Economy'|Chris Miller’s book is a historian’s account of Mikhail Gorbachev’s efforts to save the Soviet economy. Miller focuses on the question of why Gorbachev did not follow Deng Xiaoping and did not manage to reform the economy. Miller argues that it was not for the lack of understanding (Gorbachev did invest in learning China’s approach to reform and did understand it well), nor for the lack of trying. In fact, Gorbachev did try to implement Deng’s agricultural and industrial enterprise reforms. However, Gorbachev’s reforms were blocked by powerful vested interests. An inability to tackle the agricultural and industrial lobbies eventually resulted in the bankruptcy and collapse of the Soviet Union. While I generally agree with the political economy argument, I discuss a number of alternative explanations. I also discuss sources of Gorbachev’s weak state capacity and offer an evaluation of Gorbachev’s and post-Gorbachev reform efforts and mistakes based on the political economy research carried out in the last twenty-five years.
P24|Moving Into the Slow Lane|Growth in much of CESEE will remain healthy by post-crisis standards, but has passed its peak. We expect most economies to slow from here, reflecting weaker external demand and domestic capacity constraints. Global trade tensions, structural weakness in the eurozone and Brexit all pose downside risks to our forecasts.
P24|Osteuropa trotzt dem globalen Gegenwind|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. Die Konjunktur in den mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Ländern (MOSOEL) kühlt sich zwar ab, aber viel weniger als noch im Frühjahr erwartet Die Prognosen für heuer wurden für die Mehrheit der Länder nach oben revidiert. Vor allem in der EU-MOE-Region hat sich das Wachstum vom Abschwung im Euro-Raum recht deutlich abgekoppelt. In einigen Ländern mehren sich sogar die Anzeichen einer Überhitzung, die allerdings nur in Rumänien Anlass zur Sorge gibt. Die Westbalkanländer profitieren von steigenden FDI-Zuflüssen, mehrere GUS-Länder von der expansiven Fiskalpolitik. In Russland dagegen hat der restriktive fiskalpolitische Kurs die Wirtschaft an den Rand einer Rezession gebracht. Die Wirtschaftskrise in der Türkei erwies sich zwar tiefer als früher erwartet, dürfte aber spätestens 2020 überwunden sein. Insbesondere die Visegrád-Staaten gehören zu Österreichs wichtigsten Wirtschaftspartnern. Ihnen waren im Jahr 2018 mehr als 10% des österreichischen Güterhandels, 20% der Einkommen aus Direktinvestitionen sowie 40% der Auslandsforderungen österreichischer Banken zuzurechnen. Gleichzeitig sind sie auch EU-Mitglieder mit brisanten politischen und wirtschaftlichen Herausforderungen, von welchen auch Österreich nicht unberührt bleiben wird. English Summary Eastern Europe standing firm in face of global headwinds The economy in the Central, East and Southeast European countries (CESEE) is cooling down, but much less than expected in the spring the forecasts for this year have been revised upwards for the majority of countries. Particularly in the EU-CEE region, growth has decoupled quite clearly from the downturn in the euro area. In several countries there are even signs of overheating, although only in Romania this is a cause for concern. The Western Balkans are benefiting from rising FDI inflows, while several CIS countries from expansionary fiscal policy. In Russia, on the other hand, the restrictive fiscal policy has brought the economy to the brink of recession. Although the economic crisis in Turkey proved to be deeper than previously expected, it should be overcome by 2020 at the latest. The Visegrád countries, in particular, prove very important for the Austrian economy. In 2018, they accounted for more than 10% of Austrian goods trade, 20% of income generated by Austrian investment abroad, as well as 40% of foreign claims of Austrian banks. At the same time, they are among the EU Member States facing increasing political and economic challenges, by which Austria will not be unaffected.
P24|Determinants of Deposit and Credit Euroization in Eastern Europe: A Bayesian Model Averaging Evidence|The paper investigates the motives of deposit and credit euroisation in Eastern Europe employing Bayesian empirical methodology. We analyse a unique dataset of macroeconomic fundamentals, perception surveys, and institutional quality indicators and deal with the uncertainty in the model by Bayesian model averaging. Apart from traditional fundamental factors, strong institutions are found to be an important driver of both credit and deposit euroisation. Business regulation, corruption environment, administrative costs and country-specific risk impact borrowing and saving behaviour in EURO and should be reflected in designing de-euroisation policies in the region.
P24|An Assessment of Association between Natural Resources Agglomeration and Unemployment in Pakistan|Mostly, economists believe that due to non-existence of agglomeration economies, there are less chances of employment spatial distribution in an economy. Following the strands of previous literature about agglomeration special impacts, this study has uplifted the curtain from some interesting realities. This study has examined the association between unemployment and natural resources agglomeration in Pakistan from 1980 to 2016. For measuring natural resources agglomeration, an index has been constructed based on coal production, oil production, forest area and agricultural land as a percentage of total land area. The study utilized autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) method of co-integration. The results show that natural resources agglomeration, secondary school enrollment, foreign direct investment and inflation have a negative and significant impact on unemployment in Pakistan. The results reveal that population is putting a positive impact on unemployment in Pakistan. The study finds that natural resources agglomeration is an important factor for reducing unemployment in Pakistan. There are some other factors for agglomeration economies, i.e. Local economic policies, natural resources availability and amount of manpower for employment spatial distribution in Pakistan. So, efforts are needed to mega scale for exploration, proper usage and the functioning of natural resources in Pakistan.
P24|An Assessment of Association between Natural Resources Agglomeration and Unemployment in Pakistan|Mostly economists believe that due to nonexistence of agglomeration economies, there are less chances of employment spatial distribution in an economy. Following the strands of previous literature about agglomeration special impacts, this study has uplifted the curtain from some interesting realities. This study has examined the association unemployment between natural resources agglomeration in Pakistan from 1980 to 2016. For measuring natural resources agglomeration, an index has been constructed based on coal production, oil production, forest area and agricultural land as percentage of total land area. The study has utilized autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) method of co-integration. The results show that natural resources agglomeration, secondary school enrollment, foreign direct investment and inflation has negative and significant impact on unemployment in Pakistan. The results reveal that population is putting positive impact on unemployment in Pakistan. The study finds that natural resources agglomeration is an important factor for reducing unemployment in Pakistan. There are some other factors for agglomeration economies, i.e. local economic policies, natural resources availability and amount of manpower for employment spatial distribution in Pakistan. So efforts are needed on mega scale for exploration, proper usage and functioning of natural resources in Pakistan.
P24|Model selection for modeling the demand for narrow money in transitional economies|The aim of this study was to verify the stability of monetary systems. Systems were measured by aggregate narrow money in selected emerging economies. The United Kingdom's economy was used as a benchmark. The Baumol-Tobin and Friedman monetary models were used as the theoretical basis for the for empirical error-correction models. A Bayesian averaging of classical estimates (BACE) approach was used to incorporate model uncertainty and select the best model. The results show that the monetary systems in 6 of the 11 economies were stable in the long run and that a set of factors changed in the short run. The robustness of the model selection based on the BACE procedure was strongly confirmed.
P24|Strong Growth Amid Increased Negative Risks|The outlook for growth in CESEE remains generally positive, but downside risks have increased significantly since our last forecast. The main areas of concern are the developing US-China trade war and the potential for a renewed outbreak of the eurozone crisis.
P24|Riding the Global Growth Wave|Aggregate real GDP growth in CESEE is at its strongest level for six years, and in 2017 all economies in the region expanded for the first time in a decade. External conditions are highly supportive of growth in CESEE. All the big engines of the global economy – the US, China and the eurozone – are expanding strongly together for the first time since 2010. The coordinated global upswing has further to run, and we expect CESEE economies to continue to benefit in the coming years. EU-CEE and Turkey will grow strongly during our forecast period, while activity in the Western Balkans will pick up from recent years. The CIS and Ukraine will remain the regional laggards, but will continue to recover slowly. We do not think that any economy in the region is ‘overheating’, although there are growing risks in Romania and Turkey. We expect inflation to remain very subdued in most of CESEE during the forecast period. In parts of CESEE, large-scale Ukrainian migration is helping to relieve labour market tightness. Wage increases in most of CESEE have been strong, but are concentrated largely in the manufacturing sector, and have been more than offset by rising labour productivity and non-price competitiveness. External competitiveness is not in danger. Across the region, investment will rise faster than headline real GDP growth in 2018-2020, driven by low interest rates, high capacity utilisation, stronger confidence, EU funds and still low base effects. Most countries have seen their export/GDP shares rise in the past decade, which increases their ability to take advantage of the current upswing. Many are moving up the value chain. Banking sectors in CESEE are generally on a much stronger footing than a few years ago. However, the old pre-crisis, highly leveraged model reliant on foreign inflows is mostly a thing of the past, meaning that credit growth will be relatively low by historical standards in the coming years. Downside risks to regional growth emanating from local and global factors are significant. In particular, we are worried about a trade war, the exit of major central banks from extraordinarily loose monetary policy, pockets of high corporate and government leverage, east/west EU splits, the undermining of institutional independence in some countries, geopolitical tensions, the Ukraine crisis, and potential spill-overs from a renewed outbreak of volatility in the eurozone, or a Chinese debt crisis. Convergence with Western European income levels will proceed in the long term. However, there is a risk that specialisation in parts of the supply chain where little value is created will condemn the region to a permanent ‘semi-periphery trap’.
P24|MOSOE: Konjunkturzenit überschritten|This publication is available in German language only. For a brief English summary see further below. MOSOE Konjunkturzenit überschritten Die jüngsten Statistiken deuten auf ein weiterhin robustes BIP-Wachstum in den meisten Ländern Mittel‑, Ost- und Südosteuropas (MOSOEL) hin. Der konjunkturelle Höhepunkt scheint allerdings bereits überschritten zu sein. Einerseits lässt die Dynamik der privaten Konsumnachfrage leicht nach, andererseits dämpft die Konjunkturabkühlung im Euro-Raum die Exportentwicklung vieler MOSOEL. Die Investitionen steigen weiterhin kräftig an, getrieben in erster Linie von EU-Transfers in der EU-MOE-Region und von ausländischen Direktinvestitionen im Westbalkan. Ein deutlicher Wachstumseinbruch ist heuer nur in Rumänien und der Türkei zu erwarten – Ländern, deren Wirtschaft sich bislang in einem Zustand der „Überhitzung“ befand. Vor dem Hintergrund der österreichischen EU-Ratspräsidentschaft und divergierender Handelspolitiken der weltgrößten Volkswirtschaften werden auch die immer engeren wirtschaftlichen Verflechtungen Österreichs mit den MOSOEL analysiert. Insbesondere die Visegrád-Staaten gewinnen für den österreichischen Güterhandel, Tourismus und auch als Investitionsstandorte an Gewicht. Österreich präsentiert sich als Top-10-Exportdestination für sieben der MOSOEL, für acht zählt es zu den zehn wichtigsten Ländern für Importe, und für siebzehn Länder rangiert Österreich unter den Top-10-Investoren. Ausgewählte Indikatoren zu den österreichischen Wirtschaftsbeziehungen mit den MOSOEL können kostenlos über interaktive Visualisierungen erkundet werden. English Summary CESEE Growth has passed its peak The latest statistics point to ongoing robust GDP growth in most countries of Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE). However, the growth peak seems to have already been passed. On the one hand, private consumer demand is weakening slightly; on the other hand, the economic slowdown in the eurozone is dampening the export performance of many CESEE countries. Investment continues to grow strongly, driven primarily by EU transfers in the EU-CEE and by foreign direct investment in the Western Balkans. A significant slump in growth this year can only be expected in Romania and Turkey, countries whose economies have been ‘overheating’. In the context of the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and diverging trade policies of the two largest economies in the world, we analyse the deepening economic relations between Austria and the CESEE countries. The Visegrád states in particular are gaining weight for Austrian trade in goods, tourism and as FDI destinations. From the perspective of CESEE, Austria represents a top 10 export destination for seven countries, a top 10 source country for imports for eight countries and a top 10 investor for even seventeen countries in the region. Explore a selection of indicators on Austria’s economic ties with CESEE free of charge with our interactive data visualisations.
P24|The Great Housing Boom of China|China's housing prices have been growing nearly twice as fast as national income over the past decade, despite a high vacancy rate and a high rate of return to capital. This paper interprets China's housing boom as a rational bubble emerging naturally from its economic transition. The bubble arises because high capital returns driven by resource reallocation are not sustainable in the long run. Rational expectations of a strong future demand for alternative stores of value can thus induce currently productive agents to speculate in the housing market. Our model can quantitatively account for China's paradoxical housing boom.
P24|Human Capital and China's Future Growth|In this paper, we consider the sources and prospects for economic growth in China with a focus on human capital. First, we provide an overview of the role that labor has played in China's economic success. We then describe China's hukou policy, which divides China's labor force into two distinct segments, one composed of rural workers and the other of urban workers. For the rural labor force, we focus on the challenges of raising human capital by both increasing basic educational attainment rates as well as the quality of education. For the urban labor force, we focus on the issues of further expanding enrollment in college education as well as improving the quality of college education. We use a regression model to show the typical relationship between human capital and output in economies around the world and demonstrate how that relationship has evolved since 1980. We show that China has made substantial strides both in the education level of its population and in the way that education is being rewarded in its labor markets. However, as we look ahead, our results imply that China may find it impossible to maintain what appears to be its desired growth rate of 7 percent in the next 20 years; a growth rate of 3 percent over the next two decades seems more plausible. Finally, we present policy recommendations, which are rooted in the belief that China continues to have substantial room to improve the human capital of its labor force.
P24|Implausible Large Differences in the Sizes of Underground Economies in Highly Developed European Countries? A Comparison of Different Estimation Methods|In this paper, first, the MIMIC estimation method is described and criticized and due to a double counting problem a correction is suggested. Second, the measurement methods used for National Accounts Statistics – the discrepancy method and two new micro survey methods – are described and a third, a micro method, using a combination of company manager surveys and their knowledge to calibrate the size of the shadow economy in firms, is presented, too. Third, a detailed comparison of the four micro estimation methods with the MIMIC and the corrected MIMIC method are presented. One major result is that the corrected MIMIC method, especially, comes quite close to various types of lately developed micro survey methods.
P24|Cuban macroeconomic trends 1985 - 2013, external shocks and policy|The paper focuses on analyzing the leading macroeconomic trends and policies in Cuba from 1985-2013. Five macroeconomic indexes were estimated using dynamic factor models. The correlations between the estimated indexes and the GDP growth rate show that, on average, fiscal policy was procyclical while monetary policy was countercyclical. Econometric simulations confirmed the economy’s high vulnerability to an eventual collapse of relations with Venezuela; it would cause GDP to contract by about 10% over three years. The analysis also suggests that pending monetary reforms could create negative pressure on goods production and on households’ living conditions, which could not be mitigated by an expansionary fiscal policy. Instead, the negative effects of such shocks can be mitigated only through greater international openness; this is a more feasible objective. given the current situation of diminishing tensions with the US government.
P24|Time-varying Effects of Public Debt on the Financial and Banking Development in the Central and Eastern Europe|In this paper we investigate the time varying effects of domestic public debts on the financial development, private credit and banking performance in the countries of the Central Eastern Europe, Balkan and Baltics region. By analyzing the empirical relationships among indicators and ratios of financial development and banking performance, we test their time-varying responses to changes in public debt through the described transmission channels. The econometric results suggest that the most significant determinant of private debt is the growing public debt over the short-midterm horizon. This might imply the crowding-out effect of public debt on private credit in the region. The growth of public debt positively impacts the banking sector efficiency only over the short-term period, while we observe only minor time effects in responses to changes in public debt on the financial stability indicators.
P24|What is the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana?|The paper examines the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana during the period 1964 to 2013 using annual data. The analysis of the results was done using Ordinary least square test (OLS), the Johansen test (JH), and Vector Error Correction (VECM) test. The findings of the studies based on the JH tests showed stable significant long run relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. The findings of the study shows significant short run relationship between inflation and consumer spending using the VECM. The results of the OLS test show there is positive relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. Policy makers should take into account the findings of the study in managing the economy. Future studies on causality and structural break are worth undertaking.
P24|A Treatise on Socioeconomic Roles of Zakah|A major preoccupation of policymakers is the design and implementation of public policy for efficient resource mobilization, allocation, stabilization of the economy and redistribution of wealth to guarantee minimum standard of living for all. At the extremes, the Capitalist and Socialist systems are characterized by the supremacy of self-interest in the former and total state control in the latter. Exacerbated by the prevalence of riba in the systems, unwanted economic outcomes; social and economic inequality, poverty, unemployment, crimes, booms and recessions, thrive. The Islamic economic system which blends the material pursuit with spiritual upliftment tailors economic policies towards attainment of Maqasid al-Shari’ah. As a pillar of Islam and an omnibus instrument of economic stabilization, Zakah serves as an automatic catalyst with backward and forward implications on resource mobilization, allocation, stabilization and redistribution of wealth. Using a heuristic approach, the paper conducts an in-depth assessment of the socioeconomic impact of Zakah in an Islamic economy. Evidences from review of both classical and empirical literature unveil the positive impact of Zakah on consumption, savings, investment leading to employment and higher productivity, (Kahf 1980; Metwally 1983; Khan 1984;Ahmad, 1985; Kuran 2006; Azmi, 2009 and Norulazidah, Ali & Myles,2010. Further, Zakah acts as an expansionary tool to those at lower income level and a discretionary tool to those at higher income level to redistribute income, remove poverty and facilitates provision of desired public good for the benefit of the poor Faridi (1983). The paper posits that in view of the overwhelming empirical evidences in the literature, Zakah is an effective tool for tackling socioeconomic problems of our modern times.
P24|The Right to Money as the Fundamental Right of Individuals in the Coming Digital Economy|Poverty has been a common feature in all human societies since the dawn of civilization. Purchasing power of an individual decides her standard of living. In many cases, it even decides whether a person can live or not (eg: in starvation or malnourishment, victims have no purchasing power to buy calories). As such, the Right to Life philosophy of many National Constitutions comes to naught if the state cannot ensure adequate purchasing power for its people. Thus, an individual should have Right to Money in order to live with respect and dignity. In this paper, we will explore the concept of the Right to Money and how it is linked to the Right to Life. We will see how the Right to Money concept can ensure a continued economic expansion even in a scenario when automation has reached a critical point (i.e Technological Singularity). Right to Money can also ensure continued human dominance over Machine Intelligence as and when they arise. Interestingly the Right to Money leads to another advanced concept – The Right to Machines which will make certain that there is continued synergy between human and artificial intelligence in future and that the Human race stays relevant. The paper concludes as to how human society can be best prepared economically (or otherwise) for a Post-Technological Singularity scenario.
P24|Structural Reform and Productivity Growth in Emerging Europe and Central Asia|Since 1990, countries in emerging Europe and Central Asia have undergone comprehensive economic transformation. These reforms helped achieve an impressive degree of income convergence toward the levels of the advanced economies, although at the cost of rising inequality and lower life satisfaction. Over the last decade, both the speed of reforms and economic growth have slowed down markedly. To sustain convergence, greater emphasis needs to be put on structural reforms, facilitating innovation and boosting firm productivity while, at the same time, taking into account the distributional impact of reforms.
P24|Macroeconomic Determinants of Income Inequality in Bulgaria|Income inequality in Bulgaria increased noticeably over the period 1990-2015. This paper aims to identify the main macroeconomic determinants of income inequality. We find that GDP growth and structural changes in Bulgarian economy are among the determinants which deepen income inequality. The statistically significant negative estimate of the government expenditures on social protection means that an increase in social transfers mitigate income inequality. The empirical results show that inflation, foreign direct investment and education are statistically insignificant in affecting income inequality.
P24|Empirical Analysis of the Transformation of Economic Growth into Social Development at an International Level|Abstract This paper takes a look at the countries of the world and their rankings in terms of material wealth. Using the attributes and variables featured in the development of these countries and synthetic indexes, it analyzes the relationship between wealth levels and estimates of social development. First we use the indicators estimated by UNDP. Using UNDP methodology and multivariate statistical methods such as factor analysis, we then turn to complementary estimators. Our results not only allow us to identify which countries are better (or worse) at turning economic growth into social development but they also contribute to detecting the dimensions of development behind position changes across various rankings.
P24|Understanding the effect of international remittances on undernourishment in Sub-Saharan Africa: A spatial model approach|This paper investigates the impact of remittances on undernourishment in Sub-Saharan Africa using panel data from 35 countries spanning the years 2001-2011. The panel Spatial Error Model (SEM) was used after taking into account the spatial interaction between countries. We find that remittances contribute to the reduction of undernourishment in Sub-Saharan African. However, the elasticity of calorie consumption to remittances is narrow. Moreover, the impact of remittances is more pronounced in intermediate income deciles countries than in the countries in lower income deciles and higher income deciles.
P24|Income inequality and the Great Recession in Central and Eastern Europe|•This paper uses data from the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) to study changes in income inequality in Central and Eastern Europe during the Great Recession (2008–2012) and its determinants. Changes in inequality are decomposed using an Oaxaca-Blinder-like decomposition analysis based on the Recentered Influence Function (RIF) methodology, which allows splitting the overall change in inequality into endowment effects associated with changes in the distribution of inequality covariates and coefficient effects, which are related to changing returns to these covariates. Our results show that the Gini for disposable incomes has increased in a statistically significant way over 2008–2012 for Bulgaria, Estonia, Hungary and Slovenia. For most of the countries with significant increases in inequality, a falling full-time employment rate played the biggest role in explaining changes in inequality, accounting for about 50–60% of the Gini change for disposable incomes and about 60–80% of the Gini change for market incomes. The fall in the full-time employment rate had a smaller inequality-increasing effect for disposable incomes in Hungary (about 15% of the Gini increase). Increased part-time employment during the recession had either no impact on inequality or was rather inequality-decreasing. We did not find evidence that changes in the incidence of temporary jobs had any impact on income inequality.
P24|CESEE Back on Track to Convergence|GDP forecasts for 2017 have been revised upwards for all Central and East European EU Member States (EU-CEE). Farther east, especially in Russia, but also in the Western Balkans, the post-crisis recovery has been much weaker. Private consumption is the main growth driver, underpinned by rising wages and household incomes. Nonetheless, CESEE labour cost competitiveness is not yet endangered. Gradually, along with expanding private consumption, investments have also gained strength and have increasingly emerged as a driver of growth. Trade balances have improved, and many EU-CEE countries (as well as Russia) also report current account surpluses. Growth is thus becoming broader based, more robust, and probably also more sustainable. Improvements in labour markets are spectacular, with rising employment levels mirrored by declining unemployment. Simultaneously, emerging labour shortages are acting as a potential constraint on future growth. In terms of current GDP growth prospects, the CESEE region is split into three sub-regions the EU-CEE, with average annual growth close to 4% in the forecasting period; the Western Balkans, with GDP growing by around 3% per year; and finally, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and Ukraine, where growth will be around 2% annually in the medium term. The EU-CEE region is thus catching up again with Western Europe, and the process of economic convergence has resumed at a greater pace than previously expected. This catching-up process will continue probably for the rest of the decade. Importantly, economic convergence is not expected to resume in Russia, where the lack of structural change, lasting investment climate deficiencies and geopolitical conflicts impose a burden on growth. Meagre growth in Russia adversely affects the growth prospects of her CIS partners. But there are several other CESEE countries where recent political developments are not very conducive to growth and European integration in the medium term. However, for the moment, economic growth seems to be unaffected by domestic political instability. Globally, economic resilience persists, regardless of the elevated geopolitical risks. The Forecast Report also includes three special topics (on income convergence with Western Europe, on euro accession and on higher yields on hard currency sovereign debt in CESEE). The key findings of these reports are Convergence in terms of per capita GDP levels in CESEE is a long-term process; by 2050, most of the region will only have bridged half the current gap with the EU-28 level; during the next decade, no country in the region will catch up with average EU-28 wealth levels, and advanced EU-CEE countries like Poland and Hungary will not even reach the 80% mark. Despite sustained criticism since its inception, the euro may yet survive and attract new members in the EU-CEE; it is in the interests of Croatia and Bulgaria to join, and is potentially advantageous for Hungary and Poland; the case is less clear cut for the Czech Republic and Romania, although in neither case would accession be harmful. Many CESEE sovereigns are not in a markedly better shape to deal with a sharp rise in debt yields than they were 10 years ago, and in some cases they are in a worse position; for countries with heavy debt loads and little apparent prospect of achieving high and sustained growth, bond markets could panic, leading to funding difficulties; Ukraine stands out as particularly vulnerable from a sovereign risk perspective, while we conclude that Belarus and many countries in the Western Balkans are also in a weak position.
P24|Cautious Upturn in CESEE: Haunted by the Spectre of Uncertainty|Summary Growth in the CESEE economies will strengthen gradually, surpassing on average 3% by 2019. This growth will be driven by consumption and increasing investment, amid a largely supportive international economic environment. Despite a rise in ULCs, competitiveness will not be endangered. Although the size of labour forces in CESEE is stagnating, data indicate an improvement in educational levels of workers. Meanwhile the tightness of labour markets will propel wage growth. The CESEE region as a whole is back on a convergence track, with an average positive growth differential of 1.2 pp vis-à-vis the euro area over the forecast horizon. Downside risks are significant, mostly stemming from political factors. The CESEE countries and Europe more broadly, together with the rest of the world, will be haunted by the spectre of political uncertainty; it is only to be hoped that, once fully roused, the ‘animal spirits’ of economic agents will shrug off the gloom. For the economies of CESEE, the international economic environment appears generally positive. In 2017-2018, GDP growth in the euro area is expected to hover around 1.7%. The international financial markets have stabilised and the current economic mood is improving. Because of the global recovery, the US Fed is expected to increase interest rates further in 2017, while oil prices are likely to rise. In the EU, disbursements from the payments cycle of the European Structural and Investment Funds are only just beginning, indicating higher co-financed investments in the EU‑CEE countries from this year onwards. Over recent quarters, GDP growth throughout almost the entire CESEE region has stabilised in positive territory. The only exception is Belarus, where growth is still in negative territory (albeit less so than was the case in 2015). The country is going through a painful adjustment process triggered by accumulated macroeconomic imbalances and its excessive dependence on Russia. Current wiiw CESEE GDP growth forecasts for 2017-2019 point to growth of around 3% for most of the region, with a slightly upward trend. The EU-CEE sub-region and the Western Balkan economies in particular should manage to attain average GDP growth rates of up to 3% and in some countries, such as Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Albania and Kosovo, the levels may be even higher. In Turkey, where growth slowed down markedly in 2016 to below 2% (down from around 6% in prior years) on account of the domestic political turmoil and deterioration in foreign relations, we also expect growth to be closer to 3% by the end of the forecast horizon. The CIS-3 economies will record increasing GDP growth rates, rising from more than 1% in 2017 to over 2% in 2019, given the higher oil prices. Over the same forecast period, economic growth in Ukraine is projected to accelerate gradually to 3% by 2018-2019 – barring all-out warfare in Donbas and abortion of the IMF programme. Private consumption and increasing investment will continue to be the main growth drivers over the forecast horizon. After the investment slump in 2016 attributable to the switch from the previous to the current EU (co-) financing period, investment in the EU-CEE economies will recover in the years ahead. Meanwhile the mood among consumers is improving and, due to changing spending patterns in the EU-CEE sub-region, this trend should prove durable. Tightening labour markets are conducive to major wage increases. Despite the general rise in unit labour costs, competitiveness does not seem to be endangered. Most of the latest industrial production figures for the CESEE countries are encouraging; they point to an ongoing improvement in industry structure and, in several cases, to re-industrialisation. Longer-term FDI trends hold particular promise for the Western Balkans. In Romania and Slovakia the prospects for future FDI increases are also quite good, especially in the automotive sector. Although the size of the labour force in CESEE countries is more or less stagnating, a marked improvement in education levels is evident, as a younger and better educated generation enters the work force. This hints at a potential general increase in labour quality across the region’s economies. Nevertheless, heightened uncertainties following the UK referendum on Brexit in June 2016 and the US presidential elections in November have cast a cloud over the improved economic conditions noted above. A number of worrying scenarios are quite conceivable that could ultimately make our forecasts appear upbeat and overoptimistic. Thanks to US President Donald Trump, a rise in global protectionism is possible, which would harm industry in the region. Mr Trump has also questioned post-war European security arrangements, thus causing consternation in some EU-CEE countries. Meanwhile, the growing irritation with the EU-CEE sub-region among some older EU Member States and the fallout from Brexit could possibly pose a threat to west-east fiscal transfers and the free movement of labour in their current forms. In the Western Balkans, any confrontational interventions by Russia and uncertainties as to developments in Turkey could prove quite disruptive, were the influence of the EU and USA in the region to decline. Increasing uncertainties in the CIS and Ukraine are mostly related to future commodity price developments (most importantly oil prices) and heightened geopolitical tensions. Three special sections of the forecast report shed more light on the issue of heightened uncertainties in the EU-CEE, the Western Balkans and the CIS+UA regions.
P24|Wirtschaftliche Konvergenz trotz politischer Unsicherheit|Zusammenfassung Wirtschaftliche Konvergenz trotz politischer Unsicherheit Das internationale Umfeld für die Wirtschaft der mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Länder (MOSOEL) präsentiert sich als Kontrast zwischen wirtschaftlichem Aufschwung einerseits sowie politischer Unsicherheit und geopolitischen Spannungen andererseits. Kurzfristig setzen sich die positiven Effekte der wirtschaftlichen Erholung im Euroraum und der damit verbundenen Exporte, sowie des relativ niedrigen Ölpreises gegen mögliche negative Effekte politischer Turbulenzen durch. Gegenüber der wiiw-Frühjahrsprognose wurden die Wachstumsprognosen für die MOSOEL größtenteils nach oben auf 2,4% für das laufende Jahr und 2,6% für das Jahr 2018 korrigiert. English Summary Economic convergence despite political uncertainty The international environment for the economies in Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) is characterised by a contrast between economic upswing, on the one hand, and political uncertainty and geopolitical tensions, on the other hand. In the short term, positive effects of the economic recovery in the euro area and related exports, as well as of the relatively low oil price are prevailing over potential negative effects of political turmoil. Compared with the wiiw Spring Forecast, growth projections for the CESEE region were for the most part revised upwards, to 2.4% and 2.6% for the years 2017 and 2018, respectively.
P24|War, Inflation, and Social Capital|"We use weekly data from 79 Russian regions to measure the impact of economic shocks and proximity to war in Ukraine on social capital in Russian regions. We proxy social capital by the relative intensity of internet searches for the most salient dimensions of pro-social behavior such as ""donate blood"", ""charity"", ""adopt a child"" etc. This measure of social capital is correlated with a survey-based measure of generalized social trust. Our search-based measure of social capital responds negatively to the spikes of inflation and positively to the intensity of the conflict in Ukraine (controlling for region and week fixed effects)."
P24|Are Chinese Growth and Inflation Too Smooth? Evidence from Engel Curves|China has experienced remarkably stable growth and inflation in recent years according to official statistics. We use systematic discrepancies between cross-sectional and time-series Engel curves to construct alternative estimates of Chinese growth and inflation. Our estimates suggest that official statistics present a smoothed version of reality. Official inflation rose in the 2000s, but our estimates indicate that true inflation was still higher and consumption growth was overstated. In contrast, inflation was overstated and growth understated during the low-inflation 1990s. These patterns hold for the food Engel curve, and for numerous other categories, such as grain as a fraction of food.
P24|Estimation of Formal and Informal Sectors in Social Accounting Matrix for the North Korean Economy (in Korean)|The expansion of the informal sector is one of the most representative changes in North Korean economy since the 2000s. This paper estimates a social accounting matrix(SAM) that distinguishes between formal and informal activities of North Korea during the year of 2013 in order to understand its dual economic structure. As the estimation results, the share of informal sector in North Korea is estimated at 18.5% for factor income and 28.5% for final demand. Also, it indicates the production inducement effect of the informal sector in both household consumption and investment based on the Input-Output analysis. Increasing informal investment expenditure could contribute to encouraging the entire North Korean economy because the output multiplier of investment expenditure is much higher than that of household spending. Lastly it is worth to note that these estimation results are based on relatively rough assumptions due to the limited statistics of North Korean economy. Therefore, the results could be changed in case different assumptions are introduced regarding informal economic activities in North Korea.
P24|Digital Currency In The Current Cyber Security Environment|This paper presents a view over the development of new technologies and infrastructures that lead to the rise of decentralized digital currencies such as Bitcoin. In the context of an evolving cyber security environment and increasing dependence on computer systems, such solutions present not only interesting applications, but also challenges to developers, regulators and even users. We analyze several financial applications branching out of this technology and various derivatives from the initial developments, such as smart contracts. Also, we look at several limitations that have to be addressed in order for these technologies to be sustainable for the future and succeed.
P24|Economía y política del modelo boliviano 2006-2014: evaluación preliminar|Bolivia sufrió un profundo cambio socioeconómico y político en el periodo 2006-2014, pasó de un modelo de crecimiento liberal a uno de economía mixta, donde el Gobierno juega un papel muy relevante en la economía. El Estado tiene un control completo de los recursos económicos y principales ingresos de la industria. El excedente generado por los commodities contribuyó a la política de distribución de ingreso y además fue utilizado para la lucha contra la pobreza a través de una mejor educación y salud. El modelo macroeconómico fue exitoso: la economía boliviana creció a una tasa promedio de 4.6 % anual durante el periodo 2006–2014 y registró un superávit fiscal, un blance comercial positivpo y un aumento en el volumen de reservas internacionales. Además, el país goza de estabilidad macroeconómica y baja inflación.
P24|Carbon-sensitive productivity, climate and institutions|Climate and institutions might be crucial in lowering the vagaries of climate change impacts in terms of productivity. This study measures the relationships of productivity measures adjusted for the regulation of carbon emission and institutions together with climate change throughout the world. This paper finds there is higher potential for reduction of CO2 emissions in developing countries at lower cost. However, the cost to reduce emissions lowers their growth potential in terms of lost productivity growth. Better institutions help to lower the negative impacts of climate change by improving the process of technological adoption in developing countries. Climate change reduces the productivity growth in developing countries by lowering the process of technological adoption, and better institutions result in higher productivity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P24|Armenia’s Economics (1991-2014) And Future Perspectives After Independence|The economic policy of the Soviet Union was managed from a single center that implemented an economic system aimed at achieving economic growth, employment, and development. While on the one hand this central authority attempted to impose particular areas of specialization, it also required some of its constituents to depend on other countries that produced products that were themselves determined by the central economic authority. United to the other Soviet States under this system, Armenia, most of whose resources were in the hands of Moscow, was one of the members of the Soviet Union most affected by the economic dependency that was implemented. The Glasnost and Perestroika policies the Soviet Union adopted in the late 1980’s not only brought to an end the socialist power that had endured for seventy-two years after being established in the 1917 October Revolution; they also destroyed both the Soviet Union, one of the two main actors of the nearly forty-year “Cold War,” and ''The Eastern Bloc'', which had been pioneered by the Soviet Union. As a result, including countries of this block began to declare their independence. Armenia which is one of three countries along with Georgia and Azerbaijan in the South Caucasus Region, declared its independence in 1991 by getting involved in this process. Since independence, Armenia has seen the administration of a permanent war economy, as well as isolation from the international community, due to the occupation of Nagorno-Karabakh. These factors, in addition to corruption and structural problems in the country, have hampered the stable and sustained entry of foreign investment. These developments have also adversely affected the international trade upon which the economy depends. In the present study, an overview and assessment of the Armenian economy will be presented, along with a proposal for the economic future of the country. The authors cite comments on the subject by the Central Bank of Armenia and the official National Statistical Service, as well as by independent international economic institutions such as the World Bank and the IMF; The authors base their study on data from economic organizations that rely on the results of scientific research.
P24|The Possibility and Approaches to an Upper Middle Growth Rate|This article discusses the challenges facing China¡¯s economy and assesses the likelihood of China falling into the ¡°middle-income trap.¡± In the view of this author, an upper middle growth rate of 6.5% to 7% can be achieved if China undertakes further economic reforms in the areas of agriculture, household registration system, urbanization and social insurance system.
P24|Russia’S Forex Market: No Panic Outlook|The Bank of Russia on 11 December 2015 decided to keep the base interest rate unchanged at 11%, thus indicating that the bank will not move forward with easing monetary policy. Russia’s Central Bank on 14 December resumed 12-month foreign exchange repo auctions with a view to pushing down demand for foreign currency. Thus, the Bank of Russia aims to avoid turbulence in Russia’s fi nancial markets, which may occur in response to a new downturn of oil prices amid raised Fed target rates.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In Russia In January 2016|The Consumer Price Index (CPI) in January 2016 advanced 1.0% (3.9% in January 2015) and the January median one-year ahead expected inflation rate increased 0.3 percentage points to 16.7%, reaching the highest value since February 2015 when the median one-year ahead expected inflation rate was driven up to 18.1% by the ruble’s devaluation in late 2014/early 2015. Overall, the Russian ruble’s real effective exchange rate is now relatively fundamentally substantiated owing to a free-floating exchange rate regime in the Russian foreign exchange market which faces neither interventions by the Bank of Russia nor panic sentiments of economic agents. We do not anticipate the ruble to depreciate considerably unless new shocks kick in.
P24|The Exchange Rate Of The Ruble Is Close To The Equilibrium Point|The balance of payments for 2015 shows an increasing surplus in the current account balance, which has resulted from the shrinking deficit in the balance of services, the investment income balance and wages, coupled with the decreasing surplus in the trade balance. The accelerated weakening of the ruble in real terms against the national currencies of the developing countries during some prolonged periods of time in 2014–2015 was triggered by the mounting geopolitical risks and the plummeting oil prices.
P24|Prices On Gasoline In Russia And Abroad: Comparative Analysis|Price growth of gasoline on Russian domestic market in the wake of declining world crude oil prices is due to the ruble’s devaluation and excise rate growth. In Russia, the share of indirect gasoline taxes has gone up from 30–40% to 35–45% over last two years. Regarding the share of taxes in the price at the pump, Russia is found in between leading EU countries (where this share reaches 65%) and the US (20%), and is close to Canada (37%). At present consumer prices of gasoline in Russia cons tute 90% compared to the US volume, 66% compared to those in Canada, 44% in comparison with such prices in Japan, and 39% against the average price level of ﬁve leading EU countries.
P24|Rates, Risks And М2: Factors Affecting The Rate Of Inflation|In September, the Central Bank of Russia made a decision to cut the key rate by 0.5 p.p. to 10%. The intention of the Central Bank of Russia to stick to a moderately tough monetary policy is justiﬁed by the need to consolidate the trend towards sustained reducti on of the rate of inﬂation.
P24|Russia’S Balance Of Payments In January - September|Russia’s current account surplus was aﬀected considerably by falling exports, whereas imports declined at a slower rate, as compared with the same period previous year. In January–September 2016, net capital outflow in the private sector is reported to be ﬁve times less than what it was during the same period previous year, as the rate of repayment of bank debts and liabilities slowed down, as a result of which the rouble appreciated in real terms in January– September 2016 to the level seen early in 2006.
P24|Import Of Investment Goods|The sharp ﬂuctuations of the ruble’s exchange rate in the period 2014–2016 have not resulted in a reduction of the share of investment goods in the price structure of Russian imports. At the same time, domestic demand has visibly reoriented towards cheaper analogues. The recovery of imports of investment goods visible since the second half of 2016, which in part can be attributed to the strengthening of the ruble, points to a temporary halt of import substitution processes.
P24|Oil Market: low prices retained|Low world crude oil prices have resulted in scaling back oil production on high-cost oil deposits and in contraction of investment in the development of unconventional deposits. At the same time, reduction of crude oil extraction from the cost-intensive deposits, first of all, in the US, is offset by the built up production by leading OPEC countries who strive to increase their market share. In 2016, Iran and Saudi Arabia have significantly raised their crude oil output. Russia has also built up production, which hit all-time high since 1990. In 2017, one should expect relatively low oil prices to remain. At the same time, some growth is feasible in comparison with the current year.
P24|The Implications of tax maneuver: production of oil and petrochemicals|A tax maneuver in the oil and oil refining industries contributed to some changes in the pattern of production of petrochemicals: the total volume of oil refining decreased, while the volume of production of motor gasoline increased somewhat. It is to be noted that the tax maneuver had an effect on the pattern of exports of petrochemicals, too: with duties increased on residual oil its exports fell dramatically, while with export duties reduced on commercial gasoline, directly distilled gasoline and light and medium distillates their exports increased. Reduction of export duties on diesel fuel brought about growth in its share in the total exports of petrochemicals.
P24|Inflation And The Foreign Exchange Market|Over the period March 2015 – February 2016, the growth rate of prices declined to 8.1%, while the corresponding index for February 2015 – January 2016 amounted to 9.8%. As demonstrated by the results of a survey published by the Bank of Russia, in February the median inﬂation expecta on index for the next year also declined by 1.0 p.p. to 15.7%. As shown by the year-end results for 2014–2015, the plunge of the nominal eﬀective exchange rate of Russia’s national currency was much more dramatic than the downward movement of the national currencies of the other countries – exporters of raw materials, although their terms of trade were also deteriora ng at a comparable rate.
P24|Money Income And Spending Of Population|Since November 2014, the population’s real disposable money income have been steadily on the decline. Data for January–September 2015 point to a rising poverty rate. In 2015, the share of personal income spent on commodities and services hit its record low of the past 16 years. The share of saving in the personal money income structure signiﬁ cantly increased.
P24|Inflation: Limits Of Slowdawn|In Q1 2016, inﬂation slowed down both month-on-month and year-on-year, driven by further decline in internal demand amid a strengthening rouble, as well as due to the high base eﬀect a year earlier. However, expectations for high inﬂation are still strong, which will stem decline in price growth rates in the mid-run.
P24|Regions ͵ Focus On Reduction Of Expenses|Reduction of the deﬁcit of the consolidated budgets of subjects of the Russian Federation in 2015 was due to not to the improvement of the ﬁnancial state of the regions but a decrease of borrowing possibilities and contraction of ﬁnancial assistance from the federal budget. That is why ensuring non-deﬁ cit budget at the expense of cuƫting budget expenditure will be de-facto main priority for the ﬁscal policy of many regions during the current year and many years to come.
P24|Foreign Currency And Russian Ruble: What Does The Balance Of Payments Tell Us?|The BOP (Balance of Payments) staƟ sƟ cs for Q1 2016 show considerable shrinkage of the current account surplus due to a decline in exports while imports saw their decline rate slow down. At the same time, the private sector saw capital ouƞ low decrease strongly. As a result, even though the trade bal ance dropped, the rouble did not depreciate. Moreover, the rouble exchange rate rebounded to levels seen in the fall of 2015 as crude prices went up.
P24|Tax Maneuver: Economic Growth Acceleration To The Detriment Of Budget Consolidation|The taxation reform in the oil and oil-reﬁning industries in 2014 – the ‘tax maneuver’ – was designed to boost the performance of domestic oil reﬁneries. In late 2015, the planned reduction of export duty was suspended in order to keep unchanged the volume of tax-generated revenues under the new terms of trade. However, our calculations demonstrate that full implementation of the tax maneuver will not only result in the accomplishment of that task, but prevent growth of wholesale and retail prices of petroleum products, as well as conduce to increasing the value added created by Russia’s oilreﬁning sector.
P24|Oil Sector: Potential For Tax Incentives|The state of Russia’s oil sector is marked by a general deterioration of the oil extraction conditions owing to depletion of existi ng deposits in developed regions and signiﬁ cantly higher extraction costs at the new oil ﬁelds and tight oil deposits. In order to improve the situation, investments in the development of new oil fields are required as well as in deepened development of existing deposits with an improved reﬁning margin. Government ﬁscal policy should contribute to the resolution of these issues including implementation of structural reform in the tax system and introduction of special excess-proﬁ t tax.
P24|Monetary Policy Of The Russian Central Bank: Risks And Limitations|In June, the Russian Central Bank, for the ﬁrst time since summer 2015, decided to reduce the key interest rate by 0.5 percentage points, to 10.5%. The decline in inﬂation expectations, further slowdown in inﬂation and stabilization of the external environment, together with the strengthening of the rouble, allowed the Bank of Russia to soften the monetary policy.﻿
P24|Balance Of Payments: January–June 2016|The BOP (Balance of Payments) data show that a current account surplus contracted considerably in H1 2016 over the same period previous year. This is because there were serious cutbacks in exports while the decline in imports slowed down. Despite growth in non-bank sector’s foreign asset holdings, there was a sweeping decline in net capital outflow in the private sector because banks and other sectors met their debt obligations at slower rate. As a result, the rouble appreciated as of the end of H1 2016, reaching a fundamentally substantiated level, although there are risks that it will depreciate.
P24|Pass-Through Effect: Rise In Prices In Q3 Will Slow Down|The analysis of consumer prices dynamics and the forecast based on the model of exchange rate pass-through effect indicates that n the Q3 2016, one should not expect significant inflation growth. The forecast of price dynamics in consumer segments is quite hetero geneous: the prices of non-food products will grow more (4.9% relative to December 2015) than the prices of foodproducts (3.4% relative to December2015), while in the latter group, the biggest growth will be observed in products with a significant share of imports among them ( fish and seafood, sugar, sunflower oil). If expectations concerning the increase in prices are met and the dynamics of inflation projected for Q3 2016 continues until the end of the year, the level of inflation can stay at 6.5–7% per annum.
P24|Russian industry in H1 2016: zero dynamics|The trend that first became visible in early 2016 – decline giving way to zero rates of growth – towards the end of H1 had spread across a majority of segments of the economy’s real sector. The lack of a noticeable domestic demand and dependence upon foreign equipment supplies coupled with the persistently low relative income generated by exports of raw materials make it impossible to expect any significant domestic production growth in the nearest future.
P24|Денежно-Кредитная Политика|11 декабря 2015 г. Банк России в очередной раз оставил ключевую ставку без изменений на уровне 11% годовых, отказавшись от дальнейшего смягчения денежно-кредитной политики. Для снижения спроса на иностранную валюту 14 декабря ЦБ РФ возобновил проведение аукционов РЕПО в иностранной валюте на срок 12 месяцев. Таким обра- зом Банк России пытается предотвратить возможную турбулентность на российских финансовых рынках из-за нового витка снижения нефтяных цен при повышении целевой ставки ФРС США.
P24|Мировой Рынок Нефти|Под воздействием низких цен на углеводородное сырье началось сворачивание добычи нефти на высокозатратных месторождениях, резко снизились инвестиции в разработку нетрадиционных запасов, включая сланцевую нефть в США. Однако оно нейтрализуется увеличением добычи в ведущих странах ОПЕК. Россия также увеличила поставки нефти: в 2015 г. ее добыча достигла максимального уровня за период с 1990 г., а нефтяной экспорт – исторического максимума. Следует ожидать значительного увеличения поставок со стороны Ирана. В целом положение на рынке характеризуется преобладанием факто- ров, которые будут способствовать сохранению низких мировых цен на нефть.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В декабре темп прирост индекса потребительских цен (ИПЦ) составил 0,8% (2,6% в декабре 2014 г.), при этом медианное значение ожидаемой инфляции за год в декабре увеличилось на 0,6 п.п. и составило на 11 декабря 2015 г. 16,4%. Банк России в очередной раз оставил ключевую ставку без изменения на уровне 11% годовых, отказавшись от дальнейшего смягчения денежно-кредитной политики. Несмотря на новое снижение курса рубля, значительные выплаты по внешнему долгу и повышение ставок ФРС США спрос банков на валютное рефинансирование снижается. По всей видимости, у кредитных организаций пока достаточно валютных ресурсов, накопленных за предыдущий год.
P24|Курс Рубля Близок К Равновесному Значению|Данные платежного баланса 2015 г. демонстрируют увеличение профицита счета текущих операций, связанное со снижением дефицита балансов услуг, инвестиционных доходов и оплаты труда при снижении профицита торгового сальдо. Ускоренное ослабление рубля в реальном выражении по сравнению с валютами развивающихся стран в отдельные периоды 2014–2015 гг. было связано с существенными геополитическими рисками и масштабным падением цен на нефть.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В январе темп прироста индекса потребительских цен (ИПЦ) составил 1,0% (3,9% в январе 2015 г.), при этом медианное значение ожидаемой инфляции на год в январе увеличилось на 0,3 п.п. и составило 16,7%. Это максимальное значение данного показателя с февраля 2015 г., когда в результате обесценения валютного курса в конце 2014 г. – начале 2015 г. медианное значение ожидаемой инфляции составило 18,1%. В целом реальный эффективный курс рубля в настоящее время находится примерно на фундаментально обоснованном уровне, что является след ствием рыночного курсообразования на валютном рынке РФ без вмеша тельства Банка России и отсутствия панических настроений экономиче ских агентов. При отсутствии новых шоков мы не ожидаем дальнейшего значительного ослабления национальной валюты.
P24|Инфляция И Валютный Рынок|За март 2015 г. - февраль 2016 г. темп прироста цен замедлился до 8,1%, тогда как за февраль 2015 г. - январь 2016 г. этот показатель достигал 9,8%. По данным опроса населения, публикуемого Банком России, в феврале медианное значение ожидаемой инфляции на год также уменьшилось на 1,0 п.п. и составило 15,7%. По итогам 2014-2015 гг. номинальный эффективный курс российской валюты снизился значительно сильнее, чем валюты других стран-экспортеров сырья, несмотря на сопоставимое ухудшение условий торговли.1
P24|Цены На Бензин В России И Других Странах: Сравнительный Анализ|Рост цен на автомобильный бензин на российском внутреннем рынке на фоне снижения мировых цен на нефть объясняется девальвацией рубля и повышением ставок акцизов. В структуре потребительской цены бензина в России доля косвенных налогов в последние два года повысилась с 30–40 до 35–43%. По доле налогов в конечной цене бензина Россия занимает промежуточное положение между ведущими странами ЕС (где эта доля достигает 65%) и США (20%) и близка к Канаде (37%). В настоящее время потребительские цены на бензин в России составляют по отношению к уровню США 90%, Канады – 66%, Японии – 44%, по отношению к среднему уровню пяти ведущих стран ЕС – 39%.
P24|Ставки, Риски И М2: Факторы, Влияющие На Инфляцию|В сентябре ЦБ РФ принял решение о снижении ключевой ставки на 0,5 п.п. до уровня 10%. Намерение Банка России придерживаться умеренно жесткой денежно-кредитной политики обусловлено необходимостью закрепить тенденцию к устойчивому снижению инфляции
P24|Платежный Баланс Рф В Январе-Сентябре 2016 Года|Уменьшение экспорта при замедлении темпов падения импорта значительно сократило профицит счета текущих операций по сравнению с аналогичным периодом 2015 г. Снижение темпов погашения обязательств банками привело к уменьшению чистого вывоза капитала частным сектором в январе-сентябре 2016 г. – в 5 раз по сравнению с аналогичным периодом предыдущего года, что способствовало укреплению рубля в реальном выражении за январь-сентябрь 2016 г. до уровня начала 2006 г.
P24|Рынок Нефти: Низкие Цены Сохраняются|Низкие мировые цены на нефть привели к сворачиванию добычи нефти на высокозатратных месторождениях и снижению инвестиций в разработку нетрадиционных запасов. В то же время сокращение добычи нефти в высокозатратных регионах, прежде всего в США, фактически компенсируется увеличением добычи в ведущих странах ОПЕК, стремящихся к расширению своей рыночной доли. В 2016 г. существенно увеличили добычу нефти Иран и Саудовская Аравия. Россия также нарастила добычу, которая достигла максимального с 1990 г. уровня. В 2017 г. следует ожидать сохранения относительно низких мировых цен на нефть, при этом возможно их некоторое повышение по сравнению с уровнем текущего года.
P24|Основные Направления Денежно-Кредитной Политики: Ценовая Стабильность, Устойчивость К Шокам|Проект «Основных направлений единой государственной денежнокредитной политики на 2017 год и период 2018 и 2019 годов» (далее – Проект), подготовленный Банком России, не предполагает существенных изменений в монетарной политике в предстоящий среднесрочный период. Своей основной задачей российские денежные власти видят обеспечение ценовой стабильности и повышение устойчивости финансового сектора к возможным макроэкономическим шокам. Банк России не отказывается от цели снизить потребительскую инфляцию до 4% к концу 2017 г., поэтому регулятор планирует сохранить умеренно жесткую денежную политику. Активных интервенций на валютном рынке не предполагается, и курсообразование останется свободным.
P24|Возможности И Ограничения Развития Нефтяного Сектора|Российский нефтяной сектор вышел на максимальные уровни добычи и экспорта. Добыча нефти достигла наивысшего уровня за период с 1990 г., а нефтяной экспорт - исторического максимума. Вместе с тем перспективы развития сектора определяются ухудшением условий добычи нефти, связанным с истощением эксплуатируемых ме- сторождений в освоенных регионах и существенно более высокими затратами на разработку новых месторождений и трудноизвлекаемых запасов. Осложняют развитие нефтяного сектора и введенные по отношению к России секторальные технологические санкции и низкие мировые цены на нефть.
P24|Денежные Доходы И Расходы Населения|С ноября 2014 г. реальные располагаемые денежные доходы населения и реальная заработная плата устойчиво снижаются. Данные за январь-сентябрь 2015 г. свидетельствуют об увеличении уровня бедности. В 2015 г. доля доходов, использованных на покупку товаров и оплату услуг, достигла минимального значения за последние 16 лет. Произошел существенный рост доли сбережений в структуре использования денежных доходов населения.
P24|Динамика Инфляции В I Квартале 2016 Г|В I кв. 2016 г. наблюдалось замедление инфляции – как в месячном выражении, так и накопленной за 12 месяцев, что обусловлено продолжающимся падением внутреннего спроса при укреплении рубля, а также высокой базой предыдущего года. При этом инфляционные ожидания все еще остаются высокими, что будет препятствовать снижению темпа роста цен в среднесрочной перспективе.
P24|Оценка Платежного Баланса За Январь-Март 2016 Г|Данные платежного баланса за I кв. 2016 г. демонстрируют значительное сокращение профицита счета текущих операций вследствие снижения экспорта при замедлении темпов падения импорта. Одновременно наблюдалось существенное снижение оттока капитала частного сектора. В результате, несмотря на уменьшения торгового сальдо, ослабления рубля не произошло. Более того, по мере восстановления цен на нефть курс рубля вернулся к уровням осени 2015 г.
P24|Налоговый Маневр: Ускорение Экономического Роста В Ущерб Бюджетной Консолидации|Анализ динамики промышленного производства свидетельствует о продолжении снижения выпуска в обрабатывающих производствах, в то время как в добывающем секторе наметился устойчивый положительный тренд. Если в краткосрочной перспективе экономика не столкнется с новыми шоками условий торговли, существенным расширением санкций и финансовой нестабильностью появятся основания для осторожного оптимизма: общий индекс промышленного производство может оттолкнуться от «дна» уже к концу 2015 г.
P24|Возможности Налогового Стимулирования Развития Нефтяного Сектора|Положение в нефтяном секторе российской экономики характеризуется объективным ухудшением условий добычи нефти, обусловленным истощением эксплуатируемых месторождений в освоенных регионах и существенно более высокими затратами на разработку новых месторождений и трудноизвлекаемых запасов. Необходимыми условиями поддержания достигнутых объемов добычи и экспорта нефти являются создание условий для инвестиций в освоение новых месторождений, углубленная разработка действующих месторождений, а также повышение глубины переработки нефти. Решению этих задач должны способствовать меры налоговой политики, включая проведение структурной реформы налоговой системы и введение специального налога на дополнительный доход.
P24|Денежно-Кредитная Политика Цб Рф: Риски И Ограничения|В июне ЦБ РФ впервые с лета 2015 г. принял решение о снижении ключевой ставки на 0,5 п.п. до уровня 10,5%. Снижение инфляционных ожиданий, дальнейшее замедление инфляции и стабилизация внешних условий, сопровождаемые укреплением рубля, позволили Банку России смягчить денежно-кредитную политику.
P24|Платежный Баланс: Январь–Июнь 2016 Г|Данные платежного баланса за 1 полугодие 2016 г. демонстрируют значительное сокращение профицита счета текущих операций по сравнению с аналогичным периодом 2015 г. Причина – значительное снижение экспорта при замедлении темпов падения импорта. Несмотря на рост иностранных активов небанковского сектора, наблюдалось масштабное сокращение чистого оттока капитала частного сектора ввиду снижения темпов погашения обязательств банками и прочими секторами. В результате по итогам 1 полугодия 2016 г. рубль укрепился и находится примерно на фундаментально обоснованном уровне, хотя существуют риски его ослабления.
P24|Эффект Переноса: Рост Цен В Iii Квартале Замедлится|Анализ динамики потребительских цен и их прогноз на основании модели эффекта переноса обменного курса в цены свидетельствует о том, что в III кв. 2016 г. не следует ожидать значительного роста инфляции. При этом прогноз ценовой динамики по потребительским сегментам достаточно неоднородный: цены на непродовольственные товары вырастут сильнее (4,9% к декабрю 2015 г.), чем на продовольственные (3,4% к декабрю 2015 г.), среди последних будут лидировать цены на товары, доля импорта в потреблении которых значительна (рыба и морепродукты, сахар, подсолнечное масло). Если ожидания по росту цен оправдаются и прогнозируемая в III кв. 2016 г. динамика инфляции сохранится до конца года, то ее уровень в годовом выражении может не превысить 6,5–7%.
P24|戦後期ロシアの非公式経済成長：歴史統計，1960－1990|本稿では，機密解除されたアーカイブ家計調査資料（「ロシア国立経済文書館」所蔵）を活用し，戦後期ロシアの非公式経済を家計面から検証した．さらに，非公式経済の規模推計に基づき，ロシアGDP歴史統計を支出面から再評価した．公式・非公式GDPの再推計は次の点を明らかにしている．第1に，既存GDP推計において非公式GDPが適切に考慮されなかったため，1960－90年のロシア経済の規模が期間平均で6.5％～12.6％過小評価されていた．第2に，非公式GDPの名目シェアは趨勢的な縮小傾向を示した．第3に，非公式経済を考慮した場合，ロシアの実質経済成長は下方修正される．1961年を基準とするロシアの実質経済成長は，ソ連崩壊直前の1990年において15～39ポイント低下する．これは年率0.24～0.38％の成長率の低下に相当する．以上は，推計起点の名目GDPが最も過小評価されていること，名目・非公式GDPシェアが趨勢的に縮小したこと，そして，価格が計画的・硬直的に設定された公式経済部門よりも，より柔軟な価格調整機能を有する非公式経済において，価格上昇が著しいことに起因する．公式経済における不足は価格調整を伴わず，それが非公式経済に転嫁されたため，非公式経済成長は鈍化した．
P24|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P24|What is the effect of Inflation on Manufacturing Sector Productivity in Ghana?|Using annual time series data for Ghana, the current study investigates the effect of inflation on manufacturing sector productivity for the period 1968-2013. The empirical verification is done by using the Johansen test (JT), the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM), and the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression test. The results indicate significant stable long run relationship between inflation and manufacturing sector productivity. However, there is insignificant short run link between inflation and manufacturing sector productivity in the VECM. The results of the OLS test indicate negative significant link between inflation and manufacturing sector productivity. The findings suggest that inflation has led to a decrease in manufacturing sector productivity. Policy makers should manage inflation very well in order to improve manufacturing sector productivity. Future study should examine the current topic accounting for causality and structural breaks issues since the present study did not consider these issues.
P24|The New Concept of Money: From Record-Of-Value (RoV) To Record-Of-Entropy (RoE)|In this paper, we shall analyse the concept of Money. Presently money is viewed as Record-of-Value i.e. money is used to capture value created in any activity. We start by defining money. Then we discuss the way energy is spent in creating value is measured using money. We also assess the uses of money by viewing it as a Record-of-Value entity. We discuss about the parallel economy which impacts mainstream economy in various ways. Economic Entropy is then defined and discussed. An equation that relates Economic Entropy, value based money and other economic parameters is proposed. The various advantages of viewing money as a Record-of-Entropy are debated. Finally, the paper concludes as to which concept is best suited to present day and future economic scenarios.
P24|The Price of Growth: Consumption Insurance in China 1989–2009|We exploit a novel and unique opportunity to document the transmission of income risk to consumption in a growing economy. Our laboratory is China, an economy that has witnessed enormous and sustained growth. We build a long panel of household-level consumption and income data. We find that consumption insurance deteriorates along the growth process with a transmission of permanent income shocks to consumption that at least triples from 1989 to 2009. Although preliminary, our welfare analysis suggests that the loss of consumption insurance can have first-order implications for the welfare assessment of economic growth.
P24|Evaluating the Dilemma of Inflation, Poverty and Unemployment|The main aim of this study is to investigate the existence of long run relationship among poverty, inflation, and unemployment. For the sake of empirical analysis this study employs ARDL approach to find out long run relationships by using data from 1975-2013 from WDI. The reverse of Human development index (HDI) has been used as a proxy of multidimensional poverty. The index has been constructed on the same lines as the HDI is developed by UNDP with the help of four indicators i.e. life expectancy, infant mortality, per capita income, and mean year schooling. Independent variables are unemployment, inflation, and dependency ratio, and population growth, government expenditures on education, trade openness, and remittances. The empirical results suggested the validation of employing ARDL holds, and the existence of long run relationship between poverty, inflation, and unemployment has been found. The results are suggestive that unemployment and inflation both bring about increase in poverty. Further findings of the study indicate that dependency ratio, remittances, and population growth are also having significant impacts on poverty in the long run. Finally these results are not only valid for the long run but they even held in the short run as well.
P24|Labour Shortages Driving Economic Growth?|Summary In most of the countries from Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE), the current virtuous circle of rising consumption and incomes is expected to continue at least in the near term, accompanied by solid GDP growth to the tune of some 3% p.a. Ongoing labour-market improvements and rising wages will continue to be the main growth driver throughout the region; they will be complemented by a recovery in fixed investments as new EU funds become available. The economies of Russia, other CIS countries (except Belarus) and the Ukraine are expected to bottom out, as the negative shocks of the past two years have already been largely absorbed. Turkey is heading for a ‘soft landing’. These are the main findings of the newly released medium-term macroeconomic forecast by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). Despite the sluggish external environment, economic growth remains fairly strong in the majority of CESEE countries; the economic dynamics in almost half of those countries have intensified over the current year compared to 2015. Growth in the EU Member States from Central and Eastern Europe (EU-CEE) has declined only modestly over the current year, mostly on account of temporary investment weaknesses. It remains 1.5 pp higher on average than in the euro area. In Turkey, economic dynamics were also very solid up until mid-2016, albeit accompanied by signs of ‘overheating’, while the CIS countries are experiencing a ‘bottoming out’. The main driver of growth throughout the CESEE region continues to be private consumption, underpinned by sharply rising wages and incomes as well as decreasing unemployment. The tightening of labour markets and the rising labour shortages are partly a consequence of sizeable outward migration over the past years, which has had a cumulative negative effect on labour supply. A number of countries have also introduced higher minimum wages, sometimes as part of a more general fiscal relaxation package. Inflationary pressures in most CESEE countries – with the exception of the CIS countries and Turkey – are almost non-existent, as solid wage growth has been largely offset by marked gains in labour productivity and a profit squeeze. The expansion of fixed investments, which were an important pillar of GDP growth in 2015, has largely run out of steam this year. In the EU-CEE region, the main reason for this lies in a temporary drop in EU transfers that, in previous years, used to be an important source of investments. EU funds disbursed under the previous 2007-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) were absorbed in 2015 at the latest, whereas attracting new funds under the recently adopted 2014-2020 MFF will take time. At the same time, disregarding the ‘EU transfers effect’, the underlying dynamics of investments remain strong. The export dynamics in many CESEE countries have been better than those of imports, resulting in a positive contribution of net exports to GDP growth. In most EU-CEE countries and Serbia, this is largely a reflection of their ever-strengthening export base and further gains in competitiveness. However, in the CIS countries it is entirely due to the weakness of domestic demand which is still depressed following strong currency depreciations over the past two years. Credit expansion in the CESEE region remains rather modest no country, with the possible exception of Slovakia, is currently experiencing a credit boom. Other factors tend to be more important determinants of the demand for loans than interest rates, which in many CESEE countries are rather low. Going forward, this reduces the risk of ‘boom-and-bust’ developments that have characterised the trajectories of a number of CESEE countries in the run-up to and during the global financial crisis. Domestic demand in many CESEE economies is supported by fiscal policy relaxation, particularly in Romania and Ukraine. One reason for this may have been a decline in government borrowing costs. Furthermore, the general disenchantment with the practical results of ‘expansionary austerity’ pursued in the past has played a role as well. At the same time, in most Western Balkan countries and in the CIS, the fiscal stance tends to be either neutral or restrictive – and in the case of the CIS countries it is essentially pro-cyclical. The impact of the forthcoming Brexit on CESEE economies should be contained by those countries’ relatively low trade exposure to the UK economy. In the EU-CEE region, some 1.6% of GDP is accounted for by final demand from the UK, and that share is even lower in other CESEE countries. At the same time, from 2019 onwards the EU-CEE region potentially faces the prospects of much lower (by up to 20%) EU transfers once the UK – the second largest net contributor country to the EU budget after Germany – leaves the bloc. The migration flows from the EU-CEE region to the UK could fall by nearly half compared to the past two years even without any changes to the migration regime, as the UK will become less of a magnet for migrants.
P24|Growth Stabilises: Investment a Major Driver, Except in Countries Plagued by Recession|GDP growth in the EU Member States of Central and Eastern Europe (EU-CEE), the Western Balkans (WB) and Turkey will remain stable or even increase. The trend growth path will be around 3%. EU-CEE countries will thus continue to catch up to the EU average, however at low speed. Russia and Ukraine, on the other hand, will show a considerably worse performance growth will return in 2017 at the earliest. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term macroeconomic forecast by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). In 2015, the EU-CEE group registered the highest rate of economic growth since the outbreak of the financial crisis, 3.4% (see Table 1). In 2016-2017 the group will experience some modest growth deceleration on account of the recent consumption boom subsiding and a temporary decline in EU transfers. As for 2018, the EU-CEE countries will pick up some speed driven by an inflow of new investments and transfers. Uncertainties concerning the global economy do not allow us to predict average growth of more than 3% over the medium term. Countries in the Western Balkans also improved their performance in 2015 and will maintain positive growth rates in 2016 and beyond. However unimpressive it may be, compared to their need for catching-up, the average growth rate in the WB countries (excluding Serbia) will not lag behind that in the EU-CEE countries. Turkey will maintain a fragile stability despite relatively high inflation and a high current account deficit, while coping with increasing challenges emerging, for instance, from the war in Syria, the refugee crisis and the loss of export and tourism revenue owing to the Russian trade sanctions. Russia and Belarus will face yet another year of recession in 2016. Russia will continue to suffer from low oil prices, high inflation, currency depreciation, sanctions and fiscal austerity. As usual, structural change and institutional reforms will be slow and half-hearted, incapable of offsetting the losses. Ukraine’s economic growth, after the dramatic fall over the past years, will stabilise as the economy will by and large have completed the adjustment process that was triggered by the country decoupling from Russia and the occupied territories. The Russian annexation of the Crimea and the conflict in East-Ukraine look set to last. Export markets lost will not be regained even in the medium term, nor should one expect the volume of exports to the EU to make up for the shortfall quickly. The divergence of economic performance between the EU-CEE and the WB plus Turkey on the one hand and the CIS-3 (Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan) and Ukraine on the other hand will continue in 2016 and beyond. The difference between the two large country groups, however, will not take on more pronounced dimensions as the recent collapse of the major commodity prices may turn into stagnation. The leading role attributed to household demand in driving economic growth in the EU-CEE and WB countries will be matched by investments. A medium-term investment revival is expected in most of the CESEE countries in both the public and private sectors. FDI has already shown some signs of emerging from stagnation in the EU-CEE and WB countries. Credit conditions for private borrowers have improved. Moreover, gross fixed capital formation is responding to the transfer of EU funds that are bound to decline in 2016, but will recover later, once access to EU transfers provided under the 2014-2020 financing framework picks up. As fiscal consolidation and more rapid economic growth have been achieved, fiscal space has widened in several countries, thus granting governments more room in which to implement and support investments. Even highly indebted countries have managed to adopt a less restrictive fiscal stance. The CIS-3 and Ukraine are outliers in this respect as well; they have started cutting back on expenditures so as to reduce their fiscal deficits. Exports may increase if external demand recovers, but imports may grow even more rapidly as consumption and investment expand in the EU-CEE and WB economies. Thus, net exports will not be a strong driver of economic growth. Foreign investors’ income may rise overall, while remittances and labour income from abroad will remain important sources of current account revenues. Special sections of the Forecast shed light on other topical issues low oil prices are mainly supply-driven; the Juncker Initiative will not take the place of EU transfers; outmigration and demography are leading to labour shortages in EU-CEE countries; the recent inflow of refugees may, in the medium term, put pressure on existing migrant workers in Austria.
P24|Bescheidener Aufschwung im Osten – Bremsklotz EU-Fiskalregeln|Zusammenfassung Bescheidener Aufschwung im Osten – Bremsklotz EU-Fiskalregeln Für die mittel-, ost-und südosteuropäischen Länder (MOSOEL) ist das internationale Umfeld insbesondere von der trägen Erholung des Euro-Raumes gekennzeichnet. Die rigiden EU-Fiskalregeln sind der größte Bremsklotz für einen nachhaltigen wirtschaftlichen Aufschwung in Europa. Mittelfristig erwarten wir für die MOSOEL ein BIP-Trendwachstum von bis zu 3%. Dabei ist der Haushaltskonsum vor allem in den mittel- und osteuropäischen EU-Mitgliedstaaten wachstumsbestimmend. In den Ländern des Westbalkans können auch Investitionen und Nettoexporte als wichtige Wachstumstreiber identifiziert werden. In der Gemeinschaft Unabhängiger Staaten und der Ukraine scheint die Talsohle erreicht worden zu sein. Nach einer Phase der Stagnation kann auch dort ein leichtes Wachstum erwartet werden. Österreich sollte ein Profiteur von der Erholung in den MOSOEL sein, da es sich um wichtige Handelspartner handelt. Für die österreichische Wettbewerbsfähigkeit stellen die MOSOEL aber nur eine geringe Gefahr dar. Längerfristig steigen dort die Löhne stärker als die Produktivität. Die Folgen des BREXIT stellen ein großes Risiko für ganz Europa dar. English Summary Modest recovery in the East – EU fiscal rules act as obstacle to growth The international environment for Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) is affected by the weak recovery in the euro area. The rigid EU fiscal rules are an important obstacle to sustainable economic revival in Europe. Over the medium term, we expect a GDP trend growth rate of up to 3% for CESEE. Especially for the EU members of Central and Eastern Europe, household consumption will be an important component of economic growth. In the countries of the Western Balkans also investment and net exports will be important growth drivers. In the Commonwealth of Independent States and in Ukraine the economic downturn has bottomed out. After a period of stagnation, slow growth can be expected also there. Austria should gain from the recovery in CESEE, given that the region is home to important Austrian trading partners. These pose, however, only little danger for Austrian competitiveness. There, over the longer term wages will be rising faster than productivity. The BREXIT implications pose a substantial risk for all of Europe.
P24|Credit Constraints and Growth in a Global Economy|We show that in an open-economy OLG model, the interaction between growth differentials and household credit constraints—more severe in fast-growing countries—can explain three prominent global trends: a divergence in private saving rates between advanced and emerging economies, large net capital outflows from the latter, and a sustained decline in the world interest rate. Micro-level evidence on the evolution of age-saving profiles in the US and China corroborates our mechanism. Quantitatively, our model explains about a third of the divergence in aggregate saving rates, and a significant portion of the variations in age-saving profiles across countries and over time. (JEL E21, E22, F21, F32, F41, O16, P24)
P24|Sharing High Growth across Generations: Pensions and Demographic Transition in China|We analyze intergenerational redistribution in emerging economies with the aid of an overlapping generations model with endogenous labor supply. Growth is initially high but declines over time. A version of the model calibrated to China is used to analyze the welfare effects of alternative pension reforms. Although a reform of the current system is necessary to achieve financial sustainability, delaying its implementation implies large welfare gains for the (poorer) current generations, imposing only small costs on (richer) future generations. In contrast, a fully funded reform harms current generations, with small gains to future generations. (JEL E13, H55, J11, O11, O15, P24, P36)
P24|Hyperbola Economics Towards A Utopian Economy|The HEU geometrically holds in the two dimensional (2D) planes using topology for the 1st and the 3rd and, 2nd and 4th quadrants. The EES (2013, and the 2nd edition, 2014) algebraically holds also in the two dimensional planes but, consistently with hundred thousands of equations and each calculation or measurement. In the mean time, all the HEU data and all the EES data are always and wholly consistent with each other, since both data sets commonly use the same KEWT (Kamiryo Endogenous World Table) series of databases; currently KEWT 9.15 (the 9th, 1960-2015). Basic character of the mechanics commonly to the EES and the HEU comes from the hyperbola system under the market principles. The system results in instant, dynamic, and steady balances, in the 2D planes, with no exception nor probability, where theories=practices=forecasted values. The market principles are an assumption, since the market principles vertically holds by goods, services, and software however are reinforced by the hyperbola system. The hyperbola system, as a whole system, reinforces the market principles horizontally and reciprocally. Further, basic character of the mechanics above is such a fact that the macro level is the first and the micro level is the second; adversely from the common sense in the literature. A true reason/cause comes just from the income difference in tax redistribution between before and after tax redistribution in GDP. Functionally, the EES and the HEU are policy-oriented while the reinforcements by the market principles are strategy-oriented. Similarly, equality is divided into macro and micro functions. At the macro level, a country has its own individuality: culture, civilization, history and tradition. Thus, macro-equality accepts specified individuality by country. At the micro level, households are tied up with real wages and enterprises with the profit maximization. Shortly in another way, whole policies are reinforced by variety of strategies in micro economies. Concretely in detail: (1) pages 4, 5, and 6 in the HEU yearly show essential structures of GDP; (2) page 205 sums up the stream to geometric from algebraic using fundamental equations; (3) page 249 clarifies Paul Krugman¥¯s basic idea or the differences between US, Canada, Japan, China, and UK; and (4) Appendix 3, pages 430-496 illustrates G20 and G7 as a whole system. In the above illustrations by country and by item, the author realizes, Japan uniquely differs from other countries in the world. The item is the ratio of taxes to GDP, 1960-2015. The ratio in Japan has been continuously decreasing while those in all the other countries show an increasing trend, robustly or fluctuating, decreasing temporarily or in a specific year(s), or moving in a cyclical trend, normally and differently. What does this mean for future economic decision-making by government? Is there any regrettable result in maintaining consumption and national economy? Which is efficient and effective for a country to take, the market principles or government policies? Can national policies conquer any discrepancy or mistaking results? What is the true reason/cause? The literature cannot explain the reason pertinently at all, Prof. Kamiryo perceives. The above questions are all solved by the following illustrations on pages 435, 441, 453, 459, 465, 471, 477, 481, 483, and 489, in Appendix 3. In particular, the difference between actual and endogenous data tells us everything; such ratios as profit, net investment after economic depreciation, taxes, and the rate of return. These pages are respectively 453, 459, 465, and 471. Plainly speaking, Japanese government cannot increase consumption or commodity tax rate. A true reason is the accumulation of deficits and debts, regardless of bonds or Bank of Japan printing papers. Which is taken, default or compulsive inflation-policy? Financial fund managers watch the timing for the US to execute a tight-money policy in order to avoid bubbles-burst open. The current situation always balances between no-individual policy (inflated spending in unnecessary investments) and individual-oriented policy (towards no inflation/deflation). No inflation or minus inflation is wholly tied up with full-employment. Or, the rate of employment is a result of whole policies. One results in hopeless decrease in the real wage rate and, the other deflation as a special returns or compensation for individuals. Government cannot stop deflation unless it decreases deficits and debts as a whole. The market principles and the rate of interests are real, while government's trial-and-error policies have no meaning or remain to ease individuals¥¯ mind. China, regardless of democracy or dictatorship, easily solves policy specifying problem by setting the difference between actual and endogenous data, although there is no answer in the literature yet, as proved by G20 meeting, Turkey on 4 Sep 2015. Business and stock prices remain resultant and policy-makers should be away from business and stock prices.
P24|La curva de Phillips para la economía cubana. Un análisis empírico|This paper analyzes the Phillips curve for the Cuban economy during the period 1990-2009 focusing on the economic crisis of this period derived from the fall of the socialist camp and the disappearance of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA). The results indicate that although the theory of the Phillips Curve was used in many countries to keep unemployment at low levels while high inflation was tolerated, Cuba's experience has shown that a country can have simultaneous inflation and high unemployment.
P24|Asset stripping and firm survival in mass privatization: Testing the Hoff-Stiglitz and Campos-Giovannoni models in Montenegro|We provide the first test of and find support for the Hoff and Stiglitz (2004a,b) model predicting under what conditions mass privatizations are accompanied by asset stripping. We also test and do not find support for the main prediction of the Campos and Giovannoni (2006) model. In addition to testing the theory, we tackle an important policy-oriented issue of why a large number of efficient firms disappeared during mass privatization in the booming economy of Montenegro. Econometrically, we present the first study to look at firms that disappeared during a mass privatization transition, improving upon prior studies that focused only on existing firms and ignored survival bias. Our analysis suggests that asset stripping and firm disappearance were present, and that asset stripping was a likely reason for the loss of efficient firms. We show that because more productive firms were liquidated, it is important to model survival bias in the selection of firms remaining in samples when estimating the effects of privatization or other ownership changes. We also show that one needs to distinguish between true start-ups and liquidated firms that re-appear as start-ups. In the absence of the rule of law, many firms that appear to have disappeared were in fact appropriated by managers and politically connected individuals.
P24|Measuring the shadow economy using company managers|This study develops a method that uses surveys of company managers to measure the size of a shadow economy. Our method is based on the premise that company managers are the most likely to know how much business income and wages go unreported due to their unique position in dealing with both of these types of income. We use a range of survey design features to maximize the truthfulness of responses. Our method combines estimates of misreported business income, unregistered or hidden employees, and unreported wages, to arrive at an estimate of the size of a shadow economy as a percentage of GDP. This approach differs from most other studies of shadow economies, which largely focus on using macroindicators. We illustrate the application of our method to three new EU member countries. We also analyze the factors that influence companies’ participation in the shadow economy.
P24|Monetary policy rule in inflation targeting emerging European countries: A discrete choice approach|The paper explores all six emerging European countries that target inflation, showing that a discrete choice model captures well the behavior of their central banks, both their monetary policy rule and operational behavior. As to the latter, our findings suggest that these central banks change their policy rates in discrete fashion, i.e. only when the deviation between its (unobservable) optimal rate and actual rate surpasses certain threshold values. Estimates of Taylor rule contain relevant economic variables, including real exchange rate. However, evidence is offered that in Romania, Serbia and Albania the exchange rate is a goal for itself, while in the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary it is an instrument to achieve inflation target, and this is related to different features of these two sets of economies. The use of the nonstationary discrete choice approach is well motivated as some explanatory variables are nonstationary.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In November 2014|In November 2014, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) amounted to 1.3% (vs. 0.6% in November 2013), which is 0.5 p.p. above its value recorded in October. In response to the mounting panic in the foreign exchange market, from 16 December the Bank of Russia raised its key interest rate to 17% per annum in an attempt to curb the ruble’s rapid depreciation. In November, the inflation rate in the Russian Federation was once again on the rise: the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as seen by the month-end results, amounted to 1.3% (vs. 0.8% in October 2014), which is 0.7 p.p. above the same index for 2013. As a result, the inflation rate in per annum terms climbed to 9.1% (Fig. 1). The core inflation rate1 in November 2014 was 1.0%, which is below its index for the same period of last year by 0.5 p.p.
P24|An Estimation Of Fundamentally Substantiated Real Exchange Rate Of The Ruble|The key factor in the strengthening of the real exchange rate of the ruble in the 2000s was the transformation based growth of Russia’s economy (the Balassa–Samuelson eff ect) coupled with the improving foreign trade conditions. As can be concluded on the basis of data for Q4 2014, for the ruble’s real exchange rate to return to its fundamentally substantiated level, it was to be increased by 6.2%. In view of expectations of inflation in the RF and her trade partners at the rates of 12–14% and 3–4% respectively, the real effective exchange rate of the ruble in 8–11 months will return to its equilibrium level, if the nominal rate remains stable and the fundamental factors do not deteriorate.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In Russia In December 2014|Due to the turmoil in the foreign exchange market, the Bank of Russia lifted on the 16th of December the key interest rate up to 17% p.a. in an eff ort to stop the ruble’s rapid depreciation. In December 2014, the consumer price index stood at 2.6% (0.5% in December 2013 ), up 1.3 p.p. above the value seen in November. As a result, inflation went up to 11.4% on an annualized basis. The consumer price index reached 1.5% within the first 19 days in January 2015.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In January 2015|On 15 January 2015, the Bank of Russia Board of Directors decided to reduce the key rate by 2 pp., to 15% per annum, due to the shift in the balance of risks of accelerated consumer price growth and an economic cooldown. In January 2015, the Consumer Price Index increased by 3.9% (vs. 0.6% in January 2014), which represented a 1.3 p.p. rise on December 2014. As a result, the inflation rate in per annum terms climbed to 15.0%. Over the course of the fi rst 24 days of February 2015 the CPI rose by 1.9 p.p.
P24|The Oil And Gas Sector’S Development|In 2014, Russia’s crude oil output hit its record high since 1990. At the same time, the growth rates of oil produc- tion and oil exports are displaying an obvious slowdown. Besides, some additional negative factors have emerged that impose still more constraints of the oil sector’s further development: the plummeting world prices for oil and the fi nancial and technological sanctions introduced against Russia. Since 2015, the oil sector’s taxation system has been undergoing structural transformations designed to signifi cantly play down the economic role of export duties.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In February|Due to the fact that the balance of risks has moved towards a substantial cooling down of the economy, the Bank of Russia Board of Directors decided at its regular meeting on 13 March 2015 to lower by 1 p.p. the key interest rate to 14% p.a. In February 2015, the Consumer Price Index stood at 2.2% (0.7% in February 2014), i.e., making it 1.7 p.p. below the value seen in January 2015. As a result, inflation increased to 16.7% year-over-year in February 2015. The CPI reached 0.7%. in the fi rst 23 days of March 2015.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In March 2015|Due to a shift in the balance of risks towards a more signifi cant cooling of the economy, at the Bank of Russia Board of Directors’ meeting on 13 March 2015 it was decided that the key interest rate should be reduced by 1 p.p. – to 14% per annum. In March 2015, the Consumer Price Index’s growth amounted to 1.2% (vs. 1.0% in March 2014), which is 1 p.p. below its value recorded in February 2015. As a result, the inflation index increased in March 2015 on March 2014 by 16.9%. Over the fi rst 20 days of April 2015, the Consumer Price Index’s growth amounted to 0.5%.
P24|Russia’S Inflation And Monetary Policy In April 2015|On 30 April 2015, the Bank of Russia reduced the key interest rate from 14% to 12.5% per annum, noting in this connection that the inflation risks had become less pronounced, but that the risks of a more signifi cant cooling of the economy were still there. By all indicati ons, the RF Central Bank believes that any further strengthening of the ruble can hardly be feasible. On 14 May, the RF Central Bank announced that it would once again resort to interven tions in the form of foreign exchange purchases in order to replenish its international reserves in the amount of $ 100m – 200m per day. Over April 2015, the Consumer Price Index’s growth amounted to 0.5% (vs. 0.9% in April 2014.), which is 0.7 pp. below its March 2015 level. As a result, the inflation index in April 2015 amounted to 16.4% of its April 2014 level, thus having declined for the first time since July 2014. Over the first 25 days of May 2015, the Consumer Price Index’s growth rate dwindled to 0.3%.
P24|Russia’S Inflation And Monetary Policy In May 2015|Further stabilization of inflation and the ruble exchange rate allowed the Bank of Russia Board of Directors to further cut the key interest rate to 11.50% p.a. on 15 June 2015. The cut was triggered by the fact that Russia’s economy was still facing serious risks of a downturn amid weakening inflation risks. The Bank of Russia announced on 14 May that it will resume its interventions to buy foreign exchange, $100m to $200m on a daily basis, in order to increase the international reserves. In May 2015, consumer prices increased 0.4% (0.9% in May 2014), i.e. down 0.1 p.p. from April 2015. As a result, inflation in May 2015 stood at 15.8% compared to May 2014. The Consumer Price Index increased 0.2% in the fi rst 22 days of June 2015, showing a substantial slowdown.
P24|Tax Maneuver In Russia’S Oil Sector|In 2015, the oil sector was subject to the so called “tax maneuver”, a system of measures aimed at signifi cantreduction of economic component of the export duties and increasing the base rate of the mineral extraction tax. Tax maneuver will result in a more effi cient structure of the tax system, reduction of subsidizing scale of crude oil refi ning sector and other EEU member states, provision of more incentives for energy effi cient growth. Data released for H1 2015, demonstrate signifi cant changes in a number of trends taking place in the oil sector under the eff ect of the maneuver including reduction of fuel oil production which took place for the first time over the last years and increase of the crude oil exports which is more effi cient for the state budget in comparison with fuel oil exports.
P24|Russia’S Inflation And Monetary Policy In June 2015|Both stabilized inflation and ruble exchange rate allowed the Bank of Russia Board of Directors to further cut the key interest rate to 11.50% p.a. on 15 June 2015. The cut was triggered by the fact that Russia’s economy was still facing serious downside risks amid lower risks of inflation. Consumer prices in June 2015 increased 0.2% (0.6% in June 2014), a decrease of 0.2 p.p. compared to May 2015. As a result, inflation in June 2015 was 15.3% compared to June 2014. The Consumer Price Index gained 0.9% in the fi rst 20 days of July 2015, basically due to a rise in tariff s on natural monopolies’ services.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In July 2015|The Bank of Russia Board of Directors decided on 31 July 2015 to further cut the base rate to 11.0% p.a., or by 0.5 p.p., because risk balances had shifted towards economic downturn. Consumer prices in July 2015 increased 0.8% (0.5% in July 2014), showing a growth of 0.6 p.p. compared to the value seen in June 2015. As a result, inflation in July 2015 reached 15.6% compared to that in July 2014. The Consumer Price Index gained 0.1% in the fi rst 24 days of August 2015.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In August 2015|The Russian currency in July-August saw further substantial depreciation in the exchange rate. The weakening of the ruble resulted largely in higher inflation and retained the central bank base rate at the level which was set in September at a meeting of the Central Bank Board of Directors. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) in August kept increasing up to 0.4% (0.2% in August 2014), reaching the August-end highest value for the first time since 2010, when the CPI gained 0.6%. Price growth rates accelerated most during the last week of August, when the CPI gained 0.2%. In the fi rst three weeks of September consumer prices saw another hike of 0.5%.
P24|The balance of payments, russia’s external debt and the Exchange rate of the ruble: a fragile equilibrium|Russia’s balance of payments data for Q3 2015 show a considerable decline in her current account balance. In monetary terms, the decline in imports during Q3 was faster than that in exports (relative to Q3 2014). By comparison with Q2 2015, it even demonstrated a slight increase, notwithstanding the weakening of the ruble in July and August. In Q3, for the first time in five years, Russia saw a noteworthy capital inflow into banks and enterprises resulting from a considerable reduction in the volume of overseas assets (which were sold on a major scale in order to raise funds for looming external debt repayments)and the sale of foreign exchange by the population. On the whole, the trends observed during the period January–September 2015 make it possible to conclude that, unless any new external shocks take place, Russia’s current account balance by the end of 2015 will be large enough to guarantee the stability of the ruble’s exchange rate against major world currencies in spite of the huge external debt repayments to be made at the end of 2015.
P24|Inflation and monetary policy in russia in september 2015|The Consumer Prices Index (CPI) in September continued to see its growth rates increase, 0.6% up (0.7% up in September 2014). The Russian ruble saw a much slower depreciation in September-October, compared to August, due to some rallies in the oil market. For the first time in five years, banks and enterprises saw their net capital outflow in Q3 2015 as a result of a substantial decline in foreign assets which were used to repay their foreign loans, and also due to the fact that individuals sold foreign exchange in cash.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In October 2015|The Consumer Prices Index (CPI) in October 2015 continued to grow, up 0.6% (0.7% in October 2014), reaching 0.7% (0.8% in Oct. 2014). The Russian rouble’s exchange rate in October strengthened a bit in response to both uptrend in the crude oil market as well as some geopolitical improvements. Russia’s Central Bank decided at a meeting on 30 October that the base rate of interest as well as the rates on Russian Central Bank operations on providing and absorbing liquidity will remain unchanged. It would be unreasonable to lower the base rate amid high risks of inflati on and further depreciation of the rouble.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В ноябре 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 1,3% (0,6% в ноябре 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя октября на 0,5 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении поднялась до 9,1%. За 15 дней декабря ИПЦ достиг 0,8%. Вследствие развития панических настроений на валют- ном рынке 16 декабря Банк России увеличил ключевую ставку процента до 17% годовых, чтобы оста- новить стремительное обесценивание рубля.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|Вследствие развития панических настроений на валютном рынке 16 декабря Банк России увеличил ключевую ставку процента до 17% годовых, чтобы остановить стремительное обесценивание рубля. В декабре 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 2,6% (0,5% в декабре 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя ноября на 1,3 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении поднялась до 11,4%. За первых 19 дней января текущего года ИПЦ достиг 1,5%.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|Вследствие изменения баланса рисков ускорения роста потребительских цен и охлаждения экономики 30 января 2015 г. на очередном заседании Совета директоров Банка России было принято решение о снижении ключевой ставки процента на 2 п.п. до 15% годовых. В январе 2015 г. индекс потребитель- ских цен увеличился на 3,9% (0,6% в январе 2014 г.), что выше аналогичного показателя декабря 2014 г. на 1,3 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении поднялась до 15,0%. За первые 24 дня февраля текущего года ИПЦ прирос на 1,9п.п.
P24|Развитие Нефтяного Сектора Экономики|В 2014 г. добыча нефти в России достигла максимального уровня за период с 1990 г. Вместе с тем происходит очевидное замедление темпов роста добычи нефти и нефтяного экспорта. Появились дополнительные негативные факторы, ограничивающие развитие сектора: значительное снижение мировых цен на нефть и введенные по отношению к России финансовые и технологические санкции. С 2015 г. начата структурная перестройка системы налогообложения нефтяного сектора, предусма- тривающая значительное снижение экономической роли экспортных пошлин.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|Вследствие смещения баланса рисков в сторону существенного охлаждения экономики 13 марта 2015 г. на очередном заседании Совета директоров Банка России было принято решение о снижении ключевой ставки процента на 1 п.п. до 14% годовых. В феврале 2015 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 2,2% (0,7% в феврале 2014 г.), т.е. ниже аналогичного показателя января 2015 г. на 1,7 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении в феврале поднялась до 16,7%. За первых 23 дня марта текущего года ИПЦ достиг 0,7%.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|Вследствие смещения баланса рисков в сторону существенного охлаждения экономики 13 марта 2015 г. на очередном заседании Совета директоров Банка России было принято решение о снижении ключевой ставки процента на 1 п.п. до 14% годовых. В марте 2015 г. прирост потребительских цен составил 1,2% (1,0% в марте 2014 г.), т.е. ниже аналогичного показателя февраля 2015 г. на 1 п.п. В ре- зультате инфляция в марте 2015 г. по отношению к марту 2014 г. составила 16,9%. За первых 20 дней апреля текущего года прирост ИПЦ достиг 0,5%.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|30 апреля Банк России снизил ключевую ставку c 14% до 12,5% годовых, отметив ослабление инфляционных рисков при сохранении рисков существенного охлаждения экономики. По всей видимости, ЦБ считает неоправданным дальнейшее укрепление рубля. 14 мая он объявил о возобновлении интервенций по покупке валюты для пополнения международных резервов в размере 100–200 млн долл. в день. В апреле 2015 г. прирост потребительских цен составил 0,5% (0,9% в апреле 2014 г.), т.е. ниже аналогичного показателя марта 2015 г. на 0,7 п.п. В результате инфляция в апреле 2015 г. по отношению к апрелю 2014 г. составила 16,4%, снизившись впервые с июля 2014 г. За первых 25 дней мая текущего года прирост ИПЦ существенно замедлился, составив 0,3%.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|Дальнейшая стабилизация инфляции и курса рубля позволили совету директоров Банка России 15 июня 2015 г. в очередной раз снизить ключевую ставку до 11,50% годовых. Основанием для снижения ставки стало сохранение существенных рисков охлаждения экономики в условиях ослабления инфляционных рисков. 14 мая Банка России объявил о возобновлении интервенций по покупке валюты для пополнения международных резервов в размере 100–200 млн долл. в день. В мае 2015 г. прирост потребительских цен составил 0,4% (0,9% в мае 2014 г.), т.е. ниже аналогичного показателя апреля 2015 г. на 0,1 п.п. В результате инфляция в мае 2015 г. по отношению к маю 2014 г. составила 15,8%. За 22 дня июня те- кущего года прирост ИПЦ достиг 0,2%, показывая существенное замедление.
P24|Налоговый Маневр В Нефтяной Отрасли|В 2015 г. в нефтяном секторе начата реализация так называемого «налогового маневра» – системы мер, предусматривающей значительное снижение экономической роли экспортных пошлин и повы- шение роли налога на добычу полезных ископаемых (НДПИ). Результатом налогового маневра должно стать создание более эффективной структуры налоговой системы, сокращение масштабов субсиди- рования нефтеперерабатывающего сектора и других стран ЕАЭС, повышение стимулов к росту энер- гоэффективности. Данные за 1-е полугодие 2015 г. демонстрируют значимое изменение ряда тенден- ций в нефтяном секторе под воздействием налогового маневра, в том числе произошедшее впервые за последние годы снижение производства мазута и увеличение экспорта сырой нефти, более эффек- тивного для государственного бюджета по сравнению с экспортом мазута.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|Стабилизация инфляции и курса позволили Совету директоров Банка России 15 июня 2015 г. в очеред- ной раз снизить ключевую ставку до 11,50% годовых. Основанием для снижения ставки стало сохране- ние существенных рисков охлаждения экономики в условиях ослабления инфляционных рисков. В июне 2015 г. прирост потребительских цен составил 0,2% (0,6% в июне 2014 г.), что ниже аналогичного по- казателя мая 2015 г. на 0,2 п.п. В результате инфляция в июне 2015 г. по отношению к июню 2014 г. со- ставила 15,3%. За 20 дней июля текущего года прирост ИПЦ достиг 0,9%, что преимущественно было связано с повышением тарифов на услуги естественных монополий
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|31 июля 2015 г. Совет директоров Банка России в очередной раз принял решение снизить ключевую ставку на 0,5 п.п. до 11,0% годовых в связи со смещением баланса рисков в сторону охлаждения эко- номики. В июле 2015 г. прирост потребительских цен составил 0,8% (0,5% в июле 2014 г.), что выше аналогичного показателя июня 2015 г. на 0,6 п.п. В результате инфляция в июле 2015 г. по отношению к июлю 2014 г. достигла 15,6%. За 24 дня августа текущего года прирост ИПЦ составил 0,1%.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В июле-августе произошло новое значительное ослабление курса российской валюты, что в существенной мере предопределило как ускорение инфляции, так и решение о сохранении ключевой процентной ставки на уровне 11% годовых, принятое на сентябрьском заседании Совета директоров ЦБ РФ. В августе темп прироста индекса потребительских цен (ИПЦ) продолжил рост и составил 0,4% (в августе 2014 г. 0,2%), впервые достигнув столь высоких значений по итогам августа с 2010 г., когда прирост ИПЦ был равным 0,6%. Ускорение темпа роста цен оказалось наиболее значительным в последнюю неделю августа, когда темп прироста ИПЦ составил 0,2%. За первые три недели сентября потребительские цены выросли еще на 0,5%.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В сентябре темп прироста индекса потребительских цен (ИПЦ) продолжил рост и составил 0,6% (0,7% в сентябре 2014 г.) В сентябре-октябре существенно сократились по сравнению с августом темпы обесценения рубля, что обусловлено улучшением ситуации на рынке нефти. В III кв. впервые за последнее пятилетие был зафиксирован чистый ввоз капитала банками и предприятиями в резуль- тате значительного сокращения иностранных активов в целях погашения внешних обязательств, а также вследствие продажи наличной валюты населением.
P24|Рынок Нефти В Условиях Низких Цен|Положение на мировомюг нефтяном рынке характеризуется сохранением низких цен на нефть, сложившихся в результате значительного превышения мирового предложения нефти над спросом. Под воздействием низких цен началось сворачивание добычи нефти на высокозатратных месторождениях, резко снизились инвестиции в разработку нетрадиционных месторождений, в том числе сланцевой нефти в США. В последние месяцы в Соединенных Штатах наблюдается и снижение добычи нефти. Сокращение высокозатратной добычи создает предпосылки для уменьшения избыточного предложения нефти и последующего повышения мировых цен на нефть. Однако сохраняются значительные риски со стороны некоторых стран ОПЕК, которые стремятся к расширению своей рыночной доли. В настоящее время сокращение добычи нефти в высокозатратных регионах фактически нейтрализуется увеличением добычи в странах ОПЕК. В российском нефтедобывающем секторе наблюдается положительная динамика и достаточно высокая инвестиционная активность, что позволяет рассчитывать на сохранение в ближайшей перспективе достигнутых объемов добычи нефти.
P24|Платежный Баланс, Внешний Долг, Курс Рубля: Хрупкое Равновесие|Данные платежного баланса за III кв. 2015 г. демонстрируют значительное сокращение профицита счета текущих операций. Импорт в III кв. в стоимостном выражении снижался медленнее экспорта (по отношению к III кв. 2014 г.) и даже несколько вырос по сравнению со II кв. 2015 г., несмотря на ослабление рубля в июле-августе. В III кв. впервые за последнее пятилетие был зафиксирован чистый ввоз капитала банками и предприятиями в результате значительного сокращения иностранных активов в целях погашения внешних обязательств, а также вследствие продажи наличной валюты населением. В целом тенденции января–сентября 2015 г. позволяют сделать вывод о том, что при отсутствии новых внешних шоков текущее сальдо платежного баланса по итогам 2015 г., скорее всего, бу- дет достаточно большим, чтобы обеспечить устойчивость курса рубля, даже с учетом значительных выплат по внешнему долгу в конце года.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В октябре темп прироста индекса потребительских цен (ИПЦ) продолжил рост и составил 0,7% (0,8% в октябре 2014 г.). Некоторое укрепление рубля в октябре обусловлено улучшением как ситуации на рынке нефти, так и геополитического фона. На заседании 30 октября ЦБ РФ принял решение оставить ключевую ставку и ставки по операциям ЦБ РФ по предоставлению и абсорбированию ликвидности неизменными. В условиях высоких инфляционных рисков, а также рисков дальнейшего обесценения рубля снижение ключевой ставки процента представляется нецелесообразным.
P24|Non-Keynesian Savings of Russians|The Russian recession of 2014-2015 began with a run on the ruble and a rise in the rate of inflation, the precise opposite of a Western-type deflationary slump combined with money hoarding. Does this mean that Russians need different micro-model to describe savings and consumption behavior? This study shows that the workhorse log-linearized rational SDF formula with the CRRA utility function still provides a good explanation for the behavior of Russian consumers. It explains dollarization, domestic equity market avoidance, preference for real estate, and, most importantly, a wary attitude towards the ruble. Expectations derived from past and interactive preferences lock the Russian economy in a state of steadfast distrust in the ruble as prone to inflation. At present, one should not expect a Keynesian-type deflationary cycle in Russia. The next recession is likely to be inflationary, requiring monetary tightening. This reasoning is generalized for other emerging countries. A free-floating currency and inflation targeting do not ensure an easy path for countries with recent experiences of high inflation
P24|移行経済における中央銀行の独立性とインフレーション抑制効果－－メタ分析－－|本稿の目的は，中央銀行独立性のインフレーション抑制効果を実証的に検証した移行経済研究とその他先進・開発途上経済研究のメタ分析による比較を通じて，中東欧・旧ソ連諸国における中央銀行改革の成果を問うことにある。先行研究から抽出した合計282の推定結果を用いたメタ統合の結果から，筆者らは，移行経済研究及び比較対象研究のいずれも，研究分野全体として，中央銀行独立性のインフレーション抑制効果の検出に成功していることを確認した。更に，研究間の様々な異質性を考慮したメタ回帰分析の推定結果から，推定量，物価変数タイプ，自由度，並びに研究水準は，移行経済に関する実証結果を大きく左右する要因であることも判明した。また，移行経済研究と比較対象研究の抽出推定結果をプールしたメタ回帰分析は，自由度と研究水準を制御した上では，効果サイズと統計的有意性の双方について，両研究間に統計的に有意な差は存在しないことを示した。この意味で，中東欧・旧ソ連諸国の中央銀行改革は，その他の国々に比肩する程の実質を伴うものであったとの示唆が得られた。
P24|Regional Inflation and Financial Dollarization|Abstract: We exploit variation in consumer price inflation across 71 Russian regions to examine the relationship between the perceived stability of the local currency and financial dollarization. Our results show that regions with higher inflation experience an increase in the dollarization of household deposits and a decrease in the dollarization of (long-term) household credit. The negative impact of inflation on credit dollarization is weaker in regions with less-integrated banking markets, suggesting that the asset-liability management of banks constrains the currency-portfolio choices of households.
P24|ソ連の家計貯蓄率，1965－1989：不足効果，非公式経済効果，相乗効果，強制貯蓄|1950年代末以降における家計貯蓄の急増は，不足の深刻化の結果生じた「強制貯蓄」の問題として取り上げられ，その結果発生する「金融危機」という観点からも活発に議論されてきた．しかし，資料制約を主たる理由として，十分に説得的な実証的結論を得ていない．ソ連家計の貯蓄行動に関する議論の中心的な論点は，貯蓄の増大が公式市場の不足に伴う非自発的な貯蓄によるものであるか，非公式経済において利用可能であるか否か，という点にあった．本稿では，この問題に取り組むために，1965－1989年のソ連構成共和国のオリジナル・パネルデータを構築し，家計貯蓄率に影響を与える自発的動機と非自発的動機を区別して，その決定要因の推定を行った．分析の結果，家計の貯蓄率に対して，（1）不足要因，（2）非公式経済要因，さらに，（3）両者の相乗効果，というソ連特有の要因の影響が確認された．即ち，不足は非自発的な貯蓄を形成し，非公式経済は取引動機としての自発的な貯蓄を形成する．一方で，公式市場の未充足需要が非公式経済に移転し消化される相乗効果の作用の結果，非自発的貯蓄の一部は解消される．推定結果に基づき算定したソ連の強制貯蓄は，1980年代以降に急増し，ソ連崩壊直前には貯蓄の4割にも達した．一方で，各決定要因の影響は地域ごとに異なり，不足が強く非公式経済が小さいスラブ・バルト地域では強制貯蓄率が貯蓄の3～5割と高い一方で，非公式経済が発達した中央アジア・コーカサス地域では強制貯蓄率が1割以下という明確な地域的分化が確認された．
P24|Forced Savings in the Soviet Republics: Re-examination|"The current paper empirically examines the determinants of household savings rates in the Soviet republics, by utilizing the panel data of an aggregated household budget survey in the period from 1965 to 1989. Earlier studies claimed that increases in household savings starting from the late 1950s were the direct result of worsening shortages of consumer goods; therefore, they considered Soviet households' savings to be involuntary ones and that households were ""forced"" to save under severe shortage conditions in the official consumer market. But they failed to fully investigate this problem mainly because of unavailability of data on household incomes and expenditures and of ignorance of a widespread informal economy (""second economy""). When the informal economy could at least partly provide households with opportunities to spend their money on lacking goods, households would be able to choose whether to save money and stand in line for scarce goods at the official retail shops, or move to the informal market. This understanding leads to the implication that there existed neither involuntary nor forced savings. In order to tackle this unsolved research problem, the Soviet households' savings rate function is estimated by taking into account shortages, the informal economy, and other factors, among them life-cycle factors, and then the ""forced savings rate"" is calculated. The main findings of this study are as follows: Firstly, even taking into account these factors, there existed Soviet-unique factors, namely the shortage factor, informal factor, and demand-spillover effect. Secondly, the magnitudes of these three factors varied among regions, so forced savings rates also varied. According to our estimation results, forced savings in the Slavic and Baltic regions accounted for more than 40% of the total savings just before the collapse of the Soviet Union, while those in the Caucasian and Central Asian regions accounted for less than 10%."
P24|Central Bank Independence and Inflation in Transition Economies: A Comparative Meta-Analysis with Developed and Developing Economies| This article empirically examines the effect of central bank independence (CBI) on inflation by means of a comparative meta-analysis of studies of transition economies and of other developed and developing economies. The results of a meta-synthesis indicate that both transition and nontransition studies have successfully identified a negative relationship between CBI and inflation. Moreover, the present meta-regression analysis suggests that a series of study conditions strongly affected the empirical results concerning transition economies. The article also finds that no significant difference exists between the two types of studies in terms of either effect size or statistical significance.
P24|Interest Rate Determination in China: Past, Present, and Future|How should we think about the determination of interest rates in China after interest rate liberalization? Would effective deposit rates, lending rates, and bond yields move higher or lower? We argue that interest rates in a liberalized environment would need to be anchored by monetary policy. To achieve price and output (or employment) stabilization, the policy rate should be set close to China’s equilibrium or natural rate. We sketch three preliminary approaches to estimation of the natural rate. Based on this analysis, we argue that interest rates on large deposits and short-term money-market rates would likely move higher following liberalization. The effect on effective lending rates is somewhat ambiguous, as the contestability of the banking sector and the competition from the bond markets are likely to increase. We leave the determination of the curvature of the yield curve to future research.
P24|Análisis del acoplamiento entre la riqueza y el desarrollo socioeconómico de las naciones<BR>[Analysis of the mismatch between wealth and socio-economic development of nations]|In this paper, the attributes and variables featuring the development of the World countries are reviewed. The relationship between wealth levels and some estimates using synthetic indices of social development is analyzed. With this aim, we firstly use the indicators estimated by UNDP. Afterwards, we turn to complementary estimators using UNDP methodology and multivariate statistical methods such us factor analysis. Results allow us to identify which countries do better (or worse) at turning economic growth into social development. They also contribute to detect the dimensions of development that are behind of changes in positions in several rankings.
P24|Savings and Inflation Using the Example of Russia in 1992|Savings are a huge boon for the economy. This means both growth today and prospects for growth tomorrow. This is both an investment resource and a medicine for inflation. However, mistakes made in managing the savings by economic authorities, may turn everything upside down and then the savings become a cause of inflation and many other economic woes. This is exactly what happened in the far-off 1992 in Russia. Two approaches: reliable tools and advantages of the bond type form of savings would enable Russia to quickly create a significant stock of «long» money and increase the GDP and, at the same time, significantly reduce inflation.
P24|Macroeconomic Instability and Its Impact on Gross Domestic Product: An Empirical Analysis of Pakistan|This study tries to answer the question, “has macroeconomic instability detrimental impact on gross domestic product of Pakistan over the period of 1980 to 2012?” For reviewing macroeconomic instability a comprehensive macroeconomic instability index is constructed by incorporating inflation rate, unemployment rate, trade deficit and budget deficit. Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model has been used for examining the cointegration among the variables of the models and Vector Error-Correction model is used for short-run dynamics of the models. For investigating the causal relationship among the variables of the model Granger causality test has been applied. The empirical results of the study confirm the existence of cointegration between macroeconomic instability and gross domestic product in Pakistan. The results of the study show that macroeconomic instability has deep rooted and detrimental impact on gross domestic product of Pakistan. Hence, for achieving desired level of gross domestic product, Pakistan should make macroeconomic environment stable.
P24|Analysis and evaluation of the Monetary Policy Transmission Channels in the CEMAC: A SVAR and SPVAR Approaches|This paper’s main objective is to analyse and identify the the effects of monetary policy decisions on activity and inflation, and determines the main transmission channel in the CEMAC area. The results suggest that: (i) for each country, using a SVAR, the transmission mechanisms are very weak, and the common monetary policy has asymmetrical lagged effects on activity. We specifically found that the transmission mechanisms barely work in Congo, the Central African Republic, Gabon, Tchad and Equatorial Guinea, but a shock on broad money and the policy rate of the central bank has significant but weak effects on activity in Cameroon; and (ii) the Panel VAR analysis also confirms the weakness of the transmission mechanisms in the sub region. However, a positive shock on credit exhibits inflationary effects that last about three quarters.
P24|Macroeconomic Instability and Its Impact on Gross Domestic Product: An Empirical Analysis of Pakistan|This study tries to answer the question, “has macroeconomic instability detrimental impact on gross domestic product of Pakistan over the period of 1980 to 2012?” For reviewing macroeconomic instability a comprehensive macroeconomic instability index is constructed by incorporating inflation rate, unemployment rate, trade deficit and budget deficit. Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model has been used for examining the cointegration among the variables of the models and Vector Error-Correction model is used for short-run dynamics of the models. For investigating the causal relationship among the variables of the model Granger causality test has been applied. The empirical results of the study confirm the existence of cointegration between macroeconomic instability and gross domestic product in Pakistan. The results of the study show that macroeconomic instability has deep rooted and detrimental impact on gross domestic product of Pakistan. Hence, for achieving desired level of gross domestic product, Pakistan should make macroeconomic environment stable.
P24|Vliv trhu mezistatků na úspěšnost prognóz ekonomické aktivity<BR>[Influence of the Intermediate Goods Market on the Success of Economic Activity Forecasts]|Predictions of economic activity are sine qua non of economic policy. Nevertheless, predictions are characterised by the high level of inaccuracy; the main aim of the paper is to provide a potential theoretical explanation of frequent failures by focusing on the refl ection of real market proces in forecasting apparatus. It is argued that the role of intermediate products is underestimated in the considerations of future development of economic activity, even if these has presumably higher relevance to the level of economic activity in the future. Mutual relation between expenditures on consumption and production expense is discussed and verifi ed by use of econometric tools. It is found that even if there is long-term relation between consumption and production expenditures, from the short-term perspective, actual consumption does not have statistically signifi cant impact on future decisions of producers.
P24|Is plastic Money Matter for Consumer Buying Behavior? An Empirical Analysis from Pakistan|This study has explored the impact of plastic money on consumerâ€™s buying behavior in case of Pakistan. A questionnaire based primary survey has been conducted for data collection. The questionnaire based survey is conducted among the customers in market place, supermarket, and grocery store by using convenience sampling techniques. SPSS system is used for managing and interpretation of the data. Simple linear regression analysis is used for checking the responsiveness of dependent variable due to independent variable. The independent variable is use of plastic money where as dependent variable is consumer buying behavior and reliability of data is 0.709 .
P24|On the Alleged Stagnation of Capitalism|The assumption that capitalist globalization has been a period of overall stagnation is the dominant consensus opinion within Marxist political economy. This paper criticizes this opinion and shows that it rests on a mis-measure of the transition of the centrally planned economics of the ex-USSR, Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), and China developed by the official statistical agencies during the Cold War. This mis-measure has the effect of underestimating both the collapse of physical output in the ex-USSR and CEE during the transition and underestimating the growth of genuine national income after the creation of market economies where previously there had been none. This paper develops some alternative, much higher, estimates of the real growth of national income during the transition period.
P24|Credit Constraints and Growth in a Global Economy|We show that in an open-economy OLG model, the interaction between growth differentials and household credit constraints—more severe in fast-growing countries—can explain three prominent global trends: a divergence in private saving rates between advanced and emerging economies, large net capital outflows from the latter, and a sustained decline in the world interest rate. Micro-level evidence on the evolution of age-saving profiles in the US and China corroborates our mechanism. Quantitatively, our model explains about a third of the divergence in aggregate saving rates, and a significant portion of the variations in age-saving profiles across countries and over time.
P24|Mixed Prospects: Consumption Leads Fragile Recovery in the CESEE Core – CIS Stumbles|Summary The economic outlook in the countries of Central East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) will improve in 2015–2017 with the forecast average economic growth rate close to 3% – some 1.5 pp. higher than the expected euro area average growth. Only the CIS countries and Ukraine will be an exception to this trend. Household consumption, aided by labour market improvements and low inflation, will be the main driver of growth. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term macroeconomic forecast by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw), revising slightly upwards the growth projections relative to the Spring 2015 forecast. Sub-regional growth trends vary greatly. At one end of the spectrum, the Central European countries are expected to continue their robust recovery with growth rates in the order of 2-4% per annum over the forecast horizon (2015–2017). At the other end, the prospects facing the CIS countries are particularly poor unless global commodity prices recover, both Russia and Belarus already tumbling into a deep recession (expected growth in 2015 -3.7% and -3.8%, respectively), while Kazakhstan is following suit with a deceleration in growth (1.5% in 2015). Whereas economic activity in the Baltic countries suffered this year on account of their exposure to Russia, they appear to be resilient and recovery is still on track with growth in the medium term expected to be in the range of 1.5-3%. Overall, Southeast Europe displays improving, but irregular growth tendencies, in many cases accompanied by macroeconomic imbalances and deep structural problems. Serbia and Croatia, the worst performers in the group, will enjoy hardly any growth at all in 2015 (0.1% and 0.7%, respectively), while growth in other countries will be in the order of 2-4%. The situation in Ukraine remains particularly fragile and serious downside risks persist, although there are signs that the recession, much deeper than originally anticipated (with output projected to drop by -11.5% this year), might be bottoming out. Net exports are providing only a limited, if at all positive, contribution to growth, while household consumption, supported by labour market improvements and low inflation due to weak commodity prices, is coming to the fore as the main engine of growth across most of the CESEE region; consumption is expected to remain among the key drivers in the medium term as well. At the same time, private investment remains the much-needed missing link in the mechanism essential to rekindling sustainable output growth in the CESEE region, and public investment may prove to be an important complementary factor. In this regard, the EU structural and investment funds under the 2014–2020 Multiannual Financial Framework will be instrumental as a source of co-funding. Inflation remains very weak across the CESEE region, hovering at near-zero levels on account of low commodity prices, with the exception of the CIS countries, Turkey and Ukraine, whose inflation spiked owing to exchange rate pass-through effects that followed sharp currency depreciations in 2014–2015, as well as country-specific factors, such as the food embargo in Russia and the rise in utility tariffs in Ukraine. The external environment is only moderately supportive. As the multi-speed recovery of the world economy continues in 2015, driven primarily by advanced economies and accompanied by poor performance in large emerging market economies, manifold external risks also arise that could jeopardise the recovery of the CESEE region, including geopolitical tensions associated with the situation in Ukraine and the Middle East, a slowdown in major emerging markets, normalisation of monetary policy in the USA and low commodity prices (a negative shock for the CIS group). Special sections of the forecast report focus on some of the potential risks that have attracted much attention since the beginning of the year, including the refugee crisis in Europe, recession and import-substitution policy in Russia, the Volkswagen scandal, the economic slowdown in China and the implications of the Greek crisis. With the exception of the CIS countries and Ukraine, however, the CESEE countries appear to be rather resilient to date.
P24|A Time of Moderate Expectations|Growth in the CESEE region will follow the unimpressive pattern displayed by the euro area. The longer-term convergence of income levels in the CESEE countries can no longer be expected to be as rapid as was assumed a decade or so ago. Growth in the period 2015-2017 is not going to deviate substantially from the pace recorded in 2014. For the new EU Member States growth is expected to remain slightly below 3% in the years to come. This implies an average growth differential of about 1.5 percentage points as compared to the euro area – about half of what it was before the global financial crisis. On the other hand, most of the countries in the region are also expected to evade the dangers of runaway inflation, fiscal deficits or excessive foreign borrowing that often plagued them in the past. These are the main results of the newly released medium-term growth forecast for the region by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw). Depressed aggregate domestic demand has been the major factor behind anaemic growth. This is evidenced by disinflation (or even mildly deflationary tendencies) across much of the region, as well as the persistence of fairly high unemployment. There is some evidence of a ‘race to the bottom’ in terms of wage setting. While wage moderation strengthens profitability and external competitiveness, it also weakens disposable household incomes and thus slows down growth in domestic demand. Apparently, there is a trade-off between improvements in the trade balance and more rapid growth in domestic demand. Overall, GDP growth is being held ‘on a short leash’. Growth in public investment may be supporting economic growth, especially in those new EU Member States (NMS) that have access to EU funds. However, a proper rebound in private-sector investment is still lacking. Weak private-sector investment cannot be attributed to a ‘profit squeeze’ in the corporate sector. On the contrary, the corporate sector has been doing very well, at least in those NMS for which relevant data are available. The corporate sector as a whole still tends to lend rather than borrow. The means available to the corporate sector appear to be plentiful at present – but the sector still prefers to lick its wounds inflicted by former excessive borrowing or extend loans (primarily to the public sector) rather than to invest productively. Loans are stagnant even in those instances where interest rates are relatively low. With a few exceptions (largely on the region’s periphery) the stocks of loans to the non-financial corporate sector increased marginally at best in 2014. This may reflect firms’ pessimistic assessment of future growth in demand, increased ‘liquidity preference’ or the relative abundance of the means at their disposal. Non-performing loans are linked to a high share of borrowing in foreign currencies. The recent strengthening of the Swiss franc will bear some negative consequences for those firms and households that borrowed heavily in that currency in the past. New evidence supports the claim that the countries with floating exchange rates fare better in the medium to long term. They tend to avoid irreversible currency overvaluation, whereas the countries with fixed exchange rates do not quite avert it. It is argued, however, that despite the rigidity of the exchange rates, overvaluation can be avoided – at least in the medium term. All the CESEE countries are running up fiscal deficits. Current account deficits are still depressed. Net national lending in the NMS tends to be positive. This is a consequence of current savings in the private sector in the NMS generally running ahead of gross fixed capital formation in that sector. On average, output growth across the NMS will become more uniform in 2015 – albeit not any faster. Average growth will remain at 2.7% in 2015. Some acceleration in marginal growth is to be expected in the biennium 2016-2017. Unemployment in the NMS will recede only gradually. Low inflation will prevail in 2015, but it will gradually return to more normal levels in 2016. Under sustained – albeit rather anaemic – growth, the current account balances will deteriorate (although they will still remain comparatively low). Growth is hardly accelerating in the (current and potential) EU candidate countries either. Output in those countries is not expected to grow faster than in the NMS. Turkey, Macedonia and Kosovo may fare slightly better than the rest of the group, with growth rates of above 3% in 2015. However, with the exception of Turkey, those countries seem to have put high inflation behind them. Nonetheless, their unemployment figures continue to be dismal (less so only in Turkey). They will also run high (or even very high) current account deficits. Most of the successor states to the Soviet Union will perform rather badly in 2015. Ukraine’s output will continue its free fall as many of the country’s industrial centres have become battlefields. A drop of 5% in economic growth is expected for 2015. The decline in world market prices for energy carriers will negatively affect both Kazakhstan and Russia, with real output in the latter country dropping sharply by almost 4% in 2015. A similar fate will befall Belarus a country that relies heavily on exports to Russia and Ukraine. However, assuming a peaceful resolution to the Ukrainian conflict in 2015, it is expected that all the successor states will resume moderate growth in 2016 or 2017.
P24|Aufwind im Westen Mittel-, Ost- und Südosteuropas: Wichtige Wachstumsimpulse für Österreich|Zusammenfassung Aufwind im Westen der MOSOEL In den mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Ländern (MOSOEL) klafft der Ausblick für das Wirtschaftswachstum auch weiterhin auseinander für die meisten der neuen EU-Mitgliedstaaten (NMS) wird eine langsame Beschleunigung des BIP-Wachstums beginnend mit diesem Jahr erwartet. Für 2015 soll das Wachstum durchschnittlich auf 3% ansteigen, um 0,2 Prozentpunkte mehr als im Vorjahr. Die Erholung erfolgt um ein Jahr früher als erwartet. Wesentlicher Faktor ist die bessere Entwicklung in der Eurozone. Auch am Westbalkan wird eine (wenn auch weniger dynamische) Verbesserung der Wachstumsaussichten für die gesamte Prognoseperiode 2015-2017 erwartet. Die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung 2015 in Weißrussland, Kasachstan, Russland und der Ukraine wird düster ausfallen und zum Teil noch schlechter sein als bisher erwartet. Für diese Länder sind die mittelfristigen Wirtschaftsaussichten auch mit substantiellen Risiken behaftet. Insgesamt sollte aber das verstärkte Wachstum in den MOSOEL für die österreichische Wirtschaft als Nachfrageimpuls dienen. Insbesondere die NMS sind für Österreich von zunehmender Bedeutung. English Summary Western CESEE countries in the ascendant The outlook for GDP growth in the Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) region remains divergent we expect a gradual acceleration of GDP growth for most of the EU’s new Member States (NMS) starting this year. For 2015 growth is expected to increase to 3% on average, by 0.2 pp more as compared to last year. The recovery comes a year earlier than expected mainly based on favourable developments in the euro area. In the Western Balkans growth prospects will also improve over the whole forecast period 2015-2017, though slightly less dynamically. Growth performance in Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine in 2015, however, will be dismal and partly worse than expected; the medium-term outlook for these countries is also fairly uncertain with considerable downside risks. Overall though, we should expect stronger CESEE growth to act as a demand stimulus for the Austrian economy. The NMS in particular are of increasing importance for Austria.
P24|The Global Welfare Impact of China: Trade Integration and Technological Change|"This paper evaluates the global welfare impact of China's trade integration and technological change in a multi-country quantitative Ricardian-Heckscher-Ohlin model. We simulate two alternative growth scenarios: a ""balanced"" one in which China's productivity grows at the same rate in each sector, and an ""unbalanced"" one in which China's comparative disadvantage sectors catch up disproportionately faster to the world productivity frontier. Contrary to a well-known conjecture (Samuelson 2004), the large majority of countries experience significantly larger welfare gains when China's productivity growth is biased toward its comparative disadvantage sectors. This finding is driven by the inherently multilateral nature of world trade."
P24|From Divergence to Convergence: Reevaluating the History behind China's Economic Boom|China's long-term economic dynamics pose a formidable challenge to economic historians. The Qing Empire (1644-1911), the world's largest national economy before 1800, experienced a tripling of population during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries with no signs of diminishing per capita income. While the timing remains in dispute, a vast gap emerged between newly rich industrial nations and China's lagging economy in the wake of the Industrial Revolution. Only with an unprecedented growth spurt beginning in the late 1970s did this great divergence separating China from the global leaders substantially diminish, allowing China to regain its former standing among the world's largest economies. This essay develops an integrated framework for understanding that entire history, including both the divergence and the recent convergent trend. We explain how deeply embedded political and economic institutions that contributed to a long process of extensive growth before 1800 subsequently prevented China from capturing the benefits associated with the Industrial Revolution. During the twentieth century, the gradual erosion of these historic constraints and of new obstacles erected by socialist planning eventually opened the door to China's current boom. Our analysis links China's recent development to important elements of its past, while using recent success to provide fresh perspectives on the critical obstacles undermining earlier modernization efforts, and their eventual removal.
P24|Earth Endogenous System: To Answer the Current Unsolved Economic Problems (Second Edition)|Earth Endogenous System, 2nd edition (hereunder, the 2nd) is endowed with a unique unite for philosophy, theories, practices, and national taste; solely policy-oriented and harmonizing culture by country and civilization by area. This is because each of these are data-numerically and precisely over years connected with each other, reinforced by the market principles vertically by goods and services. In a word, only one in the world and further beyond space and time. In the actual world using statistics data, similar phenomena appear whose essence is exactly the same as endogenous data. The 2nd proves empirically by using Kamiryo Endogenous World Table (KEWT) database series, whose original data are 10 real assets and 15 external financial/market data in !0International Financial Statistics Yearbook,!1 IMF. In detail by sector, the 2nd Edition proves static and dynamic balances between government and private sector by dividing aggregated total national disposable income or output into the two sectors; T=G+PRI. This mechanics is turn-over of two sectors, households and enterprises, which prevail in the national accounts; just before or after redistribution of taxes. The 2nd everlastingly proves a fact-finding that statistics data are each within a certain range of endogenous data, by up-dating thousands of statistics and endogenous data. More for policy-oriented, the 2nd Edition deepens endogenous neutrals to the rate of return, the GDP growth rate, inflation/deflation, labor/population, technology, deficit, politics, and spirituality. Economic policies are independent of growth rates and inflation/deflation, where individuals, families, citizens, people together enjoy full employment by having the wage rate improved by year. This is because in endogenous and statistics data there is no contradiction among hundreds of phenomenon seemingly opposite or reversed. More for scientifically in the two-dimensional plane, the 2nd Edition starts with zero or the origin as a ultimate moderation; directs for balances between thrift and wasting; perceives true human happiness from selfish to think of others, by spending less money; and achieves making economic activities compatible with financial reform and fiscal reconstruction. For example, fiscal reconstruction is an urgent problem in Japan. Fortunately, traditional unique agriculture in Japan had brought up hand-making, devices, and precision machining, much more precisely than those in other countries.
P24|Earth Endogenous System: To Answer the Current Unsolved Economic Problems (Second Edition)|Earth Endogenous System, 2nd edition (hereunder, the 2nd) is endowed with a unique unite for philosophy, theories, practices, and national taste; solely policy-oriented and harmonizing culture by country and civilization by area. This is because each of these are data-numerically and precisely over years connected with each other, reinforced by the market principles vertically by goods and services. In a word, only one in the world and further beyond space and time. In the actual world using statistics data, similar phenomena appear whose essence is exactly the same as endogenous data. The 2nd proves empirically by using Kamiryo Endogenous World Table (KEWT) database series, whose original data are 10 real assets and 15 external financial/market data in !0International Financial Statistics Yearbook,!1 IMF. In detail by sector, the 2nd Edition proves static and dynamic balances between government and private sector by dividing aggregated total national disposable income or output into the two sectors; T=G+PRI. This mechanics is turn-over of two sectors, households and enterprises, which prevail in the national accounts; just before or after redistribution of taxes. The 2nd everlastingly proves a fact-finding that statistics data are each within a certain range of endogenous data, by up-dating thousands of statistics and endogenous data. More for policy-oriented, the 2nd Edition deepens endogenous neutrals to the rate of return, the GDP growth rate, inflation/deflation, labor/population, technology, deficit, politics, and spirituality. Economic policies are independent of growth rates and inflation/deflation, where individuals, families, citizens, people together enjoy full employment by having the wage rate improved by year. This is because in endogenous and statistics data there is no contradiction among hundreds of phenomenon seemingly opposite or reversed. More for scientifically in the two-dimensional plane, the 2nd Edition starts with zero or the origin as a ultimate moderation; directs for balances between thrift and wasting; perceives true human happiness from selfish to think of others, by spending less money; and achieves making economic activities compatible with financial reform and fiscal reconstruction. For example, fiscal reconstruction is an urgent problem in Japan. Fortunately, traditional unique agriculture in Japan had brought up hand-making, devices, and precision machining, much more precisely than those in other countries.
P24|Religion, Growth and Innovation in Contemporary Russia|For many decades culture has been considered to have a significant impact on the productivity of people. This study observes for the Russian Federation, on the basis of the ARENA study by Sreda, the impact of the share of the most prominent religious groups on economic output as well as on regional innovativeness measured by patent grants from Rospatent. While some issues of causality remain, the analysis shows that standard deductions concerning the religions effect on growth from religious doctrines hold true for the regions oft he Russian Federation as well. The effects on regional patenting, however, are not as clear.
P24|An Examination of Fisher Effect for Selected New EU Member States|The relationship between interest rates and inflation which is called Fisher effect has been investigated in both theoretical and empirical economics in vast literature. The contribution of this paper to the literature is to test the Fisher effect for the selected four transition economies that are also new EU member states. The empirical analysis is conducted by allowing for a structural break that takes place in year 2004. In this study, a case-wise bootstrap approach empirical method which developed by Hatemi-J and Hacker (2005) is used and the results support a tax adjusted Fisher effect in the presence of a structural break.
P24|Monthly industrial output in China 1980–2012|Monthly economic indicators are used for a variety of purposes, from studying business cycles to determining economic policy and making informed business decisions. China's published monthly industrial output statistics could hardly be more confusing, with changes in variables, in coverage, in measurement, and in presentation. This paper reviews the available official data and proceeds to construct a monthly industrial output series in nominal terms and in real terms for the period 1980–2012, economy-wide and for the public sector.
P24|A comparative analysis of the impact of oil prices on oil-rich emerging economies in the Pacific Rim|This paper examines the relationship between raw materials prices and economic growth through two channels, the terms of trade (ToT) and energy efficiency (EF), in three emerging Pacific Rim economies, Russia, Indonesia and Malaysia. We demonstrate positive relationships between changes in output and oil prices and between changes in GDP and energy efficiency (EF). We examine the impact of oil prices on output growth through the ToT and EF channels. The effect of oil prices on ToT in Russia and Malaysia is positive but negative in Indonesia. Oil prices have a positive effect on EF in all three countries.
P24|Structural origins of debt-sustainability in mature and transition economies: Domar, Balassa–Samuelson and Maastricht|This paper analyses the relation between the structure of GDP and a country's debt sustainability. A two-sector model with endogenous relative sector sizes is developed to formally show that under certain conditions the debt sustainability, measured as the limiting value of the debt-to-GDP ratio, of transition economies exceeds that of mature market economies. This ‘advantage’ comes from structural factors: sectoral imbalances of growth and shifts in sectoral composition of GDP. Furthermore, among transition economies those with relatively higher structural flexibility can sustain relatively higher debt-to-GDP ratios. How much debt relative to GDP a country can sustain is shown to be highly context specific and depends on the economic structure, composition of growth, structural flexibility, and the prevailing incentives for restructuring. But should a country carry a high debt level relative to GDP just because it can? The paper answers this question by distinguishing between two categories of transition economies: Those that could and should and those that could but should not exploit their capacity to sustain high debt levels.
P24|Varieties of economic growth regimes, types of macroeconomic policies and policy regimes: a post-Keynesian analysis|In this innovative book, Hideko Magara brings together an expert team to explore both the possibilities and difficulties of transitioning from a neoliberal policy regime to an alternative regime through drastic policy innovations. The authors argue that, for more than two decades, citizens in developed countries have witnessed massive job losses, lowered wages, slow economic growth and widening inequality under a neoliberal policy regime that has placed heavy constraints on policy choices.
P24|Раздел 2. Денежно-Кредитная И Бюджетная Сферы|В 2013 г. инфляция оказалась выше целевого диапазона (5–6%), установленного на 2013 г. в соответствии с «Основными направлениями денежно-кредитной политики ЦБ РФ на 2013–2015 гг.», и составила 6,5%. В среднем в январе – декабре 2013 г. денежная масса М2 росла с темпом 15,3% в годовом выражении и на 1 января 2014 г. составила 31404,7 млрд руб. Международные резервы за год снизились на 5% – до 509,6 млрд долл.
P24|INFLATION AND MONETARY POLICY IN January 2014|The consumer price index stood at 0.6% in January 2014 (1.0% in January 2013), rising 0.1 p.p. above the value recorded in December 2013. Inflation reached 6.1% at the end of 12 months. The consumer price index stood at 0.5% within the first 17 days in February 2014. Net capital outflow from the country reached $16,6bn in Q4 2013 to a total of $64,7bn, reaching a total of $64,7bn within 12 months.
P24|INFLATION AND MONETARY POLICY IN December 2013|The consumer price index stood at 0.5% in December 2013 (0.5% in December 2012), having declined 0.1 p.p. below the value observed in November 2013. As a result, inflation reached 6.5% at the end of the 12-month period. The consumer price index stood at 0.4% within the first 20 days in January 2014. Net capital outflow from the country reached $16,6bn in Q4 2013 and totaled $64,7bn within 12 months, based on the Bank of Russia’s preliminary estimates.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In February2014|The consumer price index stood at 0.7% (0.6% in February 2013) in February 2014, rising 0.1 p.p. above the value recorded in January 2014. As a result, inflation stood at 6.2% at the end of a 12-month period. The consumer price index reached 0.7% within 24 days in March 2014. The Bank of Russia made a decision on March 3, 2014 to provisionally raise the key interest rate from 5.5% to 7% p.a. with a view to preventing the threat of financial instability and inflation growth.
P24|INFLATION AND MONETARY POLICY IN March 2014|In March 2014, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) amounted to 1% (vs. 0.3% in March 2013), which represents a 0.3 p.p. rise on February 2014. As a result, the inflation rate in per annum terms, as seen by the results of the past 12 months, rose to about 6.9%. Over the period from 1 April through 21 April, the CPI climbed to 0.3%. On 3 March 2014, the Bank of Russia temporarily increased the key rate from 5.5% to 7% per annum. On 25 April 2014, Russia’s financial regulator again increased the key rate, to 7.5% per annum, thus continuing the toughening of monetary policy.
P24|Development Trends In Russia’S Oil & Gas Sector|In 2013, oil production in Russia reached its highest level since 1990 while exports of crude oil and refi ned products reached its highest-ever level in response to high prices of crude oil in global markets. However, a trend towards slower growth rates and worsening of oil and gas production conditions was observed. The recently adopted laws and regulations concerning tax incentives for the development of new oil and gas fi elds and hardtorecover reserves, liberalization of export of liquefi ed natural gas, as well as a long-term gas contract with China, create conditions for further development of the Russian oil and gas sector.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In April 2014|In April 2014, the consumer price index stood at 0.9% (0.5% in April 2013), 0.1 p.p. down the value observed in March 2014. Therefore, inflation stood at 7.3% at the end of 12-month period. The consumer price index reached 0.5% for the fi rst 19 days in May 2014. The regulator further tightened the monetary policy by increasing the key interest rate to 7.5% p.a. on April 25, 2014.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In May 2014|In May 2014, the consumer price index stood at 0.9% (0.7% in May 2013), being equal to the value observed in the previous month. Therefore, infl a?? on stood at 7.6% at the end of the 12-month period. The consumer price index reached 0.4% within 23 days in June 2014. as of June 1, 2014 banks’ debt owed to the regulator amounted to Rb 5.02 trillion. In May 2014, the value of the dual-currency basket contracted by 3% to Rb 40.4 and further declined by 3.2% to Rb 39.3 at the end of 27 days in June 2014.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In June 2014|In June 2014, the consumer price index stood at 0.6% (0.4% in June 2013), 0.3 p.p slightly below the value observed in May 2014. Therefore, inflation stood at 7.8% at the end of the 12-month period. The consumer price index reached 0.5% within 21 days in July 2014. As of July 1, 2014, banks’ debt owed to the regulator amounted to Rb 5,4 trillion. On July 25, 2014, the Bank of Russia kept tightening the monetary policy, litiing the key interest rate from 7.5% to 8% p.a.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In July 2014|The consumer price index stood at 0.5% in July 2014 (0.8% in July 2013), down by 0.1 p.p compared to the value observed in June 2014. Therefore, inflation stood at 7.5% on an annualized basis. The consumer price index reached 0.2% within 25 days in August. The Bank of Russia Board of Directors decided on July 25 to tighten the monetary policy. The baseline interest rate was lifted to 8% from 7.5% p.a.
P24|Trends In Russia’S Oil And Gas Sector Development|In 2014, Russia continues to display upward trends in the oil extraction sector and petroleum product exports. In recent months, world prices of oil have been on the decline. Over the period of August–September 2014, the USA, the European Union and some other countries introduced economic sanctions against Russia’s oil and gas sector, which may potentially result in serious constraints on its future development. However, the actual negative eff ect of these sanctions will strongly depend on the length of the period of their realization. Should that period turn out to be short, the resulting negative eff ect will be rather limited; otherwise, oil output in this country may drop, thus bringing down government revenue.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In August 2014|The consumer price index stood at 0.2% in August 2014 (0.1% in August 2013), 0.3 p.p. lower than the value observed in the preceding month. Therefore, inflation stood at 7.6% on an annualized basis. The consumer price index reached 0.5% within the fi rst 22 days in September 2014. Banks’ repo debt in August dropped by 10.3% to Rb 2,43 trillion while debt on loans secured by non-market assets reached Rb 2,73 trillion, up 7.1%. Rapid growth in volume of the regulator’s loans secured by non-market assets of commercial banks is associated with the depletion of the collateral for repo transactions.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In September 2014|The consumer price index stood at 0.7% in October 2014 (0.2% in September 2013), 0.5 p.p. higher than the value observed in August this year. Therefore, inflation increased to 8.0% on an annualized basis. The consumer price index reached 0.7% within the fi rst 20 days of October. On September 20 the Bank of Russia for the fi rst time provided commercial banks with $581,4m of foreign currency through foreign exchange swap operations. The operations are intended to increase commercial banks’ capability to manage their short-term foreign exchange liquidity.
P24|Inflation And Monetary Policy In October 2014|The consumer price index stood at 0.8% in October 2014 (0.6% in October 2013), 0.1 p.p. higher than the value observed in September. As a result, inflation boosted up to 8.3% at an annualized rate. The consumer price index reached 1.0% as of the 24th day of November. The Bank of Russia decided the 10th of November to discontinue the existing exchange rate formation mechanism, abandoning the interval of allowed values for the euro-dollar basket and regular interventions within currency trading band boundaries and beyond.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В ноябре 2013 г. индекс потребительских цен, как и в октябре текущего года, составил 0,6% (0,3% в ноябре 2012 г.). В результате инфляция в годовом выражении по итогам 11 месяцев превысила 6,5%. За первые 16 дней декабря ИПЦ составил 0,3%. Несмотря на замедление экономической активности, ЦБ РФ пока не снижает целевую процентную ставку.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В декабре 2013 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,5% (0,5% в декабре 2012 г.), оказавшись ниже аналогичного показателя в ноябре текущего года на 0,1 п.п. В результате инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев достигла 6,5%. За первые 20 дней января ИПЦ составил 0,4%. По предварительной оценке Банка России, чистый отток капитала из страны в IV квартале 2013 г. достиг 16,6 млрд долл. США, а в целом за 12 месяцев – 64,7 млрд долл..
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В январе 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,6% (1,0% в январе 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя декабря 2013 г. на 0,1 п.п. Инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев достигла 6,1%. За первые 17 дней февраля ИПЦ составил 0,5%. По предварительной оценке Банка России, чистый отток капитала из страны в IV квартале 2013 г. находился на уровне 16,6 млрд долл., а в целом за 12 месяцев достиг 64,7 млрд долл.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В феврале 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,7% (0,6% в феврале 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя января 2014 г. на 0,1 п.п. В результате инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев составила 6,2%. За 24 дня марта ИПЦ достиг 0,7%. Банк России 3 марта 2014 г. принял решение о временном повышении ключевой ставки с 5,5% до 7% годовых с целью предотвращения угроз финансовой нестабильности и роста инфляции.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В марте 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 1% (0,3% в марте 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя февраля 2014 г. на 0,3 п.п. В результате инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев оказалась на уровне 6,9%. За 21 день апреля ИПЦ достиг 0,6%. Банк России 3 марта 2014 г. принял решение о временном повышении ключевой ставки процента с 5,5 до 7% годовых, а 25 апреля 2014 г. Регулятор продолжил ужесточение денежно-кредитной политики, увеличив ключевую ставку до 7,5% годовых.
P24|Тенденции Развития Нефтегазового Сектора|В 2013 г. при сохранении высоких мировых цен на нефть ее добыча в России достигла Maksimального уровня за период с 1990 г., а экспорт нефти и нефтепродуктов достиг исторического Maksimума. Вместе с тем наблюдается замедление темпов роста производства нефти и газа и ухудшение условий их добычи. Принятые законодательные решения по налоговому стимулированию разработки новых месторождений и трудноизвлекаемых запасов, по либерализации экспорта сжиженного природного газа, а также заключение долгосрочного газового контракта с Китаем создают условия для дальнейшего развития российского нефтегазового сектора..
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В апреле 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен равнялся 0,9% (0,5% в апреле 2013 г.), оказавшись ниже аналогичного показателя в марте 2014 г. на 0,1 п.п. В результате инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев составила 7,3%. За 19 дней мая ИПЦ достиг 0,5%. 25 апреля 2014 г. регулятор продолжил ужесточение денежно-кредитной политики, увеличив ключевую ставку до 7,5% годовых.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В мае 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,9% (0,7% в мае 2013 г.), оказавшись равным аналогичному показателю месяцем ранее. В результате инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев составила 7,6%. За 23 дня июня ИПЦ достиг 0,4%. По состоянию на 1 июня 2014 г. задолженность банков перед регулятором составила 5,02 трлн руб. Стоимость бивалютной корзины в мае уменьшилась на 3% до 40,4 руб., а по итогам 27 дней июня – еще на 3,2% до 39,3 руб.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В июне 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,6% (0,4% в июне 2013 г.), оказавшись ниже аналогичного показателя мая на 0,3 п.п. В результате инфляция по итогам 12 месяцев составила 7,8%. За 21 день июля ИПЦ достиг 0,5%. По состоянию на 1 июля 2014 г. задолженность банков перед регулятором достигла 5,4 трлн руб. 25 июля Банк России продолжил ужесточение денежно-кредитной политики, увеличив ключевую ставку с 7,5 до 8% годовых.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В июле 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,5% (0,8% в июле 2013 г.), оказавшись ниже аналогичного показателя июня на 0,1 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении составила 7,5%. За 25 дней августа ИПЦ достиг 0,2%. 25 июля Совет директоров Банка России принял решение об ужесточении денежно-кредитной политики. Ключевая ставка процента была повышена с 7,5% годовых до 8% годовых.
P24|Тенденции Развития Нефтегазового Сектора|В 2014 г. в России сохраняются тенденции роста добычи нефти и увеличения экспорта нефтепродуктов. В последние месяцы произошло снижение мировых цен на нефть. В августе-сентябре т.г. США, ЕС и рядом других стран по отношению к российскому нефтегазовому сектору были введены экономические санкции, потенциально способные серьезно ограничить его развитие. Негативное влияние данных санкций будет, однако, в решающей степени определяться продолжительностью их применения. Если срок санкций будет непродолжительным, их негативный эффект окажется достаточно ограниченным, в противном случае возможно снижение добычи нефти в стране и сокращение государственных доходов.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В августе 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,2% (0,1% в августе 2013 г.), оказавшись ниже аналогичного показателя июля на 0,3 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении составила 7,6%. За 22 дня сентября ИПЦ достиг 0,5%. Задолженность банков по сделкам РЕПО в августе снизилась на 10,3% и составила 2,43 трлн руб., задолженность по кредитам, обеспеченным нерыночными активами, достигла 2,73 трлн руб., увеличившись на 7,1%. Стремительный рост объемов кредитования регулятором коммерческих банков под залог нерыночных активов связан с исчерпанием залоговой базы для проведения сделок РЕПО.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В сентябре 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,7% (0,2% в сентябре 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя августа на 0,5 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении поднялась до 8,0%. За 20 дней октября ИПЦ достиг 0,7%. 30 сентября Банк России впервые предоставил коммерческим банкам валюту в размере 581,4 млн долл. через операции «валютный своп». Данные операции направлены на расширение возможностей банков по управлению краткосрочной валютной ликвидностью.
P24|Инфляция И Денежно-Кредитная Политика|В октябре 2014 г. индекс потребительских цен составил 0,8% (0,6% в октябре 2013 г.), оказавшись выше аналогичного показателя сентября на 0,1 п.п. В результате инфляция в годовом выражении поднялась до 8,3%. За 24 дня ноября ИПЦ достиг 1,0%. 10 ноября Банк России принял решение об упразднении дей- ствовавшего механизма курсообразования, отменив интервал допустимых значений стоимости бива- лютной корзины и регулярные интервенции на границах операционного интервала и за его пределами.
P24|Explaining money demand in China during the transition from a centrally planned to a market-based monetary system| Fundamental changes in institutions during the transition from a centrally planned to a market economy present a formidable challenge to monetary policy decision makers. For the case of China, we examine the institutional changes in the monetary system during the process of transition and develop money demand functions that reflect these institutional changes. We consider seasonal unit roots and estimate long-run, equilibrium money demand functions, explicitly taking into consideration the changes in the institutional characteristics of China's financial system. Using a newly compiled dataset that covers an unprecedentedly long period, 1984-2010, with quarterly frequency, we are able to draw conclusions on the transitions in households', firms' and aggregate money demand, on the role of the credit plan and interest rates, on the mechanisms of macroeconomic control during economic transition, and on theoretical questions in the development and money literature.
P24|Modelo VEC para la estimación de inflación bursátil: Evidencia empírica en mercados norteamericanos|El presente trabajo estudia los efectos de cambios en la base monetaria y tasas de interés sobre los precios de las acciones en los mercados norteamericanos. La presente investigación considera cuatro series de tiempo: La primera variable a considerar se denomina como Índice Bursátil Ajustado, el cual se construyó a partir de datos de más de 5900 empresas pertenecientes a NYSE1, NASDAQ2 o AMEX3; para posteriormente identificar un proxy4 de inflación bursátil mediante la corrección de este índice por la cantidad de acciones disponibles del índice en cuestión en cada punto del tiempo analizado. Adicionalmente, se utilizaron los datos sobre capitalización de mercado para medir el crecimiento del valor de las empresas pertenecientes al índice, y datos sobre la emisión de base monetaria para establecer causalidad y las relaciones necesarias con el índice bursátil corregido. Finalmente, la última variable considerada es la tasa de interés real, la cual fue aproximada a través de los rendimientos de las Letras del Tesoro de USA con vencimiento a un año. Los resultados son congruentes con la hipótesis de Modigliani Cohn formulada en 1979, que sugiere que el mercado de valores extrapola incorrectamente los índices de crecimiento de precios pasado sin tomar en cuenta el impacto de la inflación en el tiempo [1]. Se logró verificar una correlación negativa entre incrementos de tasas de interés y el decremento de los precios de las acciones en diferentes rezagos temporales, lo que sugiere la existencia de inflación bursátil. Así mismo, se logró estimar un modelo VEC para la estimación del precio del índice bursátil a través de información histórica no contemporánea sobre la base monetaria y la capitalización de mercado
P24|Evaluating the effects of monetary policy shocks on aggregate demand components in GCC countries: evidence from svar|In this research, for the first time effects of monetary policy shocks on aggregate demand components with a baseline of structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) models are evaluated in GCC countries. SVAR Results explain, when fix capital formation included in model, contemporaneous coefficients indicate that in most countries (except Kuwait) the interest rate responds positively to unexpected increase in monetary aggregate. The opposite side of the story is also true, broad money decreases with an unexpected increase in an interest rate. Furthermore, monetary policy interest rate (except Kuwait) especially between 1 to 4 years has the more effect on investment compare to other components of GDP in the case of GCC states. For GCC states, findings indicate that investment is the first while GDP is second component variable that are mostly affected by monetary policy shocks. Most effects of monetary policy on investment are seen in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Oman.
P24|Inflation, Income Inequality and Economic Growth in Pakistan: A Cointegration Analysis|The study is an attempt to explore the impact of inflation and income inequality in Pakistan. The study also analyzes the effect of foreign direct investment, workers’ remittances and manufacturing value added on growth. Annual time series data from 1972 to 2007 was used for the analysis. After finding all of the time series stationary at first difference, Johansen cointegration approach and vector error correction models are applied for the long run and short run analysis, respectively. The cointegration test results confirmed growth increasing impact of income inequality in Pakistan. Foreign direct investment, remittances and manufacturing valued added are found to have positives and significant impact on growth in Pakistan. The study also suggests some policy implications.
P24|Del concepto de crecimiento económico al de desarrollo y bienestar de las naciones: Una aplicación a la Unión Europea<BR>[From economic growth to development and welfare of nations: An application to the European Union]|In this paper, the attributes and variables that characterize the development and welfare of rich countries (EU27) are reviewed. The relationship between the wealth levels and some estimates using synthetic indices of social development is analyzed (SDI). For this purpose, we firstly use the indicators estimated by UNDP. Afterwards, we turn to complementary estimators using UNDP methodology and multivariate statistical methods (factor analysis and distance P2). Our main conclusion is that there is a mismatch between per capita GDP and social development indicators. This fact justifies a review of the key instruments used for assessing and comparing the levels of economic welfare. En este trabajo se revisan los atributos y variables que caracterizan el desarrollo y bienestar social en países de elevado nivel de riqueza (UE27). Se analiza la relación entre su posición en términos de riqueza material y la derivada de distintas estimaciones de índices sintéticos de desarrollo social (IDS). Para ello se utilizan, en primer lugar, los indicadores estimados por el PNUD. A continuación recurrimos a estimadores complementarios mediante la propia metodología PNUD y métodos estadísticos multivariantes y de distancias (análisis factorial y distancia P2). Nuestra conclusión principal es que el nivel de PIB per cápita y el de desarrollo social se muestran desacoplados, lo que justifica y motiva una revisión de los instrumentos dominantes a la hora de evaluar y comparar en el tiempo y el espacio los niveles de bienestar económico.
P24|The Impact of Socio-Economic Factors on Life Expectancy for Sultanate of Oman: An Empirical Analysis|This paper has investigated the impact of food production, school enrollment, inflation, population growth, per capita income and CO2 emissions on life expectancy for Sultanate of Oman. Time series data is used from 1970 to 2012. For examining the cointegration among the variables Autoregressive distributed (ARDL) lag approach is used. The estimated results reveal that food production, school enrollment has positive and significant relationship with life expectancy for Sultanate of Oman. On the other hand, inflation and per capita income has negative but insignificant relationship with life expectancy for Sultanate of Oman. The results show population growth has negative and significant relationship with life expectancy of Sultanate of Oman. In long run CO2 emissions has positive and insignificant relationship with life expectancy but in short run it has negative and significant relationship with life expectancy. The findings suggest that government of Sultanate of Oman should seriously check these socio-economic factors for increasing life expectancy.
P24|The Impact of Socio-Economic Factors on Life Expectancy for Sultanate of Oman: An Empirical Analysis|This paper has investigated the impact of food production, school enrollment, inflation, population growth, per capita income and CO2 emissions on life expectancy for Sultanate of Oman. Time series data is used from 1970 to 2012. For examining the cointegration among the variables Autoregressive distributed (ARDL) lag approach is used. The estimated results reveal that food production, school enrollment has positive and significant relationship with life expectancy for Sultanate of Oman. On the other hand inflation and per capita income has negative but insignificant relationship with life expectancy for Sultanate of Oman. The results show population growth has negative and significant relationship with life expectancy of Sultanate of Oman. In long run CO2 emissions has positive and insignificant relationship with life expectancy but in short run it has negative and significant relationship with life expectancy. The findings suggest that government of Sultanate of Oman should seriously check these socio-economic factors for increasing life expectancy.
P24|Wachstumsbeschleunigung dank Investitionswende in Mittel-, Ost- und Südosteuropa|Das Wirtschaftswachstum wird sich in den mittel-, ost- und südosteuropäischen Ländern (MOSOEL) 2014 bis 2016 verstärken und durchschnittlich 2% bis 3% erreichen. Wesentlicher Wachstumsimpuls ist eine Wende in den öffentlichen und privaten Investitionen.
P24|On Thin Ice: CESEE Core Resilient in the Face of EU Stagnation and the Ukraine Crisis|Summary Despite near stagnation in the euro area and the negative impact of the Ukraine crisis, in most of the NMS economies and some of the Western Balkan countries growth prospects are viewed as positive. While the NMS economies will preserve their positive growth differential vis-à-vis the EU-28, Russia and Ukraine are facing a deterioration of their economic performance. External factors have had a major impact on growth performance in the CESEE region. Financial transfers from the EU have lent essential support to economic growth in the European Union’s new Member States (NMS). Investment and operational costs funded via those transfers have become an integral and increasingly important part of aggregate demand in the NMS economies. 2013 and 2014 have been among the strongest years in terms of transfers in the framework of the EU cohesion policy. Their impact is comparable to that of fiscal stimuli, albeit better inasmuch as they do not give rise to new debt. A possible disadvantage compared to classic fiscal stimuli is that transfers have no steerable relation to business cycles. In the eastern part of the CESEE region, the Ukraine conflict has had a pronounced negative impact on economic growth. 25 years after the fall of the Iron Curtain, the current crisis in relations between Russia and the West is evolving into a dangerous geopolitical conflict. In Ukraine, the main victim of the conflict, the economy may decline by 8% over the current year. In Russia, the costs of the conflict are estimated to be to the tune of about 1% of GDP, primarily on account of increased investment risks and the financial sanctions. The impact on the individual EU countries differs according to their exposure to the Russian market. The Baltic States and some other NMS will be those most affected on account of their trade channels with estimated losses in the order of up to 0.4% of GDP. The global financial crisis has shattered the rapid expansion of financial intermediation in nearly all of the countries in the region; recovery of crediting activities is still fragmentary and weak. High levels of non-performing loans are a major concern throughout much of the region. There seems to be a justified concern over the region having entered a period of ‘creditless recovery’ which threatens to be much slower than a recovery with strong credit growth. The outlook for GDP growth in the CESEE region is again fairly diversified. Compared to 2013, the growth performance is expected to improve in twelve and deteriorate in nine of the twenty-one countries in the region in 2014. The general medium-term trend for the NMS as a whole is seen to be positive in most of these countries, we expect a gradual acceleration of GDP growth; exceptions are Hungary and Slovenia where a deceleration is forecast, and Poland where the relatively high GDP growth rate will remain practically unchanged. For the current year, the assumption is that the NMS will grow by 1.8 percentage points higher than expansion in the euro area and 1.3 pp above the EU-28 average. In 2015, the gap in favour of NMS growth performance will become somewhat narrower 1.5 pp relative to the euro area and 1.1 pp to the EU-28 average. For some of the countries in the Western Balkans, growth prospects will only improve over the period 2015-2016, closely related to the damage caused by the floods this summer. Turkey will continue to register remarkable economic growth. Growth performance in Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine will worsen in the current year compared to 2013; the medium-term outlook in Russia and Ukraine is, depending on the evolution of the political crisis, fairly uncertain with considerable downward risks. As for our forecasts for 2015 and 2016, a further weakening of performance in the euro area poses a downward risk, while a longer lasting drop in oil prices will represent an upward risk, except for energy exporters Russia and Kazakhstan.
P24|Investment to the Rescue|The Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies (wiiw) expects GDP in Central, East and Southeast Europe (CESEE) to pick up speed and grow on average by 2-3% over the forecast period 2014-2016 a major driving force rooted in an upward reversal of public and private investment. The question remains, however, whether investment-led growth in the CESEE countries is merely a statistical base effect of a few replacement investments or an indication of a profound paradigmatic shift. Increasing evidence suggests the latter for a number of reasons. During the ongoing economic crisis, public investment was severely reduced. However, in times of extreme uncertainty, the private sector is hesitant to invest. Hence, the public sector has to take the lead. It seems that the time for action has now come. This holds especially true for the New Member States, where towards the end of the previous year additional efforts were made to raise the absorption rate of the funds allocated within the context of the EU multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013 that was about to come to a close. Over the remaining disbursement period of the biennium 2014-2015 substantially higher amounts of EU-funded investment are to be expected. Given that, in practically all cases, national co-financing is also required, CESEE public capital investment will increase, with private investors likely following in its slipstream. Apart from a number of transport infrastructure projects, a host of thermal power plant projects are in the pipeline, as are several major investments in the construction and expansion of nuclear power plants across the region. Apart from public and semi-public infrastructure investment initiatives that have the potential to spur subsequent private investment, improving growth prospects in the euro area, the CESEE economies’ main trading partner, are likely to encourage export industries in the region to modernise and increase their capital stock. This should help avert a lapse into a deflationary spiral and foster a shift towards better equilibrium with lower unemployment rates over the medium term. However, substantial downward risks include possible effects from the current Russia-Ukraine conflict; in particular the interruption of energy supplies, potential trade embargoes or additional interest rate risk premia. All this could adversely affect investment-led growth in CESEE.
P24|Interaction Between Real And Monetary Sectors Of The Economy In Terms Of Economic Instability|This paper is a continuation of an article dedicated to the analysis of monetary policy shocks in the context of the interest rate channel operation in the Republic of Moldova during 2001-2012. This work represents the elaboration of the error correction model, which includes the relationship between the base rate and monetary aggregate M3 and inflation. The analysis, based on interaction and equilibration between the indicators in the real and monetary sector – is relevant in the current conditions of economic instability. As international practice of advanced economies show, there is strong correlation between the level of development of the (monetary) financial sector and economic growth, which is associated with such phenomena as: economic cyclicity, inflation. The present paper proposes the analysis of some transmission effects of monetary shocks, in the context of interaction mechanism of real and monetary sector of the economy. The main analysis and conclusions are based on the implementation of correlation tests, granger causality tests, analysis of variance decomposition of forecast and error correction model
P24|Are the inflations of world co-integrated?|The hike in prices to any product and/or service is the common man’s fright. Inflation has faced upheavals regardless of the countries around the world. This study has specifically quantified the co- movement of inflation rates of different countries around the globe. Johansen Co-integration was used to analyze the co-movements of the inflation rates of the selected world regions divided as South Asia, North Asia, Africa, Middle East, South America, North America, Central America, Europe and Australia. The results revealed that co-movements of inflation rates prevails in North Asia, Africa, Middle East, North America, Central America, Europe and Australia whereas; South Asia and South America’s co-movements in regards to inflation rates was not found. This simply depicts that the territorial inflation levels in most of the economies shift mutually all around the globe and most of the countries are absorbing the inflationary trends from each other regardless of political, social, technological diversity. But in few nations despite of their symmetric socio-economic nature the inflationary trends are asymmetric.
P24|Monetary policy regimes in CIS economies and their ability to provide price and financial stability|Achieving price stability has been a serious challenge for CIS countries. In the first half of the 1990s, they experienced very high inflation or hyperinflation, which had originated in the perestroika period and following the dissolution of the ruble area. After the introduction of new currencies and stabilization programs in the mid-1990s, inflation moderated to two-digit levels. However, for lack of sufficient fiscal policy support, this partial progress did not succeed in preventing the financial crisis of 1998/99. The economic boom of the 2000s allowed for a return to macroeconomic stability with stronger fiscal fundamentals, but nevertheless proved insufficient to withstand the shock from the global financial crisis of 2008/09. The paper analyses the evolution monetary policy regimes of in the CIS countries over the decade of the 2000s and early 2010s and is based on the publicly available cross-country statistics and other information provided by the IMF. The paper compares financial openness in these economies both de jure and de facto. These findings will be tested against the empirical data on exchange rate movements and changes in central banks' international reserves. The paper concludes with a discussion on practical choices which CIS countries have in respect of their future monetary policy regimes. Keywords: monetary policy, CIS, financial openness, inflation JEL: E42, E58, P24, P52
P24|Understanding Money Demand in the Transition from a Centrally Planned to a Market Economy|Fundamental changes in institutions during the transition from a centrally planned to a market economy present a formidable challenge to monetary policy decision makers. For the case of China, we examine the institutional changes in the monetary system during the process of transition and develop money demand functions that reflect these institutional changes. We consider seasonal unit roots and estimate long run, equilibrium money demand functions, explicitly taking into consideration the changes in the institutional characteristics of China's financial system. Using a newly compiled dataset that covers an unprecedented long time period of 1984-2010 at the quarterly frequency, we are able to draw conclusions on the transitions in households', firms', and aggregate money demand, on the role of the credit plan and interest rates, on the mechanisms of macroeconomic control during economic transition, and on theoretical questions in the development and money literature.
P24|Inflation forecasting in the new EU Member States|To the best of our knowledge, our paper is the first systematic study of the predictive power of monetary aggregates for future inflation for the cross section of New EU Member States. This paper provides stylized facts on monetary versus non-monetary (economic and fiscal) determinants of inflation in these countries as well as formal econometric evidence on the forecast performance of a large set of monetary and nonmonetary indicators. The forecast evaluation results suggest that, as has been found for other countries before, it is difficult to find models that significantly outperform a simple benchmark, especially at short forecast horizons. Nevertheless, monetary indicators are found to contain useful information for predicting inflation at longer (3-year) horizons. JEL Classification: C53, E31, E37, E51, E52, E62, P24
P24|Monetary policy, asset prices and consumption in China|This paper studies the wealth channel in China. Using the structural vector autoregression method, we find that a loosening of China’s monetary policy indeed leads to higher asset prices, which in turn are linked to household consumption. However, the importance of the wealth channel as a part of the monetary policy transmission mechanism in China is still limited. JEL Classification: E52, P24
