P25|Working Paper 312 - Quality Homes for Sustainable Malaria Prevention in Africa|Using the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) data from 8 African countries, among the top 10 countries with the highest malaria cases, accounting for 87% of malaria incidence cases in Africa, we analyze the impact of housing quality and the usual malaria prevention measures on malaria incidence among children under 5 years old. First, we investigate the potential correlation between malaria incidence and the quality of housing materials. Secondly, using OLS, two-stage least squares and Poisson regression, we estimate the marginal effects of housing quality on the incidence of malaria. The results can be summarized in four points. (i) The statistical analysis results show a substantial correlation between housing quality and the incidence of malaria. We found 8 percentage points lower rate of incidence among children living in houses constructed with improved materials than those in houses with poor quality materials. (ii) We also found that it is not only the physical characteristic of homes that matters, having good sanitation is associate with lower malaria incidence, with a total difference of 10 and 4 percentage points compared to those with less improved toilet facility and poor-quality drinking water respectively. (iii) An improvement in the overall housing quality leads to a significant reduction in the incidence of malaria among children under 5 years old. Explicitly, an improvement from the first percentile measure of housing quality to the 50th percentile leads to a 32% reduction in the number of malaria cases among children under age-five. In other words, if one improves the housing quality of poorer households to the national average, and keeping other factors constant, the number of malaria cases will drop by 50%. (iv) For both groups of households, those that use mosquito bed nets and those who use insecticide as means of preventing malaria, the results show that improved housing quality complements bed nets and insecticides. As housing quality improves, the role of the two preventives become smaller and smaller. Keywords: Malaria, Housing quality, indoor intervention, IV regression, marginal plot. JEL classification: I18; P25; B23
P25|Economía del desarrollo en Colombia. análisis de las coincidencias entre el paradigma propuesto por Rubén D. Utria y el enfoque de Amartya sen en las instituciones y libertades instrumentales|El desarrollo es un fenómeno complejo y dinámico que se refiere al proceso de transformación y evolución de las instituciones y los sistemas por medio de los cuales los individuos de un país se relacionan tanto con sus compatriotas como con las personas del resto del mundo. El enfoque económico predominante ha relegado a un segundo plano el análisis de variables importantes para el estudio del desarrollo, como lo son: el nivel de escolaridad media, la calidad del aire, el nivel de desigualdad, el nivel de confianza, el riesgo político de corrupción dentro de entidades gubernamentales, entre otros. El presente ensayo busca, apoyándose en los aportes teóricos de Amartya Sen y Ruben Darío Utria, analizar el desarrollo en Colombia desde una perspectiva más completa que la ofrecida por la teoría económica tradicional, la cual ha confundido el desarrollo con crecimiento y ha tratado de cuantificar el nivel de desarrollo de los países por medio del Producto Interno Bruto (PIB) per cápita. *** Development is a complex and dynamic phenomenon that refers to the process of transformation and evolution of institutions and systems through which individuals in a country relate both to their compatriots and people in the rest of the world. The dominant economic approach has relegated to the background the analysis of essential variables for the study of development, such as the average level of schooling, air quality, level of inequality, consumer confidence, the political risk of corruption within government entities, among others. The present essay seeks, based on the theoretical contributions of Amartya Sen and Ruben Darío Utria, aims to analyze development in Colombia from a more complete perspective than that offered by traditional economic theory, which has confused development with growth and has tried to quantify the level of development of countries through the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita.
P25|Los polos de desarrollo de François Perroux en el modelo de regionalización para Colombia (1969-1972)|Con la creación del Modelo de regionalización en el capitulo para el desarrollo urbano y regional del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1969-1972, una buena parte de la teoría de François Perroux llega a Colombia bajo la dirección de Edgar Reveiz. Se encuentran al menos tres influencias claras de Perroux sobre las propuestas de política pública para Colombia. En primer lugar, el concepto de crecimiento desequilibrado y subdesarrollo se evidencia en el diagnóstico hecho en el plan sobre las desigualdades territoriales que afrontaba el país. En segundo lugar, la unidad motriz, efecto impulso y aglomeración se aplican en el Modelo de Regionalización en la selección de criterios para la identificación de industrias motrices. Finalmente, la definición de desarrollo que propone Perroux, como aquellos cambios sociales y mentales de la población para crear un crecimiento sostenible, se ve inmersa en la esencia del Modelo de regionalización en el sentido de la identificación de polos de desarrollo para Colombia. *** With the creation of the Regionalization Model in the chapter for the urban and regional development of the National Development Plan 1969-1972, a good part of François Perroux’ theory arrives in Colombia under the direction of Edgar Reveiz. There are at least three clear influences of Perroux on the proposals of public policy for Colombia. Firstly, the concept of unbalanced growth and underdevelopment is evident in the diagnosis made in the plan of territorial inequalities faced by the country. Secondly, the driving unit, propulsive effect and agglomeration are applied in the Regionalization Model in the selection of criteria for the identification of propulsive industries. Finally, the definition of development proposed by Perroux, as those social and mental changes of the population to create sustainable growth, is immersed in the essence of the Regionalization Model in the sense of identifying development poles for Colombia.
P25|Skill Mismatch and Skill Transferability: Review of Concepts and Measurements|The notion of skills plays an increasingly important role in a variety of research fields. Since the foundational work on human capital theory, economists have approached skills through the lens of education, training and work experience, whereas early work in evolutionary economics and management stressed the analogy between skills of individuals and the organizational routines of firms. We survey how the concept of skills has evolved into notions such as skills mismatch, skill transferability and skill distance or skill relatedness in labor economics, management, and evolutionary approaches to economics and economic geography. We find that these disciplines converged in embracing increasingly sophisticated approaches to measuring skills. Economists have expanded their approach from quantifying skills in terms of years of education to measuring them more directly, using skill tests, self-reported skills and job tasks, or skills and job tasks reported by occupational experts. Others have turned to administrative and other large-scale data sets to infer skill similarities and complementarities from the careers of sometimes millions of workers. Finally, a growing literature on team human capital and skill complementarities has started thinking of skills as features of collectives, instead of only of individuals. At the same time, scholars in corporate strategy have studied the micro-determinants of team formation. Combined, the developments in both strands of research may pave the way to an understanding of how individual-level skills connect to firm-level routines.
P25|A communitarian definition of shared value rooted in local development studies and in the Olivettian experience|"This paper aims at introducing a variation on the concept of shared value originally proposed by Porter and Kramer (2011). The variation is based on a couple of suggestions provided by Becattini (2011) commenting on that concept: the first concerns the rooting of shared value in processes of local development, as those exemplified by successful industrial districts, where the business sphere and the local community are strictly integrated within place-based relations. The second suggestions is the mention of the experience of the Olivetti company and the Canavese area (Ivrea, Italy) in the first decades after WWII. Becattini described this experience as an uncommon situation of reconciliation between a corporate function of profit and the function of social utility of a place. Hence, our study entails two main steps. Firstly, a conceptual discussion will focus on 1. the relation between shared value and local development; 2. the underlying connection with the Olivettian experience and the theorization of the concept of ""community"" included in the writings of Adriano Olivetti; 3. some implicit relations between the communitarian views of Olivetti and Becattini. Secondly, the reassessment of the concept of shared value, and in particular the reference to the Olivettian experience seen as a paradigmatic and forerunning case, brings to the proposal of our variation. This is the definition of what we call a ""communitarian shared value"", taking its roots to logics that combine business strategies of shared value, communitarian relations and culture, and processes and policies of local development."
P25|Mover Stayer Winner Loser - A study of income effects from rural migration|The accepted rural-urban migration theory suggests that economic gains are made by moving from a rural to an urban area. Its premise is: “If you stay, you lose.” However, are losses still the rule? And, if so, how big is the economic loss once other factors are controlled for? In this paper, we specifically focus on the income effects of migration decisions among young individuals from rural areas, using microdata for Sweden. We find that, contrary to accepted theory, staying in a rural region most often is insignificant in relation to an individual’s income level. When taking housing values into account, it can even be financially beneficial for some to stay in a rural area. Only for highly educated individuals is it consistently financially beneficial to move to an urban area, also after controlling for housing costs.
P25|Retail and Place Attractiveness: The Effects of Big-box Entry on Property Values|Opponents of big-box entry argue that large retail establishments generate noise and other types of pollution and a variety of negative externalities associated with traffic. Big-box advocates, on the other hand, argue that access to a large retail market delivers not only direct economic benefits but also a variety of positive spillover effects and therefore can be considered a consumer amenity that increases the attractiveness of the entry location. To test the validity of these competing arguments, we use the entry of IKEA in Sweden as a quasi-experiment and empirically investigate whether increased access to retail affects place attractiveness, which is proxied by residential property values. We find that IKEA entry increases the prices of the properties sold in the entry cities by, on average, 4.4% or 60,425 SEK (approximately 6,400 USD), but this effect is statistically insignificant for the properties in the immediate vicinity of the new IKEA retail trade area. In addition, we observe an attenuation of the effect with distance from the new IKEA store and the associated retail trade area, where the properties located 10 km away experience a 2% price increase. Our results are in line with some previous findings regarding the effects of entry by Walmart or supermarket stores in the US and show that large retailers have the potential to increase place attractiveness, but perhaps not in the immediate vicinity of the new establishment.
P25|Retail and place attractiveness: The effects of big-box entry on property values|Opponents of big-box entry argue that large retail establishments generate noise and other types of pollution and a variety of negative externalities associated with traffic. Big-box advocates, on the other hand, argue that access to a large retail market delivers not only direct economic benefits but also a variety of positive spillover effects and therefore can be considered a consumer amenity that increases the attractiveness of the entry location. To test the validity of these competing arguments, we use the entry of IKEA in Sweden as a quasi-experiment and empirically investigate whether increased access to retail affects place attractiveness, which is proxied by residential property values. We find that IKEA entry increases the prices of the properties sold in the entry cities by, on average, 4.4% or 60,425 SEK (approximately 6,400 USD), but this effect is statistically insignificant for the properties in the immediate vicinity of the new IKEA retail trade area. In addition, we observe an attenuation of the effect with distance from the new IKEA store and the associated retail trade area, where the properties located 10 km away experience a 2% price increase. Our results are in line with some previous findings regarding the effects of entry by Walmart or supermarket stores in the US and show that large retailers have the potential to increase place attractiveness, but perhaps not in the immediate vicinity of the new establishment.
P25|Determinants of Regional Fertility in Russia : A Dynamic Panel Data Analysis|The aim of this paper is to empirically examine the regional determinants of fertility rate in Russia using panel data for the period of 2005–2015. The estimation results of a system GMM dynamic model revealed that economic growth, employment opportunity, favorable local business conditions, educational opportunity, quality of social infrastructure, and housing supply serve to increase the fertility rate in Russian regions, while the presence of a Slavic population, migration inflow, poverty and ecological risks tend to suppress it. Furthermore, we found that combinations of factors that strongly affect the reproductive behavior of Russian women vary greatly among age groups and regions. To mitigate the declining trend of fertility in Russia, it is necessary to implement policies that take generational differences and regional heterogeneity into serious consideration.
P25|現代中国における男女賃金格差: メタ分析による接近|本稿は，現代中国における男女賃金格差の真相に迫るべく，先行研究75点から抽出した629推定結果のメタ分析を試みた。その分析結果は，体制転換期における中国の男女賃金格差は，統計的に有意かつ経済的にも意味のある水準に達しているものの，資本主義先進諸国と比較すれば，相対的に低い水準に止まっていたことを明らかにした。しかし，同時に，同国では，都市部や国有企業部門よりも，農村部及び民間企業部門における賃金性差がより激しいという意味での，地域間・企業部門間格差が生じていることも合わせて判明した。更に，賃金の性別格差は，近年急激に拡大しており，この意味で，賃金水準から見た男女格差問題は，もはや先進諸国に比肩する程度の深刻度に達している可能性が高いと判断される。女性の社会進出を促進するために，中国政府は，性差別の解消に向けて，急ぎ適切な政策を打ち出す必要に迫られている。
P25|The Future of Cities: Opportunities, challenges and the way forward|This report is an initiative of the Joint Research Centre (JRC), the science and knowledge service of the European Commission (EC), and supported by the Commission's Directorate-General for Regional and Urban Policy (DG REGIO). It highlights drivers shaping the urban future, identifying both the key challenges cities will have to address and the strengths they can capitalise on to proactively build their desired futures. The main aim of this report is to raise open questions and steer discussions on what the future of cities can, and should be, both within the science and policymaker communities. While addressing mainly European cities, examples from other world regions are also given since many challenges and solutions have a global relevance. The report is particularly novel in two ways. First, it was developed in an inclusive manner â€“ close collaboration with the ECâ€™s Community of Practice on Cities (CoP-CITIES) provided insights from the broader research community and city networks, including individual municipalities, as well as Commission services and international organisations. It was also extensively reviewed by an Editorial Board. Secondly, the report is supported by an online â€˜livingâ€™ platform which will host future updates, including additional analyses, discussions, case studies, comments and interactive maps that go beyond the scope of the current version of the report. Steered by the JRC, the platform will offer a permanent virtual space to the research, practice and policymaking community for sharing and accumulating knowledge on the future of cities. This report is produced in the framework of the EC Knowledge Centre for Territorial Policies and is part of a wider series of flagship Science for Policy reports by the JRC, investigating future perspectives concerning Artificial Intelligence, the Future of Road Transport, Resilience, Cybersecurity and Fairness Interactive online platform: https://urban.jrc.ec.europa.eu/thefutureofcities
P25|Urban poverty: Theory and evidence from American cities|The concentrated poverty index, i.e. the proportion of a metro area's poor population living in extreme-poverty neighborhoods, is widely adopted as a policy-relevant measure of urban poverty. We challenge this view and develop a family of new indices of urban poverty that, differently from concentrated poverty measures, i) capture aspects of the incidence and distribution of poverty across neighborhoods and ii) are grounded on empirical evidence that living in a high-poverty neighborhood is detrimental for many dimensions of residents's well-being. We demonstrate that a parsimonious axiomatic model that incorporates these two aspects characterizes exactly one urban poverty index. We show that changes of this urban poverty index within the same city are additively decomposable into the contribution of demographic, convergence, re-ranking and spatial effects. We collect new evidence of heterogeneous patterns and trends of urban poverty across American metro areas over the last 35 years and use city characteristics to identify relevant drivers.
P25|Does homeownership hinder labor market activity? Evidence from housing privatization and restitution in Brno|We study the effects of homeownership on labor force participation and unemployment. We exploit housing privatization and restitution after the fall of communism as a source exogenous assignment of homeowner/renter status, using a unique dataset from the city of Brno, Czech Republic. We do not find any evidence of homeownership hindering labor force participation. In fact, our estimates suggest that homeownership reduces unemployment by four to six percentage points. Homeownership appears to decrease the risk of unemployment by about one third to one half, relative to renters. The estimated effects on labor force participation are systematically around zero.
P25|Realising regional potentials through better market integration in China|China’s regions have been experiencing impressive growth over the past decades, but their potentials could be better exploited by creating a single product and labour market. Local protectionism increases transaction costs and hinders competition, thereby taking a toll on productivity. Administrative monopolies have long thrived and are hard to dismantle. Restrictions on the hukou and the fragmented pension system limit labour mobility. Local regulations aim at, among other things, securing the collection of local taxes, without which cities could not afford to offer the same public services to migrants as to urbanites. Hence, dismantling local regulations and creating a single product and labour market needs to go hand-in-hand with the reform of inter-governmental finances. Recent measures on both the product and labour market front appear to aim at making up for the slow progress over the past decade or so. There are signs that these efforts are helping China’s regions at various levels to converge toward each other. Disparities are shrinking faster across provinces, compared to within provinces. Integration of product and labour markets will boost productivity over the medium-to long term by reducing transaction costs, but could potentially widen regional disparities, which are already relatively high. This will necessitate enhanced transfers and re-centralisation of the financing of spending in some key categories such as education and health. Policies to help catching up of laggard regions by better connectivity through infrastructure investment are bearing fruit, but such investments should be subject to rigorous cost-benefit criteria to enhance capital allocation efficiency and should take into account externalities. Notwithstanding significant disparities along multiple dimensions across provinces, inequalities, be it in terms of income, wealth or education, are actually most striking along the rural-urban dimension. The rural revitalisation strategy, a novel element of the 19th Party Congress outcomes, is expected to address this issue. The other recent strategy of nurturing the formation of city groups will also likely benefit rural areas in-between those cities.This Working Paper relates to the 2019 OECD Economic Survey of China (http://www.oecd.org/economy/china-economic-snapshot/).
P25|The Implications of Brexit for UK and EU Regional Competitiveness|Any form of Brexit will impact heterogeneously in terms of sectors and regions on the competitiveness of firms in both the UK and Europe. The ongoing uncertainty about the conditions under which the UK will be leaving the EU, creates difficulties in structurally estimating these impacts. Using uniquely-detailed interregional trade data on goods and services for the EU, we apply a novel methodology that disentangles region-sector sensitivities (elasticities) of firmsâ€™ competitiveness to (non)tariff barriers from the implications of different post-Brexit UK-EU trade scenarios. This enables us to derive the impact of Brexit on the competitiveness of firms along with the degree of uncertainty that surrounds these impacts, independently from the scenarios. Our analysis demonstrates that the adverse international competitiveness shocks on UK firms are much larger than those on the rest of the EU due to the dependency of the UK on the EU via global value chains. The competitiveness shocks mean that within the UK, Brexit is likely to increase both interregional inequalities and also intra-regional inequalities. In contrast interregional inequalities across Europe may actually fall, depending on the nature of the post-Brexit UK-EU trading arrangements.
P25|Relatedness, economic complexity and convergence across European regions|The aim of this paper is to analyze how the heterogeneous structure of the European regions has affected their patterns of convergence or divergence. We analyse data collected by Eurostat, from a balanced panel of 191 regions and 55 economic branches over the period 2003-2015. In this way, we are able to describe and capture technological proximity across the regions and analyse how it has evolved over space and time. Limiting the analysis to the manufacturing activities, we are also able to measure the degree of economic complexity of the regional production systems and assess how this affects their patterns of growth. Our findings suggest that there are pushing (enhancing convergence) and pulling (exacerbating economic gaps) forces to economic convergence. Spatial effects tend to push towards convergence, with the Eastern regions that started from relatively low levels of GDP per capita and experienced higher growth rates. Nevertheless, the different level of economic complexity tends to widen the gaps between territories: for example, the German regions, whose economic structures are more complex, have kept on widening the gap between themselves and the other European regions. The two different forces are also interconnected as the Eastern regions combine a relatively low level of GDP per capita with a significant level of economic complexity. During the period considered, the improvement in living standards has corresponded to the upgrade of their manufacturing production structures.
P25|Smart Cities Ability to Address Economic Challenges|Smart City is a multi-dimensional concept, which includes several disciplines such as social, economic, and technological sciences. By using smart city data, city authorities and stakeholders are able to explore opportunities to enhance quality of life, to improve economic conditions, and to provide better services. Smart city data and its indicators have been conventionally applied for three goals: (a) emphasizing current strengths of a community; (b) measuring smartness in existing cities; and (c) creating a new (smarter) city. This paper explores smart cities ability to overcome economic challenges within cities in three phases. The first phase studies the existing literature of smart cities, their criteria and indicators. The second phase reviews specific previous and ongoing projects in order to identify the multi-dimensional aspect of the concept. The last phase investigates a new practical perspective of smart cities, which addresses economic challenges. The outcome of this study is a unique conceptualization of smart cities in economic and social projects.
P25|EUREGIO: The construction of a global IO DATABASE with regional detail for Europe for 2000-2010|This paper introduces the EUREGIO database: the first time-series (annual, 2000-2010) of global IO tables with regional detail for the entire large trading bloc of the European Union. The construction of this database, which allows for regional analysis at the level of so-called NUTS2 regions, is presented in detail for its methodology and applications. The tables merge data from WIOD (the 2013 release) with, regional economic accounts, and interregional trade estimates developed by PBL Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency, complemented with survey-based regional input-output data for a limited number of countries. All used data are survey data and only non-behavioral assumptions have been made to estimate the EUREGIO dataset. These two general rules of data construction allow empirical analyses focused on impacts of changes in behavior (of economies, firms, policies) without endogenously having this behavior embedded already by construction. The tables are publicly available to the research community, from the Dutch government open data website. In this project, both a regional trade database, and production and consumption data of different actors in different regions, were used. The focus is thus intentionally on the regionalization of both trade and the regional use and supply of products by different economic actors. The paper is organized around the successive steps of the data construction: (1) adjustment of WIOD, (2) regional information, (3) Construction of tables, (4) conclusions on the usefulness of this type of regional IO tables with an overview of current applications of the EUREGIO database.
P25|Barriers to Entry and Regional Economic Growth in China|The non-state manufacturing sector has been the engine of China's economic transformation. Up through the mid-1990s, the sector exhibited large regional differences; subsequently we observe rapid convergence in terms of new firm start-up rates, productivity, and wages. To analyze the drivers of this behavior, we construct a Melitz (2003) model that incorporates location-specific capital wedges, output wedges, and a novel entry barrier. Using Chinese Industry Census data for 1995, 2004, and 2008, we estimate these wedges and examine their role in explaining differences in performance across prefectures and over time. Entry barriers turn out to be the salient friction for explaining performance differences. We investigate the empirical covariates of these entry barriers and find that barriers are causally related to the size of the state sector. Thus, the downsizing of the state sector after 1997 may be important in explaining the rapid manufacturing growth over the 1995-2008 period.
P25|Contrasted performances of renewable energy development in French regions|The energy transition towards low-carbon energies is today a dominant paradigm of public policies related to energy. This article aims to propose an inventory of the energy transition in France and more precisely to evaluate the performances of regions in terms of diversification of the energy mix. Multidimensional data analysis methods have been implemented. A typology of French regions relating to the regional development of the renewable energies (RE) in France in 2015 is proposed; it highlights the emergence of five typical profiles of RE development sharply contrasted according to RE sectors and regions. The various statistical models realized underlines the importance of economic factors (economic performance and sector specialization), demographic specificities and geographical characteristics to explain contrasted performances of renewable energy development in French regions. By contrast, environmental and political factors do not discriminate between the five types of RE development.
P25|Structural change and convergence across European regions|The aim of our paper is to analyze the structural diversity of the European regions assuming the complexity of production spaces approach (Hidalgo C.A., B. Klinger, A.L. Barabási, R. Hausmann 2007). This stream of economic literature is the natural companion of the evolutionary theory of economics, where development is seen as the endogenous learning process led by the initial knowledge basis, which tends to expand in its proximity (Boschma 2005). The first step of our analysis is to map the EU regions according to their economic structure. We exploit information conveyed by Eurostat data, which are available for a balanced panel of 241 regions and 86 economic branches in 2010 and 2015. In this way we are able to construct a space characterized by technological proximity of regions. The underlying assumption is that territories with similar production structures display similar production knowledge. The second step is the construction of the network space based on the correlation matrix. In order to obtain the clusters of regions based on the similarity of their economic structure, we apply a modularity algorithm to the network. Such measures define groups based on the degree of connectedness of the observations between them and allows to measure how such groups explain the network connections using as benchmark a case in which edges where assigned randomly. Our findings suggest that regions, which are more dynamic in terms of structural change, are those with manufacturing capabilities located in Eastern European countries. Such regions were able to upgrade their competences towards more complex productions and this resulted also in a fast catch-up of their GDP per capita level with respect to other mid income regions in Western Europe. Most prosperous regions are found to be urban areas with developed creative service activities and in regions with advanced manufactures (machinery, automotive, electronics, etc.); whereas backwardness is detected in regions with a cumbersome weight of tourism related activities.
P25|Employment Effects of CAP Payments in the UK Non-Farm Economy|The effects of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) payments on indirectly generated non-farm jobs in small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are central to job creation. This chapter examines whether there are differences in these effects according to business location (rural or urban), the agricultural supply chain, and according to CAP pillars, using both static and dynamic models of employment. The results suggest positive net spillovers of CAP payments to non-farm employment. Although their magnitudes are small, they are economically significant. In general, Pillar 1 has a stronger positive employment effect than Pillar 2, but Pillar 2 payments have a stronger positive effect per Euro spent in rural areas and within the agricultural supply chain.
P25|Employment effects of CAP payments in the UK non-farm economy|This paper investigates the effects of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) payments on the indirectly generated non-farm jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, which are central to job creation. It examines whether there are differences in the effect according to business location – rural or urban, the agricultural supply chain and according to CAP Pillars. A microeconomic approach is employed, based on firm data from FAME dataset combined with detailed subsidies information from Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. The generalised method of moments (system GMM) is used to estimate the effect of CAP payments in both static and dynamic models of employment. The results suggest positive net spillovers of CAP payments to non-farm employment. Although the magnitude of the effect is small, it is economically significant. In general, Pillar 1 has a stronger positive employment effect relative to Pillar 2. However, Pillar 2 payments have a stronger positive effect per Euro spent in rural areas and within agricultural supply chain.
P25|Employment effects of CAP payments in the UK non-farm economy|This paper investigates the effects of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) payments on the indirectly generated non-farm jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, which are central to job creation. It examines whether there are differences in the effect according to business location – rural or urban, the agricultural supply chain and according to CAP Pillars. A microeconomic approach is employed, based on firm data from FAME dataset combined with detailed subsidies information from Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. The generalised method of moments (system GMM) is used to estimate the effect of CAP payments in both static and dynamic models of employment. The results suggest positive net spillovers of CAP payments to non-farm employment. Although the magnitude of the effect is small, it is economically significant. In general, Pillar 1 has a stronger positive employment effect relative to Pillar 2. However, Pillar 2 payments have a stronger positive effect per Euro spent in rural areas and within agricultural supply chain.
P25|Foreign-owned firms as agents of structural change in regions: the case of Hungary 2000-2009|A growing body of literature shows that related diversification in regions is more common but unrelated diversification also happens. However, we have little understanding of what types of firms induce related and unrelated diversification in regions. We investigate the extent to which foreign-owned firms induce structural change in the capability base of 67 regions in Hungary between 2000 and 2009. Doing so, we aim to connect more tightly the disparate literatures of Evolutionary Economic Geography and International Business. Using novel methodology developed by Neffke et al. (2018), we find that foreign-owned firms show a higher deviation from the region?s average capability match than domestic firms, and therefore, tend to contribute more to structural change in regions.
P25|Related variety, unrelated variety and the novelty content of firm innovation in urban and non-urban locations|In this paper, we investigate whether the composition of experience-based knowledge accumulated by firms in urban and rural locations is reflected in the novelty content of their innovations. Looking at the manufacturing industry, and using Norwegian Linked Employer- Employee register data (LEED) merged with Community Innovation Survey (CIS) data, we find that unrelated experience variety within firms increases the probability of radical innovation, independently of firms' location, whereas related variety increases the probability of incremental innovation in large-city regions. These results demonstrate that innovation capacity cannot be understood from the single perspective of R&D efforts and strategy as it also depends on experiences accumulated in 'entire organizations' and the locations in which accumulation occurs. Moreover, they suggest that for manufacturing firms, urban locations are not hot spot for radical change. Instead, they support incremental innovative activities by facilitating effective sharing of knowledge between related sectors.
P25|The road home: the role of ethnicity in the post-Soviet migration|This paper argues the importance of ethnic affinity in determining migration patterns using a newly constructed late- and post-Soviet dataset. The members of various indigenous ethnic groups, who had been spread across the Soviet territories, had to decide whether or not to leave the land in which they suddenly became diaspora after the dissolution of the USSR. The migration literature conventionally claims that potential migrants respond to the economic differentials between source and destination, but the post-Soviet case reveals that ethnicity also played a crucial and independent role in migration decision and destination choice. The trend of ethnic un-mixing is evidently seen in the novel dataset regarding the regional migration patterns of major ethnic groups in the post-Soviet space. Econometric analyses using this dataset also confirm that ethnic composition of a region, along with labour market conditions, has significant effects on the regional migration patterns.
P25|Forced ruralisation of urban youth during Mao’s rule and women’s status in post-Mao China: an empirical study|This study uses data of “Chinese Household Income Project Survey 2002” to investigate long-term impact of Mao’s persistent policy of “forced/involuntary ruralisation of urban youth” (shangshan xiaxiang, literally “re-settlement in mountains and villages”) during the 1950s and 70s on women’s labour market participation and contribution to family incomes. Our results indicate that the impact of Mao’s forced ruralisation on female labour market participation can be positive (despite diminishing in size due to ageing). In addition, a change from positive to negative impact is largely determined by personal hardship under Maoism and its aftermath. Moreover, regarding female contribution to family incomes, our findings suggest that forcefully ruralised urban women have more bargaining power later in family finance. Our conclusion is that against all the odds Mao’s “forced ruralisation of urban youth” has improved family and societal positions of female victims in the post-Mao era as an unintended consequence of Maoism.
P25|Valuing the Urban Hukou in China: Evidence from a Regression Discontinuity Design in Housing Price| This paper explores the demand side of hukou (household registration) acquisition in China by estimating the market valuation of urban hukou. According to the provisions in Jinan City’s “Acquiring Hukou by Purchasing Houses” policy, this paper uses houses slightly larger than the minimum required floor area as the treatment group, and houses slightly smaller than the minimum required floor area as the control group to perform regression discontinuity design. Empirical results show that residents’ willingness to pay for urban hukou in Jinan City was between approximately 90,000 and 126,000 yuan (RMB) in 2017. Our finding is robust to both parametric and nonparametric estimates and different model specifications. We also perform falsification tests by assuming a false policy introduction date and placebo tests based on rental data. Our analysis also offers insights for reform of the hukou system and designs for the provision of public services or welfare.
P25|Private Sector Policymaking|Candidates often tout their private sector experience when running for public office. But do businessperson politicians actually govern differently? This paper argues that given their preferences and managerial expertise, businesspeople in office will adopt policies favorable to the business community and improve government efficiency. To test these claims, I collect data on over 33,000 Russian mayors and legislators and investigate policy outcomes using detailed municipal budgets and over a million procurement contracts. Using a regression discontinuity design, I find that businessperson politicians increase expenditures on roads and transport, while leaving health and education spending untouched. Prioritizing economic over social infrastructure brings immediate benefits to firms, while holding back long-term accumulation of human capital. However, businesspeople do not reduce budget deficits, but rather adopt less competitive methods for selecting contractors, particularly in corruption-ripe construction. In all, businessperson politicians do more to make government run for business, rather than like a business.
P25|Urban segregation and unemployment: A case study of the urban area of Marseille – Aix-en-Provence (France)|In this paper, we study the effects of the spatial organization of the urban area of Marseille – Aix-en-Provence on unemployment there. More specifically, differences in the characteristics of the residential population induce urban stratification with the result that urban structure may affect the probability of employment. In order to evaluate the effects of spatial structure on unemployment, we implement a spatial probit model to reveal the employment probabilities of young adults still living with their parents. Our results support the hypothesis that living in or near a deprived neighborhood decreases the probability of employment.
P25|How Does Big-Box Entry Affect Labor Productivity in Durable Goods Retailing? A Synthetic Control Approach|Using data from 2001–2012, the effects of IKEA entry in four Swedish municipalities, 2004–2007, on labor productivity in durable goods retailing is investigated using synthetic control methods. We contribute to the literature on synthetic control methods by considering parametric specifications of the intervention effect, which in our case arguably improves the likelihood of identifying the intervention effect of IKEA entry on labor productivity. As inference relies on a single treated observational unit (i.e., a single IKEA-entry municipality), statistical testing is a challenge, and randomization and replication for inference is done with regard to the pool of control municipalities. Our results indicate that in three out of four entry municipalities, labor productivity increased more than in their synthetic counterparts after IKEA entry, and that the size of the positive effect is related to the size of the new IKEA relative to the size of the existing durable goods retail sector in the entry municipalities, with larger positive effects found in municipalities where the new IKEA was large relative to the existing durable goods retail market.
P25|How does big-box retail entry affect incumbents in the hospitality industry: Evidence from a natural experiment|This paper empirically measures the effects of big-box retail entry on the productivity of incumbent firms within the hospitality sector in the entry regions and investigates whether the effects differ depending on the size of the local market before entry. We use the entry of IKEA in four Swedish municipalities as a natural experiment to study how it affects productivity in incumbent firms within the hospitality sector. Our results show that entry by IKEA has a negative impact on the productivity of incumbents in Haparanda, Kalmar, and Karlstad, but no statistically significant effects in the metropolitan region of Gothenburg. As the majority of firms in the hospitality sector are restaurants, we expect that our results are due to increased competition within this part of the hospitality sector since all new IKEA stores come with a large, popular, and reasonably-priced restaurant.
P25|Agglomeration economies in urban retailing: Are there productivity spillovers when big-box retailers enter urban markets?|Previous studies have found that big-box retail entry does not affect the productivity of incumbent retailers when entry occurs in urban areas. In this paper, we show that there are positive spillover effects of big-box retail entry to incumbent retailers in urban areas as well, but that these are limited to relatively small retailers, making the effects difficult to detect using traditional econometric methods, such as difference-in-difference estimation on the full sample of firms. In a two-step procedure, we first use panel smooth transition regression to determine size thresholds that delimit incumbent retail firms by their possible reactions to the new big-box entry. We then use difference-in-difference estimations on these subgroups of firms to determine, within each group, the direction and magnitude of the effects of big-box entry on their productivity. For the group of small incumbent retailers, we find positive spillover effects on productivity of approximately 9%.
P25|Well-being effects of self-employment: A spatial inquiry|Our paper presents an empirical analysis of entrepreneurial well-being using a large-scale longitudinal household survey from the UK that tracks almost 50,000 individuals across seven waves over the period 2009–2017, as well as a number of exploratory case studies. We contribute to the existing literature by investigating how entrepreneurial well-being varies across locations along the urban-rural continuum, and across wealthy-deprived neighbourhoods. We use a Coarsened Exact Matching (CEM) approach to compare the well-being outcomes of individuals who switch into self-employment from waged employment, and show that entrepreneurial well-being, in the form of job satisfaction, is significantly higher for those living in semi-urban locations, relative to those living in urban and rural locations. We argue that semi-urban locations provide an optimal combination of ease of doing business and quality of life. Our results also show that individuals in wealthy neighbourhoods who switch into self-employment experience higher job satisfaction than otherwise comparable individuals living in materially deprived neighbourhoods, although the latter experience greater levels of life satisfaction following the switch.
P25|ロシア地域出生率の動態と決定要因 : 動学的パネルデータ分析|本稿の目的は，2005～2015 年を観察期間とする，ロシア連邦構成主体のパネルデータを用いて，地域出生率の決定要因を実証的に検証することである。システム一般積率化推定量を用いた状態依存動学モデルの推定結果は，分析対象地域の経済成長，潜在的雇用機会，地元企業の良好な経営状態，教育機会，社会資本の質及び住宅供給の6 要因は，当該地域の出生率を押し上げる効果を持つ一方，スラブ民族のプレゼンス，人口流入，貧困及び環境リスクの4 要因は，対象地域の出生率を抑制する方向に作用する可能性を強く示唆した。更に，本稿の推定結果は，ロシア女性の出産行動に強く影響する諸因子の組み合わせは，異なる年齢間や地域間で大きく相違する事実も明らかにした。ロシアの少子化傾向を効果的に抑制するためには，年齢層や地域の異質性に配慮したきめ細かい政策の立案と実施が求められる。
P25|Inequality, Reordering and Divergent Growth: Processes of Neighbourhood Change in Dutch Cities|The socio-economic mosaic of urban neighbourhoods changes under the influence of three distinctive distributional processes: reordering of the socio-economic position of urban neighbourhoods; changing levels of inequality between neighbourhoods; and an overall growth or decline in income levels which affects all neighbourhoods of an urban area. With the common practices in analysing neighbourhood change, the roles of these underlying processes are unclear. This paper builds on a decomposition method to analyse the roles of the three components of change in four largest Dutch city-regions. The results points to substantial variations in components of change in the four city-regions.
P25|Estimating the Benefit of Document-Handling Process Improvement for Seaport Reliability: The Case of Indonesia|Low level of seaport reliability is one of the crucial problems amidst the increasing trend of seaborne trade in Indonesia. Main seaports in Indonesia are suffering because of longer dwelling time relative to other international seaports in South East Asian countries partly due to poor administrative process. This paper examines the Indonesian sea transport market focusing on measuring the benefit of seaport service reliability improvement in terms of handling the seaborne trade documents. Using open-ended question of contingent valuation method, our estimates show a moderate benefit, a cost reduction of the administrative process ranging from US$10.8â€“90.3 per TEU for each day. The cost reduction is even higher for the subsample of importing firms, indicating that the improvement of document-handling plays a more crucial role in accelerating the import activities in Indonesia.
P25|The drivers of regional growth in Russia: A baseline model with applications|Russia is a federation of more than 80 regions spanning across a huge territory. Natural resource endowment, inherited industrial specialization, remoteness and climate conditions contribute to large regional disparities. This paper presents an empirical framework model for assessing determinants of regional growth in Russia between 2004 and 2015 with an extension to include sub-national fiscal policies. Baseline results show convergence rates of regional GDP per capita in line with the 2% “iron law of convergence” between countries. Capital investment, and public investment in particular, is a stronger driver of regional growth than in most OECD countries. Natural-resource rich regions are growing faster, and oil price shocks have little economic impact in these regions, pointing at Russia’s centralized tax and transfer system. Subnational current government expenditure is associated with lower growth and slower regional convergence, suggesting low sub-national spending efficiency. There is also weak evidence that sub-national investment yields higher returns than federal government investment. Transfers have mixed effects depending on their nature. Budget equalization grants tend to slow regional growth as they reduce incentives to improve spending efficiency. On the other hand earmarked matching grants tend to spur growth and convergence as they direct resources towards more productive spending.
P25|Temporal and Spatial Dependence of Inter-Regional Risk Sharing: Evidence from Russia|We present an analysis of interregional consumption risk sharing in Russia between 1999 and 2009 using novel estimation methods. In addition to standard fixed effects panel estimations, we use system and difference GMM estimators to reflect time dynamic properties and possible endogeneity between output and consumption. Furthermore, we apply spatial models that control for spatial dependence across regions. The results show that regional consumption deviations from the national average are highly persistent in time and space. Nevertheless, regional consumption risk sharing in Russia is relatively high with 70 to 90 per cent of idiosyncratic risk being smoothed. Finally, fiscal policy and the degree of financial development appear to contribute to the consumption smoothing.
P25|Inter-Firm Networks and Firm Performance: The Case of Italy|This study investigates a particular type of network, the inter-firm network (IFN), and its impact on performances of Italian firms between 2010-2015. After revising the literature on alliances and networks for what concerns the geographical and industrial dimension, I focus my attention on networks’ performance and innovation propensity. The empirical analysis, based on a sample of about 4,000 firms, is divided in two parts: firstly, applying a “differencein- difference” technique, is tested the impact of being in an IFN; secondly, focusing on year 2013, are measured the different effects of IFN characteristics. Results demonstrate that belonging to an IFN has a positive impact on firms’ growth. Moreover, industry heterogeneity of members and internationalisation scope (rather than innovation) turn out to be the main factors increasing firm’s profitability and economic growth.
P25| ¿Semillas mejoradas como escape de la pobreza? Evidencia cualitativa y cuantitativa para la sierra sur del Perú| El presente trabajo tiene como finalidad esclarecer y cuantificar los potenciales efectos de la adopción de tecnologías agrícolas ―semillas mejoradas― en la reducción de la pobreza rural, enfocándose en los hogares productores a pequeña escala en los Andes peruanos del sur. Para ello se emplea un método de análisis basado en el ‘propensity score matching’ para hallar las relaciones causales del tratamiento. Los resultados indican que existe una relación robusta y significativa entre la adopción de dichas tecnologías y el bienestar de los agricultores, aunque estos resultados dependen en gran medida del tamaño de la parcela y de la proporción regada de la misma. Asimismo, la evidencia cualitativa indica que la asistencia técnica y capacitación (semillas y tecnificación del riego) deben de ser implementadas tomando en cuenta las características idiosincráticas y culturales de los poblados andinos, además de hacerlos parte del planteamiento de la solución al problema de la baja productividad agrícola. El reto de mitigar la pobreza debe pasar por un acompañamiento no solo durante el proceso de producción agrícola, sino también en el proceso de articulación al mercado y organización empresarial de los productores. JEL Classification-JEL: I31, O13, P25, Q13, Q15, Q18
P25|To Become a Cawir Metua: Life Satisfaction of The Karo Elderly A Social Security Case Study on The Karo Elderly in Lingga Village, Simpang Empat Sub-District, Tanah Karo Regency|Elderly becomes one of the crucial issues faced by many countries in the world today. The composition of the elderly population is growing rapidly in both developed and developing countries. The increase in the number of elderly requires attention so that they not only live long but can enjoy their old age happily and improve the quality of their life. In some areas, large numbers of elderly people become burdensome if they have health problems resulting in increased health care costs, decreased income, increased disability, lack of social support and independence. This statement is not entirely true, because there are elderly who are still able to be independent to achieve life satisfaction. This study employed a qualitative approach to get a picture of life and concepts related to elderly life. Emik view of the power was used to analyze the life of elderly from Karo ethnicity. The data were collected by using participant observation and depth interview which was performed on five elderly families and questionnaires for 100 respondents of elderly Karo family in Lingga Village. The strength of informants in establishing rapport became the key of success in this Karo elderly research. The result of the research showed that Karo elderly felt shame if they have to live with their children or be dependent because it is the nature of a Karo person to be independent. It is reinforced by a very strong culture of shame. In addition, Karo people have a standard of life satisfaction which has been a part of their culture. It is the satisfaction of life when all of their children have married and have enough income. In Karo society, it is called Cawir Metua. Someone who has reached the Cawir Mertua is supposed to hold a party to tell people that he or she has achieved satisfaction in life.
P25|Barriers to Entry and Regional Economic Growth in China|The non-state manufacturing sector has been the engine of China's economic transformation. Up through the mid-1990s, the sector exhibited large regional differences; between 1995 and 2004 we observe rapid convergence in terms of productivity, wages, and new firm start-up rates. To analyze the drivers of this behavior, we construct a Hopenhayn (1992) model that incorporates location-specific capital wedges, output wedges, and a novel entry barrier. Using Chinese Industry Census data we estimate these wedges and examine their role in explaining differences in performance across prefectures and over time. Entry barriers turn out to be the salient factor explaining performance differences. We investigate the empirical covariates of these entry barriers and find that barriers are causally related to the size of the state sector. Thus, the downsizing of the state sector after 1997 may be important in explaining the regional convergence and manufacturing growth after 1995.
P25|The Great Housing Boom of China|China's housing prices have been growing nearly twice as fast as national income over the past decade, despite a high vacancy rate and a high rate of return to capital. This paper interprets China's housing boom as a rational bubble emerging naturally from its economic transition. The bubble arises because high capital returns driven by resource reallocation are not sustainable in the long run. Rational expectations of a strong future demand for alternative stores of value can thus induce currently productive agents to speculate in the housing market. Our model can quantitatively account for China's paradoxical housing boom.
P25|A New Era of Pollution Progress in Urban China?|Over the last 30 years, China's economy has boomed. This trend has lifted hundreds of millions of Chinese out of poverty but it has also sharply increased local, regional, and global pollution levels. We look at the rise in air pollution over recent decades, and the perhaps surprising finding that in many of China's urban areas, levels of particulates (of less than 10 microns) have been decreasing during the last 10 to 15 years. We then turn to the costs and tradeoffs of air pollution, including costs to human health, reductions in worker productivity, and how people are seeking to reduce their exposure to pollution as shown by compensating differentials in real estate prices and purchases of masks and air filters. We discuss how rising incomes tend to raise the demand for environmental amenities and thus increase political pressure for environmental protection, and then we turn to the policy tools that China has used to reduce pollution. We conclude by arguing that as China's government is preparing for an additional 300 million people to move to urban areas over the next 30 years, it will have a number of opportunities for China to reduce pollution through a shift from manufacturing to services, along with various steps to improve energy efficiency and resource conservation. Overall, it seems that China is on track to improve its environmental performance in the years ahead.
P25|A Real Estate Boom with Chinese Characteristics|Chinese housing prices rose by over 10 percent per year in real terms between 2003 and 2014 and are now between two and ten times higher than the construction cost of apartments. At the same time, Chinese developers built 100 billion square feet of residential real estate. This boom has been accompanied by a large increase in the number of vacant homes, held by both developers and households. This boom may turn out to be a housing bubble followed by a crash, yet that future is far from certain. The demand for real estate in China is so strong that current prices might be sustainable, especially given the sparse alternative investments for Chinese households, so long as the level of new supply is radically curtailed. Whether that happens depends on the policies of the Chinese government, which must weigh the benefits of price stability against the costs of restricting urban growth.
P25|Airports and economic performance in China|China's airport construction policy has been successful in boosting manufacturing output, according to research by Stephen Gibbons and Wenjie Wu. Their study also finds that productivity impacts have been greater for private firms in areas with relatively high population and low educational achievement. The researchers address the question of whether opening new airports and expanding airport capacity stimulate economic growth, particularly in developing countries. The evidence they find on the positive impact of airport infrastructure in China suggests that reduced travel times and improved domestic market access help to boost industrial productivity.
P25|Airports, Market Access and Local Economic Performance: Evidence from China|In this paper we study the effect of airports on local economic performance that arises from better access to domestic markets, using China's recent rapid air network expansion. We estimate the effects of the implied changes in access to population on measures of economic performance using a panel of counties built from administrative records and micro data on industrial firms. To mitigate endogeneity concerns we focus on a subsample of 'incidentally' affected counties, whose location midway between existing and new airports implies they not were explicitly targeted for development nor directly affected by airport operations. We also decompose market access into land-side and air-side components. Our key finding is that improved population access due to land-side distance reductions to airports increased industrial output and GDP, with an elasticity of around 0.25. An instrumental variables strategy exploiting conversion of historical military airports to civil use yields higher elasticities.
P25|Income inequality and oligarchs in Russian regions: A note|We trace the rise of the so called oligarchs in post-Soviet Russia and examine their relationship to income distribution in Russia. When Russia moved to a market economy in the 1990s a new business elite evolved. Russia's distinctive path towards market economy, among other factors, gave rise to the oligarchs who now control large parts of the economy and have a strong standing within politics and society. Using a unique regional data set on the locations of oligarchs’ businesses across the Russian regions, we test Acemoglu's (2008) proposition that oligarchic societies experience extreme income inequality. Our results show significantly higher levels of income inequality in regions with a higher presence of oligarchs.
P25|Urban Resurgence as a Consumer City: A Case Study for Weimar in Eastern Germany|Weimar achieved urban recovery as a ‘consumer city’ with sub-brandings like a population magnet with a high living-quality, a cultural city with touristic attractions, and a university city. Its intensive cultural promotion policies combined with urban regeneration programs have contributed to the recent demographic and economic growth. This study demonstrates this success and investigates its sectoral weaknesses compared to other German cities. Weimar needs an optimal mixture of consumption- and production-oriented development strategies to rectify the current structural imbalances and better control those negative impacts caused by a rapidly ageing population. Besides ample presence and intact connectivity of high-tech industries and producer services within a city which enhance R&D, innovation and productivity, Weimar should more seriously consider, when design-ing future development policy, that both urban growth approaches are interrelated: agglomeration generates higher income for the creative class, whereas high urban amenities attract young creative entrepreneurs selecting locations for start-ups.
P25|La cuestión de la tierra en el marco de los objetivos de desarrollo sostenible en Colombia|Este documento presenta los nuevos Objetivos de Desarrollo Sostenible a la luz de la realidad rural en Colombia. Si bien se da cuenta del balance positivo para Colombia en materia de reducción de pobreza, como resultado del esfuerzo por cumplir los Objetivos del Milenio, se enfatiza en la necesidad de abordar la pobreza y la desigualdad rural para lograr metas de larga duración. Abordar las nuevas metas en el ámbito rural significa abordar el alcance del uso y estructura de la propiedad. En el campo, garantizar ingresos, estabilidad y sostenibilidad de la producción involucra la tierra. En este contexto, es necesario abordar no sólo las estrategias que brinden resultados en el mediano plazo sino también aquellos que han generado efectos negativos para el desarrollo sostenible de la población rural, en particular, la estructura de la tenencia de la tierra. ****** This document presents the new Sustainable Development Goals in relation to the rural context in Colombia. While noting the positive balance for poverty reduction in Colombia as a result of the effort to meet the Millennium Development Goals, the emphasis now is placed on the need to address poverty and rural inequality to achieve long-term goals. To address the new goals in the rural areas means addressing the scope of land ownership and land structures. In Colombia´s countryside, ensuring income, stability and sustainability of production involves land issues. In this context, it is necessary to address not only the strategies that deliver results in the medium term but also those that have generated negative effects for the sustainable development of the rural population, in particular, the structure of land and land ownership.
P25|La gruesa decimal en Michoacán y la creación de la contaduría de diezmos, 1824-1835|El presente artículo pretende analizar la actividad fiscal y administrativa del diezmo en Michoacán, a partir de la cesión del derecho de recaudación y usufructo de dicho impuesto por parte de la federación a las nuevas entidades. Asimismo, busca exponer la incursión de la autoridad civil del estado de Michoacán, cuyo propósito fue hacer eficiente la recolección del mencionado gravamen, por medio de la instauración de la oficina denominada Contaduría de Diezmos, encargada de administrar los recursos provenientes de rentas eclesiásticas durante los primeros años de la Primera República Federal. El trabajo corrobora la importancia del diezmo, impuesto de antiguo régimen vinculado directamente con las autoridades eclesiásticas, el cual también fue rentable para el gobierno michoacano en comparación con otros impuestos de carácter civil.
P25|So close yet so unequal: Reconsidering spatial inequality in U.S. cities|Spatial income inequality in cities is assessed by looking at the distribution of income across individuals and their neighbors. Two new Gini-type spatial inequality indices are introduced: the first index measures the average degree of income inequality within individual neighborhoods; the second index measures the inequality of average incomes among individual neighborhoods. Connections with geostatistics are investigated and the asymptotic distributions of these indices are derived. A rich income database from the U.S. census is used to establish new stylized facts about the patterns of spatial inequality in the 50 largest American cities during the last 35 years. Four different types of city are identified, according to the level of inequality between and within individual neighborhoods. Inequality within the neighborhood is shown to be associated with lifelong economic and health expectations of urban residents.
P25|Calories, conflict and correlates: Redistributive food security in post-conflict Iraq|War-torn Iraq manifests itself as an ideal laboratory for food-policy experimentation due to availability of unique data surrounding intra-household calorie consumption and the presence of selected correlates including, but not restricted to, substantial disruptions to social infrastructure and fundamental public-policy intervention. Among other findings, expenditure elasticities are mostly positive and dramatically curvilinear with respect to wealth; and lump-sum redistribution of The Iraqi Public Distribution System emerges as a feasible policy intervention. Extensions are discussed.
P25|Is London really the engine-room? Migration, opportunity hoarding and regional social mobility in the UK|In this paper we explore for the first time regional differences in the patterning of occupational social mobility in the UK. Drawing on data from Understanding Society (US), supported by the Labour Force Survey (LFS), we examine how rates of absolute and relative intergenerational occupational mobility vary across 19 regions of England, Scotland and Wales. Our findings somewhat problematise the dominant policy narrative on regional social mobility, which presents London as the national ‘engine-room’ of social mobility. In contrast, we find that those currently living in Inner London have experienced the lowest regional rate of absolute upward mobility, the highest regional rate of downward mobility, and a comparatively low rate of relative upward mobility into professional and managerial occupations. This stands in stark contrast to Merseyside and particularly Tyne and Wear where rates of both absolute and relative upward mobility are high, and downward mobility is low. We then examine this Inner London effect further, finding that it is driven in part by two dimensions of migration. First, among international migrants, we find strikingly low rates of upward mobility and high rates of downward mobility. Second, among domestic migrants, we find a striking overrepresentation of those from professional and managerial backgrounds. These privileged domestic migrants, our results indicate, are less likely to experience downward mobility than those from similar backgrounds elsewhere in the country. This may be partly explained by higher educational qualifications, but may also be indicative of a glass floor or opportunity hoarding.
P25|Government Initiatives for development of Rural Economy in India: Benefits & Challenges (2014-2016)|"""Objective –In this paper, the researcher attempt to find out how many schemes for development have been launched by the Indian Government and the various benefits and challenges of adopting these schemes in rural India. The research paper focuses on whether the schemes have helped to connect rural people and whether they have been successful in fulfilling the basic needs of rural people. Methodology/Technique – The study reviews literature in the related area. Findings – The current government has already come up with so many social and financial alleviation schemes for the poor; however, the fate of those unfortunates still remains a concern. Novelty – The study attempts to provide insight to reforms of poverty in India."""
P25|The Strategy of Street Vendors in Facing Local Government Policy. A Case of Street Vendor in Bandung|"""Objective – The presence of street vendors in public places has emerged some problems, such as disordered situation, traffic jam and decreasing aesthetics of the city. In order to overcome the problems, Bandung have some policies issued such as relocation, arrangement and business loans. However, these policies never completely solve the street vendors problems. This research will describe the strategy of street vendors in retaining the existence of their selling place. Methodology/Technique – The research took place in Bandung using the qualitative approach. Bandung is one of the big city in Indonesia and also capital of west java province. The activity of data collection was conducted through participant observation, in-depth interviews, and documentation. Findings – The result of the research shows that the strategy of street vendors in resisting the city government was conducted through various ways, both disguised and open ones. Both types of resistance were committed individually and collectively. Novelty – This article describes the tactics and strategies developed by the street vendors to face the government policy."""
P25|Comparison and one-stop shopping after big-box retail entry: A spatial difference-in-difference analysis|This paper empirically measures the potential spillover effects of big-box retail entry on the productivity of incumbent retailers in the entry regions, and investigates whether the effects differ depending on 1) if the entry is in a rural or urban area, and 2) if the incumbent retailers are within retail industries selling substitute or complement goods to those found in IKEA. To identify the IKEA-entry effect, a difference-in-difference model is suitable, but traditionally such estimators neglect the possibility that firms’ sales are determined by a process with spatially interactive responses. If ignored, these responses may cause biased estimates of the IKEA entry effect due to spatial heterogeneity of the treatment effect. One objective of this paper is thus to propose a spatial difference-in-difference estimator accounting for possible spatial spillover effects of IKEA entry. Particular emphasis is placed on the development of a suitable weight matrix accounting for the spatial links between firms, where we allow for local spatial interactions such that the outcome of observed units depends both on their own treatment as well as on the treatment of their neighbors. Our results show that for complementary goods retailers (or onestop shopping retailers) in Haparanda and Kalmar, productivity increased by 38% and 19%, respectively, due to IKEA entry. No statistically significant effects were found for the entries in Karlstad and Gothenburg, indicating that it is mainly incumbents in smaller entry regions that benefit from IKEA entry. Also, for incumbent retailers selling substitute (or comparison shopping) goods no significant effects were found in any of the entry regions, indicating that it is mainly retailers selling complementary goods that benefit from IKEA entry. Finally, our results also show that ignoring the possibility of spatially correlated treatment effects in the regression models reduces the estimated impact of the IKEA entries in Haparanda and Kalmar on productivity in one-stop shopping retail firms with 3 and 0.6 percentage points, respectively.
P25|Ethnic Enclaves and Immigrant Self-employment: A Neighborhood Analysis of Enclave Size and Quality|We explore the effects of neighborhood-level ethnic enclaves on the propensity of immigrants to use business ownership as a vehicle to transcend from labor market outsiders to insiders. We exploit an exogenously partitioned grid of geocoded 1–by–1 km squares to approximate neighborhoods, and match it with Swedish full-population data from 2011–2012 to study immigrants from the Middle East. We demonstrate a robust tendency for people to leave non-employment for self-employment if many members of the neighborhood ethnic diaspora are business owners, while we observe weak effects emanating from business ownership in other groups. Net of these effects, the overall scale of the enclave, measured by local concentration of co-ethnic peers, negatively influences the propensity to become self-employed. The results are consistent with the argument that it is not the scale, but the quality of local ethnic enclaves that influence labor market outcomes for immigrants.
P25|Segregation in Urban Areas: A Literature Review|This literature review outlines research on how individual preferences can lead to segregation, even in the absence of discriminatory policy and other constraints. From Schelling’s (1971) Spatial Proximity model comes the theoretical conclusion that moderate preferences for own-group neighbors (e.g. immigrants or natives) may lead to complete segregation between the two groups over time. Schelling’s Bounded Neighborhood model provides the theoretical conclusion that the stable equilibrium reached (e.g. an ‘all immigrant’ or ‘all native’ neighborhood) ultimately depends on the initial distribution of agents and their relative speeds of movement. This is because in the unstable, integrated, equilibrium an apparently insignificant event can set in motion an irreversible process toward segregation by tipping the distribution one way or another. Both models highlight how well-intentioned individual preferences may result in undesirable aggregate outcomes, whereby good intentions and some level tolerance toward others are not enough to prevent the self-segregation mechanism. The review also covers several key empirical applications and limitations in research in this field.
P25|Corporate Governance System and Regional Heterogeneity: Evidence from East and West Russia|Using a unique firm-level dataset obtained from a large-scale questionnaire survey conducted in late 2015, we examined the generality and heterogeneity of corporate governance systems between the eastern and western regions of Russia. The survey results strongly suggest that various characteristics of corporate governance systems observed in industrial firms and listed companies are, in fact, common and long-term trends that are seen across all Russian business sectors. At the same time, however, we also found pronounced regional heterogeneity between the eastern and western regions, with companies in the east being more reluctant than those in the west to introduce a governance system to monitor and supervise top management. Regression analysis shows that this finding is robust, even after a series of firm-level attributes are simultaneously controlled for.
P25|Structural and Exchange Components in Processes of Neighbourhood Change: A Social Mobility Approach|Neighbourhood socioeconomic change is a complex phenomenon which is driven by multiple macro- and micro-level processes. Most theoretical and empirical work has focused on the role of urban-level processes, such as filtering, life-cycle, and social dynamics. For individual neighbourhoods, these processes generate flows of different socioeconomic groups, which consequently leads to an exchange of relative positions in the metropolitan hierarchy ('exchange' effect) where some neighbourhoods move up and others move down. Neighbourhoods are also affected by structural processes that operate beyond the urban level. They can generate upward or downward shifts of absolute income across a whole array of neighbourhoods ('growth/decline' effect), or change the inequality among neighbourhoods, where the top and bottom of the neighbourhood hierarchy move away from each other ('inequality' effect). A common practice in neighbourhood change studies is to represent neighbourhood status as relative to the respective metropolitan area; this neutralizes the 'growth/decline' effect and ignores an important source of change and divergence between neighbourhoods in different regions. Some specific relative measures of change do capture the ‘inequality’ effect but confound the 'exchange' and 'inequality' effects. This paper introduces a methodological approach that decomposes total neighbourhood socioeconomic change, measured in absolute terms, into components of 'exchange', 'growth/decline' and 'inequality'. It applies a decomposition method presented by Van Kerm (2004), developed for understanding income mobility of individuals. The approach (1) acknowledges the role of structural processes in neighbourhood change, and (2) makes a distinction between different processes that generate neighbourhood change which is essential for comparative research.
P25|The Effects of Physical Restructuring on the Socioeconomic Status of Neighborhoods: Selective Migration and Upgrading|In the last few decades, urban restructuring programs have been implemented in many Western European cities with the main goal of combating a variety of socioeconomic problems in deprived neighborhoods. The main instrument of restructuring has been housing diversification and tenure mixing. The demolition of low-quality (social) housing and the construction of owner-occupied or private-rented dwellings was expected to change the population composition of deprived neighbourhoods through the in-migration of middle and high income households. Many studies have been critical with regard to the success of such policies in actually upgrading neighborhoods. Using data from the 31 largest Dutch cities for the 1999 to 2013 period, this study contributes to the literature by investigating the effects of large-scale demolition and new construction on neighborhood income developments on a low spatial scale. We use propensity score matching to isolate the direct effects of policy by comparing restructured neighborhoods to a set of control neighborhoods with low demolition rates, but with similar socioeconomic characteristics. The results indicate that large-scale demolition leads to socioeconomic upgrading of deprived neighborhoods through the in-migration of middle and high income households. We find no evidence of spillover effects to nearby neighborhoods, suggesting that physical restructuring only has very local effects.
P25|Inequalities and Segregation across the Long-Term Economic Cycle: An Analysis of South and North European Cities|The aim of this paper is to get new insight into the complex relationship between social inequalities and socioeconomic segregation by undertaking a comparative study North and South European cities. Our main finding shows that during the last global economic cycle from the 1980s through the 2000s, both levels of social inequalities and socio-economic segregation have grown. However, the effects of rising levels of inequality affect levels of segregation with a strong time lag. This reminds us that the effect of the most recent economic crisis will most likely be long-term, especially in the South of Europe.
P25|Income Increase and Moving to a Better Neighbourhood: An Enquiry into Ethnic Differences in Finland|Concentration to disadvantaged neighbourhoods may hinder immigrants' opportunities for social integration, so equal chances of translating available economic resources into mobility to less disadvantaged neighbourhoods are important. This paper adds to existing research on exits from poor neighbourhoods by focusing on the effects of income increase on residential mobility. We analyse intra-urban residential mobility from low-income neighbourhoods into non-low-income neighbourhoods among immigrants and native-born residents in three urban regions in Finland. We use longitudinal register data for the 2004–2014 period for the full Finnish population, allowing a dynamic analysis of changes in income and neighbourhood of residence. Based on multinomial logit modelling of migration outcomes, we found that an increase in income is associated with moving both to low-income and non-low-income areas even when controlling for initial income level. Upward income mobility was connected to exit from low-income areas in a quite similar way among immigrants and native-born Finns. The findings suggest that policies e.g. improving the labour market opportunities of immigrants are effective in reduction of residential segregation. However, we were not able to completely explain the differences between native-born Finns and immigrants in moving patterns. The differences between the cities were opposite for immigrants and native-born Finns, corresponding to differences in immigration history and levels of ethnic segregation. Therefore, the local context matters for spatial integration outcomes.
P25|The Roles of Increasing Inequality and Divergent Urban Development in Understanding Spatial Polarization in Tel-Aviv|Many studies of urban and neighbourhood change investigate changes in the relative positions of neighbourhoods within an urban region, without looking at the underlying processes. Often, changes in socio-spatial structures reflect intensifying socio-spatial divisions caused by both increasing inequality and urban development processes. This paper will examine the roles of increasing inequality and urban-development processes in reshaping the socio-spatial structure of the Tel-Aviv metropolitan area in Israel. Tel-Aviv is an interesting case study because of the persistent north-south socioeconomic divide. During the research period (1995–2008) inequality in Israel has risen substantially following the integration in the global economy; at the same time, the metropolitan area went through extensive urban development and expansion to the rural fringe. To examine the contributions associated with increasing inequality and urban-development processes to income changes among metropolitan neighbourhoods, we use a method that was originally presented in the context of individual income mobility and recently applied in the context of neighbourhood change. The results show that urban processes and inequality intensified the historical divide in different ways, and each factor can be associated with a typical spatial pattern. The interaction between the factors is diverse; in some places they reinforced each other, whereas in some they operated at opposite directions and offset each other.
P25|Woman and the labour market in East and West Germany: Socialist legacy and pre-socialist tradition|There is a large and successful literature exploiting the division and re-unification of Germany as a natural experiment for analysing the effects of political regimes on economic behaviour. This paper contributes to this literature by reassessing the role of legacy effects of socialist labour market policies for explaining the much higher female labour force participation (FLFP) in East Germany as compared to West Germany. The starting point of the analysis is the empirical pattern that FLFP was already higher in the East before German separation. Applying difference-in-differences analyses on participation rates shows that there is, if anything, only a small long-term socialist treatment effect. Apparently, there is no effect in areas that have been either rural or heavily industrialized before German separation. In line with previous research, this study finds that there is an East German mark-up for social acceptance of maternal employment. An additional and novel finding of this study is that current social acceptance of maternal employment is also driven by pre-war differences in female labour supply. This corresponds to a remarkable mark-up of married East German women in the labour market before German separation that is also descriptively shown in the paper. Overall, the results suggest that potential legacy effects of socialism on attitudes toward working women do not necessarily translate into meaningful East-West differences in terms of actual female labour force participation.
P25|Urbanisation and household consumption in China|This paper focusses on the link between urbanisation and consumption behaviour in China. Urbanisation is defined here as rural people moving to cities to work and migrant workers in cities obtaining urban residential status, against the backdrop of government plans to settle 100 million rural dwellers into cities and grant urban residential status to another 100 million migrant workers who already reside in cities. Using household data of the China Family Panel Studies dataset, the paper investigates the impact of those residential status changes on household consumption. The results of the analysis suggest that moving up the residential ladder in this way will likely result in increased consumption by almost 30% for both groups of people and thus contribute to rebalancing of the economy. Higher incomes and longer times in education are important drivers of this process, while a greater number of children in the family discourages consumption. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of China (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm).
P25|Digital Economy in Czech Republik, Slovakia and Hungary. Measurement with Topsis based on Entropy Measure for Objective Weighting|Effective digital economy is currently considered as a factor that can increase chances for avoiding middle income trap in Central European economies. Taking into account regional perspective building conditions for developing digital economy can support the process of closing development gap and utilizing the potential of convergence in the case of underdeveloped or peripheral regions. As a result, supporting the digital economy is currently considered as an important policy objective both form national and regional perspective. Thus, the objective of the article is to compare the development level of the digital economy in Czech Republic, Slovak and Hungary. The research was conducted for the year 2015. In the research the digital economy is defined as a multiple-criteria phenomenon, which is described with diagnostic variables proposed by Eurostat for measurement of the digital economy at regional level (NUTS 1). In the article TOPSIS method was implemented. In the case of every multiple-criteria analysis tasks a basic dilemma relates to the problem of applying weights for variables used in the research, which should be appropriate for their importance in forming the measured phenomenon. To solve that problem two approaches were applied here. First, the TOSPIS method with equal weights for all the variables was used. In the second approach the TOPSIS method was extended with Shannon entropy and objective weights concept. The obtained results confirm some disparities between the regions in the analyzed part of Central Europe and the importance of habits and human capital in the process of utilizing potential of the digital economy.
P25|Poland vs Spain in the First Decade After EU Accession. Parallel Convergence Patterns?|Poland and Spain share many common features resulting both from similarities of historical experience and also cultural, political, socio-demographic factors. Both countries have similar area, population and GDP structure. They also share historical experience related to political and economic transformation after a long period of non-democratic, centralized governments. Therefore the experience of Spanish membership in the EU is often considered as a model for Poland. The purpose of this research is to perform a comparative empirical analysis of income convergence processes in Poland and Spain on a regional level (NUTS3). We aim to verify if and how these processes are related to one another (show similar paths). Special attention is paid to the periods after accession of these countries to the EU. Convergence patterns in both countries are compared with several tools. Spatial econometric model for absolute beta convergence, sigma convergence indicators and the analysis of distribution dynamics – transition matrices. The impact on EU accession on income convergence in Spain was positive both on a national and regional level. Regional convergence processes sped-up and interregional disparities decreased. The poorest subregions had relatively high probability to increase their income and catch-up with initially more developed regions. In the first decade after accession to EU Poland has also achieved a significant improvement of income indicators on a national level. However, empirical analyses of GDP per capita distribution and its dynamics on a regional level in Poland show that the above mentioned progress does not spread out proportionally on all regions. Neither beta nor sigma convergence is observed. Instead, relatively fastest growth of initially richest regions (mostly large cities) introduces convergence of clubs leading to polarization. EU accession accelerated divergence processes in Poland.
P25|What drivers affect entrepreneurial activity in the transition economies? The case of the Visegrad countries|While a large literature exists linking entrepreneurship with its drivers in developed economies, entrepreneurship issues in the transition economies are still no entirely recognised. The Visegrad countries represent a unique scope for examining drivers affecting entrepreneurial activity in the transition economies, since they faced similarities at the beginning of the transformation. The findings may be supportive in identifying threats and opportunities of the economic development of Central and Eastern Europe regions.This paper contributes to the literature on entrepreneurship by focusing on drivers of entrepreneurial activity in the transition economies. The aim of the paper is to analyse how entrepreneurial activity in respective Visegrad countries is influenced by various drivers.Entrepreneurship activity and its drivers in the Visegrad countries were considered for the 2004-2014 period. Hypotheses were tested with the usage of an Ordinary Least Squared regression. F-test was employed to test estimated regressions. Goodness-of-fit of the regressions was controlled with the coefficient of determination. To check for the collinearity, Pearson’s correlation coefficient was used.In this paper the approach for improving the understanding of issues related to entrepreneurship in the transition economies is made. This paper contributes to the understanding of how entrepreneurship activity in the Visegrad countries is influenced by various drivers. The main finding is that although entrepreneurial activity in the Visegrad countries seems to be influenced by similar drivers that have been identified for developed economies, the way in which respective drivers matters for entrepreneurship is, in certain cases, distinct. The findings may attract attention of policymakers and may be useful in the processes of policy pursuing.
P25|Economic development of Polish voivodeships in the years 2010-2014. Application of taxonomic measure of development with entropy weights|Implementing policy and forming socioeconomic conditions that support sustainable and equable growth of regions is currently an important objective both at European and national level. Regional development policy is supported by significant resources from European Union funds. As a result, a constant monitoring of the development process at regional level with application of quantitative methods is an important scientific and practical task. Thus, the aim of the article is to assess the level of economic development in Poland at the voivodeships level (NUTS 2). Economic development is considered here as a multiple-criteria phenomenon. In the case of multiple-criteria analysis a common dilemma is attributed to the problem of applying appropriate weights for variables used in the research. Therefore, in order to provide a rating of voivodeships a taxonomic measure of development with entropy weights was applied here. The research was conducted for the years 2010-2014. It was based on the data provided by Central Statistical Office of Poland. The results of the analysis confirm that in spite of a progress obtained by all voivodeships significant disparities between them are still present.
P25|Digital economy in Polish regions. Proposal of measurement via TOPSIS with generalized distance measure GDM|Investing in digital infrastructure and building effective digital economy is currently considered as a basic condition for keeping international competitiveness of developed economies. In the case of developing countries in some economic models it is considered as a factor that can help to avoid middle income trap. From the regional perspective developing digital economy can support the process of convergence and closing development gap between the regions. As a result, a comparative research concerning the development level of digital economy is an important scientific task. In this context, the aim of the article is to assess and compare the development level of digital economy in Polish regions (NUTS 1). The digital economy is commonly considered as a multiple-criteria phenomenon. Thus, an approach based on TOPSIS method with application of generalized distance measure GDM was used in the analysis. Six diagnostic variables concerning digital infrastructure and level of its utilization were used. The research was conducted for the years 2012-2015 with application of Eurostat Data. The conducted analysis confirmed relatively quick progress in the field of building digital economy obtained by Polish regions.
P25|The shale revolution and entrepreneurship: An assessment of the relationship between energy sector expansion and small business entrepreneurship in US counties|The shale revolution led to a sharp increase in the US oil and gas production. Although the long-term consequences of this process are yet to be assessed, existing evidence points to both positive and negative effects. The shale revolution has increased employment and income in resource-rich communities, but also contributed to pollution, higher crime rates and lower educational attainment. The job-creating effects, however, may conceal differing impacts on paid employment and self-employment, where crowding out the latter is in line with one mechanism of the resource curse hypotheses. In this paper, we examine the previously undocumented impact of energy sector expansion on small business entrepreneurship. Using SUR and IV approaches and a differencing strategy, we estimate the effects of growth in oil and gas extraction industry on self-employment growth in metropolitan and rural US counties during the 2001–2013 period. The results suggest that after three years, oil and gas sector expansion appears to crowd out self-employment elsewhere in the economy, or, at the very least, has few net positive self-employment spillovers. This pattern may lead to a resource curse.
P25|Innovaciones sociales para territorios “inteligentes”: ¿ficción o realidad?<BR>[Social Innovation for “Smart” Territories: Fiction or Reality?]|This essay explores the theoretical arguments regarding the existence of “smart” territories, a recently-developed concept based on notions related to the knowledge society and knowledge economy, sustainable development, and social inclusion. This paper examines the preconditions necessary to make it possible for this type of territorial space to emerge in relation to the economic development underpinning it, as well as the right type of social structure, qualities required for human agency, and the social innovations demanded for such purpose. Finally, as a case study, this paper provides an empirical analysis of such conditions on the Caribbean coast of Colombia, drawing some final conclusions and recommendations from it
P25|One Mandarin Benefits the Whole Clan: Hometown Favoritism in an Authoritarian Regime|We study patronage politics in authoritarian Vietnam, using an exhaustive panel of ranking officials from 2000 to 2010 to estimate their promotions' impact on infrastructure in their hometowns of patrilineal ancestry. Native officials' promotions lead to a broad range of hometown infrastructure improvement. Hometown favoritism is pervasive across all ranks, even among officials without budget authority, except among elected legislators. Favors are narrowly targeted toward small communes that have no political power, and are strengthened with bad local governance and strong local family values. The evidence suggests a likely motive of social preferences for hometown.
P25|The Impact of Marketization on Entrepreneurship in China: Recent Evidence|"While marketization has been linked to provincial-level economic growth in China, how marketization leads to growth has not been explored. We hypothesize that marketization creates an environment that encourages entrepreneurship, which manifests itself in economic growth. While this argument is not new, it has not been explored in the Chinese context. We fill this gap by empirically testing the relationship between marketization and measures of entrepreneurship across Chinese provinces. Our primary measures of entrepreneurship are level changes in the number of ""private enterprises"" and ""self-employed individuals"". We find that higher levels of marketization are positively related to higher levels of entrepreneurship. These positive effects are largely driven by three areas of marketization. ""Government and market"" drives both measures of entrepreneurship, while ""Legal frameworks"" in uences only private enterprises and ""ownership structure"" in uences self-employment."
P25|Economic Freedom and Government Efficiency: Recent Evidence from China|We investigate the effects of economic freedom (marketization) on governance efficiency defined with the newest provincial level economic indicator data (NBSC, 2017) and economic freedom data (Fan et al., 2017) from 2008 to 2014 in China. With two different measures, the results suggest that economic freedom is positively correlated with governance efficiency. Moreover, the liberalization and marketization progress in the â€œfactors marketâ€ is the single most significant area for both governance efficiency measures, while other areas like â€œmarket intermediary & legal systemâ€ have no significant effects.
P25|Regionale Konvergenzprozesse in Deutschland: Der ländliche Raum holt auf|Seit dem Jahr 2000 nimmt der Urbanisierungsgrad in Deutschland wieder zu. Die Einwohnerzahlen in den Großstädten steigen an und haben inzwischen eine zunehmende Knappheit auf dem Wohnungsmarkt ausgelöst. Der ländliche Raum verliert hingegen vielerorts Einwohner. Zum einen begünstigt die Bildungsmigration die Städte, zum anderen richtet sich die Zuwanderung aus dem Ausland vorwiegend auf städtische Regionen. Aber auch Familien entscheiden sich heute eher für ein Leben in der Stadt als im Umland. Die Bevölkerungsverteilung im Raum wird von zunehmenden Agglomerationstendenzen geprägt. Doch die räumliche Konzentration der Bevölkerung wird bislang nicht von einer vergleichbaren Zentralisierung der Wirtschaftsaktivität begleitet. Der ländliche Raum kann seinen Anteil am Bruttoinlandsprodukt vielmehr konstant halten, so dass sein BIP-Rückstand je Einwohner gegenüber der Wirtschaftszentren seit dem Jahr 2000 spürbar abnimmt und die räumliche Konvergenz zwischen dem ländlichen Raum insgesamt und den Städten steigt. Dabei nimmt jedoch die Streuung der Wirtschaftskraft innerhalb der Regionstypen zu: Ein Teil der ländlichen Kreise fällt zurück, aber auch unter den Stadtregionen gibt es wachsende Divergenzen. Berücksichtigt man zudem den demografischen Wandel, der sich aufgrund der abweichenden Altersstrukturen in manchen, überwiegend ländlichen Regionen sehr viel eher und stärker als in den meisten Landesteilen auswirken wird, besteht trotz der erfreulichen Konvergenzprozesse weiterhin erheblicher regionalpolitscher Handlungsbedarf.
P25|War, Inflation, and Social Capital|"We use weekly data from 79 Russian regions to measure the impact of economic shocks and proximity to war in Ukraine on social capital in Russian regions. We proxy social capital by the relative intensity of internet searches for the most salient dimensions of pro-social behavior such as ""donate blood"", ""charity"", ""adopt a child"" etc. This measure of social capital is correlated with a survey-based measure of generalized social trust. Our search-based measure of social capital responds negatively to the spikes of inflation and positively to the intensity of the conflict in Ukraine (controlling for region and week fixed effects)."
P25|Industrial clusters as hothouses for nascent entrepreneurs? The case of Tianhe Software Park in Guangzhou, China|Abstract Taking the entrepreneurial activities as a local phenomenon, this paper aims to investigate the way that individual’s active embeddedness in cluster environment influences on the entrepreneurial intentions and locational preference of the nascent entrepreneurs. Drawing on the employee survey data in the Tianhe Software Park in Guangzhou, China, the empirical results have distinguished between impacts of cluster on nurturing and anchoring nascent entrepreneurs. Firstly, it has been shown that the awareness of role model entrepreneurs in the cluster enhances the entrepreneurial intentions of the employees. Secondly, the embeddedness in personal relations with suppliers and customers has proven to exert significant impact in the locational preferences toward the cluster of origin. Overall, the findings of the paper have shed light on how cluster environment poses its impact on nascent entrepreneurs through different mechanisms in the different decision-making processes. The implications of the findings for entrepreneurial policy are discussed in the concluding section.
P25|Los centros especiales de empleo en Castilla y León, 2007-2013: efectos de la crisis en función de la personalidad jurídica que adoptan<BR>[Special employment centers in Castile and Leon 2007-2013: effects of the crisis in relation to these centres´ registered legal personalities]|Este trabajo surge con el propósito de realizar un estudio, económico-financiero, sobre los Centros Especiales de Empleo localizados en Castilla y León, a partir de una clasificación en función de la personalidad jurídica que adoptan y comprobar cómo les puede afectar la crisis económica iniciada a finales de 2007. Se analizan diferentes partidas recogidas en sus estados financieros y se comparan los resultados del análisis con los obtenidos en años anteriores, periodo 2007-2013, al objeto de mostrar una perspectiva más amplia de su tamaño, desarrollo, crecimiento y comportamiento. Para ello se utilizan las siguientes magnitudes económicas: activo total, cifra de negocios y resultados. Se compara la variable empleo con las subvenciones recibidas por los Centros poniendo de manifiesto como la crisis sí les afecta en función de la personalidad jurídica que adoptan, siendo las entidades más perjudicadas las asociaciones y personas físicas, pudiendo incluso ocasionar su desaparición. Además se introduce la cuenta de reversión para los Centros, que mide qué porcentaje de las ayudas públicas recibidas es devuelto a la sociedad.
P25|The Effects of Cultural Heritage on Residential Property Values: Evidence from Lisbon, Portugal|This paper examines the impact of historic amenities on residential housing prices in the city of Lisbon, Portugal. Our study is directed towards identifying the spatial variation of amenity values for churches, palaces, lithic (stone) architecture and other historic amenities via the housing market, making use of both global and local spatial hedonic models. Our empirical evidence reveals that different types of historic and landmark amenities provide different housing premiums. While having a local non-landmark church within 100 meters increases housing prices by approximately 4.2%, higher concentrations of non-landmark churches within 1000 meters yield negative effects in the order of 0.1% of prices with landmark churches having a greater negative impact around 3.4%. In contrast, higher concentration of both landmark and non-landmark lithic structures positively influence housing prices in the order of 2.9% and 0.7% respectively. Global estimates indicate a negative effect of protected zones, however this significance is lost when accounting for heterogeneity within these areas. We see that the designation of historic zones may counteract negative effects on property values of nearby neglected buildings in historic neighborhoods by setting additional regulations ensuring that dilapidated buildings do not damage the city’s beauty or erode its historic heritage. Further, our results from a geographically weighted regression specification indicate the presence of spatial non-stationarity in the effects of different historic amenities across the city of Lisbon with variation between historic and more modern areas. JEL codes: C21, P25
P25|Regional Concentration of Industry in China: Decentralised Choices or a Central Plan?|The economic growth and development of China during the past 35 years has been associated with profound impacts on the well-being of the Chinese people, on patterns of global trade and prices of manufactured goods, and on industrial location within China itself. Many would view China's government and its policies as the dominant, perhaps exclusive, force in determining location and concentration of Chinese industry. This raises the question: can a theoretical approach based on decentralised optimization and location choice provide insights concerning the ongoing changes in industrial concentration in China? We address this question, putting forward a simple model and testing it using Chinese data.
P25|Parallel convergence of income and educational achievements on a local level in Poland - Joint distribution dynamics|In the last decade, after accession to European Union, Poland has achieved a significant improvement of indicators relating to income on a national level. Polish GDP per capita (in PPP terms) increased from 49% of European Union average in 2004 to 67% in 2013 showing progress in each year (source: Eurostat). Simultaneously an impressive progress was achieved by Polish secondary schools pupils, which is confirmed by international comparisons of educational results (PISA). Empirical analyses of GDP per capita distribution and its dynamics on a regional level in Poland show that the above mentioned progress does not spread out proportionally on all regions and income convergence is not observed. Instead, the relatively fastest growth of initially richest regions (mostly large cities) introduces convergence of clubs which leads to polarization. The purpose of the research is to analyze the relationship between the local convergence of income and educational achievements on a local level in Poland in the period 2003-2013. We aim to verify if and how the convergence processes of these two phenomena are related to each other. The analysis is applied on the level of municipalities (LAU 2, former NUTS 5). Income is measured in terms of per capita revenue in municipality budget from the share in receipts from personal income tax (source of data: Local Data Bank, Polish Central Statistical Office). Educational achievements are measured by the median results of standardized lower-secondary school leaving exams (source of data: Polish Central Examination Board). We introduce a concept of parallel convergence as a way of measurement of the co-relationship between the two phenomena. The evolution of the joint distribution of income and educational achievements is analyzed with the use of a transition matrix generalized for the two-dimensional distributions and with two dimensional kernel density estimates. The analysis shows that in regions with initially highest relative income also initial educational achievements are usually equal to or higher than the average for the whole country. In the regions with relatively lowest initial income the initial distribution of educational achievements does not differ from its distribution for all municipalities. The joint distribution is relatively stable over time. Initial analysis of the dynamics of the joint distribution between 2003 and 2013 shows that for regions with initially lowest income the probability of improving low exam results is lower than the probability of becoming relatively richer. The largest mobility of the joint distribution was observed for the groups with the lowest or low initial income and the highest educational achievements, while highest persistence was found for the groups initially richest with high or the highest educational achievements.
P25|The Relationship Between Social Capital And Health In China|This paper uses the 2005 and 2006 China General Social Survey (CGSS) to study the relationship between social capital and health in China. Using four separate samples totalling over 18,000 respondents and some methodological innovations that are new to the social capital literature, we identify social trust, social relationships, and social networks as robust correlates of self-reported health. The estimated sizes of the social capital effects are economically important, being of the same order of magnitude as those associated with age and income. We are unable to find evidence that social participation is related to self-reported health. Further, while women generally report poorer health than men, we find no evidence of gender differences in the social capital-health relationship.
P25|The relationship between social capital and self-reported health in China|This paper uses the 2005 and 2006 China General Social Survey (CGSS) to study the relationship between social capital and self-reported health in China. It is the most comprehensive analysis of this subject to date, both in the sizes of the samples it analyses, in the number of social capital variables it investigates, and in its treatment of endogeneity. The authors identify social trust, social relationships, and social networks as important determinants of self-reported health. The magnitude of the estimated effects are economically important, in some cases being of the same size or larger than the effects associated with age and income. Their findings suggest that there is scope for social capital to be a significant policy tool for improving health outcomes in China.
P25|Internal Labor Migration as a Shock Coping Strategy: Evidence from a Typhoon|We analyze how internal labor migration facilitates shock coping in rural economies. Employing high-precision satellite data, we identify objective variations in the inundations generated by a catastrophic typhoon in Vietnam and match them with household panel data before and after the shock. We find that, following a massive drop in income, households cope mainly through labor migration to urban areas. Households with settled migrants ex ante receive more remittances. Nonmigrant households react by sending new members away who then remit similar amounts than established migrants. This mechanism is most effective with long-distance migration, while local networks fail to provide insurance. (JEL J61, O15, P25, P36, Q54, R23)
P25|Internal Geography, International Trade, and Regional Specialization|We introduce an internal geography to the canonical model of international trade driven by comparative advantages to study the regional effects of external economic integration. The model features a dual-economy structure, in which locations near international gates specialize in export-oriented sectors while more distant locations do not trade with the rest of the world. The theory rationalizes patterns of specialization, employment, and relative incomes observed in developing countries that opened up to trade. We find regional specialization patterns consistent with the model in industry-level data from Chinese prefectures. (JEL F11, O18, P23, P25, P33, R12, R32)
P25|A Quantitative Approach Regarding the Evolution of the Romanian Tourism Firms, During and After the Global Financial Crisis|The main goal of this research paper is to provide a quantitative assessment of the Romanian tourism industry (hotels and restaurants) from a county level perspective, in the specific context of the global financial recession and in the post -recession one. The evolution of the field is analyzed for the period 2008-2014 using county level data sourced from the National Institute of Statistics and from the Office of the Trade Register. The evolution of the main characteristics of the field: number of companies, number of employees, total turnover of the companies from the field and number of newly established companies, suggest the existence of significant disparities at the county level. The research reveals the fact that the total number of employees from the field (companies which have sent the final year documentation to the MPF) has decreased during the analyzed period with over 20%, fact that is a clear indicator of the magnitude of the effects of the crisis. The analysis of the disparities has revealed that Bucharest which is the most important concentration pole in this field, accounting for almost 11% from the total number of companies in 2008, has diminished its importance to little under 8.7%, in 2014. Using panel data regression we have identified some of the main characteristics of the Romanian counties that can be considered as indicators of the development perspectives of the tourism (hotels and restaurants) at county level (NUTS 3).
P25|Challenges to Sustainable Rural Development in Russia: Social Issues and Regional Divergences| Paper aims at investigation of contemporary approaches to sustainable rural development in Russia. It includes the overview of current experiences in rural development, analysis of major economic and social indicators of rural areas in comparison with urban ones. Analysis included the set of indicators such as number of rural people, number of rural settlements, rates of births and mortalities, natural and migration increases and declines of population, rates of employment and unemployment, average monthly nominal per capita wages, and level of the subsistence minimum. Indicators have been measured separately for rural and urban areas; regions have been grouped in relation to the particular indicator. The research is concluded by discovery of growth points for rural development and a set of recommendations on perspective measures of state and local policies in rural areas, directed on increase of living standards of rural population and retention of labour resources in their traditional rural areas of inhabitation.
P25|Composición de la economía de Bogotá-Colombia|Bogotá desde 1960 muestra una dinámica creciente de su participación en la actividad económica nacional, llegando a representar en 2014 cerca del 25% del Producto Interno Bruto (PIB) de Colombia. La distinción como núcleo comercial y financiero del país le ha permitido ser muy activa en el sector terciario, aportando más del 70% a la economía bogotana en lo corrido del siglo XXI. La ciudad se enmarca, principalmente, en actividades de intermediación financiera, comercio y servicios a las empresas, en las cuales posee una especialización relativa frente al total del país. En el sector secundario ha disminuido su participación, como consecuencia de las variaciones negativas que ha mostrado la industria en algunos periodos, no obstante el aporte significativo de la construcción, principalmente de edificaciones. **** ABSTRACT: Bogotá since 1960 shows a growing dynamics of its participation in the national economic activity accounting in 2014 for about 25% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Colombia. The distinction as a commercial and financial center allowed it to be very active in the tertiary sector, contributing with over 70% of Bogotá’s economy so far in the XXI century. The city is primarily framed in inancial intermediation, trade and business’ services, which has a specialization relative to the country as a whole. As for the secondary sector, its participation has decreased as a result of negative variations shown by the industry during some years, despite the significative contribution that has won the construction activity, mainly of buildings.
P25|Land rights, rental markets and the post-socialist cityscape|Inefficiently organized, factory-dominated cityscapes have been one of the more enduring legacies of the twentieth century experiment with socialist central planning in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Drawing on a unique survey of large, formerly state-owned urban industrial firms in Russia, we explore how land tenure reforms affect the pace at which this legacy is being erased. Specifically, the privatization of plots is shown to promote the development of a rental market that transfers land use rights away from socialist-era industrial users. We address the potential endogeneity of land tenure in two ways, including using a measure of regional variation in urban land policy as an instrumental variable.
P25|A Spatial Knowledge Production Function Approach for the Regions of the Russian Federation|At the core of every national innovation system two concepts are of central importance: The generation and the diffusion of innovations and ergo knowledge; on the one hand inside the system itself and on the other across the system's borders. The present study picks up on the aspect of knowledge generation in the context of the Russian Federation. An extended knowledge production function is estimated on the basis of Russian regional data and it is shown that the Russian NIS, nationally as well as internationally, is functional, however, not all channels of knowledge transfer work as efficiently as those in comparable Western European countries.
P25|An Alternative Approach towards the Knowledge Production Function on a Regional Level - Applications for the USA and Russia|The present study picks up on the aspect of knowledge generation - a key part of every national innovation system - in the context of the USA and the Russian Federation. Following Fritsch and Slavtchev (2006) a knowledge production function can be used to account for the efficiency of an innovation systems. In detail this study provides a quantile regression estimation of the knowledge production function to account for a possible non-linear relationship between knowledge inputs and knowledge output. Using regional data for researchers, expenditures on R\& D and patent grants for the USA and the Russian Federation - motivated by the results of a kernel density estimation and transition matrices - a quantile regression is performed for a basic knowledge production function design; for Russia as well for an extended design. The results show that in both countries there exist groups of regions with smaller sized research systems that report significantly different dynamics and thus knowledge production functions than regions with larger sized research systems.
P25|Regional Convergence in the Russian Federation - Spatial and Temporal Dynamics|Set in the context of the neoclassical growth model this study revisits the discussion of economic convergence in the context of the Russian Federation. Compared to previous similar studies, here a larger more comprehensive data set is implemented (1994-2013) allowing in particular to check for differences in convergence during different time periods. Using a panel approach more reliable results are achieved which point to absolute convergence occurring across the regions of the Russian Federation. The stability of these results is strengthened by estimating Kernel density to test for the presence of potential groups of regions with different steady states, on the one hand, and Markov transition matrices to test for the temporal stability of the regions on the other. Finally, a quantile regression approach is used to assure overall stability of the convergence speed. All results show that Russia reports absolute convergence up to Vladimir Putin's the second term as president and occurring again during his third term in office and conditional convergence in all time periods. All results remain stable even when including spatial effects or when testing for temporal stability. Quantile regression analysis also reports a more or less stable speed of convergence across the whole time horizon which is significantly higher than comparable results for the US or the regions of the European Union.
P25|The Geography of City Liveliness and Land Use Configurations: Evidence from Location-Based Big Data in Beijing|This paper explores the complexity in the connection between city liveliness and land use configurations for housing and consumption amenities. The sources of this complexity are captured by an integrated spatial and temporal non-stationary modelling approach that uses local linear methods to estimate heterogeneous dynamics of the spatial-temporal process. City liveliness is measured by aggregated space-time human activity intensities using mobile phone positioning data from Beijing. We find that the land use configurations for housing amenities contribute little to city liveliness, whereas consumption amenities play a significant role in attracting human activity intensities. However, such effects vary substantially over space and during a 24-hour life span. These results provide the estimates of the changes in hourly human activity distribution that would influence the form of social engagement, development patterns, and public investment policy.
P25|Tourism Industry Development In The Emerging Economies Of Central And Eastern Europe (Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania)|Emerging Economies from Central and Eastern Europe take steps to ensure growth through tourism. Although they do not have the cultural, historical and artistic potential of the most famous tourist destinations, these economies promote forms of tourism for which they have suitable conditions. For example, Hungary is famous for health tourism, Bulgaria has made progress in terms of coastal tourism and Romania tries to make known the rural area although it has all conditions for practicing a wide diversified range of tourism forms. In this paper we present statistics showing how the tourism industry looks for three Central and Eastern European countries and we do a brief comparative analysis.
P25|Composición de la economía de Bogotá-Colombia|Bogotá desde 1960 muestra una dinámica creciente de su participación en la actividad económica nacional, llegando a representar en 2014 cerca del 25% del Producto Interno Bruto (PIB) de Colombia. La distinción como núcleo comercial y financiero del país le ha permitido ser muy activa en el sector terciario, aportando más del 70% a la economía bogotana en lo corrido del siglo XXI. La ciudad se enmarca, principalmente, en actividades de intermediación financiera, comercio y servicios a las empresas, en las cuales posee una especialización relativa frente al total del país. En el sector secundario ha disminuido su participación, como consecuencia de las variaciones negativas que ha mostrado la industria en algunos periodos, no obstante el aporte significativo de la construcción, principalmente de edificaciones. **** ABSTRACT: Bogotá since 1960 shows a growing dynamics of its participation in the national economic activity accounting in 2014 for about 25% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Colombia. The distinction as a commercial and financial center allowed it to be very active in the tertiary sector, contributing with over 70% of Bogotá’s economy so far in the XXI century. The city is primarily framed in inancial intermediation, trade and business’ services, which has a specialization relative to the country as a whole. As for the secondary sector, its participation has decreased as a result of negative variations shown by the industry during some years, despite the significative contribution that has won the construction activity, mainly of buildings.
P25|Indicador global adelantado de corto y largo plazo para la economía del Cauca 1960-2014|Este documento propone la construcción de un indicador líder o adelantado para la economía del departamento del Cauca, a través de tres metodologías alternativas, distantes de las tradicionalmente basadas en la metodología National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). Para lograrlo, se utilizan tres indicadores de corto y largo plazo, bajo el método de descomposición lineal del ciclo, otro indicador global sintético basado en la metodología de los componentes principales y finalmente otro que utiliza el algoritmo del filtro de Kalman. Los resultados muestran, entre otros aspectos, que el indicador en el escenario Kalman supera en robustez estadística a los otros dos indicadores y augura un crecimiento económico positivo para esta región en los años venideros.
P25|Las disparidades regionales: Una exploración teórica interdisciplinaria|En este trabajo se presenta una perspectiva interdisciplinaria para la exploración de la disparidad territorial que podría ser aplicada al caso de los departamentos colombianos. Se parte de la geografía política para explicar la conformación de los Estados en su organización territorial y su división político-administrativa. Se abordan los enfoques de la economía y la geografía institucional y regional para explicar el papel de las instituciones en las dinámicas económicas de los territorios. Esto remite al estudio de la acción pública, entendida como una gestión que trasciende la acción gubernamental. Integra al sector privado y a las instituciones sociales y políticas para explicar cómo se puede construir una acción concertada a fin de atacar de manera directa las brechas entre los territorios a partir del impulso del desarrollo territorial.
P25|A microsimulation of property tax policy in China|China is exploring possible property tax reform to stabilize the booming housing market as well as providing sustainable revenue for the local government. In this paper we develop a theoretical model of property tax reform to decompose potential impacts of property tax reform in China. Then we used the China Family Panel Survey (CFPS) data to conduct a microsimulation model to examine potential impacts and incidences of alternative property tax designs in China. Our analyses suggest that a uniform property tax policy would bring substantially heterogeneous impacts across different income groups as well as different regions, mainly due to the differences in income distribution, housing prices and the degree of the Housing Demolition program. In terms of property tax incidence, our simulation suggests that utilizing tax revenue on the poor's public housing subsidy may mitigate the regressivity; in some case may even increase the overall social welfare. Finally, we use the cross-sectional information in the Chinese Family Panel Survey (CFPS) data to simulate for optimal tax scenarios for each region. Our microsimulation results provide some initial quantitative analysis in the literature and may shed some light on understanding the impacts of future property tax reform in China.
P25|Overreaction to policy changes in the housing market: Evidence from Shanghai|With the data of housing transaction records of Shanghai during 2004–2015, this paper comprehensively analyzes the housing market in this metropolis, and pays special attention to the market dynamics related to the frequent policy changes. We focus on the secondary market, and build repeat sales indexes. Then the AR(1)–GARCH(1,1) model is applied to estimate the weight of housing consumption incentives relative to investment incentives. It turns out that the overall market features strong consumption incentives, especially in the suburb area. Moreover, the market tends to overreact to policy changes. Compared with the suburb area, downtown features more investment incentives, lower returns and volatility, and less overreaction to policy changes. We infer that long-term investors overreact less than consumers. Finally, the purchase restriction policy and the issue of non-local buyers are discussed.
P25|Historical shocks and persistence of economic activity: evidence from a unique natural experiment|This paper investigates the persistence of entrepreneurship in the region of Kaliningrad between 1925 and 2010. During this time period the area experienced a number of extremely disruptive shocks including; devastation caused by World War II, a nearly complete replacement of the native German population by Soviets, and 45 years under an anti-entrepreneurial socialist economic regime followed by a shock-type transition to a market economy. Nevertheless, we find a surprisingly high level of persistence of industry-specific self-employment rates in the districts of the Kaliningrad region. Our analysis suggests that persistence of entrepreneurship is higher in regions with a history of successful entrepreneurship. That is, in regions where a specific industry was particularly efficient and entrepreneurial activity was especially pronounced.
P25|To get the prices right for food: a “Gerschenkron state” versus the market in reforming China, 1979–2006|This article provides an empirical assessment of China’s state price policies and strategies in relation to (1) market-rebuilding for the agricultural sector and (2) food security for China.1 It traces main changes in government grain pricing, urban food subsidies, grain procurement and the administrative control over food circulation from 1979 to 2006 in a bid to transfer a non-market economy to a market one, commonly known as the post-Mao reforms.
P25|Market Quality in the Russian Far East from the Viewpoint of Company Management- Preliminary Report on Microeconomic Comparative Analysis with European Regions|In the framework of the project titled “Market Quality in the Russian Far East from the Viewpoint of Company Management” initiated by the Economic Research Institute for Northeast Asia (ERINA), a Japan-Russia research team carried out a large-scale questionnaire survey of Russian firms located in 17 federal subjects from October to December 2015 (ERINA Enterprise Survey). In this paper, we briefly describe the background, purpose, and organization of the project and report the chronology, outline, and preliminary results of the enterprise survey.
P25|Frame Value of Strategic Management Accounting Based on The Balance of Tri Kaya Parisudha|"""Objective – Hinduism presupposes all life activities. This includes Strategic Management Accounting (SMA) which could maintain life’s equilibrium by practising the goal of life suggested by the Tri Kaya Parisudha (TKP). In general, SMA does not have a framework of reference for accountants to manage functions and to contribute to decision making. In that regard, this paper aims to develop a frame value for SMA based on the cooperatives noted in the Hindu orientation of the TKP. Methodology/Technique – The method employed to analyze data is the combined development of grounded theory(GT) and intersubjective analysis. The frame value for SMA consists of three elements of manacika (center of strategic thinking) followed by wacika and kayika as noted in the dharma of the TKP. Findings – The findings show that the synergy of the framework is based on mind control (manacika) which impacts on wacika and kayika in SMA. This synergy impacts on the equilibrium between materials (sekala) and non-materials (niskala) in the dharma for the purpose of reaching the goal synergy. Novelty – The combination of the intersubjective approach and the GT approach helps to uncover the correlation patterns of the core category noted in the establishment of the SMA’s value framework. This is derived from the TKP’s equilibrium through the story line."""
P25|Implementation of Economic Empowerment Model Based on Export Opportunities Towards the ASEAN Economic Community (A Case Study of Wonogiri Regency)|Objective – This research carries three objectives. First, it aims to analyse the variables that affect readiness in facing the AEC. Second, it aims to analyse aspects that can affect the preparation of the empowerment model based on the economic potentials of the Wonogiri community for export opportunities. Finally, it aims to see how the proposed model can be implemented as an empowerment model. Methodology/Technique – The analytical tools used in this research include a descriptive statistical analysis and the Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) is used to determine aspects affecting the preparation of the empowerment model. In the Qualitative analysis of the implementation of the empowerment model, data will be drawn from focus group discussions and in-depth interviews. Findings – Results show that factors affecting the success of empowerment on communities include education age, capital, business types, and entrepreneurial experiences. Priority variables noted in the preparation of the empowerment model include three aspects: internal aspects of business players and community, institutional aspects, and external aspects. Results also indicate that the model is applicable for the empowerment efforts of business players and community in the Wonogiri regency in facing the AEC. Novelty – Community empowerment model for the AEC has not been specifically conducted in Wonogiri. Thus, in drawing up a strategic plan for the years 2016-2020 as contained in RPJMD Wonogiri, the government has only planned for the empowerment programs in general.
P25|A Study on The Behavioural Aspects of Retail Investors for Investment Decision Making in Telangana State|"""Objective – Investment is the commitment of funds which have been saved from the current consumption with an expectation of favorable future returns. Investment behavior is concerned with choices made about the purchase of a significant number of securities for an individual or institutional account. Individual investment behavior is relatively a new area of research in behavioral finance. This study aims to identify the various behavioral patterns of retail investors and their investment decision making in the newly formed Telangana state of India. Methodology/Technique – Data were collected from a sample of 200 retail investors via a structured questionnaire. Factor analysis was then conducted to critically identify the behavioral patterns of the retail investors. Findings – The findings of this study indicate that the two behavioral factors of Heuristics and Prospect have significant impact on the investment decision making attitudes of the retail investors. Novelty – As a newly formed state in India, the Telangana state provides potential investment opportunities for retail as well as institutional investors. It is thus, highly imperative to explore how retail investors make investment decisions especially in the newly formed Telangana State in India"""
P25|Big-box retail entry in urban and rural areas: Are there productivity spillovers to incumbent retailers?|This paper empirically measures the potential spillover effects of big-box retail entry on the productivity of incumbent retailers in the entry regions, and investigates whether the effects differ depending on the size of the new establishment relative to the size of the local market. The results indicate that big-box entry increases the productivity of incumbent firms in two of three rural entry regions where the IKEA is large relative to the local retail market, while no productivity spillover effects could be found in the case of the urban IKEA entry in Gothenburg.
P25|Unlock the lock-in! Balance of rights in relation to betterment and compensation in Poland|Many Polish cities are faced with a dilemma: to enact their local land-use plans and be exposed to the immediate financial consequences of their adoption, or to protect their budgets against these costs and give up control of the development of the cities. There are very broad compensation rights for value decline due to planning regulations and for areas designated in plans for public roads. At the same time, current planning system policies and instruments in Poland largely neglect how the costs of providing urban infrastructure and services are socialized and how the benefits of development processes are privatized. The use of value capture instruments is very limited. This paper discusses the distribution of rights and liabilities in relation to the two main sides of the property-values effect caused by land-use planning regulations and public works in Poland, in the background of the new planning system and property-rights approach adopted in the country. The article presents the current situation, initially explores a possible ways forward based on varied international experiences, discusses the institutional design of land markets, and indicates the need for planning by Law and property rights.
P25|Historical Shocks and Persistence of Economic Activity: Evidence from a Unique Natural Experiment|This paper investigates the persistence of entrepreneurship in the region of Kaliningrad between 1925 and 2010. During this time period the area experienced a number of extremely disruptive shocks including; devastation caused by World War II, a nearly complete replacement of the native German population by Soviets, and 45 years under an anti- entrepreneurial socialist economic regime followed by a shock-type transition to a market economy. Nevertheless, we find a surprisingly high level of persistence of industry-specific self-employment rates in the districts of the Kaliningrad region. Our analysis suggests that persistence of entrepreneurship is higher in regions with a history of successful entrepreneurship. That is, in regions where a specific industry was particularly efficient and entrepreneurial activity was especially pronounced.
P25|Intertemporal Income in Ireland 1996-2011 Â– A Spatial Analysis|In this paper we employ a microsimulation approach to examine four census years (1996, 2002, 2006 & 2011). Using spatial microsimulation and GIS methods we create a spatially rich dataset for each year which is then used to create a spatial distribution of disposable income. The period covered in this paper is an important time in IrelandÂ’s history and this paper takes a spatial perspective on the significant changes in the landscape of disposable income. By adopting this approach we can examine if there are clear disparities between different areas of the country. From our results we have showed that there are significant differences in how regions have performed during this period 1996-2011. The major urban centres and hubs have outperformed the rural areas in terms of levels of disposable income. Even amongst urban areas, Dublin has outperformed all other areas becoming an outlier such is the difference in levels of disposable income. The Celtic Tiger, Property Bubble and Great Recession have all impacted on the different regions in different ways.
P25|Coordinates And Representations Of Architecture For A Regional Cross-Border Development Strategy|The general objective of the wider research this paper is part of is to analyze in a multidisciplinary framework the economic development poles of the Romanian border areas and to identify the ways to building a viable strategy in a cross-border framework. One of the specific objectives is to design a complex model that shapes an adequate architecture for a development strategy for a cross-border area. A result that meets this objective is an architectural tridimensional model for building a development strategy for a cross-border area that is presented in this paper, based on the growth/development poles. The description includes the main coordinates and representations of the model, where the building framework is the institutional system layered on many levels, the main levels being structured by the economic sectors and where the solidity points are the growth/development poles from the cross-border area.
P25|On regional innovator networks as hubs for innovative ventures|At least since Schumpeter published his work 'The Theory of Economic Development' (1912), a wide body of literature has focused on the evolutionary process behind firm growth and survival. Recently a growing interest is devoted to the variable 'location' as a critical factor, shaping firm performance. However, less attention has been paid to the region-specific characteristics that may play a relevant role in determining the growth and survival of a firm. Some works see university-based knowledge spillovers as one such factor (Audretsch and Lehmann 2005, Cassia et al. 2009). This paper extends this approach to the regional innovator network, promoting region-specific knowledge spillovers. Two data bases are applied. First, patent data delivers the innovator network for Thuringia. The second data base contains firm specific information on innovative ventures founded in Thuringia in the period between 1990 and 2006. The results show that the firm's individual probability to be innovative and connected to the innovator network positively influences the chances of this firm to survive.
P25|Backward Integration: A Panacea for Rural Development in Nigeria|Business is like a marathon race. It involves both mental and psychical alertness, exploring opportunities and taking chances is the strength, risk is the rule of the game and control is the price for the race. To this end, the aim of every business entity is to operate profitably in the industry it belongs, grow and possibly gain the largest share of the industry market. Among the strategies used in gaining control in the business industry is Integration which is the ability to influence or control either or both raw material input (backward integration) or the distribution chain (forward integration) or better still grow towards possible monopoly (conglomerate). While effort will be made to discuss other types of integration, this paper will focus more on the backward integration programme, its effect on the survival and growth of business entities, advantages and disadvantages to business operation and its role in rural development in Nigeria.
P25|A Study of the Process and Types of Deindustrialization in the Visegrád Countries|My goal in this article is to analyze the process of deindustrialization from the aspect of the labor market. Accepting the definition of the relevant literature, I define deindustrialization as a decline in the number of workers employed in industry and a drop in their ratio on the labor market. My experimental question is whether deindustrialization was present in the Visegrád countries between 1993 and 2015, and if so, what kinds can be identified. In this work I merge the observations of developed countries regarding deindustrialization and also expand upon the methodology for defining the types of deindustrialization.
P25|The SLEM Model as an Assessment Method for Local Goods' Competitiveness|In this paper we develop and present the SLEM model created to measure the market potential of local goods supplied by the entrepreneurs of the Cserehát region, one of the most deprived regions of Hungary. The SLEM model evaluates goods along four dimensions: supplier conditions, labour conditions, (professional) embeddedness, and market conditions. The four pillars were measured with factors that are easily accessible, and so the evaluation can be repeated with other regions as well. In case of Cserehát, we have identified the following five groups of local goods with the greatest potential: animal husbandry; honey; spices and pharmaceutical crops; nature tourism; and mineral water.
P25|Particularities Of Place Branding In The European Countries|This article examines the role of place branding in the image forming of certain European countries. The relevance of the article is confirmed by an acute need to identify the factors and branding tools that should be taken into account while a country develops a brand and influences the process of image forming. The purpose of the article is to examine successful examples and failures of the branding strategies of some European countries and cities. The results have to identify similarities and differences in the approach of European countries to promote a certain area as a part of country branding; to determine the key success factors that lead a country to the recognition by the international community.
P25|Toward of the spatiality of the ICT sector: Case study from the Slovak Republic|Rapid diffusion of ICT has produced significant changes in the way and place for the production of goods and provides services. This implies that ICT had an impact on the industrial structure and geographical location of regions. The ICT industry in the Slovak Republic has been one of few industries in which the employment has continuously grown and this sector has the lowest unemployment rate of all sectors of the economy and permanently grows. All these findings have caused the author to measure the concentration of ICT sector in the Slovak Republic at the regional level. The aim of this paper is to map the regional disparities in the ICT sector in the Slovak republic. The analyses developed for this manuscript are based on two main methodologies: regional and cluster analyses. The existence of disparities between regions is indisputable. All the characteristics and calculations confirmed large disparities in the ICT sector in individual regions. As finding showed, the ICT sector is the driving force of the Slovak economy and economic development. The results call for greater attention to regional disparities in ICT sector in the Slovak Republic.
P25|Change in Strategic Interaction after Introducing Policy|This study investigates the change in the strength of strategic interaction from a policy introduction stage to a mature stage. The bulk of literature confirms the strategic interaction among local governments, but does not consider the change in the strength of strategic interaction. Our hypothesis is that the strength of strategic interaction decreases from a policy introduction stage to a mature stage because uncertainty at the policymaking stage might become weaker as time elapses. We focus on the Japanese long-term care insurance (LTCI) system that was introduced in fiscal year 2000. Our findings suggest that since municipalities should forecast the demand for long-term care and set the premium over a three-year “program management period,” they have a strong incentive to refer to the premium setting of surrounding municipalities. Moreover, the incentive would decrease as periods elapse. The empirical evidence is consistent with our hypothesis that the strength of strategic interaction on LTCI premium setting is gradually reduced from the early stage to the mature stage.
P25|How to Measure the Local Economic Impact of Universities? Methodological Overview|Today, the realization that certain economic units, such as universities or other large tertiary educational institutions have an impact on the economy of their region has gained prominence. There is a growing demand for precise studies on the economic impact of such entities, and the issue has attracted considerable attention in the scientific community. The examination of their economic impact is especially interesting when we compare regions with different levels of development, characterized by a successful international university. The different methods used in the literature render comparisons difficult; therefore, our focus is to recommend a method for investigating universities in different countries. In the absence of regional input-output matrices, a multiplier based approach is suggested for the first and second mission (education and research), while the application of a set of indicators is recommended for the third mission (knowledge transfer-related). There are several substantial problems in assessing the economic impact of universities. First, the definition of impact; second, measuring and estimating first-round expenditures and avoiding double-counting; third, estimating the model parameters (e.g. multipliers); fourth, the quantification of third mission activities. In this paper, we clarify theoretical definitions, resolve some contradictions, and consequently, recommend a feasible method considering the circumstances in Hungary.
P25|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P25|Preference for Liquidity of Agents: An Analyse of Brasilian Case|This work is meant to show the relevance of the role of money in explaining regional disparities. Points out that before the currency and the banks are incorporated theories of regional development, had two views on regional development, founded on a convergence of unequal growth and divergence in another, where the rates would become increasingly unequal. The literature on the regional economy have given little attention to financial variables and their role in regional development. In this context, the currency has received secondary treatment in the analysis of the regional economy, perhaps in the belief of some theorists in the neutrality of money in the long run, or others who have relied on the assumption of perfect interregional mobility of capital. However, this perspective has been changing in recent years, particularly in post-Keynesian agenda. Thus, we intend to examine the behavior of the public regarding the preference for liquidity in the face of regional characteristics and the financial instability and therefore demonstrate their relevance to explain the differences in regional economic development. To analyze the decision to demand money was used educational and behavioral aspects. The hypothesis that there is a financial concentration in regions with a lower liquidity preference was ratified. For this, the study was developed based on the analysis of units of the Brazilian federation. The database of the Central Bank, and Datasus allowed the use of the formula suggested by the literature pertinent to the theme
P25|Fuzzy models in regional statistics|Many regional data are not provided as precise numbers, but they are frequently non-precise (fuzzy). In order to provide realistic statistical information, the imprecision must be described quantitatively. This is possible using special fuzzy subsets of the set of real numbers ℝ, called fuzzy numbers, together with their characterising functions. In this study, the uncertainty of measured data is highlighted through an example of environmental data from a regional study. The generalised statistical methods, through the characterising function and the δ-cut, that are suitable for the situations of fuzzy uni- and multivariate data are described. In addition, useful generalised descriptive statistics and predictive models frequently applicable for analysis of fuzzy data in regional studies as well as the concept of fuzzy data in databases are presented.
P25|Assessing the regional impact based on destination image|The region of Northern Hungary is historically rich in tangible and intangible heritage destinations such as fortresses, castles, and cultural routes. Former castles of the aristocracy, converted to four- and five-star hotels, are among the favourite tourist destinations in the region. Destination stakeholders of these attractions have a prime interest in designing and delivering a complex and memorable tourism experience that will attract more visitors and return visits. The responsibility of regional and local destination management lies in finding an appropriate mix of attractions and corresponding experiences, attracting visitors/guests and creating repeat patterns of return. The research, involving a sample of 360 castle hotel guests, and using Partial Least Squares structural equation path modelling, reveals significant correlation between historical interest, motivation, and perceived image, predicting guests’ perception of the entire region. Visitation patterns, together with geographical embeddedness, can be further explored to increase destination competitiveness.
P25|Egyetemi funkciók és helyi gazdasági hatások: módszertani problémák és lehetséges megoldások<BR>[University Functions and Local Economic Effects: Methodological Problems and Possible Solutions]|Napjainkban egy egyetem jelenléte számos dimenzió mentén hozzáadott értéket teremt abban a térségben, ahol működik, és egyre inkább előtérbe kerül az a felismerés, hogy helyi gazdaságfejlesztésre gyakorolt hatása számottevő. Ez a jelenség egyre nagyobb igényt támaszt olyan tanulmányok iránt, amelyek ezeknek az intézményeknek a gazdasági hatását számszerűsítik. Számos módszer létezik már ezeknek a hatásoknak a mérésére, amelyek kisebb- nagyobb mértékben eltérnek egymástól. Ez a differenciáltság azonban megnehezíti az intézmények és az eredmények összehasonlítását. Az első dilemma a definícióbeli különbségek. Fontos ugyanis tisztázni, hogy mit értünk az egyetemek egyes missziói alatt, valamint hogyan határozzuk meg az egyetemek által kiváltott különböző típusú hatásokat. További nehézséget jelent, hogy a szakirodalomban számos olyan leírást találunk, ahol az egyetemek harmadik generációját az egyetemek harmadik missziójával azonosítják, holott a két fogalom nem egy és ugyanaz. A hatások számszerűsítését és az összevetést tovább bonyolítja, hogy a harmadik misszió mérésére alkalmazott indikátorkészlet is eltérő különböző intézményekben, továbbá az egész számszerűsítési folyamatban sokszor becslésekre kell hagyatkozni. Jelen tanulmányban tisztázni fogjuk a legfontosabb fogalmakat, ellentmondásokat, és egy módszert javasolunk az egyetemek gazdasági hatásainak mérésére magyar feltételek mellett.
P25|The Price of Growth: Consumption Insurance in China 1989–2009|We exploit a novel and unique opportunity to document the transmission of income risk to consumption in a growing economy. Our laboratory is China, an economy that has witnessed enormous and sustained growth. We build a long panel of household-level consumption and income data. We find that consumption insurance deteriorates along the growth process with a transmission of permanent income shocks to consumption that at least triples from 1989 to 2009. Although preliminary, our welfare analysis suggests that the loss of consumption insurance can have first-order implications for the welfare assessment of economic growth.
P25|Housing Policies in Hong Kong, China and the People’s Republic of China|This paper analyzes the housing markets and housing policies in Hong Kong, China and the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Both markets face housing affordability problems due to limited land supply, for which the solutions vary considerably. Hong Kong, China has adopted a railway and property development model, which involves close collaboration between the government and property developers in compact urban areas, while leaving most greenbelts and surrounding islands underdeveloped. Although the PRC has pledged to maintain a minimum level of basic farmland to feed its large population, this target has often been compromised due to local governments’ fiscal constraints and growth concerns.
P25|Housing Policy in the Republic of Korea|This paper evaluates housing policy in the Republic of Korea over the past several decades, describes new challenges arising from the changing environment, and draws lessons for other countries. The most important goals of the housing policy have been to alleviate housing shortages and to stabilize housing prices. To achieve these goals, the government has been engaging the private sector while establishing public sector institutions and legal framework, providing developable land, and allocating housing units to intended target groups. Thanks to the sustained and massive provision of new housing since the 1980s, the country’s absolute housing shortage has been resolved, and overall housing conditions have improved substantially. Since the turn of the new millennium, enhancing the housing welfare of low-income households and the underprivileged has been added to housing policy goals. The supply of public rental housing was increased, and a housing benefit was introduced to address the new policy goal, but more work needs to be done. Today, the Republic of Korea also faces new housing challenges regarding the country’s demographic and socioeconomic changes.
P25|Migration in the People’s Republic of China|This report summarizes the characteristics of migration in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) after its reforms and opening up. Rapid urbanization in the PRC has resulted from recent decades of intense rural–urban migration. The scale of migration increased rapidly and long-term migration is the main characteristic. The population characteristics of migration are determined not only by a personal decision, but also a joint decision within households to send members with comparative advantages in manufacturing and services, usually male and young, to work in cities. Coastal regions where manufacturing and services are better developed, especially big cities, are the major destinations. The aspiration for higher-income and better job opportunities is the major force that drives migration, while public services and urban amenities also partly account for population flows. However, in the PRC, there are still major institutional barriers—especially the hukou system and related segmentation in the urban labor market, social security, and public services access—that hinder rural–urban and interregional migration. Facing the challenges of fast urbanization and growing urban diseases, local governments still rely on the current system to control the population flow into large cities. Controlling population growth by discriminative policies will lead to more social problems. Policy makers should reconsider the way to achieve efficient and harmonious urbanization by shifting to more pro-market policies and reducing the migration costs embedded in institutional constraints.
P25|The Relationship between Land Prices and Housing Prices in Iran|The Objective of this research is to study the relationship between land price and housing prices in Iran according to the mutual causation perspective. Based on Haizhen and Allen (2013) model and using a simultaneous equations system and two-stage least squares method to study the issue between the first quarter of 1998 to the fourth quarter of 2012. The results of Toda and Yamamoto causality and Hausman test indicates that there are bilateral causality between land prices and housing prices and the results of two-stage least squares method indicate that rising land prices have increased housing prices and rising housing prices have increased land prices. It is suggested that due to the special characteristics of land such as (no depreciation and low maintenance costs), reduced the storage of land by using tax and interdiction and specific incentive policies and led to the proportional transfer in supply and demand for land by reducing unemployment and rising income and demand.
P25|Two Views on Urban Revolution|The word â€œrevolutionâ€ is used very differently by Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley in their mainstream liberal work as opposed to the way David Harvey uses the word in his book where he advocates for a revolution by moving decision making away from the elite class currently in control to working people currently subject to those decisions. Both works see urban centers as loci of change. Both want very different changes.
P25|Growth, Pollution, and Life Expectancy: China from 1991-2012|This paper examines the relationship between income, pollution, and mortality in China from 1991-2012. Using first-difference models, we document a robust positive association between city-level GDP and life expectancy. We also find a negative association between city-level particulate air pollution exposure and life expectancy that is driven by elevated cardiorespiratory mortality rates. The results suggest that while China's unprecedented economic growth over the last two decades is associated with health improvements, pollution has served as a countervailing force.
P25|Killer Cities: Past and Present|The industrial cities of the 19th century were incredibly unhealthy places to live. How much progress has been made in reducing these negative health effects over the past 150 years? To help answer this question, we compare mortality patterns in 19th century England to those in Chinese urban areas in 2000. We document that substantial improvements have been made in improving health in cities over this period. Unlike historical English cities, large cities in China have lower mortality than less populated areas. However, we also provide evidence that in China a substantial relationship between industrial pollution and mortality remains.
P25|Water Pollution Progress at Borders: The Role of Changes in China's Political Promotion Incentives|At political boundaries, local leaders have weak incentives to reduce polluting activity because the social costs are borne by downstream neighbors. This paper exploits a natural experiment set in China in which the central government changed the local political promotion criteria and thus incentivized local officials to reduce border pollution along specific criteria. We document evidence of pollution progress with respect to targeted criteria at province boundaries. Heavy metal pollutants, not targeted by the central government, have not decreased in concentration after the regime shift. Using data on the economic geography of key industrial water polluters, we explore possible mechanisms. (JEL D72, O13, O18, P25, P28, Q25, Q53)
P25|Nonbusiness Innovációk A Gazdaságban| A XXI. századi tudásgazdaság (és tudástársadalom) kulcskérdése az innováció, a szereplők innovativitása, az innovatív megoldások hálózatos terjedése, az innovációs ökoszisztémák kiépülése, működése, és értelemszerűen mindezek összefüggése a versenyképességgel. A versenyképesség alapvetően az üzleti szektorhoz kapcsolódó fogalom, amelynek szereplői számára ez nem cél, hanem eszköz a fennmaradás és a fejlődés (növekedés) érdekében, és az üzleti (business) jellegű innovációk a versenyképesség biztosítását szolgálják. Miután a verseny globalizálódik, intenzitása növekszik, feltételei pedig dinamikusan változnak, az üzleti innováció fogalma is egyre bővül annak figyelembevételével, hogy az üzleti tevékenységek mely területén milyen innovatív megoldások kerülnek előtérbe. Bár a gazdaság másik szektorában, a nonbusiness szektorban (azaz a közszférában és a nonprofit szférában) a szereplők az üzleti vállalkozásoktól alapvetően eltérő célokat követnek, és a verseny is sajátos módon jelenik meg, a minél hatékonyabb működés követelménye itt is egyre erőteljesebben érvényesül. Ennek megfelelően a nonbusiness szektorban is növekszik az igény az innovatív megoldásokra. Ezeket gyakran az üzleti szektorból adaptálják, de a speciális célok, működési feltételek miatt szükség van eredeti, nonbusiness innovációkra is, sőt már tapasztalható, hogy sikeres nonbusiness megoldások átszivárognak az üzleti szektorba is. Az pedig külön érdekesség, hogy mind az üzleti, mind a nonbusiness szektor előszeretettel merít az evolúció során sikeresnek bizonyult természeti megoldások („innovációk”) közül is (lásd: innovációs ökoszisztémák, cirkuláris ökonómia), főként, ha a fenntartható fejlődést szolgáló „zöld” innovációkról van szó. A nemzetközi versenyképességi és innovációs elemzések azt mutatják, hogy az országok versenyképessége ma már nemcsak az üzleti szektor versenyképességén (azaz innovativitásán), de a nonbusiness szektor, sőt ezen túlmenően a társadalom innovativitásán is múlik. Célunk feltárni ennek a komplex kérdéskörnek néhány fontos területét. -------------------------------------------------------------------- The key questions of the knowledge-economy (and knowledge society) in the 21-st century are innovation, innovativity of actors, network-based dissemination of innovative solutions, building up and operating innovation ecosystems and their interrelationship with competitiveness. Competitiveness is a term of the business sector basically being a tool used in the interest of sustaining and developing and not a purpose for its actors. The business purpose (type) innovations serve the competitiveness. Because of the globalization, the increasing intensity and rapidly changing conditions of competition the term of business innovation is widening depending on what kind of innovations becomes more popular in the business. The actors of the other sector of the economy (the nonbusiness sector that is the public sphere and the NGO-sphere together) follow objectives basically different from enterprises based on very special conditions of competition but the criteria for efficiency become more and more important for them. That’s why the need for innovative solutions is increasing in the nonbusiness sector too. These solutions are adopting often from the business sector but there is a strong need also for special innovative nonbusiness solutions and there are examples for application of successful nonbusiness solutions even in the business sector. It is also interesting to see “natural” innovations adopted by both sectors (like ecosystems, circular economy) especially in the case of “green” innovations serving the sustainability. International comparative studies show that the competitiveness of countries is depending not just on the competitiveness (that is innovativity) of business sector but on the innovativity of nonbusiness sector and/or society. Our objective is to discover the main important fields of this complex issue.
P25|A Recski Ércbánya Hatása A Településre| Az 1980-as években Magyarországon több bánya hanyatló sorsra jutott. Recsk esetében ehhez hozzájárult, hogy csökkent a rézérc világpiaci ára, kevesebb lett az állami támogatás mértéke, a kőolaj világpiaci ára megemelkedett, a technológia kezdett elavulttá válni, illetve sok helyen a nyereséges, kitermelhető vagyon nem érte el a küszöbszintet, így bezárták a bányákat. Sok hír felröppent az újranyitással kapcsolatban is. Az alapvető konfliktus nemcsak a bányászat negatív hatásait jelentheti. A térségben nagyarányú a munkanélküliség, kevés a kedvező helyzetben lévő, nyereséges vállalkozás. A bánya újranyitása lehetőséget teremtene a környékbeliek foglalkoztatására, a térség gazdasági fellendítésére. Kutatófúrások bizonyították jelentős ércvagyon meglétét a területen. A megnyitással kapcsolatban azonban éles ellentétek alakulhatnak ki az általános gazdasági, valamint a turisztikai és környezetvédelmi szereplők között (pl. gyógyfürdők vízhozamának lecsökkenése, rekultivált területek hasznosításának módja miatt). A probléma mélysége miatt még nem született olyan átfogó tanulmány, amely figyelembe veszi a társadalmi, gazdasági és környezeti szegmensek együttes hatását. Tanulmányunkban ismertetjük a recski ércbánya korábbi és jelenlegi hatásait, a problémák megoldásának lehetőségeit. Rámutatunk, hogy a jelenlegi körülmények között van-e, illetve milyen lehetőségek vannak az újranyitásra. ----------------------------------------------------------------------- In Hungary in the 80’s, mining had a decadent fate. In the case of Recsk that was caused by the world market price of copper and quantity of state subvention decreased substantially, the world market price of oil increased, and the technology became outdated. Also in many places supplies did not reach profitable, exploitable level and consequently the mines were closed. These days there have been many talks about reopening of mine. The discussions involve the negative effects of the mine as well as the high unemployment in the regions as there are only a few profitable companies. Even though the reopening of the mine could offer the local people the opportunity of employment and an economic boost to the subregion, it could bring serious disagreements among the stakeholders of economic, tourism and environmental spheres due to issues such as the decrease in the water supply of the thermal medical baths for example. Due to the controversy of the subject, there has not yet been any comprehensive study on the subject, which analyses the combined effect of social, economic and environmental segments. In our study, we will examine the current effects of the Recsk ore mine, and discuss solutions for the problem. Furthermore, we will analyse questions regarding the reopening of the mine and methods of inducement.
P25|Cluster Development In Rural Areas| The interest in creating a base-line for development patterns of clusters and clusters’ specific characteristics in rural areas is particularly imposed by certain problems, which manifest themselves in similar degrees and provide a generic pattern in different regions and countries, e.g. depopulation and land abandonment, unemployment level and insufficient access to basic services and infrastructure. Certain development patterns and priorities are identified in the regional development in the old EU-members, while the member states from the Eastern parts are still partially restricted by their economic situation and political instability. This puts forth the concept of the “integration maturity”, which refers to the preparedness of each country and its capability to fully exploit the benefits and the advantages of the integration form (Palánkai, 2003), and is still applicable in terms of the economic convergence level of the new-member states in comparison to the EU-15. This statement is especially relevant to the rural business and development that often remains distant and isolated from capital and sources of information and support. With the consequences of the economic crisis and the ongoing economic instability economists, business experts and social scientists have refined a broad range of techniques for making sense of regional economies and analyzing the public policy implications of their workings. Clusters are therefore often perceived not only as patterns for economic transactions and economic outcomes, but also as social systems and multidisciplinary environmental drivers for change.
P25|Worker Turnover Across Italian Regions|This chapter provides prima facie evidence of the geographical distribution of worker turnover within Italian regions as measured based on the longitudinal files of the labour force survey (LFS) for the period 2004–2010. It explains the stylized facts emerging from this enquiry with an interpretation based on the industrial change literature. Industrial turbulence, rather than labour market flexibility, is driving labour turnover within regions, as the correlation with the Lilien (positive) and the Herfindahl (negative) indices, respectively, shows. In other words, industrial change causes greater job destruction and flows into and out of unemployment, while, as also Alfred Marshall noted, the availability of more specialised districts could partly offset the diseconomies of specialisation in terms of greater exposure to external shocks, when the unit of analysis is sufficiently large, as it is in our case (NUTS1 and NUTS2). We also find that, at an individual level, the regional gap in turnover rates is due to regional differences in the gender, age and education attainment of the workforce, as well as the share of temporary work contracts and the size of firms.
P25|Convergence Across Regions in Kazakhstan|This chapter analyzes unequal regional development in Kazakhstan. Applying the nonlinear least squares (NLS) method in presence of spatial correlation, we estimate the convergence rate of wages across Kazakh regions for the period 2003–2009. The estimated convergence rate is about 3.5% which is somewhat higher than the estimates obtained for the USA and Europe implying that half of the gap between regions is reduced in about 20 years. We do not find any significant effect of resource abundance on growth. However, human capital is an important factor contributing to growth. Our estimates indicate that a 1% increase in the share of students increases the growth rate by 0.18% points.
P25|Banking Structure, Marketization, and Small Business Development: Regional Evidence From China|This paper provides an empirical examination of the regional banking structures in China and their effects on entrepreneurial activity. Using a panel of 27 provinces and four directly controlled municipalities from 1997 through 2008, we find that the presence of large banking institutions negatively correlates with small business development in local markets and that this negative relation is driven mainly by participation of large banks in the short-term loan market. Rural banking institutions, in contrast, are found to promote regional entrepreneurial activity. Moreover, large state banks facilitate small business development in concentrated markets. When we interact measures of banking financing by state banks and rural banking institutions with a set of provincial level marketization indexes, we find that extensive marketization, factor market development, and sophistication of legal frameworks mitigate the negative effect of large state banks on small business development. In provinces with advanced market development, efficient factor markets, and favorable institutional settings, the positive effect of rural banking institutions on small business growth is even stronger. Finally, we present evidence that banks do a better job of promoting regional entrepreneurship when it occurs in conjunction with policies to foster innovation activity and assure protection of intellectual property rights.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P25|Impact of the global crisis on spatial disparities in Russia|This paper seeks an answer to the question of whether the global crisis had a persistent effect on inter-regional income equality and spatial market integration in Russia. Results obtained suggest that the answer is generally negative.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P25|Comments on the Impact of Knowledge on Economic Growth across the Regions of the Russian Federation|Using a basic growth accounting approach it is deduced how far the regional knowledge infrastructure plays any significant role across the regions of the Russian Federation. Aside from aspects of the size of the regional innovation system, like the number of researchers and students, it is discussed in how far the inflow and outflow of knowledge plays a role in determining the economic growth. The study shows thereby that while the Russian growth dynamics are indeed driven by the exploitation of natural resources, foremost of oil and gas, a significant part of Russian growth is due to its innovation system. This shows that innovation oriented growth politics as promoted by former president Dmitry Medvedev do have a solid foundation to be built on.
P25|European Innovation Dynamics and US Economic Impact: Theory and Empirical Analysis|The role of product innovations is growing in the world economy, and the EU and the US are key players here. The analysis presented herein explains product innovations in the EU25 for the period 2006-2012, namely through lagged R&D (relative to GDP), cumulated FDI inflows (relative to the host country capital stock) and cumulated FDI inflows (relative to the host country capital stock), joint internet intensity, broadband intensity and potential competition. For the first time we can offer a broad analysis of product innovation dynamics in Europe which should be the basis for not only better supply-side policy in EU countries and growth policy, respectively, but it also suggests a strong role for international digital communication in relation to product innovation dynamics. Moreover, the approach provides new important arguments in favor of the TTIP negotiations between the US and the EU and it suggests a broader analytical link between trade, FDI, innovation, employment and output growth.
P25|Exploring the Geography of China's Airport Networks: A Hybrid Complex-Network Approach|Air networks are normal examples of transportation systems among ubiquitous big data networks in the dynamic nature. This is particularly the case in developing countries with rapid airport network expansions. This paper explores the structure and evolution of the trunk airport network of China (ANC) in major years during 1980s-2000s. We generalise the complex network approach developed in existing studies and further test for statistical properties of weighted network characteristics by using pair-wise traffic flows. The spatiotemporal decomposition of network metric plots and the visualization maps leads to a rich harvest of stylized ANC structures: (i) national hub-and-spoke patterns surrounding mega-cities; (ii) regional broker patterns surrounding Kunming and Urumqi, and (iii) local heterogeneous disparity patterns in isolated geographical cities, such as Lhasa, Lijiang, Huangshan, etc. These findings have important implications towards understanding the geo-political and economic forces at stake in shaping China's urban systems.
P25|Urban Shrinkage in Eastern Germany|This paper questions the widely applied parallelism of demographic and economic development in characterizing urban shrinkage in Germany, and argues that the usage of population change as a single indicator leads to incorrect policy recommendations for combating urban shrinkage. As the cases of several Ruhr cities (Essen, Gelsenkirchen and Dortmund) and East German cities (Erfurt, Rostock and Magdeburg) prove, urban economic growth can also be achieved thanks to the substantial presence of modern industries and business services, and despite declines in population size. The serious shrinkage of Halle, Cottbus and Schwerin is primarily due to failures in the post-industrial transformation process. Recent policy measures strongly oriented towards slowing the downsizing process of population (via urban regeneration measures to hinder suburbanisation and low core urban density) do not address this major problem effectively. More active industrial policy measures are required in these East German shrinking cities to create a competitive manufacturing sector (endowed with new high-tech firms) and to boost its growth interdependence with modern local services.
P25|Decomposing the German East-West wage gap|We demonstrate that almost one half of the observed wage gap between East and West Germany reflects differences in worker, establishment, and regional characteristics rather than differences in productivity at the establishment level. Regional price and establishment size differentials alone account for one quarter of the overall East-West wage gap. Differences in employees? characteristics and in productivity deliver much smaller but still statistically significant contributions. We derive these results from an Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition using unusually rich linked employer-employee data. Our findings are quite stable over the period from 1996 to 2010 and over the wage distribution.
P25|The Labour Module in a dynamic, regional CGE model|The NSW Department of Industry commissioned CGE model development in order to enhance regional labour market analysis. The Centre of Policy Studies has developed VUEF (Victoria University Employment Forecasting), a dynamic model used in labour market forecasting. VUEF is a national dynamic model. It includes regional detail, but this is limited to a top-down module in which regions do not have separate labour markets and production functions. Rather, it relies on exogenous regional shares to distribute national results to each region. Dynamic TERM (The Enormous Regional Model), with multi-regional bottom-up representation, has been used for policy analysis at the regional level at the Centre of Policy Studies since 2003. Until now, it has not been used to examine occupational or skills composition in the labour market. We have adapted the recently developed VUEF labour market module for use in dynamic TERM. This paper elaborates on the regional labour market module, with minimal details of the linkages with the core TERM model. The labour market module has been developed as a standalone model for training purposes. In practice, it is likely that the fully dynamic TERM model with the labour market module will be used for analysis. This paper also includes some guidance concerning the use of RunDynam.
P25|Fiscal decentralization and China's regional infant mortality|Regional Chinese infant mortality rates (IMRs) are examined using a stochastic frontier method for the first time. The composite error term method yields estimates of large underreporting of IMRs over time and provinces in China during the past 30 years. China does not follow the standard growth paradigm of more growth leading to lower IMRs. Fiscal decentralization has not alleviated the problem of high IMRs. Both IMRs and the sex ratio at birth suggest reported data constitute a floor or minimal level of demographic distress across provinces with millions of missing females not fully included in the data. China's one-child policy leads to not only underreporting by families but also reporting abuse by local officials who want to be promoted. The hukou system and unbalanced government development policies exacerbate the issue.
P25|Determinants of the adoption of modern technology in the handloom industry in Assam|This paper identifies and analyzes the determinants of technology adoption in the handloom industry in Assam. Binary logistic regression model is used to analyze the primary data in which the dependent factor (technology adoption) is dichotomous. Results show that education and annual income of the industry owners play a crucial role in the adoption of modern technology. In the case of small owners, gender has positive and significant influence, whereas age, education, and distance to the nearest market have significant but negative influences on the adoption of modern technology. In the case of contractual workers, age has a negative but significant influence on the adoption, whereas annual income, access to government credit, and access to training have positive and significant influences on the adoption of modern technology. As access to training and credit increases the likelihood of the adoption of modern technology for the contractual workers, adequate facilities for such determinants should be made available to the grass root workers.
P25|Zaokret iz recesije ka ekonomskom razvoju sa novim tokom reindustrijalizacije u regionu|Regionalni razvoj je višedimenzionalni i kao takav postaje strategijski problem. Postoji mnoštvo mogucih rešenja, a kako nijedno trenutno u ekonomskom razvoju nije superiorno, novi model razvoja mora obezbecivati opštu nacionalnu efikasnost sa mecuregionalnim ujednacavanjem i konstantnim smanjivanjem regionalnih dispariteta. Pronalaženje dobrih rešenja u reindustrijalizaciji je više stvar razumevanja problema, nego fizickog investiranja, naglasak treba staviti na stimulisanje propulzivnih podrucja sa najpropulzivnijim delatnostima. Funkcionalni kompromis traži konzistentno rešenje razvojnih problema, jer je rec o odlucivanju u uslovima velikih neizvesnosti u sadašnjosti i teško predvidivoj buducnosti. Navedena tema rada cini pokušaj da se odrede kljucni principi na kojima bi trebalo zasnivati formulisanje i implementaciju novog modela razvoja u skladu sa evropskim konceptom endogenog, autopropulsivnog i samoodrivog razvoja.
P25|Exploring the geography of China's airport networks: a hybrid complex-network approach|Air networks are normal examples of transportation systems among ubiquitous big data networks in the dynamic nature. This is particularly the case in developing countries with rapid airport network expansions. This paper explores the structure and evolution of the trunk airport network of China (ANC) in major years during 1980s-2000s. We generalise the complex network approach developed in existing studies and further test for statistical properties of weighted network characteristics by using pair-wise traffic flows. The spatiotemporal decomposition of network metric plots and the visualization maps leads to a rich harvest of stylized ANC structures: (i) national hub-and-spoke patterns surrounding mega-cities; (ii) regional broker patterns surrounding Kunming and Urumqi, and (iii) local heterogeneous disparity patterns in isolated geographical cities, such as Lhasa, Lijiang, Huangshan, etc. These findings have important implications towards understanding the geo-political and economic forces at stake in shaping China's urban systems.
P25|House price cycles in emerging economies|Purpose - – This paper aims to investigate the characteristics of house price dynamics for a sample of 16 emerging economies from Asia and Central and Eastern Europe over the period of 1995-2011. Design/methodology/approach - – Linking housing valuations to a set of conventional fundamental determinants – relative to both the supply and the demand side of the market, institutional factors and other asset prices – and modelling short-term price dynamics – which reflect gradual adjustment to underlying fundamentals –conclusions about the existence and the basic nature of house price overvaluation (undervaluation) are drawn. Findings - – Overall, it was found that actual house prices in the sample of emerging economies are not overly disconnected from fundamentals. Rather, they tend to reflect a somewhat slow adjustment to shocks to the latter. Moreover, the evidence that housing valuations may be driven by overly optimistic (or pessimistic) expectations is, in general, weak. Research limitations/implications - – Residential property prices used in the empirical analysis have many limitations: while some series are derived using a hedonic pricing method, others are based on floor area prices collected by national authorities; while some countries publish house prices in national currency per-square metre (or per apartment or per dwelling), others calculate an index number scaled to some base year; while some countries publish statistics for the whole national territory, others produce data only for the capital city or for the largest cities in the country; data from national sources refer to different types of residential property; finally, available time series are relatively short, which may adversely affect the robustness of estimation results. Practical implications - – The decomposition suggested in the paper has important implications: it would be paramount, in fact, for policymakers to implement market-specific diagnoses, and to find the right policy instruments that can ideally distinguish between the two underlying components driving house price short-run dynamics. Originality/value - – There is a very small body of empirical literature on housing market developments in emerging economies, especially if focussed on the comparisons between the actual dynamics of housing valuations and the equilibrium ones.
P25|Measuring Social Sustainability of NUTS-1 Level Regions in Turkey|While the concept of sustainable development generally refers to achieving a balance among the environmental, economic, and social pillars of sustainability, the social pillar has had less attention than economic and environmental sustainability. However, in recent years, social sustainability has become an important concept for policy makers and scholars. The measurement and assessment of social sustainability is also gaining importance in this context. The objective of this study is to develop a tool in order to measure social sustainability of Turkish regions for NUTS-1 level and examine each region’s social sustainability performance. To this aim, an Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) model is proposed since AHP is an efficient tool for integrating indicators with different units of measurement. SuperDecisions software v.2.4.0 was used for the analysis and the model is applied to 12 NUTS-1 regions for the 2008-2013 period. NUTS-1 regions were ranked according to a set of six criteria namely, education, health, poverty, unemployment, safety and illiterate women. The results indicate that regions have shown relatively low performance between 2008 and 2011. However in 2012 and 2013 all regions got highest social sustainability performance scores. TRB (Ortadoğu Anadolu), TR3 (Ege), TR7 (Orta Anadolu), TR8 (Batı Karadeniz) and TR9 (Doğu Karadeniz) regions got scores of highest social sustainability in 2012 and TR1 (İstanbul), TR2 (Batı Marmara), TR4 (Doğu Marmara), TR5 (Batı Anadolu) and TR6 (Akdeniz) in 2013. TRA (Kuzeydoğu Anadolu) region has shown the best social sustainability performance in 2008 and TRC (Güneydoğu Anadolu) region in 2011. None of the regions in 2009 and 2010 performed well compared to other years. Specifically in 2009 TRC (Güneydoğu Anadolu), TR2 (Batı Marmara), TR3 (Ege), TR4 (Doğu Marmara), TR5 (Batı Anadolu), TR6 (Akdeniz), TR7 (Orta Anadolu) have shown the lowest performances. In 2010 TRA (Kuzeydoğu Anadolu), TRB (Ortadoğu Anadolu), TR8 (Batı Karadeniz) and TR9 (Doğu Karadeniz) regions have shown the lowest performances.
P25|In search of the elusive Chinese urban middle class: an exploratory analysis| This article aims to identify and characterise the Chinese urban middle class. We propose to improve the description of the middle class using an innovative approach combining an economic approach (based on income) and a sociological approach (based on education and occupation). The empirical investigations conducted as part of this research are based on the China Health and Nutrition Survey (2009). First, we define the middle income class as households with an annual per capita income between 10,000 yuan and the 95th percentile. On this basis, approximately 50% of urban households may be said to belong to the middle class. Second, we use information on employment and education to characterise the heterogeneity of the middle income class. Using clustering methods, we identify four groups: (i) the elderly and the inactive middle class, mainly composed of pensioners; (ii) the old middle class, composed of self-employed workers; (iii) the marginal middle class, composed of skilled and unskilled workers; and (iv) the new middle class, composed of highly educated wage earners in the public sector. We show that the different groups have distinctive features based on variables such as housing and household appliances and equipment.
P25|Financial Liberalization and Urbanization|This paper analyzes the relationship between financial liberalization and urbanization. We conjecture that liberalizing financial policies enables the process of economic structural change and that this change results in an increased demand for labor in the predominantly urban service industry, Using different identification strategies and a large country sample, we find that financial liberalization is positively associated with urbanization. When controlling for the robustness of determinants as well as potential endogeneity, financial liberalization is still significantly and positively related to urbanization. We also identify the individual financial policies that are most strongly associated with urbanization, namely interest rate liberalization, strengthening of competition in the banking sector, credit control liberalization, and a decrease in the entry barriers to the domestic financial industry. Our findings have implications for countries such as China, where policymakers hope that urbanization will be a key driver of future economic growth.
P25|When IKEA enters: Do local retailers win or lose?|IKEA is one of the world’s largest retailers, but little is known about how IKEA impact incumbent retailers when deciding to enter a local market. Previous studies on the effects of big-box entry on surrounding retailers have also generated inconclusive results, and mainly been focused towards entry of Wal-Mart in the United States. We contribute to this literature by investigating the effects of IKEA entry on revenues and employment for incumbent retail firms in three Swedish municipalities during 2000-2010. Our results indicate that a new IKEA store increases average revenues for incumbent retailers within the entry municipality by 11%, but also that the effect is highly heterogeneous within the municipality. Retailers that were located up to 1 km from IKEA experienced a 26% increase in revenues when IKEA entered the municipality. However, the positive spillover effect of a new IKEA store on retail revenues diminished with the distance to IKEA, and turned insignificant for retailers in the city centers and those that were located 5-10 km from IKEA. The effects on employment were much less pronounced, and in most cases statistically insignificant.
P25|Foreign direct investment and regional economic development in Russia: an econometric assessment|In this paper, we estimate the effect of foreign direct investment (FDI) on total factor productivity (TFP) in Russian regions, paying special attention to the country’s investment boom and the remarkable regional gaps in terms of cumulative direct investments in and after 2003. We also examine possible synergistic effects between FDI and local R&D potential to test the absorptive capacity hypothesis. Our estimation results strongly suggest the remarkable role of FDI in the regional economic development in Russia. In addition, we found that the positive effect of FDI on TFP may increase in the regions that received larger amounts of foreign capital. Furthermore, we detected a surprisingly robust and positive synergistic effect between FDI and local R&D potential, indicating that the absorptive capability is essential for linking FDI and regional economic development in Russia. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P25|Divided Cities: Increasing Socio-Spatial Polarization within Large Cities in the Netherlands|There is increasing evidence that our societies are polarizing. Most studies focus on labour market and educational outcomes and show a socioeconomic polarization of the bottom and top ends of the population distribution. Processes of social polarization have a spatial dimension which should be visible in the changing mosaic of neighbourhoods in cities. Many studies treat neighbourhoods as more or less static entities, but urban researchers are now increasingly interested in neighbourhood trajectories, moving away from point-in-time measures and enabling a close examination of processes of change. Sequence analysis allows for a visualization of complete trajectories, and is therefore gaining popularity in the social sciences. However, sequence analysis is mainly a descriptive method and statisticians have argued for the use of a tree-structured discrepancy analysis to examine to what extent outcome variability can be explained by a set of predictors. This paper offers a first empirical application of sequence analysis combined with a tree-structured discrepancy analysis. This paper contributes to the debate on urban renewal programs by offering a unique viewpoint on longitudinal neighbourhood change. Our findings show a clear pattern of socio-spatial polarization in Dutch cities, raising questions about the effects of area-based policies and the importance of path-dependency.
P25|Socio-Economic Segregation in European Capital Cities: Increasing Separation between Poor and Rich|Socio-economic inequality is on the rise in major European cities as are the worries about that, since this development is seen as threatening social cohesion and stability. Surprisingly, relatively little is known about the spatial dimensions of rising socioeconomic inequality. This paper builds on a study of socio-economic segregation in twelve European cities: Amsterdam, Athens, Budapest, London, Madrid, Oslo, Prague, Riga, Stockholm, Tallinn, Vienna, and Vilnius. Data are used from national censuses and registers for the years 2001 and 2011. The main conclusion is that socio-economic segregation in Europe has grown. This paper develops a rigorous multi-factor approach to understand segregation and links it to four underlying universal, partially overlapping, structural factors: social inequalities, globalization and economic restructuring, welfare regimes, and housing systems. The paper provides an in-depth discussion of these factors to come to a better understanding of the differences between the hypothesized and actual segregation levels measured. It is suggested that introducing time-lags between structural factors and segregation outcomes improve the theoretical model.
P25|Rural electrification revisited : the case of Bihar, India|This study describes the dynamic processes of electrification. Some electrified villages have experienced de-electrification, mainly due to technical issues. Some villages were re-electrified through various efforts. Our econometric exercise indicates that small villages in remote locations tend to not be prioritized in the electrification process. It also finds that the cumulative number of ever-electrified villages is higher among villages having a higher ratio of socially advanced classes. However, some of these experienced de-electrification, rendering ambiguous the impact of village social characteristics on electrification.
P25|Legújabb trendek a magyarországi kivándorlásban|A tanulmány egy négy éves projekt első 16 hónapjának kutatási eredményeit foglalja össze. Közismert, hogy Magyarországról az elmúlt években megnövekedett a kivándorlók száma. Sajnos erről pontos adatok nem ismertek, éppen ezért fontos az olyan terepi vizsgálat, amelyet ennek a projektnek a keretében végeztünk. Az alábbi kérdésekre kerestük a választ: milyen a kivándorlási szándéka a mai magyar lakosoknak; van-e ennek területi különbsége, ha igen, akkor ennek hátterében mi lehet; illetve milyen demográfiai jellemzőkkel írhatók le a kivándorolni készülők az itthon maradni akarókkal szemben.
P25|Jövőorientáció-vizsgálat a hevesi fiatalok körében|Tanulmányom célja a dél-hevesi belső periféria fiataljainak a továbbtanulási, munkavállalási, családalapítási terveinek, illetve – kiemelten– a migrációs szándékuknak a vizsgálata. Az empirikus kutatás a járásközpontban található egyetlen középiskolában (Heves), illetve három falu (Átány, Kömlő, Tiszanána) általános iskoláiban zajlott. Eredményeképp felvázolható, hogy e hátrányos helyzetű térség leendő fiatal felnőttjei milyen jövőképpel rendelkeznek.
P25|Comprehensive Assessment Of The Level Of Socio -Economic Development Of The Siberian Federal District|This article describes an integrated method for assessing the socio-economic development of the Siberian Federal District.
P25|Geographical Concentration of Soviet Industries: A Comparative Analysis|This paper analyzes the geographical concentration of manufacturing industries in Russia before the beginning of transition. We calculate Duranton- Overman (Duranton, Overman, 2005) indices of localization and dispersion for 4-digit US SIC 1987 industries of civilian manufacturing in the RSFSR in 1989. Comparative analysis reveals that industries in the RSFSR were less localized than in geographically compact countries of Western Europe. On the other hand, compared to another country with large territory and low population density - Canada, industries in RSFSR exhibit similar overall degree of geographical dispersion. Compared to Canada, Russia has less localization in the technologically sophisticated industries. Such pattern of industrial localization suggests that the Soviet planning system could account for the benefits of localization near inputs or near consumers, but could not internalize the knowledge spillover externalities, that are especially important for the technologically advanced industries.
P25|Climate Change Adaptation: Lessons from Urban Economics|"In an urbanizing world economy featuring thousands of cities, households and firms have strong incentives to make locational investments and self protection choices to reduce their exposure to new climate change induced risks. This pursuit of self interest reduces the costs imposed by climate change. This paper develops a dynamic compensating differentials model to explore how the ""menu"" offered by a system of cities insures us against emerging risks. Insights from urban economics offer a series of testable hypotheses concerning the economic incidence of spatially tied climate change risk."
P25|Tourism Cluster - Promoter Of Rural Development If Croatia|Tourism, as one of the greatest phenomena of the 21 century, is characterised by an intense competition in the global tourist market, because of the growing tourist demand in the last couple of decades. The competition between tourist destinations, regardless of what kind of tourism products and services they provide requires tourism product providers to adapt their offer to the preferences and requirements of “modern” tourist consumers, which has resulted in the development of new, selective forms of tourism. One of them is rural tourism which has experienced continued growth in the global market. If one takes an objective look at the actual position of rural tourism in the overall tourism industry of Croatia, it is evident that it is not assigned an adequate level of importance. The basic reason is certainly the focus of national tourism policy exclusively on the development of the seaside tourism, which has lead to a disorganized (random) development of rural tourism. Specifically, there was no networking and cooperation between tourism stakeholders in rural areas. Clusters are one of the methods for structuring rural tourism, since they are built on vertical and horizontal networking and strategic partnerships. The existing knowledge on the issue will be presented in the theoretical part of this paper by describing empirical evidence obtained by Croatian academic community in the field of clusters in rural tourism. The empirical part of the paper is focused on the analysis of the benefits brought by clusters or common interest groups. For this purpose, empirical research will be carried out on rural tourism providers (TFF1 owners) in the selected counties of Continental and Adriatic Croatia.
P25|Financing the endogenous development at regional and county levels. Particularities, trends and challenges|The paper focuses on the complex dialectics between endogenous and exogenous components of local and territorial economic development, emphasizing the idea of the particular consistency of internal growth factors and the importance, in this context, of financial means for activating the endogenous potential in the case of Romania. The county was considered as statistical observation unit for the period of analysis 2007-2013 and the data were disaggregated on bank loans, FDI, research and development expenditures, European structural and cohesion funds, local budgets expenditures. It was found that the more developed counties have better chances to achieve higher performances of endogenous development. The study highlighted the need of a policy mix that would support the development of counties with a relatively low development level, actually most of them, under the circumstances of a polycentric regional development. An optimal combination between top-down and bottom-up interventions may prove to be the most successful, offering an effective compatibility of decentralization with the coordination and monitoring requirements, supporting the smart specialization at county level, not excluding spillover effects at community and national levels.
P25|On the Regional Birth Rate Differences in Uzbekistan|The purpose of this study is to investigate, theoretically and empirically, regional variation in crude birthrates in Uzbekistan at a provincial (viloyat) level for the period 1991-2010. Also, it offers maps showing the provincial crude birth rates for this period, and probe the ways in which regional fertility differences have arisen. A panel data analysis is also carried out to explain determinants of birth rates. The findings of this study underline that increased women’s participation in the labor force, urbanization rate and poverty have all contributed to the fertility decline in all regions. Moreover, real disposable income was not found to have sizable influence on differences in regional birth rates, which can be explained by preference to traditional socio-cultural norms over opportunity costs of having children. These norms usually encourage fecundity, which can be also confirmed by the average household size that had the biggest impact on reproductive behavior of women living in these regions.
P25|On the demand for agritourism: a cursory review of methodologies and practice|During the last decades agritourism has expanded tremendously worldwide given visitors’ increased interest to appreciate the life in the countryside and farmers’ need to enhance their revenues from different economic activities. Despite such enlarged agritourism development, scant information is available on the state of its demand at both national and international levels. Given such a need, we cursory reviewed the range of econometric methods employed to evaluate the demand of agritourism, summarizing the salient findings in their application. Our assessment shows that current studies provide a limited characterization of the agritourism demand, especially in terms of methods utilized and information compiled. We suggest that a broader set of economic approaches are needed to control for existing bias and model flaws, and to isolate the features and amenities pulling visitors to agritourism destinations. We also suggest expanding economic studies to fully capture the impact of increased agritourism demand in surrounding communities.
P25|Dezvoltarea economica endogena la nivel regional. Cazul Romaniei<BR>[Endogenous economic development at regional level. The case of Romania]|Under the current global economic circumstances, characterized by growing uncertainties and the endurance of financial crisis effects, the approach of endogenous factors that contribute to the economic growth and welfare improvement is of major interest for academics and decision makers. The endogenous forces of development have a significant impact at both national and regional levels under the impact of recovery measures and actions related to different areas of economic policy. This book focuses on the complex dialectics between endogenous and exogenous components of local economic development, highlighting the main factors behind endogenous processes and emphasizing the particular importance of activating the regional endogenous potential in the case of Romania. The authors’ work is based on the interpretation of the main theories on endogenous development at national and regional level, completed by a multifaceted analysis based on statistical methods and econometric techniques for assessing competitive and comparative advantages to support economic growth and social development. The study has highlighted the need of a policy mix that would support the development of areas with a relatively lower development level, under the circumstances of a polycentric regional development. An optimal combination between top-down and bottom-up interventions may prove to be the most successful, offering an effective compatibility of decentralization with the coordination and monitoring requirements, supporting the smart specialization at regional level, that could create spillover effects at national level. The authors have pointed out the strategic orientations of regional growth for 2014-2020 resulting from Romania’s Territorial Agenda and the Regional Operational Programme, revealing the most important challenges in relation to endogenous development factors and the perspectives of regional convergence at EU level.
P25|The Effects of FDI on Innovation Systems in Hungarian Regions: Where is the Synergy Generated?|In this study, we show how internationalization and foreign-owned firms influence synergies in the regional innovation systems of Hungary. We first distinguish three innovation system functions (knowledge exploitation, knowledge exploration, and organizational control) operating in regions and study their interactions using entropy statistics. The functions and their interactions are measured by analysing the distribution of firms in terms of geographical location, organizational size (number of employees), technologies (NACE codes of the OECD), and ownership (foreign versus domestic share in registered stock) in the 2005. Synergy is defined as mutual information among the three dimensions; a fourth dimension is added in order to bring internationalization (FDI) into the model. The factor is relevant since the four-dimensional model explains the GDP contributions to regional development in Hungary, whereas the three-dimensional model does not. We find that regional innovation systems in Hungary are self-organized differently, in relation to a relatively small number of foreign firms. These firms have a large positive effect on synergy in regions between the Hungarian capital and the Austrian border. However, FDI has negative effects on domestic synergy in the lagging eastern and southern provinces of the country.
P25|Territorial Discrepancies In The Rural-Urban Fringe Zone Of Bucharest|The rural-urban fringe area of Bucharest is the most economically dynamic region of Romania, and, at the same time, is the one, which suffered the most from the recent economic decline. The article is focused on the analysis of inequalities of social-economic variables, including differences in their spatial patterns, before and after the 2008 economic crisis. We involved two methods of inequality analysis. Gini coefficient was used to determine the overall level of inequalities in the region. Comparison with the region’s mean value was used for identification of spatial patterns of these inequalities. Our results highlight four trends in the overall level of inequality dynamics, while all the studied variables follow more or less accurately the same pattern of spatial dynamics. Our findings provide new arguments in support of the idea that the new processes in the Bucharest fringe zone follow the circular pattern, which privileges the northern part of the area, while south is the last to benefit from any new development.
P25|An Evaluation of the Economic Theoretical Potential of the Rural Environment Mismanged During 1956-2010|Under the context of the essential role and growing importance of the rural environment in the development of a country, we focus on evaluating the economic theoretical potential of the rural environment that we consider to have been mismanaged during 1956-2010. For this purpose, in this paper we define, describe and explain the main concepts, as to be able to evaluate the economic potential of the rural development and further contribute to its improvement. The study focuses on the correlations between the population of working age, occupancy, unemployment and the wasted economic potential, putting forward a new concept, statistically valid, demographic named the absolute able overpopulation.
P25|Heterogeneous convergence of regional house prices and the complexity in China|The purpose of this research is to analyze the convergence of regional house prices and its complexity in China. In this purpose it used nonlinear time varying factor model. The obtained results have provided evidences for the existence of some degree of segmentation in China’s housing market. By further dynamic analysis of the convergence, we have found that important housing policies from Chinese central government can significantly alter the housing market but with a time lag of 4 to 5 months, and that quite different behaviors exist between the new house market and the second-hand house market in China, which provides the evidence for the complexity of housing market in China. Multiple factors together are the driving forces for the regional house price convergence. And the driving forces differ among three clubs. The basic conclusion provided from the realized research is that the conventional de?nitions of economic regions may not be appropriate to analyze house price segregation in China. Heterogeneous convergence exists in China’s regional house prices, indicating the complexity of regional house prices in China. And housing policies should be implemented with different focus among the regions. The way of the central government is to make housing policies aiming at different sub-markets of the new house market and the second-hand house market.
P25|Urban Systems and Urban Development in the People’s Republic of China|The People’s Republic of China (PRC) is experiencing a trend toward population concentration in its large coastal cities. However, at the same time, there is also a distortion of city size toward small cities in the country. That is to say, the urban population in the PRC should further concentrate in large cities rather than be more equally spread out. Cross-country analysis indicates that the population size of the primary city in the PRC is smaller than its predicted value. This paper suggests that the PRC government should adjust its policies on future urbanization for fewer restrictions on the further growth of megacities.
P25|Knowledge Spillovers Within The Algarve Tourism Region. Evidence To Identify A Regional Innovation System|Studies of local knowledge spillovers have often focused on empirical evidence for core regions, and been related largely to manufacturing, neglecting behavior in less innovative economic sectors in peripheral regions. Tourism in the Algarve region is the main engine of its regional economy. Although frequently considered as a low-moderate innovative sector, competitive tourism firms are becoming increasingly Knowledge Intensive, which may create positive advantages for regional growth. This may improve conditions for the creation and diffusion of knowledge, with cooperative and collaborative interaction contributing to the consolidation of a regional innovation system (RIS). The goal of this study is to provide preliminary evidence of the main sources and vehicles of regional knowledge spillovers affecting tourism firms in the Algarve, generally considered to be a peripheral region. The main sources of knowledge used by micro and small tourism firms (MSTF) are human resources and formal and informal networks. This study detected specific features of a regional innovation platform which, eventually, may give way to a RIS.
P25|La internacionalización de las empresas familiares en el negocio corchero mundial: los casos de Reynolds, Mundet y Corticeira Amorim|The internationalization of family firms has become an important field of economic research, which could be addressed from different theoretical approaches. In all of them, historical perspective is a very useful tool, since a long-term approach allows a deeper understanding of the internationalization process and their geographic, economic and social implications. The purpose of this work is to analyze the processes of internationalization followed by family firms, with an emphasis on factors linked to them which favor their success in the global markets. In particular, we present a historical analysis of three relevant family firms in the world cork business history; first, the Reynolds family firm, which is a paradigm of commercial success in the cork business until the last quarter of the nineteenth century, and of failure thereafter; second, the Mundet & Sons company, which, despite having become a leading company in the world cork business, is also a paradigmatic example of failure because of its final outcome in the 1980s; and third, Corticeira Amorim, an example of success and leadership in the international market since the mid-twentieth century to today.
P25|Business, Brokers and Borders: The Structure of West African Trade Networks| The objective of this paper is to show how a formal approach to networks can make a significant contribution to the study of cross-border trade in West Africa. Building on the formal tools and theories developed by social network analysis, we examine the network organisation of 136 large traders in two border regions between Niger, Nigeria and Benin. In a business environment where transaction costs are extremely high, we find that decentralised networks are well adapted to the various uncertainties induced by long-distance trade. We also find that long-distance trade relies both on the trust and cooperation shared among local traders, and on the distant ties developed with foreign partners from a different origin, religion or culture. Studying the spatial structure of trade networks, we find that in those markets where trade is recent and where most of the traders are not native of the region, national borders are likely to exert a greater influence than in those regions where trade has pre-colonial roots. Combining formal network analysis and ethnographic studies, we argue, can make a significant contribution to the current revival of interest in cross-border trade in the policy field.
P25|"A ""de Soto Effect"" in Industry? Evidence from the Russian Federation"|The strengthening of land rights has been proposed as a policy to reduce financial market frictions and promote private investment in low- and middle-income countries. But assessments of these potential effects have proven inconclusive. One reason may be that research has focused on actors that face difficulties accessing credit for reasons other than the security of land tenure. We explore the effect of greater tenure security in a setting in which non-land-related financial market frictions are apt to be mild--that is, among large urban industrial enterprises. Exploiting policy variation across Russian regions and firm-level survey data, we show that private land rights facilitate credit access and promote investment.
P25|The Effects of Tangible Immovable Cultural Heritage on Residential Property Values: Evidence from Lisbon, Portugal|Real estate prices in cities, especially in historic central areas, are influenced by the quality and character of their neighbourhoods. Many cities are identifiable by iconic historic features such as their buildings or monuments. This paper examines the impact of historic amenities on residential housing prices in the city of Lisbon, Portugal. Our study is directed towards identifying spatial variation of amenity values for churches, palaces, lithic (stone) architecture, and other amenities through the housing market. We develop a theoretical model to guide the empirical specification and establish a bid price function allowing for a spatial pattern of housing prices more complex than the monocentric city model. As such the willingness to pay may no longer be a monotonically decreasing function of distance to the CBD. A novel feature of our model is the introduction of herd behaviour in the housing market to capture underlying spatial interaction between property values. Empirically we estimate two global spatial hedonic models, a spatial lag and spatial error, to capture the effect of concentration of historic amenities on residential prices and correct spatial dependence. A locally weighted regression model investigates spatial non-stationarity and generates local estimates for individual historic landmarks. Results show significant spatial autocorrelation and there are benefits to modeling this behaviour through spatial hedonic models with reduced SSE up to 4% relative to OLS models. Direct proximity to any type of monument yield premiums of around 2% on housing prices however increased landmarks overall decrease prices by 0.7%, and different types of historic and individual landmark amenities induce varying housing premiums. Higher concentrations of non-landmark churches within 1,000 meters yield negative effects of 0.1% on housing prices with landmark churches having a larger impact around 4%. In contrast, lithic structures and palaces have positive effects with premiums in the order of 5% and 12% respectively and stronger effects for historic amenities located near open spaces. The impact of these historic amenities are assumed different since they are primarily aesthetic whereas churches provide services and a congregation point for the community. Our results highlight the capacity of the LWR model in explaining price differentials for proximity to individual landmarks. We see localized effects for being located near specific landmarks from approximately 130 ? to be further from the Castle and Church of Saint Anthony in downtown to 200 ? and 800 ? respectively to be located closer to the Palace of Necessidades and Monastery of Jeronimos - both characterized by large gardens. From a policy perspective, these findings highlight the importance of conceptualizing the amenity value not just in terms of structural characteristics but how those characteristics interact with or are conditioned by social, economic and other local contextual features.
P25|Exploring city social interaction ties in the big data era: Evidence based on location-based social media data from China|Location-based social media data is, increasingly, an important facilitator of exploring the movement of goods and people in and between countries across the globe. Typical examples include Twitter, Facebook, Foursquare. As with all social media data outputs, the fundamental value of location-based social media data is for sensing users' space-time trajectories, and thus, makes social media data a new platform for understanding business and social interactions in the spatial context. In large developing and emerging economies with massive social media users via computers and mobile phones, real-time 'geo-tagged' human mobility information from social media data sources are clearly potentially large. In these settings, cyberspaces are often built and expanded with the explicit aim of stimulating digital socioeconomic activities and balancing regional disparities. However, despite intense policy and public enthusiasms, there is virtually no direct evidence on exploring the configuration of urban network patterns by using social media users' mobility flows within a large developing country context. The scarcity of empirical evidence is not surprising, given that mining location-based social media data faces serious identification challenges. First, location-based social media data, as a type of big data resource, are often featured by the dynamic, massive information generated by billions of users across space. In truth, despite of the recent development of intensive-computational geographic information system (GIS) modeling programs, social media data with precise individual-level location information is still extremely large to proceed by using the GIS techniques at multiple geographical scales. Furthermore, conventional GIS-based computational methods cannot directly read the unstructured social media datasets (e.g. words, pictures, videos). Additional big data mining methods are often needed to transform social media data information from unstructured data formats to structured, and ready-to-use spatial datasets. In this paper, we tackle these problems by analysing the configuration of intercity connection patterns in China to provide new evidence to the applications of location-based social media data in urban and regional studies. Our examination of changes in human mobility patterns by months by city-pairs throughout China by months involves many potential stages of big data mining analysis. We stratify cities by core-periphery urban systems, by regions and by calendar months, finding that human mobility flows are not distributed evenly over time and across space. We find larger human mobility flows around the Chinese New Year month and the summer months. Our evidence suggests the significantly heterogeneity patterns of core-periphery urban systems as reflected from real-time human mobility flows. As a baseline, this paper is - for the first time in the literature - to comprehensively measure urban network patterns at a detailed spatial degree (the city-pair level) based on location-based social media data from a large developing country context.
P25|Crisis and conversion of industrial port complex: the case of Gdansk (Poland)|The Interference of liberal principles and the reintroduction of a market economy have changed the structure and the organization of the productive system of centrally planned and administered countries (NOVE, 1981; ANDREFF, 2007). The new forms of industrial organization, which are the source of these transformations, give priority to territorial logics. In this context, studies on industrial districts, innovative environments, clusters? found renewed interest. However, the issue of local conversion by economic liberalization is still much unexplored in terms of impact on the organization of local actors and the development of innovation on the local level in the former centrally planned countries. The purpose of this paper is to highlight the strong links between the institutional and organizational decentralization and development of innovation on the local level. Our method of analysis is based on the idea that the change of public management after liberalization contributes to the convergence of public and private interests resulting in the emergence of an institutional agent composed of a network of actors. Collective action of these actors plays a vital role in the emergence and development of a potential innovation. To justify our approach, we combine the institutional approach and the evolutionary approach to explain the formation of the institutional agent and its involvement in the development of innovation on the local level. We apply this interpretative framework to the case of industrial port complex of Gdansk because of its economic history, the establishment of the new local economic policy (after 1989), the choice of local authorities, although significant growth of the high-tech sector and the absence of previous study on this issue. The study of institutional change in Gdansk is based on the literature review. The potential of innovation that is forged in parallel is studied on a double level first through a statistical analysis of Gdansk economy to provide an overview on all the initial conditions, then, through the study of data from surveys conducted by the National Statistical Office (GUS) to determine the weight of high-tech enterprises in Gdansk. The results show that the liberalization of exchange considerably affects the organization of local actors in Gdansk. The collective actions of public and private actors are not yet common but they encourage the development of innovation in Gdansk promoting: first, the accumulation of core assets, then the improvement of its scientific and technical potential and third the emergence of innovative high-tech companies. This study shows that the economy of Gdansk is being transformed all by emphasizing the articulation between the different actors of proximity, the local specific resources, and the reports developed on the market and non-market and the introduction of innovation.
P25|Looking for Multiple Equilibria in Russian Urban System|This paper studies the e®ect of forced labor relocation in GULAG, and the losses during the WWII on the long-term dynamics of city growth in the USSR. The main goal is to test whether the impact of Stalinist policies and the WWII on economic geography of the USSR persists in long run, and whether, in response to these policies, the long-term dynamics of the Soviet city growth shows evidence of multiple equilibria. I ?nd that WWII does not have a statistically signi?cant long-term e®ect on city growth, controlling for other factors, while GULAG system does. The growth of an average city in 1960s exhibits partial mean-reversion after the shocks of 1930s-1950s. The dynamics is consistent with multiple equilibria hypothesis: cities that received a lot of investment (as measured by the GULAG population) in the 1930s-1950s, have a higher chance not to revert to the previous trajectory, but to continue growing, while neglected cities are more likely to decline.
P25|Analyzing the multi-mechanism of regional inequality in China|This paper advances the multi-mechanism framework, integrates the GIS technology and spatial panel data models for analyzing regional inequality mechanism. Applying this integrated methodology, we investigate China’s regional inequality at the county level using a comprehensive panel dataset that includes socioeconomic, environmental, locational, policy and GIS data from 1992 to 2010. The results show that Chinese regional inequality at the county level has a non-stationary dynamic structure, mirroring global inequality and spatial autocorrelation. In addition, the spatial panel data models analysis reveals the relative influence of explanatory variables. The impact of essential productive factors on regional development is gradually fading. Industrialization and decentralization play the most important role. The influence of marketization on regional development is not clear. The expansion of urban built-up areas has exerted a strong influence on the uneven regional development. Policy and transportation factor plays an indispensable role in regional inequality. The analysis additionally recognizes that socioeconomic factors play a dominant role, beyond policy and location factors. The role of environmental factors appears to be masked. This paper suggests that more attention needs to be paid to micro-inequality to coordinate inter-county and intra-county inequality under the pressure of rapid industrialization, urbanization and modernization of agriculture. Given the pattern of economic development, deepening balanced development reforms, optimizing and upgrading the industrial structure might be effective ways to develop a more coordinated regional development structure in China at the county level. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P25|Ready, set, go! Why are some regions entrepreneurial jump starters?|Previous research on market economies characterized by stable framework conditions shows that several regional factors determine start-up activity. Not much is known about what drives entrepreneurship in unstable environments characterized by significant institutional changes that affect the availability of entrepreneurial opportunities. To fill this gap, this paper focuses on post-communist regions in which start-up activity was basically nonexistent under socialism, but significantly more in evidence after the institutional shock of introducing a market economy. It is argued and shown that the allocation of talent into productive entrepreneurship is higher in areas abundantly endowed with individuals who have a relatively high ability to detect viable entrepreneurial opportunities, as indicated by their qualification, and in regions home to a population that is characterized by a high alertness toward opportunities, as indicated by remnants of an entrepreneurial culture that predates socialism. How institutional context affects entrepreneurship over the course of transition is reflected by the negative relationship between urbanization and entrepreneurship that presumably has to do with ill-devised socialist urban planning policies. The regional application of the theory on institutions and entrepreneurship outlined in this paper shows that an entrepreneurial rebound after an adverse large-scale shock accompanied by massive structural change and economic dislocation is most pronounced in areas with a strong human capital basis and a regional culture that favors entrepreneurship. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P25|In search of opportunities? The barriers to more efficient internal labor mobility in Ukraine|Ukraine’s economy lacks dynamism, and this is both the cause and the effect of people not moving across the regions. The rate at which Ukrainians move from one region to another within the country is only half of what would be expected in comparison with other countries. This paper examines the barriers that prevent workers from moving within Ukraine, using information from focus group discussions and expert surveys. It also offers recommendations for creating greater labor mobility in Ukraine through addressing institutional bottlenecks and defines five key areas for improvement, including the population registry system, housing and credit markets, vocational education and training systems, labor market institutions, and the social welfare system. Keywords: Internal labor mobility, Housing market, Barriers to migration, Transition economies. Copyright Koettl et al.; licensee Springer. 2014
P25|Zinspolitik ade! Wie man Immobilienpreisblasen dennoch überstehen kann|After the financial crisis, some Euro countries are still facing major economic problems. They require favourable interest rate conditions in order to free themselves from their difficulties. But due to the low interest rate policy of the ECB, the risk of a housing price bubble in Germany is increasing. Since a rise in interest rates is not expected in the near future, other national institutional possibilities come to the fore. High capital ratios of both the borrower and the banks, and long rate fixation periods may counteract the development and impact of price bubbles. This might improve the stability of the German real estate market. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
P25|Who Benefits from Globalization of Labor? Evidence from the 'Bosman Ruling'|"As an old Chinese proverb says, ""visiting monks give better sermons."" European soccer clubs also believe this, and have always been seeking for foreign players to boost competitiveness. However, due to the reason of protectionism, there were restrictions that each club was only allowed to field up to three foreign players. In 1995, the ""Bosman Ruling"" was made, resulting that restrictions on foreign players were widely relaxed for soccer clubs in the European Union (EU), and the European soccer market has become highly globalized since then. Due to the nature of soccer competitions, it is impossible that the ""Bosman Ruling"" improves sporting performance for all clubs. It thus raises a question: who benefits from globalization of labor? From the perspective of economic inequality, will this ruling affect competitive balance of soccer leagues in Europe? This paper examines the pre- and post-Bosman change of the sporting performance distance between previously strong clubs and lower-ranking clubs in 32 premier soccer leagues in Europe. We notice the problem in the previous literature that estimations of the treatment effect of the ""Bosman Ruling"" are confounded with other soccer policy and rule changes. To solve this problem, we employ Difference-in-Difference-in-Differences (DDD) to control for omitted variables. Because the ""Bosman Ruling"" was made within the EU, it naturally created a Bosman region and a non-Bosman region. Using DDD, the treatment effect of the ""Bosman Ruling"" is identified at the distance-region-period level. Based on two sporting performance measures, i.e., the points per match and the goal difference per match, we estimate that the distance between previously strong and lower-ranking clubs increased by at least 20% in the post-Bosman period. Somewhat surprisingly, it is the distance between previously strong and median-ranking clubs that increased most, though the general pattern is that all lower-ranking clubs suffered loss. We also conduct IV regressions of the pre- and post-Bosman change of the distance between previously strong and lower-ranking clubs on the pre- and post-Bosman change of the number of foreign players in previously strong clubs. OLS can raise the endogeneity problem because sporting performance might also affect transfer decisions of foreign players. Therefore, we use the treatment variable (i.e., the dummy describing whether the club is in the Bosman region) as the instrument of the regressor, i.e., pre- and post-Bosman change of the number of foreign players. Similar with DDD estimations, we find that the influx of foreign players caused that the distance between previously strong and lower-ranking clubs increased after the ""Bosman Ruling"". Using both DDD and IV, we observe that previously strong clubs significantly benefited from globalization of labor. Soccer leagues in Europe became more unbalanced after the ""Bosman Ruling""."
P25|An Anaylsis in Order to Measure of Regional Development Agencies Performance and Their Impacts to the Regional Growth in Turkey|"""Development"" is not only an economic notion but also it consist of so many meanings such as social, cultural manners, production and consumption ways. During the development process, development units could be growth in vary times and space. At this point what has to be told, which sector and production unit will be developed and how much money will invest in this sector? Besides, the institutional position has a crucial point during the development process and there are vary many ways in the world to accomplish the process. RDAs is one of the institutional ways of this process. RDAs are aim to enhance the development in the region by using the endogenous growth theories. In the USA, Tennesse Valley Autority was the first one that dealed with the construction of dams in the region and to ensure the production rate. In Europe, RDAs process came together after II. World War. In this paper, RDAs are studied generally and searched their institutional and legislative status around the world and Europe as well as Turkish RDAs. As the study shows that, examples from the varied countries have some similarities, but offenly the applications are changed from country to country. Such as developed countries, RDAs are specialized to bring and enhance the foreign investment and to use the national and international funds and grants, however, in less developed countries RDAs are worked to increase the usage of natural sources and to reduce the unemployment ratio. Turkish RDAs were established at 2006 and after four years later, they are able to start their facilities all around Turkey in the 26 NUTS 2 regions at 2010. The institutional frame of the Turkish RDAs are specified and constituted by local governors, NGOs and local autorities (municipalities). The head of the board of directors is local governor in the region. Besides the secretary general is responsible to the board of directors from the agency activities. Also there is an advisory committee which is named ""Development Committee"". In order to analyze their performances and show to change of the disparities; their facilities are studied in the paper. In this context, to analyze the RDAs' performance, 27 indicators are determined which are related to the responsibilities and duties of RDAs that are determined in the law of 5449. Moreover, these indicators are categorized and managed some exponents according to their importance. After additioning all the units, a performance score is calculated for each RDAs. Moreover, a comparison is also examined to explain the changes before and after RDSs establishment in Turkey."
P25|Rural-Urban Migration with Behavioral Preferences|This paper incorporates the behavioral labor economic perspective into the traditional Harris-Todaro rural-urban migration model. We study cases in which one's utility is not only determined by his own wage, but also by wages of others. In our theoretical models, rural-urban migration is driven by the expected utility differential, instead of the expected wage differential. We find that the conventional ``Harris-Todaro equilibrium' (in which the rural wage equals the expected urban wage) always exists, but there are two other possible equilibria, in which the rural wage can be either greater or less than the expected urban wage. Moreover, we show that if lower-income players gain utility from the wage differential, i.e., they are altruistic towards higher-income players, and the degree of altruism is sufficiently large, then the two equilibria in which the rural wage differs from the expected urban wage are stable, and the Harris-Todaro equilibrium is not stable.
P25|The settlements of the North: sustainable development or disappearance (case of Yakutia)|Study of disparities between Russia's territories is mostly carried at the level of the subjects of the Russian Federation or cities with similar populations. Comparative analysis of settlements is obstructed by incomplete statistics, imperfection of tax and account rules and effect of shadow sector. Predominantly the base of comparative analysis of settlements is the data of National Population Census (2002 and 2010). However such studies allow us to determine the main long-term trends in the development of settlements. As known, the imbalance of legislation about local governments does not leave for Russian settlements own resources of growth. Until recently, the concept of uniform development dominated. It suggests the equalizing of social and economic condition of settlements. In Yakutia, this approach is realized by storing of redundant of public institutions and employment. As a result, Yakutia face with budget problems and the quality of life declines. In rural settlements jobs are created only in the public sector. There is a reproduction of rural poverty. All of this stimulates the migration of people in cities for the last 20 years. But these trends do not impact on economic policy. The Government of Yakutia seeks to preserve the rural settlements. The research is based on the use of econometric methods in the study of those disparities. There was created a database for the 2006/2007 and 2010/2012. It includes 389 settlements of Yakutia. Analysis of the data allowed selected all settlements by population. The indices of the demographic potential, the quality of public service, the transport availability, the financial security and the economic activity were calculated by using econometric methods. Analysis allowed to identify the production specialization of settlements and their types, including unpromising (must be disappeared), depressive, stagnating and growth point. Dynamic analysis shows that the settlements with more than 2,000 people are sustainable. Settlements with smaller populations are usually depressed. There was created the vector of settlement protection from the closure. It means that the settlements of historical significance and settlements with traditional economies (reindeer herding and fishing) don't have to be closed. Analysis showed the necessity of moving from the concept of uniform development to the principles of selective development. It requires new approaches to regional policies in Russia.
P25|The Floating World:Issues in International Trade Theory|In The Floating World , Emeritus Professor of Economics Wilfred Ethier collates 22 papers that delve deep into the study on International Trade Theory. These papers are grouped into six distinct sections. Each covers an overarching research program in trade theory ¡ª Factor-Endowments Theory, Economies of Scale, International Factor Markets, Regional Integration, the Political Economy of Trade Policy, and Administered Protection. An additional section for important papers outside of those programs is also included. With papers originally written in the 1970s all the way up to recent times, Ethier provides contemporary commentary for each section, referring to further sources, candid accounts on the state of international trade theory at the time and how each paper contributed to further improvements of their respective research program. Contents: Factor-Endowments Theory Economies of Scale International Factor Markets Regional Integration The Political Economy of Trade Policy Administered Protection Some Topics in Trade Theory Readership: Undergraduate and postgraduate students in International Trade Theory and Economics, and interested members of the general public.
P25|“Job Accessibility, Employment and Job-Education Mismatch in the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona”|This paper analyses the effect of job accessibility by public and private transport on labour market outcomes in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. Beyond employment, we consider the effect of job accessibility on job-education mismatch, which represents a relevant aspect of job quality. We adopt a recursive system of equations that models car availability, employment and mismatch. Public transport accessibility appears as an exogenous variable in the three equations. Even though it may reflect endogenous residential sorting, falsification proofs suggest that the estimated effect of public transport accessibility is not entirely driven by the endogenous nature of residential decisions.
P25|Im Fokus: Veränderungen im Städtesystem Russlands: Fortdauernde Tendenz zur Konzentration|Nach dem Ende der kommunistischen Herrschaft in Russland haben der darauf folgende Transformationsschock und die durch ihn in Gang gesetzten Marktprozesse Veränderungen im Städtesystem bewirkt. Anhand eigens aufbereiteter Daten der amtlichen russischen Städtestatistik geht der Beitrag diesen Veränderungen nach. Wichtigste Erkenntnisse sind die Erhöhung der Konzentration der urbanen Bevölkerung und die Verstärkung der Gegensätze zwischen urbanen Kernen und peripheren Räumen. Für die Zeit etwa ab dem Jahr 2000 darf vermutet werden, dass marktwirtschaftliche Prozesse die Veränderungen im Städtesystem beeinflussen. Hierzu kann die Neue Ökonomische Geographie einen wesentlichen Erklärungsbeitrag leisten, insbesondere vor dem Hintergrund des im Zuge der Preisliberalisierung erfolgten, noch nachwirkenden realen Anstiegs der Kosten des Frachtverkehrs. Diese schützen zum einen die im Zentrum ansässigen Unternehmen vor Wettbewerbern außerhalb der Zentren und verteuern zum anderen die Versorgung der peripheren Regionen. Die Untersuchungsergebnisse stützen die Hypothese, dass steigende Transportkosten die Raumstruktur beeinflussen. Vor dem Hintergrund eines möglichen Energiepreisanstiegs besitzen die Beobachtungen am Städtesystem Russlands daher auch für Deutschland Relevanz.
