P28|Míster Ford en el Océano|Este trabajo busca aproximarse al desarrollo del sistema fordista en la pesca. Dicho sistema, difundido en la industria agroalimentaria en Estados Unidos en los años treinta, por asimilación de los cambios operados en la industria de bienes de consumo duradero, fue replicado por el conjunto de sectores agrícolas occidentales tras la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Los cambios en el modelo industrial permitieron incrementar sustancialmente la productividad, asentando un sistema de acumulación basado en la producción y el consumo masivo. La nueva naturaleza industrial también afectó a la pesca. La exigencia de recursos abundantes y homogéneos impuesta por la tecnología pesquera de tipo fordista, impulsó la intensificación y la mundialización de la actividad, generando nuevas dinámicas económicas y ecológicas. En las siguientes páginas abordaremos, primero, la difusión del fordismo en la industria agroalimentaria y la incorporación del pescado a las nuevas formas de consumo; a continuación, analizaremos su plasmación en la actividad pesquera, las nuevas formas de aprovechamiento y conservación del pescado; después, estudiaremos los factores que proporcionaron consistencia al sistema en los años sesenta y setenta; sus bases tecnológicas y su excepcional marco institucional y económico.
P28|Evaluating the Impact of Brexit on Natural Gas Trade between the UK and the EU – A Spatial Equilibrium Analysis|The United Kingdom (UK) and the European Union (EU) engage in significant natural gas trade through the Internal Energy Market (IEM). As the UK exits from the EU however, it is likely to also exit from the IEM given the seemingly intractable positions of both parties. Exit of the UK from the IEM would likely cause an increase in natural gas trade costs between the two. The increased trade costs result from a number of channels including (1) loss in trade efficiency arising from loss of EU financing previously aimed at improving efficiencies in trade between the two; (2) loss in trade efficiency arising from loss in the sophistication of financial instruments that are linked to the UK’s membership of the EU and the IEM; (3) rising costs of doing business in the UK for many EU energy companies due to the effects of possible regulatory divergence between the UK and the EU; etc. We use a spatial equilibrium model to examine the trade flow, price and welfare implications of these cost effects on global natural gas trade, with a focus on the UK and the EU. We find that cost increases in the UK-EU natural gas trade links would result significant trade flow changes, with the UK and the EU reducing overall exports and increasing internal trade. As a result, there would be significant underutilisation of existing pipelines linking both parties. The Republic of Ireland would also form a significant number of new trade links to compensate for its reduction in imports from the UK. Total welfare losses in the UK and the EU are in the order of $479million and $602million respectively, which is equivalent to about 3.69% and 0.59% of the total value of natural gas trade for the respective parties in 2017. In the UK, the producer welfare loss is significantly higher, highlighting the vulnerability of the UK natural gas industry to cost increases in trade with the EU.
P28|Revisiting the management of stationary fuel supply security and gas diversification in Hungary|This paper aims to assess the security of stationary fuel supply in Hungary by applying the three-dimensional approach, encompassing availability, affordability and sustainability. The main focus is on primary energy fuels in relation to electricity, but the approach is also applied, in part, to electricity itself. It is shown how select influencing factors affect the choices made from among security of supply dimensions. Although providing a source-by-source review, special attention is paid to nuclear energy and natural gas. For a long time, natural gas has been the fuel that Hungary is particularly sensitive to in terms of security of energy supply. Thus, gas diversification has become a key issue, analysed here also by using my own gas diversification scheme. I find that considerable progress has been made in this area. However, along with the 2014 decision on the construction of new units at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant (Paks II), aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in Hungarian electricity supplies, the energy agenda has changed considerably. With Paks II, Hungary’s dependence will both decrease and increase – as new types of risks emerge. In such circumstances, a Nuclear–Solar/Biomass–Natural Gas concept of the electricity mix seems to be emerging in Hungary.
P28|In and beyond the locality : policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China|This article investigates the interaction process between policy and social responses to water pollution health hazards in China, focusing on the case of the Huai River Basin. Since the 1970s, rural communities in the basin have suffered from persistent water pollution health hazards. Through a critical review of the interactions between policy and practices, this article reveals how these two approaches coevolved in the cooperative sphere, that is, a quasi-public sphere under fragmented authoritarianism in China supported by the state, media and environmental non-governmental organizations to address the ecological disaster in and beyond the basin. Additionally, a disconnect between practices in the locality and the policy beyond it can be observed as another side of fragmentation in the field of environment and health issues. Grassroots “micropolitics” such as dialogue, negotiation, cooperation with polluters and local authorities, and innovation as an alternative to the official public work based on social and ecological knowledge are examined to overcome this fragmentation.
P28|Using Value-at-Risk for effective energy portfolio risk management|It is evident that the prediction of future variance through advanced GARCH type models is essential for an effective energy portfolio risk management. Still it fails to provide a clear view on the specific amount of capital that is at risk on behalf of the investor or any party directly affected by the price fluctuations of specific or multiple energy commodities. Thus, it is necessary for risk managers to make one further step, determining the most robust and effective approach that will enable them to precisely monitor and accurately estimate the portfolio’s Value-at-Risk, which by definition provides a good measure of the total actual amount at stake. Nevertheless, despite the variety of the variance models that have been developed and the relative VaR methodologies, the vast majority of the researchers conclude that there is no model or specific methodology that outperforms all the others. On the contrary, the best approach to minimize risk and accurately forecast the future potential losses is to adopt that specific methodology that will be able to take into consideration the particular characteristic features regarding the trade of energy products.
P28|How energy audits promote SMEs' energy efficiency investment|This paper assesses the role of energy audits in promoting energy-efficiency measures in SMEs. It benefits from the data collected within the European Investment Bank Surveys in 2017 and 2018, involving information about energy audits and energy-efficiency investments of some 12,500 signatures from EU28 Member States per year. Our findings suggest that energy audit is a useful tool in overcoming the information barriers and facilitating investments in energy-efficiency measures. In fact, their information is more crucial for small firms and for investments in support processes such as lighting, wall insulation etc. than in production processes such as replacement of machinery and equipment. However, we found that the beneficial impact of energy audits cease to exist when firms are finance constrained. Finally, our results indicate that information campaigns are one of the most efficient available instruments among other instruments (regulatory, financial and voluntary agreements) for promoting energy audits in SMEs.
P28|Dosis facit effectum: Why the scope of the carbon tax matters - Evidence from the Swedish residential sector|Sweden has gradually increased its carbon tax within the past 25 years and imposes the world's highest tax on carbon dioxide emissions today. This paper examines the impact of the Swedish carbon tax on residential carbon emissions as well as on consumer behavior. We perform Difference-in-Differences (DiD) regressions and Synthetic Control Methods (SCM) in order to evaluate the causal impact of carbon taxation on carbon emissions in the residential sector. Both methods provide evidence for a causal effect of the carbon tax augmentation in the early 2000s on residential carbon emissions. We find that the scope of the reduction of residential carbon emissions due to the carbon tax augmentation range between 200kg (when compared to other countries with a carbon tax of more than 20 Euros implemented) and 800 kg of CO2 per capita per year (when compared to countries without a carbon tax). Hence, the evidence points towards the effectiveness of carbon taxation in reducing residential CO2 emissions and, thus, mitigating climate change.
P28|Joint and conditional dependence modeling of peak district heating demand and outdoor temperature: a copula-based approach|This paper examines the complex dependence between the peak district heating demand and the outdoor temperature. The final aim is to provide the probability law of the heat demand given extreme weather conditions and derive useful implications for the management and the production of thermal energy. We propose a copula-based approach and consider the case of the district of the city of Bozen-Bolzano. The analysed data concerns daily maxima of heat demand observed from January 2014 to November 2017 and the corresponding outdoor temperature. We find that the marginal behavior of the univariate time series of the district heating demand and the temperature is well-described by autoregressive integrated moving average models. Moreover, the selected copula model exhibits a symmetric dependence between the two investigated phenomena that tend to comove closely together during the whole heating season. Taking into account the conditional behaviour of the heat demand given the temperature leads to find that the demand is strongly affected by the temperature and, in case of extreme climatic events, the demand of thermal energy reach a peak with high probability. These findings motivate for improving the production schedule, the system design, and the operational strategies.
P28|Economic dispatch in the electricity sector in China: potential benefits and challenges ahead|Unlike the economic dispatch used in most power systems, electricity system dispatch currently used in China is an equal share approach. This form of dispatch has been criticized for its negative influence on system operations, worsening energy security, environmental sustainability and affordability problems. To contribute to on-going electricity market reform discussions, our study employs an optimization model to quantify the economic dispatch savings in the coal-fired power sector. We offer three major findings. First, the heat rates of coal generators in China in 2014 ranged from 273.91 gce/kWh to 348.38 gce/kWh units and as a result of these large differences among generators in different regions, implementing economic (merit order) dispatch will bring economic and environmental benefits. Second, we identify three major political and economic challenges, which hinder the transition from the current dispatch model, namely (i) current running hours are insufficient for cost recovery, (ii) limited cross-border trading due to electricity over-supply and local protectionism, and (iii) political economy problems from generators of different ownership types. Finally, 5.67% of coal used in power generation could be saved if economic dispatch was employed at the provincial level, the value of which equals 0.05% of Chinese GDP in 2014.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P28|Economic dispatch in the electricity sector in China: potential benefits and challenges ahead|Unlike the economic dispatch used in most power systems, electricity system dispatch currently used in China is an equal share approach. This form of dispatch has been criticized for its negative influence on system operations, worsening energy security, environmental sustainability and affordability problems. To contribute to on-going electricity market reform discussions, our study employs an optimization model to quantify the economic dispatch savings in the coal-fired power sector. We offer three major findings. First, the heat rates of coal generators in China in 2014 ranged from 273.91 gce/kWh to 348.38 gce/kWh units and as a result of these large differences among generators in different regions, implementing economic (merit order) dispatch will bring economic and environmental benefits. Second, we identify three major political and economic challenges, which hinder the transition from the current dispatch model, namely (i) current running hours are insufficient for cost recovery, (ii) limited cross-border trading due to electricity over-supply and local protectionism, and (iii) political economy problems from generators of different ownership types. Finally, 5.67% of coal used in power generation could be saved if economic dispatch was employed at the provincial level, the value of which equals 0.05% of Chinese GDP in 2014.
P28|Directed Technical Change in Clean Energy: Evidence from the Solar Industry|This paper studies directed technical change and innovation in renewable energy. We construct panel data with micro- and macro observations from nearly 200 countries over a 20-year period and estimate how energy prices, government subsidies, financial markets, spillovers, and path dependence affect patenting in solar thermal and solar cells. Carbon taxes, R&D subsidies to solar technology and own-knowledge stocks have strong, significant positive effects on solar innovations. Subsidies to fossil energy have the adverse effect. We find no compelling evidence that the quality of financial markets and institutions has any consistent impact on the patenting activities of innovators in solar energy.
P28|Security of energy supply and gas diversification in Poland|Poland entered the twenty-first century with an unsustainable energy/electricity mix, strongly over-dependent on coal. This situation seems to be changing very slowly, while there are multiple factors that make it imperative for the issue to be urgently addressed. On the one hand, this paper aims to assess the security of the stationary fuel supply by applying the conventional three-dimensional approach, encompassing availability, affordability and sustainability. On the other, we plan to use our own scheme to analyse gas diversification (Weiner, 2017: 6), i.e. a fuel which, alongside coal, is a very sensitive issue linked to the security of the Polish electric power fuel supply. We demonstrate that the three-dimensional approach is also appropriate for addressing the issue of supply security in the case of a country with a securitized energy agenda based on fears of problems with the availability and affordability of Russian gas supplies. It also highlights Poland’s concern over foreign technological reliance regarding renewables production. We show how the energy perspective, the institutional context, as well as perceptions regarding threat, dependence and Russia influence choices made from among different security of supply dimensions. We find that though the role of coal will surely decrease, there is great uncertainty about Poland’s energy policy and security of supply because of deficiencies in infrastructure and the unknown future role of the particular fuels in the energy/electricity mix, also expected to include nuclear. We can observe that every energy policy step possible is being taken to maintain the role of coal, and Poland moves toward sustainability only as much and as soon as it is required by its EU membership. Not only does the coal industry capture Poland’s energy policy, but also geopolitical considerations cement reliance on coal, providing low energy import dependence. Regarding gas, we find that since the January 2009 Russian–Ukrainian gas crisis, Poland has taken action to diversify its gas supplies, and it has finally achieved results, but there is still a lot of uncertainty surrounding Russian gas imports.
P28|Spatiotemporal distribution of inclusive wealth data: An illustrated guide|In this paper we develop an illustrated guide for IWR2017 data. Graphical representations aim to reveal the multi-layer nature of IWR data with self-explanatory schemes. There are four parts of the analysis. In the first part, we present the spatial distribution of the three types of capitals - natural, human and produced - associated to social well-being. In the second part, we illustrate capitals’ temporal variation over 1990-2014, on different geographical and economic backgrounds. We investigate the dynamic evolution of capital assets and capture the key trend among different geographical regions and among regions with different economic growth. The third part makes an additional focus on natural capital and its spatial distribution over different income levels and regions. The forth part examines the causal relation between pollution and wealth. All four research questions are confronted with ease, clarity, and accuracy, with digital methods for mapping. A variety of graphical styles and/or forms is employed to indicate the resource use, capital exploitation trends of countries of different economic integration, uncover policies per income level.
P28|Econometric modelling of the link between investment and electricity consumption in Ghana|The study examines the long run effect of investment (proxied by gross fixed capital formation) on electricity consumption for Ghana, for the period 1971-2011, by employing annual time series secondary data from World Bank database (World development indicator). The Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) and Kwiatkowski-Philips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) tests were used to analyse the stationarity features of the data used in levels and in their first differences. The empirical verification was done using the Autoregressive Distributed Lag model (ARDL). The findings of the study indicate the data used are non-stationary in levels, however, stationary in their first difference. Investment and electricity consumption are cointegrated according to the cointegration test performed. There are both stable short run and long run relationship between investment and electricity consumption. Investment is an appropriate policy tool for electricity consumption management in both short run and long run. Further studies in the area of stationarity with structural breaks, cointegration with structural breaks, causality analysis, and multivariate modelling of investment-electricity consumption link is worth doing since the current study did not consider these issues.
P28|Linking soy oil demand from the US Renewable Fuel Standard to palm oil expansion through an analysis on vegetable oil price elasticities|The United States (US) Renewable Fuel Standard and California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard support the use of soy biodiesel and renewable diesel in the transport fuel supply for climate mitigation. However, linkages between the markets for soy oil and palm oil, which is associated with very high land use change emissions, could negatively affect the climate performance of soy-based biofuels. This study estimates the own and cross-price elasticities for the supply of soy and palm oils in the US using country-level data from 1992 to 2016 under rational expectations, through a seemingly unrelated regressions system of equations. We find a positive cross-price elasticity of palm oil import with respect to soy oil price and a positive reaction of supply of soy oil to increase in prices of palm oil. These results suggest that US biofuel policies may underestimate substitution between soy and palm oils and thus overestimate the climate benefits from soy-based biofuel.
P28|Effective energy commodities’ risk management: Econometric modeling of price volatility|The current study emphasizes on the importance of the development of an effective price risk management strategy regarding energy products, as a result of the high volatility of that particular market. The study provides a thorough investigation of the energy price volatility, through the use of GARCH type model variations and the Markov-Switching GARCH methodology, as they are presented in the most representative academic researches. A large number of GARCH type models are exhibited together with the methodology and all the econometric procedures and tests that are necessary for developing a robust and precise forecasting model regarding energy price volatility. Nevertheless, the present research moves another step forward, in an attempt to cover also the probability of potential shifts in the unconditional variance of the models due to the effect of economic crises and several unexpected geopolitical events into the energy market prices.
P28|Environmental Costs of European Union Membership: A Structural Decomposition Analysis|The interest in this paper lies in the environmental costs of the European Union (EU). EU membership requires a series of economic and political changes that should impact the country’s production and consumption structures and its trade relationships. These, in turn, will affect CO2 emissions sources and levels. This is especially true for the former Soviet Union countries that recently joined the EU, given the difference in their levels of development and production structure.Using a structural decomposition analysis we are able to quantify the main drivers of changes in emissions differentiating six components, namely: emissions intensity, industrial structure and sourcing,consumer preferences, final demand sourcing and consumption level. Grouping the countries into five clubs, New European Union countries, Old European Union countries, the United States of America, China, and the Rest of the World, we measure trading pattern changes and their impact on CO2 emission levels.
P28|A New Era of Pollution Progress in Urban China?|Over the last 30 years, China's economy has boomed. This trend has lifted hundreds of millions of Chinese out of poverty but it has also sharply increased local, regional, and global pollution levels. We look at the rise in air pollution over recent decades, and the perhaps surprising finding that in many of China's urban areas, levels of particulates (of less than 10 microns) have been decreasing during the last 10 to 15 years. We then turn to the costs and tradeoffs of air pollution, including costs to human health, reductions in worker productivity, and how people are seeking to reduce their exposure to pollution as shown by compensating differentials in real estate prices and purchases of masks and air filters. We discuss how rising incomes tend to raise the demand for environmental amenities and thus increase political pressure for environmental protection, and then we turn to the policy tools that China has used to reduce pollution. We conclude by arguing that as China's government is preparing for an additional 300 million people to move to urban areas over the next 30 years, it will have a number of opportunities for China to reduce pollution through a shift from manufacturing to services, along with various steps to improve energy efficiency and resource conservation. Overall, it seems that China is on track to improve its environmental performance in the years ahead.
P28|Firms and Regional Favoritism|We examine formal firm behavior in response to regional favoritism by top-ranked politicians using a balanced panel of 444 rural districts (yearly observations) in Vietnam during 2000 to 2011 and census microdata of firms, politicians' home towns, and climate and population microdata. The study finds that the number of firms and aggregated employment of firms increase in the home town districts of politicians after they resume office. The findings suggest that regional favoritism in a single-party system maintains the continuous development of firms in politicians' home town districts and widens the gaps among rural districts.
P28|Economic Reforms and Carbon Dioxide Emissions in European and Central Asian Transition Economies| Global warming and other adverse climate change impacts induced by anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions is a major public policy concern around the world. This paper examines the impacts of market-based economic reforms on per capita CO2 emissions in the European and Central Asian transition economies where environmental degradation was pervasive prior reforms. A dynamic panel data model is employed for this purpose for 28 countries covering 22 years from 1990-2012. Our results suggest that reforms in competition policy and corporate governance are the significant driver of emissions reductions in the region. Therefore, advances in competition policy and governance reforms are desirable given the available scope to extend these reforms. The Kyoto Protocol had no significant effect in reducing emissions levels while the relationship between economic growth and emissions seems weak based on our results. The results indicate that reducing energy use by increasing energy efficiency and investments in renewable energy are necessary to reduce the carbon emissions level and mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change in the region.
P28|Energy rebound effect in China's Industry: An aggregate and disaggregate analysis|Considering the crucial role of industrial sectors in energy conservation, this paper investigates the impact of output growth on energy consumption in China's industrial sectors with an index decomposition model and the energy rebound effect in the industrial sectors with a panel data model using the annual data during 1994–2012. The empirical results indicate that: first, industrial output growth is proved to be the major factor in promoting industrial energy consumption, while energy intensity reduction and structure shifts across industrial sub-sectors play the dominant roles in slowing down industrial energy consumption. Second, there does exist energy rebound effect in China's aggregate Industry, which ranges from 20% to 76% during 1995–2012 (or 39% on average). In particular, the energy rebound effect in Manufacturing is relatively smaller during the sample period (i.e., 28% on average). Finally, the energy rebound effect in both China's aggregate Industry and Manufacturing exhibit an overall decreasing trend over time.
P28|Financing clean energy projects through domestic and foreign capital: The role of political cooperation among the EU, the G20 and OECD countries|There is a growing concern among both individuals and policy makers in relevance to increasing CO2 emissions across the world. As a result, international organizations have started to pressurize economies to minimize their carbon emissions by increasing the share of clean energy consumption in total energy use. Hence, the goal of this paper is to empirically explore to what extent both domestic (stock market) and foreign (FDI inflows) capital affect clean energy uses across the EU, the G20, and OECD, spanning the period 1993–2012. The results of long-run elasticities document that both FDI and stock market developments play a significant role in promoting clean energy uses across all three-country groups. The results also suggest that clean energy consumption has a considerable positive and negative effect on economic output and CO2 emissions, respectively, while the political globalization has a substantial negative impact on carbon emissions across the EU, the G20 and OECD economies.
P28|Input-output and structural decomposition analysis of Singapore's carbon emissions|Singapore is an island city-state. It lacks conventional energy resources and is alternative energy disadvantaged. In the past decade (2000–2010), its energy-related carbon emissions increased from 37.8 to 44.4 million tonnes of CO2. This paper analyses the city state's carbon emissions from the demand perspective using the input-output (I-O) method and investigate the drivers of emission changes using structural decomposition analysis (SDA). It is the first comprehensive analysis of Singapore's emissions using the I-O framework. The results obtained show that exports accounted for nearly two-thirds of its total emissions and growth in its emissions in the last decade was largely export-driven. Emissions increased as export-oriented industries and export volume expanded. Fuel switching and energy efficiency, however, helped to lower growth in emissions. Besides exports, household-related emissions accounted for about a quarter of Singapore's total emissions. The emissions related to different household groups remained fairly stable as increases in embodied (indirect) emissions were offset by decreases in direct emissions. The high-income household group registered the largest increase in direct emissions, while the middle-income household group registered the largest increase in embodied emissions. The policy implications of our findings are discussed.
P28|Energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and economic growth: An ethical dilemma|In this study we examine the dynamic interrelationship in the output–energy–environment nexus by applying panel vector autoregression (PVAR) and impulse response function analyses to data on energy consumption (and its subcomponents), carbon dioxide emissions and real GDP in 106 countries classified by different income groups over the period 1971–2011. Our results reveal that the effects of the various types of energy consumption on economic growth and emissions are heterogeneous on the various groups of countries. Moreover, causality between total economic growth and energy consumption is bidirectional, thus making a case for the feedback hypothesis. However, we cannot report any statistically significant evidence that renewable energy consumption, in particular, is conducive to economic growth, a fact that weakens the argument that renewable energy consumption is able to promote growth in a more efficient and environmentally sustainable way. Finally, in analysing the case for an inverted U-shaped EKC, we find that the continued process of growth aggravates the greenhouse gas emissions phenomenon. In this regard, we cannot provide any evidence that developed countries may actually grow-out of environmental pollution. In the light of these findings, the efficacy of recent government policies in various countries to promote renewable energy consumption as a means for sustainable growth is questioned. Put differently, there seems to be an ethical dilemma, between high economic growth rates and unsustainable environment and low or zero economic growth and environmental sustainability.
P28|On environmental impacts of market-based reforms: Evidence from the European and Central Asian transition economies|Global warming and other adverse climate change impacts induced by anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions are a major public policy concern around the world including transitional economies. This paper, therefore, examines the impacts of market-based economic reforms on per capita CO2 emissions in the European and Central Asian transition economies where environmental degradation was pervasive prior to these reforms. A dynamic panel data model is employed for this purpose for 28 countries covering 22 years from 1990 to 2012. Our overall results suggest that economic openness may not necessarily result in sustainable development although reforms in competition policy and corporate governance were the significant drivers of emissions reductions in the region. Hence, advances in competition policy and governance reforms are desirable given the available scope to extend these reforms. The structural shift to and emergence of light industries also contributed to declining CO2 emissions in the transition process. The direct impact of the Kyoto Protocol in reducing emissions is debatable which also raises doubts on the effectiveness of the Paris agreements.
P28|Volatility Spillovers and Causality of Carbon Emissions, Oil and Coal Spot and Futures for the EU and USA|Recent research shows that the efforts to limit climate change should focus on reducing the emissions of carbon dioxide over other greenhouse gases or air pollutants. Many countries are paying substantial attention to carbon emissions to improve air quality and public health. The largest source of carbon emissions from human activities in some countries in Europe and elsewhere is from burning fossil fuels for electricity, heat, and transportation. The prices of fuel and carbon emissions can influence each other. Owing to the importance of carbon emissions and their connection to fossil fuels, and the possibility of [ 1 ] Granger (1980) causality in spot and futures prices, returns, and volatility of carbon emissions, crude oil and coal have recently become very important research topics. For the USA, daily spot and futures prices are available for crude oil and coal, but there are no daily futures prices for carbon emissions. For the European Union (EU), there are no daily spot prices for coal or carbon emissions, but there are daily futures prices for crude oil, coal and carbon emissions. For this reason, daily prices will be used to analyse Granger causality and volatility spillovers in spot and futures prices of carbon emissions, crude oil, and coal. As the estimators are based on quasi-maximum likelihood estimators (QMLE) under the incorrect assumption of a normal distribution, we modify the likelihood ratio (LR) test to a quasi-likelihood ratio test (QLR) to test the multivariate conditional volatility Diagonal BEKK model, which estimates and tests volatility spillovers, and has valid regularity conditions and asymptotic properties, against the alternative Full BEKK model, which also estimates volatility spillovers, but has valid regularity conditions and asymptotic properties only under the null hypothesis of zero off-diagonal elements. Dynamic hedging strategies by using optimal hedge ratios are suggested to analyse market fluctuations in the spot and futures returns and volatility of carbon emissions, crude oil, and coal prices.
P28|Managing energy supply security and gas diversification in Hungary - putting theory into practice|For a long time, gas has been the fuel that Hungary is particularly sensitive to in terms of security of energy supply; thus, gas diversification has become a key issue. However, along with the 2014 decision on the construction of new units at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant (Paks-2), the energy agenda has changed considerably. Paks-2 will have a decisive role in ensuring security of supply, and, in fact, it has already begun to perform a role in energy decisions. This paper aims to assess, on the one hand, the security of the stationary fuel supply in Hungary by applying the conventional three-dimensional approach, encompassing availability, affordability and sustainability, and, on the other, use our own gas diversification scheme to analyse the issue of gas diversification. We find that considerable progress has been made on gas diversification, and Paks-2 can also be included in our diversification scheme as a kind of sectoral diversification option. Prior to the Paks-2 decision, Hungary had followed an upward trajectory for its security of supply, despite certain negative developments. With Paks-2, Hungary’s dependence will both decrease and increase – as new types of risks emerge. There is great uncertainty about Hungary’s energy policies and security of supply, with the role of coal, gas and renewables in the energy/electricity mix still not settled. Their future is expected to be heavily dependent on political decisions rather than energy market factors, though energy market uncertainties are also high.
P28|Adverse Welfare Shocks and Pro-Environmental Behaviour: Evidence from the Global Economic Crisis|This paper examines the effects of the 2008â€“09 global economic crisis on people's pro-environmental behaviour and willingness to pay for climate change mitigation. We hypothesise that the crisis has affected pro-environmental behaviours through tightening of budget constraints and relaxation of time constraints. Using data from a large representative survey (Life in Transition II), conducted in 35 European and Central Asian countries in 2010, we find that people adversely affected by the crisis are more likely to act in an environmentally-friendly way, but less likely to be willing to pay for climate change mitigation. Our findings confirm the importance of time and budget constraints for undertaking pro-environmental action, and highlight a potentially positive role of adverse, external welfare shocks in shaping pro-environmental behaviour.
P28|Optimal energy policy for a carbon tax in Japan|Climate change is a global challenge that must be addressed at the international level. In December 2015, the Paris Agreement was adopted at the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) held in Paris. The Paris agreement is aimed at keeping global temperature increases below 2 °C. Toward this goal, the Japanese government plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26% by fiscal year 2030 compared with fiscal year 2013. In this study, we evaluate the feasibility of Japan’s energy policy for reducing CO2 emissions. We construct a macroeconometric model linked to an energy model to show the optimal future energy policy for Japan by applying optimal control to the social welfare function.
P28|Energy Use and Growth of Manufacturing Sector: Evidence from Turkey|This study investigates the relationship between Energy use and the growth of the Turkish Manufacturing Sector, using Vector Error Correction and Granger causality, between 1960 and 2015. The research found a long-run association among these variables. However, while the VEC granger causality test result suggests no causality running, either direction, from predetermined Energy Use to Growth in Manufacturing Sector, the Variance decomposition and impulse response tests suggested a positive causality, running from contemporaneous values Energy Use to current and future values of Growth in the Manufacturing Sector of Turkey. It is recommended that more investments be made in the energy sector to help sustain the current performance in the manufacturing sector.
P28|Socio-economic and enviromental effects of bioenergy based on wood ine the development of remote areas|Traditional energy sources based on oil, coal, and natural gas have proven to be highly effective, but at the same time they have many negative environmental effects. Also by technical and economical points traditional energy sources are not available in many remote areas. In this paper, the authors have been discussed the alternative approach in energy supply, which also has positive social-economic and environmental effects. This paper provides a new solution for energy supply in remote areas by implementing bioenergy based on woodchips, which has multi-sector effects. Bioenergy generation based on woodchips has multi-sector effect that is why authors offer to combine forest cleaning cutting and forest thinning with bioenergy based on woodchips in one project which will have social, economic and ecological effects. The situation with forest fires makes the authors idea more attractive because after forest fires the problem of cleaning cutting in forest became very important and urgent by ecological and economical points: after cleaning cutting there are a lot of low quality wood which by author’s idea can be recycled into chips for bioenergy. This methodology has been applied to bioenergy and regional development decisions in remote areas which mainly have a problem with energy provision; it is suitable for applications to infrastructure development projects in any remote forested region of the world. Mobile bioenergy generation based on woodchips in remote areas settle the complex of environmental, social, economic problems and can become the driver of development of the region.
P28|Coal mining in Central-East Europe in perspective of industrial risk|Due to increasing economic and sector risk coal mining in Europe is treated as a declining industry. In post-transition economies such approach is a threat for energy security and local and regional economic development. Nowadays, coal mining survival in Central-East Europe is additionally threatened by accumulative global risk factors, especially by price differentiation and shale gas revolution in United States of America. Revealed circumstances require deepen research and diagnosis in the area of risk and corporate management in mining enterprises in Central-East Europe. The main aim of the article is to assess industrial risk in coal mining in Central-East Europe. The research is divided into three parts. In the first one the situation of coal mining in Central-East Europe is characterized. It is the basis for selection of the countries for the detailed analysis. In the second part the industrial risk factors are assessed and described. Finally, in the third part their influence on financial results in the examined mining enterprises is evaluated. In the summary the international comparison is made and general assumptions for risk and corporate management are formulated. In the article a risk checklist is used to identify the economic and industrial risk factors. To determine their influence on financial results on the first stage of research Pearson’s coefficients are used. Than regression functions are developed. The data are collected on the basis of public statistics and financial statements of the examined mining enterprises. On the basis of research results it may be stated that there are only a few countries in Europe in which mining enterprises still operate as separate economic units and all of them have experienced serious financial troubles in the last years. Risk intensification contributed mostly to revenues reduction and negative financial results.
P28|An econometric modelling of financial development-aggregate energy consumption nexus for Ghana|The study modelled the long run and short run link between financial development and aggregate energy consumption in Ghana for the period 1970 to 2011 using Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The results produced significant evidence of cointegration between the variables. The results seem to suggest that financial development is a key explanatory variable in aggregate energy consumption. Financial development is recommended as a policy tool to manage energy consumption. Causality issues as well as the effect of structural breaks in modelling should be the subject of future research.
P28|FDI and economic growth: Evidence on the Role of the Size of Natural Resource Sector|This paper uses a threshold regression model and split the sample into groups of low-natural resource and high-natural resource groups. This paper used data from 70 countries for the period 1996-2015 and found evidence that FDI has a positive impact on economic growth of the host country if the host country’s natural resource sector is below the threshold. However, FDI inflow doesn’t have any significant impact on growth in countries with natural resource sector larger than the threshold.
P28|A Bivariate Modelling of the Electricity Consumption-Financial Development Nexus for Ghana|The current study modelled the long run and short run links between financial developments and disaggregate energy consumption (electricity consumption) in Ghana for the period 1970 to 2011 using Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The findings of the study on the cointegration test indicate significant evidence of cointegration between electricity consumption and financial development. The findings seem to suggest that financial development is a key explanatory variable in electricity consumption management in order to attain sustainable energy consumption and economic growth. The issues of structural breaks in unit root and direction of causality should be consider in future studies.
P28|Bivariate modelling of the financial development-fossil fuel consumption nexus in Ghana|The present paper modelled the relationship between financial developments and fossil fuel energy consumption in Ghana for the period 1970-2011 by applying Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The findings of the paper on the cointegration test indicate significant evidence of cointegration between fossil fuel consumption and financial development. The findings seem to suggest that financial development is an explanatory variable in fossil fuel consumption management in achieving sustainable oil energy consumption for economic growth. The direction of causality between the two variables should be examined in future studies as well as multivariate analysis and structural breaks.
P28|Biofuels Markets and Policies in Belarus|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets and policies in Belarus. Belarus remains the country with a critical level of energy dependence on Russia. Availability of cheap Russian sources and lack of diversification within energy sector hinder Belarus from expanding the potential of local energy resources. While energy independence and security, which is defined as share of local energy sources in the total energy balance, is declared as Belarusian priority, there is essentially no biofuels industry v Belarus. An interesting option of development of biofuels is a possibility of utilization of large areas unsuitable for human food or animal feed production because of Chernobyl nuclear disaster.
P28|Quantification of Biofuels Potential of Post-Soviet Countries in the Context of Global Biofuels Development|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets in Russian Federation, Belarus and Ukraine and it estimates prospects of their future development in the context of global biofuels development. We first provide a general characterisation of biofuels, followed by description of development of biofuel industry in the key selected countries and the outline of current trends on the global market. This is followed by a quantitative analysis of the possible development of biofuels in Russian Federation, Belarus and Ukraine
P28|Biofuels Markets and Policies in Russia|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets and policies in Russian Federation. It shows that one of the many barriers that hinder biofuel development is strong oil and gas lobby, which cooperates with Russian government. The main obstacle for the development of biofuel’s sector in Russia is a significant lack of coherent policy and regulation. Creation of healthy biofuel’s sector requires authorities to found a new governing body, owning adequate rights, staffed with qualified personnel and resistant to the external influence. In order to reduce the uncertainty in biofuels sphere, the government would have to provide sustained long-term policy commitment and clarify the energy strategy. These actions would bring confidence in investments into sector of biofuels and motivate the growth within industry. Until the proposed incentives are not established on the legal base, the progress in the sector of biofuels is not possible. Even in case of the growing support from the government, the rapid flourishing of the sector is not expected.
P28|Biofuels Markets and Policies in Ukraine|This paper provides an overview of biofuel’s markets Ukraine. While Ukraine has great competitive advantage in the production of biofuels based on availability of the feedstock and fertile soils, it does not utilize this opportunity despite the policy goal of decreasing energy dependence on Russian fossil fuels. In the recent years Ukraine was working on fulfilment of European standards in the sector of biofuels. Most importantly, as opposed to Russia, Ukraine has built legislative base which aims to support the industry development and offer large scale of benefits. But due to high excise duty, low oil prices and no penalties for not achieving established indicators, the biofuel industry still stays non-operating.
P28|Computational analysis of source receptor air pollution problems|This study introduces a method of graph computing for Environmental Economics. Different visualization modules are used to reproduce source-receptor air pollution schemes and identify their structure. Data resources are emissions-depositions tables, available online from the European Monitoring and Evaluation Program (EMEP) of the Long-Range Transmission of Air Pollutants in Europe. In network models of pollutants exchange, we quantify the responsibility of polluters by exploring graph measures and metrics. In a second step, we depict the size of the responsibility of EU countries. We create pollution schemes for ranking the blame for the change in pollutants in the extended EMEP area. Our approach considers both the activity and the amount of pollution for each polluter. To go a step further in qualitative analysis of pollution features, we cluster countries in communities, bonded with strong polluting-based relationships. The network framework and pollution pattern visualization in tabular representations is integrated in Mathematica computer software.
P28|FDI and Economic Growth: A Changing Relationship Across Country and Overtime|In this paper, we use a threshold regression model to estimate a threshold level of natural resource abundance and split the sample of 70 countries into groups of low-natural resource and high-natural resource groups. We found evidence that FDI has a positive impact on economic growth of the host country if the host country’s natural resource sector is below the threshold. However, FDI inflow doesn’t have any significant impact on growth in countries with natural resource sector larger than the threshold. In the end, we apply a Markov regime switching model (MSM) to a time series data from Pakistan and found that Pakistan’s economy experienced 2 states. While in the state 1 the economy didn’t experience any FDI induced economic growth, it did receive a strong FDI induced economic growth in state 2.
P28|Planning and Construction of Canop-E Networks for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth in Developing Countries (E.g.- India)|In the next few years, India will be the most populous nation on earth. This large population will need a huge increase in agricultural productivity. At the same time, agricultural activity is highly energy and resource intensive. Moreover, many places in India are facing water crisis. Therefore an integrated solution to cultivate food for the people by using water and resources in a sustainable manner is needed. A Canop-E is a large structure that has integrated harnessing of water, energy and food. I propose an idea to build a network of structures called Canop-E Network which will harness solar and wind power in an integrated manner in developing nations. Additionally it will provide water harvesting facilities also. Using the renewable energy and harvested water, we can grow food. The energy generated can also be used to desalinate water and used in arid areas. At the same time it will also protect the inhabitants of settlements in the structure from rain, sunlight and inclement weather. Thus an integrated solution to food, water and energy security can be obtained. This can be extrapolated to other developing nations to provide the people with inexpensive, inclusive and sustainable living.
P28|Mars: Economic Analysis of Constructing Sustainable Open-Air Human Settlements in The Martian Environment|With a high surface radiation, very low and fluctuating temperature and a windy but thin atmosphere, Mars seems an inhospitable place. The dangers on the Martian surface entail that humans stay within indoors habitats on Mars. But it may be possible to build open air settlements on Mars where a direct connection to the Martian atmosphere is feasible. In such a scenario, humans may be able to inhabit Mars with minimal external protection like pressurized suits. For this to happen, humans need to be in atmospheric conditions similar to that on Earth. To achieve these results we need to excavate deep into the Martian crust to depths where air pressures will be sufficient to allow humans to survive without pressurized suits. The paper discusses about the various aspects and economic analysis of such an exercise. The hurdles for implementing this plan are also analyzed. The paper concludes by summarizing the feasibility, benefits and difficulties in undertaking such an activity.
P28|Instrumento de Pagamento por Serviço Ambiental: o caso do Ribeirão Abóbora|Payment for environmental services (PSA) has been highlighted as an economic instrument of environmental policy aimed at minimizing and / or recognizing negative and positive externalities, respectively. The objective of this research is to analyze the experience of payment for environmental service for water producers that has been developed next to the Ribeirão Abóbora microbasin, located in the municipality of Rio Verde - GO, in order to identify if the respective experience is aligned with the Economic fundamentals of the environmental policy instrument entitled PES. In this line, the hypothesis is assumed that such experience is, in fact, aligned with the economic fundamentals of an environmental policy instrument called PSA. The following characteristics of the analyzed scheme were identified: voluntary adherence; Indication of at least one environmental service; Payment association to the verification, by means of technical survey, of the provision of environmental service; Existence of conditionality and buyers of the environmental service. In this line, it is corroborated the hypothesis that such experience is aligned with the economic fundamentals of the environmental policy instrument called PSA.
P28|Household Energy Elasticities in Pakistan: An Application of the LA-AIDS Model on Pooled Household Data|This study aims to estimate the fuel expenditure and price elasticities of household fuels in Pakistan. Burning of wood, animal dung, and crop residues are harmful to health and may cause preventable morbidity and mortality in developing countries. Forests, natural gas and other energy reserves are depleting. It is important to investigate how households’ fuel choices are linked to prices, so that governments can consider appropriate steps to enhance the consumption of clean fuels and discourage the use of solid fuels. In this paper we pooled three Pakistan Social and Living Standard Measurement Survey (PSLM) data sets (2007-08, 2010-11 and 2013-14) and applied the Linear Approximate Almost Ideal Demand System (LA-AIDS) model to investigate the price and expenditure elasticities at urban, rural, and national levels. We found that all fuel types except natural gas were price inelastic at the national level and for urban households, implying that changes in prices lead to comparatively lesser changes in quantity demanded of most fuels. In rural areas, natural gas and LPG were found to be more price elastic compared with urban areas. Fuel expenditures elasticities for all fuels were found to be positive and between zero and one. Simple policy simulations based on our results suggest that in order to reduce the indoor air pollution, governments should subsidise clean fuels rather than imposing taxes on solid fuels.
P28|Households’ Energy Mix Selection in Pakistan|Despite the adverse effects of biomass fuels on health and the environment, the use of solid fuels at the household level for cooking, lighting and heating purposes is very common in developing countries such as Pakistan. Globally almost 3 billion people depend on traditional or conventional solid energy sources for cooking. These solid fuels are a major cause of indoor air pollution and can severely damage health and the environment, so there is a need to better understand the factors that lead to the consumption of solid fuels. This study analyzes data from the Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement (PSLM) Survey 2013-14 to establish the non-price factors associated with the fuel mix selection of households. A novel aspect of the study is that, rather than treating fuel choices as independent, we first group household fuel mix choices into categories using cluster analysis. We then apply multinomial logit models to investigate the factors associated with households’ fuel mix selection. We find that income, education, agricultural occupation and urban location are strongest factors associated with the selection of a mix of fuels that is substantially made up of clean fuels, while agricultural occupation, large family size, and having cattle are associated with fuel mixes that are more heavily based on solid fuels. Moreover, we show that income growth is unlikely to lead to substantial uptake of cleaner fuels in rural areas. Our results suggest that the government, if concerned about indoor air pollution, should rapidly increase the availability of natural gas and electricity connections to support a shift to cleaner fuel mixes.
P28|Testing Environmental Kuznets Curve in the Selected Transition Economies with Panel Smooth Transition Regression Analysis|The Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) introduces an inverted U-shaped relationship between environmental pollution and economic development. The inverted U-shaped curve is seen as complete pattern for developed economies. However, our study tests the EKC for developing transition economies of European Union, therefore, our results could make a significant contribution to the literature. In this paper, the relationship between carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, gross domestic product (GDP), energy use and urban population is investigated in the Transition Economies (Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia). Environmental Kuznets Curve is tested by panel smooth transition regression for these economies for 1993 – 2010 periods. As a result of study, the null hypothesis of linearity was rejected and no-remaining nonlinearity test showed that there is a smooth transition exists between two regimes (below $5176 GDP per capita is first one and above $5176 GDP per capita is second one) in the related period for these economies.
P28|Economic growth and particulate pollution concentrations in China|Though the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) was originally developed to model the ambient concentrations of pollutants, most subsequent applications have focused on pollution emissions. Yet, it seems more likely that economic growth could eventually reduce the concentrations of local pollutants than emissions. We examine the role of income, convergence, and time related factors in explaining recent changes in PM 2.5 and PM 10 particulate pollution in 50 Chinese cities using new measures of ambient air quality that the Chinese government has published only since the beginning of 2013. We use a recently developed model that relates the rate of change of pollution to the growth of the economy and other factors as well as the traditional environmental Kuznets curve model. Pollution fell sharply from 2013 to 2014. We show that economic growth, convergence, and time effects all served to lower the level of pollution. The results also demonstrate the relationship between the two modeling approaches.
P28|Making China the transition to a low-carbon economy: Key challenges and responses| China has realized that for its own sake and from the international community’s perspective, it cannot afford to continue along the conventional path of encouraging economic growth at the expense of the environment. Accordingly, the country has placed ecological goals at the same level of priority as policies on economic, political, cultural and social development. Specifically, to meet the grand goal involves not only capping China’s nationwide coal consumption to let it peak before 2020 and carbon emissions peak around 2030, but also putting in place a variety of flagship programs and initiatives, prices and policies. This paper argues that the 2030 carbon emissions peak goal is ambitious but achievable and concludes by arguing why China’s anti-pollution outcomes this time might be different from the previous ones.
P28|Food Security: Overview Of Current Situation In Selected European Countries| Food security is defined by the World food summit of 1996 as follows: „when all people at all times have access to sufficient, safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy and active life”. Such definition includes several aspects; therefore, it is necessary to use multidimensional view to its investigation. This concept is based on three pillars: food availability, food access and food use. This issue is hence complex sustainable development issue closely connected to health, economic, environmental and other issues. Presented paper is focused on the food security analysis in European countries. For this purpose, are used data from Global food security index 2015 database by The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) and sponsored by DuPont about food security indicators. In the first part of the paper is analyzed recent development of the food security indicators in the selected European countries, then multivariate analysis is used to reduce dimension of the data. Countries were sorted into classes according their food security performance. Results suggest positive tendency in the European countries from the perspective of increasing welfare, food accessibility and its distribution. On the other side, economic development and sufficient supply of food brings another phenomenon which can significantly reduce quality of life and is connected with prevalence of obesity in most of the European states.
P28|Obstacles to crop diversification and cotton harvest mechanisation: Farm survey evidence from two contrasting districts in Uzbekistan<BR>[Hindernisse bei der Einführung diversifizierter Fruchtfolgen und der mechanisierten Baumwollernte: Ergebnisse einer landwirtschaftlichen Betriebsbefragung in zwei unterschiedlichen Landkreisen in Usbekistan]|The dominance of cotton in the irrigated areas of Central Asia has long been criticized for its ecological effects on salinization and desertification. From an economic point of view, this monoculture ties producers to state procurement, has led to the recurrent mobilization of manual labour during harvest campaigns and makes farmers vulnerable to water availability and crop failure. Crop diversification and harvest mechanisation have been proposed as strategies to mitigate these effects, provide alternative income generation channels and increase farmers´ flexibility in dealing with reduced water availability. This contribution uses 2014 survey data from two districts in Uzbekistan, Jondor in Bukhara province and Zangiota in Tashkent province, to inform this debate by identifying real-world obstacles to these strategies. The first district is dominated by the conventional cotton and wheat rotation introduced after 1991. The second district is home to a wide range of high-value crops (HVC), in particular fruits and vegetables. The evidence shows how HVCs can be a profitable alternative to the state-mandated monocultures. Moreover, water productivity of HVCs is much higher. Even so, there is practically no hands-on experience of harvest mechanisation in the traditional cotton region so far. In addition to the state delivery targets, a lack of finance, absent connections to city markets, missing role models and the complete inexperience of farmers with alternative technologies will impede a further expansion of crop diversification and the mechanisation of harvest operations.
P28|Agricultural policies in Kazakhstan<BR>[Agrarpolitik in Kasachstan]|Agriculture plays an important part in Kazakhstan´s self-image, and continues to be a significant economic sector, employing about a third of the workforce. In the two decades since independence, agriculture has experienced dramatic swings in performance and in public policy. During the 1990s the sector suffered from external shocks, reduced public support and inchoate land tenure reform, while providing a safety net for families suffering from the transitional recession. Since the turn of the century, the booming economy has seen ruralurban migration and substantial public funds devoted to the agricultural sector. This article illustrates the steps taken to consolidate and improve Kazakhstan´s position as a major agricultural producer and exporter, while also highlighting the shortcomings of current policies. It places Kazakhstan´s agricultural policy evolution in the broader context of political independence from the Soviet Union and the general course of economic reforms. We highlight the driving forces of agricultural policy evolution from a political economy perspective and give an overview of specific policy measures.
P28|The economics of global LNG trade: the case of Atlantic and Pacific inter-basin arbitrage in 2010-2014|Abstract We examine the economic and strategic implications for gas supply security and diversity of Europe’s reliance on global LNG markets. In particular, we carry out a detailed assessment of LNG trade between Atlantic and Pacific basins in 2011-2014, focusing on why there was not as much LNG arbitrage as might have been expected given the large price differential between these two regions in that period. By explicitly modelling a counterfactual scenario, in which LNG can be diverted to follow price differentials between Europe and Asia, we found that: (a) it is not the demand shock in Asia (driven by the Fukushima incident) per se but the high oil price in that period, as well as decoupling of European spot prices from oil-linked contract prices that created the huge natural gas price differentials between Asia and Europe; (b) amongst the largest LNG suppliers who could arbitrage between the Atlantic and Pacific regions, Qatar would have received the highest net benefit from diverting cargoes to Asia, however, these benefits are highly sensitive to the possibility of contract price renegotiations with Asian buyers (similar to what happened to large pipeline gas suppliers in Europe in the recent past); (c) furthermore, diverting contractual volumes from Europe to Asia would have required lengthy negotiations with European buyers who, as our modelling results suggest, did not necessarily have compelling commercial interests in sending contractual cargoes to Asia after taking into account that the surplus of LNG created in North-West Europe allowed these buyers to reduce high oil-linked contract prices with traditional pipeline suppliers. Thus, contrary to the currently prevailing view that European importers have largely ‘overinvested’ in LNG import capacity, these investments should be seen as a strategic bargaining option that European importers have developed to counterbalance the otherwise potentially larger pricing power of pipeline suppliers. Thus, investment in LNG import capacity reduces the need to invest in ‘strategic and special relationship’ with traditional suppliers to ensure against ‘unfair’ pricing practices.
P28|Tourism Industry Development In The Emerging Economies Of Central And Eastern Europe (Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania)|Emerging Economies from Central and Eastern Europe take steps to ensure growth through tourism. Although they do not have the cultural, historical and artistic potential of the most famous tourist destinations, these economies promote forms of tourism for which they have suitable conditions. For example, Hungary is famous for health tourism, Bulgaria has made progress in terms of coastal tourism and Romania tries to make known the rural area although it has all conditions for practicing a wide diversified range of tourism forms. In this paper we present statistics showing how the tourism industry looks for three Central and Eastern European countries and we do a brief comparative analysis.
P28|Resource Saving Innovative Forms of the Industrial Enterprises|The relevance of the study is reasoned by the current economic trends which suggest that the reliability of production is possible to be provided, while preserving and enhancing of natural ecological environment, by finding of quality new, revolutionary opportunities associated with the use of resourcesaving and energy-saving technologies and alternative reproducible sources of production activities, creation of favorable ecological, economic and social conditions for the accumulation and implementation of human capital. The purpose of this paper is to explore innovative forms of resource saving of the industrial enterprises, aimed at improving of the competitiveness of products, using innovative energy and resource saving technologies, minimizing the generation of waste. The leading method to the study of this problem is the modeling method that allows considering of this problem as a purposeful and organized process to improve the management of industrial enterprises. In paper gives the estimation of modern condition of mineral raw material base of hydrocarbons; scientifically substantiates recommendations on the appropriateness of innovative forms’ choice of resource-saving at industrial enterprises. The practical value is in the fact that the results of the study allow better and more targeted adjusting of innovative activity of industrial enterprises through the application of innovative forms of resource saving and can be used in the framework of sector programs that are of interest for the state statistics bodies, ministries and agencies who are responsible for strategic analysis and planning
P28|Barriers to Energy Saving for Public Middle Schools in Bangkok: From School Management Perspective|The Government sector is one of the main energy consuming sectors in Thailand which consumed 2,064 GWh of total consumption in 2012. Due to Thailand need to import energy, so Government of Thailand announced to all government agencies to reduce energy consumption by 10%. Public school is one of government agencies, not only to reduce their consumption but also have responsibility to transfer knowledge and create the behavior of energy saving for students. However, it is not simple to fulfill this task due to many obstacles, called “Barriers.” The purpose of this paper is to identified the barriers which prevented public schools from energy saving and how to overcome those barriers, by interviewing with school managements as research method. The results highlight the government policies and values are the main barriers of energy saving in schools and also suggested various ideas of how to overcome those barriers in each level.
P28|Innovations as Drivers of Stable Growth of the Kazakh Economy through State Policy in Area of Eco-innovations Implementation|One of the main tasks of the state when achieving the stable economy growth is to stimulate a growth of the energy efficiency (EE) in energy intensive sectors of economy and to form the efficient regulatory basis to decrease the energy ratio. Therefore, the main task of the state power is to provide efficient, reliable, and ecologically responsible supply of energy resources. Thus, in 2013 the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan developed and adopted the Concept on Transferring to “Green Economy.” Its basic goal is to provide reliable, adequate and accessible energy resources for substantial social, economic, and ecologically stable growth of the country. The research conducted within this article allows to make the conclusion that at the present time the Republic of Kazakhstan has a very low level of EE. In spite of considerable positive changes in the development of innovations, in accordance with the classification of the 2015 Global Innovation Index, Kazakhstan is ranged as an inefficient innovator with a low level of investments in research and development works and low demand for eco-innovations.
P28|Long term climate change mitigation goals under the nuclear phase out policy: The Swiss energy system transition|The Swiss electricity system is dominated by low-carbon hydro and nuclear generation. The Government's decision to phase-out nuclear energy exacerbates Switzerland's climate change mitigation goals. Response to this challenge requires systemic changes to the energy system, which is generally a long-term, uncertain and systemic process, affected by technology choices across the entire energy system. A comprehensive Swiss TIMES Energy system Model (STEM) with high temporal detail has been developed for the analysis of plausible low-carbon energy pathways focusing on uncertainties related to policy (climate change mitigation and acceptability of new centralised electricity generation) and international fuel prices. Increasing electrification of end-uses is seen across the scenarios, resulting in continuous growth in electricity demands. The electrification of heating and e-mobility substitute direct use of fossil fuels in end-use sectors and contribute to a significant carbon dioxide emission (CO2) reduction. Centralised gas power plants and renewables become key source of electricity supply. Given the phaseout of nuclear generation, clear policy signals are required to ensure capacity is built to achieve a low-carbon energy system. At the same time, it is also essential to ensure consistency between the electricity sector and end-use energy policies. For the long-term carbon reduction target, some non-cost-effective conservation measures are important early in the period because they are available only at the time of building renovation.
P28|The effect of foreign direct investment and stock market growth on clean energy use across a panel of emerging market economies|This study investigates the impact of both FDI inflows and stock market developments on clean energy use across 20 emerging market economies, spanning the period 1991–2012. It accounts for cross-sectional dependence and heterogeneity in the analysis and employs robust panel econometric techniques. The empirical results on long-run elasticities display that economic output, FDI inflows and stock market developments have all a significant positive impact on clean energy consumption. Finally, the results on heterogeneous panel non-causality tests indicate the presence of unidirectional causality running from FDI to clean energy consumption in the short-run. For robustness purposes, the paper also estimates long-run elasticities for individual countries, with the findings documenting that both FDI inflows and stock market developments have a considerable positive impact on clean energy uses. The findings urge that both policy makers and governments in these emerging market economies should initiate effective public-private-partnership investments in clean energy projects by providing lucrative incentives, which, in turn, will encourage both domestic and foreign investors to invest more in clean energy projects and, eventually, moving these economies towards sustainable economic growth.
P28|Baseline projections for Latin America: base-year assumptions, key drivers and greenhouse emissions|This paper provides an overview of the base-year assumptions and baseline projections for the set of models participating in the LAMP and CLIMACAP projects. We present the range in baseline projections for Latin America, and identify key differences between model projections including how these projections compare to historic trends. We find relatively large differences across models in base year assumptions related to population, GDP, energy and CO2 emissions due to the use of different data sources, but also conclude that this does not influence the range of projections. We find that population and GDP projections across models span a broad range, comparable to the range represented by the set of Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). Kaya-factor decomposition indicates that the set of baseline scenarios mirrors trends experienced over the past decades. Emissions in Latin America are projected to rise as a result of GDP and population growth and a minor shift in the energy mix toward fossil fuels. Most scenarios assume a somewhat higher GDP growth than historically observed and continued decline of population growth. Minor changes in energy intensity or energy mix are projected over the next few decades.
P28|China's carbon emissions embodied in (normal and processing) exports and their driving forces, 2006–2012|This paper constructed a time-series extended input–output dataset (2006–2012) to analyze China's carbon emissions embodied in both normal and processing exports at a detailed 135-sector level. The structural decomposition analysis (SDA) was further applied to shed light on the driving forces behind the changes in their embodied emissions over the entire time period. This empirical study confirms the importance of using the extended model for analyzing the trade-related embodiment, especially for processing exports. The embodied emissions in both normal and processing exports first increased from 2006 to 2008, then dropped during the global financial crisis (2008–2009), and then rose again after 2009. The embodied emissions as a percentage of total CO2 emissions were quite stable before and after the global financial crisis, at around 24% over the 2006–2008 period, and 18% over the 2010–2012 period. From 2006 to 2012, emission intensity played the key role in reducing the embodied emissions (around 595Mt CO2), while the total export effect contributed the most to the increase in embodied emissions (around 552Mt CO2). Similar analysis can be applied to other indicators, such as energy, water, GHG emissions, pollutants and materials.
P28|An analysis of the driving factors of energy-related CO2 emission reduction in China from 2005 to 2013|The identification of the driving factors of China's energy-related emissions in the past years is very important to inform the policy design for China's future emission mitigations. Although this topic has been widely discussed in the literature, this paper provides the most recent overall estimation of the emission mitigation factors from both the production side and the consumption side taking into account China's recent energy and economic transformation. This study adopts China's most recent revised energy and economic data from 2005 to 2013 and analyzes it with a logarithmic mean Divisia index (LMDI) decomposition model. We find that the primary emission mitigation contributor is the improvement of energy productivity in the industry sectors, which contributes 72% of the total reduction; household contributes 8.3%. The economic transitions in 2013 are still in an early stage, and the expected economic structure effect is moderately on emission reduction. In the future, China needs to improve the energy productivity in production sectors further by both enforcing energy conservation and promoting industry upgrading. Economic restructure will play a more important role in future emission reduction.
P28|Electricity demand and basic needs: Empirical evidence from China's households|An increasing block tariff (IBT) has been implemented nationwide in the residential sector in China since 2012. However, knowledge about IBT design is still limited, particularly how to determine the electricity volume for the first block of an IBT scheme. Assuming the first block should be set based on some measure of electricity poverty; we attempt to model household electricity demand such that the range of basic needs can be established. We show that in Chinese households there exists a threshold for electricity consumption with respect to income, which could be considered a measure of electricity poverty, and the threshold differs between rural and urban areas. For rural (urban) families, electricity consumption at the level of 7th (5th) income decile households can be considered the threshold for basic needs or a measure of electricity poverty since household electricity demand in rural (urban) areas does not respond to income changes until after 7th (5th) income decile. Accordingly, the first IBT block for some provinces (e.g., Beijing) appears to have been set at a level that is too high. Over time however, given continued rapid growth, the IBT will begin to better reflect actual basic needs.
P28|Natural resources, manufacturing and institutions in post-Soviet countries|We examine the effect of natural resource exports on economic performance during the 1996–2010 period in the 15 independent countries that formerly comprised the Soviet Union. After the fall of communism, these countries began to demonstrate marked differences from one another with respect to economic development and institutions, which has resulted in unique cross-sectional and time variation. Using several panel regression models that address endogeneity and clustering issues, our results suggest that natural resources crowd out manufacturing unless the quality of domestic institutions is sufficiently high.
P28|Did China's coal mine regulation positively affect economic growth?|In response to high mortality rates and low productivity in coal mining, China began regulating coal mines in the 1990s, reshaping its coal economy. We investigate the relationship between coal mine regulation and economic growth. Using the difference-in-difference approach to compare the pre- and post-regulation periods as well as regions heavily and lightly affected by regulation, we find that regulation positively affects a regional economy. Results are illustrated by estimations that use mortality rates in coal mining as a proxy for measuring regulation quality. Regulation effects are not limited to the intra-coal industry but also apply to spillover by relieving the crowding-out effects of coal abundance.
P28|India's energy system transition—Survival of the greenest|The transition to a clean and green energy system is an economic and social transformation that is exciting as well as challenging. The world today faces a formidable challenge in transforming its economy from being driven primarily by fossil fuels, which are non-renewable and a major source of global pollution, to becoming an economy that can function effectively using renewable energy sources and by achieving high energy efficiency levels. In the present study, a green economy scenario is developed for India using a bottom-up approach. The results show that significant resource savings can be achieved by 2030 through the introduction of energy-efficient and green technologies. The building of a green energy economy can also serve another purpose: to develop new ‘pathways out of poverty’ by creating more than 10 million jobs and thus raise the standard of living of low-income people. The differences between the baseline and green energy scenarios are not so much the consequence of the diffusion of various technologies. It is the result of the active roles of different actors and the drivers that become dominant.
P28|Economic growth and particulate pollution concentrations in China| Though the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) was originally developed to model the ambient concentrations of pollutants, most subsequent applications have focused on pollution emissions. Yet, it seems more likely that economic growth could eventually reduce the concentrations of local pollutants than emissions. We examine the role of income, convergence, and time related factors in explaining recent changes in PM 2.5 and PM 10 particulate pollution in 50 Chinese cities using new measures of ambient air quality that the Chinese government has published only since the beginning of 2013. We use a recently developed model that relates the rate of change of pollution to the growth of the economy and other factors as well as the traditional environmental Kuznets curve model. Pollution fell sharply from 2013 to 2014. We show that economic growth, convergence, and time effects all served to lower the level of pollution. The results also demonstrate the relationship between the two modeling approaches.
P28|The Economics of Global LNG Trade: The Case of Atlantic and Pacific Inter-Basin Arbitrage in 2010-2014|No abstract is available for this item.
P28|Economic dynamics and technology diffusion in Indian power sector|There is a growing concern among policy makers about how electricity is generated and consumed in the context of energy security and global climate change. In such a scenario, renewable energy sources, especially solar and wind energy, are likely to play a significant role in providing reliable and sustainable electricity to consumers as they are locally available and their carbon foot print is small. The future share of power by renewables will greatly depend on the expected generation cost and the government's support to investments in the sector. Using levelised cost approach, capital cost, operating and fuel costs of major electricity generation technologies are compared. Then, a forecast is made for electricity generation in India, using non-linear Bass diffusion model over 15-year horizon, until 2030 for all major energy technologies, viz., coal, natural gas, hydro, solar, wind, and biomass. The results show how present trends and future forecasts of electricity-generating technologies change the electricity generation mix, and how solar and wind power may increase their share in the total generation. However, fossil fuels will continue to remain competitive relative to renewables due to their cost advantage. The main issue considered here is whether each energy technology has reached its maximum penetration level. This helps set out a path for renewable energy technology diffusion in the Indian power sector.
P28|Picking the winner: Measuring urban sustainability in India|This study provides a snapshot of the sustainability of selected Indian cities by employing 57 indicators in four dimensions to develop an overall city sustainability index. In recent years, its complexity has made 'urban sustainability' a prominent concept. Urban areas propel growth and at the same time pose a lot of ecological, social and infrastructural problems and risks. High population density and continuous in-migration among developing countries created the highest risk in natural and man-made disasters. These issues and the inability of policy-makers in providing basic services make the cities unsustainable. The objective of the paper is to develop a city performance index (CPI) to measure and evaluate the urban regions in terms of sustainable performance. The paper uses benchmark approach to measure the cumulative performance of the 25 largest Indian cities based on economic, environmental social and institutional dimensions. The CPI, consisting of four dimensions disaggregates into 12 categories and ultimately into 53 indicators. The data are obtained from public and non-governmental organizations, as also from city officials and experts. By ranking a sample of diverse cities on a set of specific dimensions the study can serve as a baseline of current conditions and a marker for referencing future results. The benchmarks and indices presented in the study provide a unique resource for the government and the city authorities to learn about the positive and negative attributes of their a city and prepare plans for sustainable urban development.
P28|Analysis of Awareness on Biogas Adoption as the Alternative Energy through the Blue Economy Concept Application|"""Objective – The purpose of this study is (1) to analyse community perception in the use of biogas as an alternative energy, (2) to analyse whether variables such as income, age, education, cost savings, and livestock maintenance costs actually affect the willingness of community to use biogas, and (3) to develop a relationship among potential regional resources in the blue economy development. Methodology/Technique – The method used in this study is a collaboration between quantitative and qualitative models. For the first research objective, the qualitative theory approach focused on in-depth interviews and focus group discussions to develop a variety of potential economic relations in the implementation of the blue economy. For the second objective, descriptive statistics was used to identify differences in community perceptions on the use of biogas by the people in the Ngawi and Boyolali regencies. For third objective, model is used to analyze whether income, age, education, cost savings, and livestock maintenance costs affect community willingness to use biogas: Findings – The results show that (1) there are different community perceptions on biogas adoption in the Ngawi and Boyolali regencies, (2) variables such as income, age, education, cost savings, and livestock maintenance costs affect the willingness of community in using biogas, and (3) the blue economy concept can be developed by utilizing economic potentials in Ngawi towards an energy-independent village. Novelty – The use of biogas as an alternative energy needs to be developed so as to stimulate influential variables that can raise public awareness because the method is simple and exploits local potentials without waste."""
P28|Economic Dynamics and Technology Diffusion in Indian Power Sector|There is a growing concern among policy makers about how electricity is generated and consumed in the context of energy security and global climate change. In such a scenario, renewable energy sources, especially solar and wind energy are likely to play a significant role in providing reliable and sustainable electricity to consumers as they are locally available and their carbon foot print is small. The future share of power by renewables will greatly depend on the expected generation cost and the government's support to investments in the sector. Using levelised cost approach, capital cost, operating and fuel costs of major electricity generation technologies are compared. Then, a forecast is made for electricity generation in India. The main issue considered in this paper is whether each energy technology has reached its maximum penetration level. [WP-2016-014]
P28|Picking the Winner: Measuring Urban Sustainability in India|This study provides a snapshot of the sustainability of selected Indian cities by employing 57 indicators in four dimensions to develop an overall city sustainability index. In recent years, its complexity has made 'urban sustainability' a prominent concept. Urban areas propel growth and at the same time pose a lot of ecological, social and infrastructural problems and risks. High population density and continuous in-migration among developing countries created the highest risk in natural and man-made disasters. These issues and the inability of policy-makers in providing basic services make the cities unsustainable. The objective of the paper is to develop a city performance index (CPI) to measure and evaluate the urban regions in terms of sustainable performance. The paper uses benchmark approach to measure the cumulative performance of the 25 largest Indian cities based on economic, environmental, social and institutional dimensions. [WP-2016-021].
P28|Central and East European diversification under new gas market conditions|The Russo–Ukrainian gas crisis of January 2009 encouraged Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) to diversify away from Russian gas supplies and new gas market conditions have afforded some opportunities for doing so. This paper assesses these achievements, as well as factors preventing CEE countries from benefiting therefrom. The paper addresses four main areas of CEE diversification: (1) gas demand, (2) domestic gas production, (3) transit, as well as (4) gas supply and physical infrastructure for source diversification. There is great variation in the degree of dependence on gas, gas imports, Russian gas and transit countries, across the CEE states. Some progress has been made in diversifying, but the degree of progress and the patterns vary significantly from country to country. Due to long-term gas import commitments and the lack of available import capacity, CEE countries can take only limited advantage of changed gas market conditions. But some countries have genuinely benefited from ongoing developments. Transit-avoidance pipelines can also increase security of supply for CEE consumers by providing the opportunity to arbitrage across gas transit corridors. Despite many criticisms, the EU has taken steps that may help mitigate Russian influence.
P28|Economic and Strategic Expectations from Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline Project|Following the successful implementation of the oil strategy, Azerbaijan began to define strategic objectives in relation to gas export policy. Currently, Azerbaijan is the only country in the region exporting gas to the international markets (Turkey, Russia, Georgia). For this reason, it is seen as “the provider and participant” of Southern Gas Corridor by EU. In this direction, Azerbaijan aims to be the country of an important and strategic natural gas exporter. From Shahdeniz field to the end European user, it targets to take part in the every ring of the value chain. These assumptions bring Azerbaijan to the position of a remarkable natural gas supplier for the export of large amount of gas to the European markets through Nabucco West. The implementation of the project with financial and technical capabilities of Azerbaijan and Turkey has made it a project to be realized between Turkey-Azerbaijan. TANAP means Turkey and Azerbaijan will emerge together in the European market for energy transportation. Along with Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan and Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum, TANAP has reinforced Turkey’s position as a necessary energy corridor in delivering the energy resources of the Caspian Sea to the Western markets. In this paper, expected strategic and economic outcomes of TANAP are analyzed.
P28|Controlling SO2 emissions in China: A panel data analysis of the 11th Five-Year Plan|We investigate the impact of policy measures to reduce SO2 emissions during 11th Five-Year Plan of China (2006-2010). By using a provincial-level panel data set, we find that installation of the flue-gas desulfurization equipment and closure of small coal- fired power plants contributed to a statistically significant reduction in SO2 emissions. While estimation results suggest that these two policy measures played an important role in reducing SO 2 emissions in China during this period, the size of the estimated coefficients shows that the effects might have been weaker than those predicted by ex-ante cost-benefit analysis.
P28|Energetikai konvergencia az Energia 2020 stratégia tükrében. A konvergenciaszámítások alkalmazásának egy alternatív lehetősége<BR>[Energy convergence in the light of the Energy 2020 strategy. An alternative to convergence calculations]|Az Európai Unió a közös fellépést hangsúlyozva az Energia 2020 elnevezésű dokumentumban az energiahatékonyságra, a megújuló energiaforrások részarányára és az üvegházhatású gázok kibocsátására vonatkozóan három célt tűzött ki. Tanulmányunkban a 28 tagállam előrehaladását vizsgáljuk a vállalások tükrében 2001 és 2012 között. A s- és a b-konvergencia számításával igazoljuk a tagállamok közötti összetartást, ugyanakkor a g-konvergencia eredményei árnyalják a képet: a hiányából arra következtethetünk, hogy az egyes tagállamok közötti különbségek ugyan megmaradtak 2001 és 2012 között, mértékük azonban jelentősen csökkent. A felzárkózás üteme a megújuló energiaforrások esetében a leggyorsabb, az energia- és emisszióintenzitásnál a kedvező folyamatokat negatívan befolyásolja a 2008-2009-es válság, átmeneti divergenciát okozva. Az úgynevezett konvergenciaklubok számítása során kialakult csoportok a régi és új tagországok közötti különbségekre hívják fel a figyelmet.* Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: P28, P48, Q48.
P28|Oil Prices and REER with Impact of Regime Dummies|This study is basically explores the long run relationship between REER, IRD and Oil Prices, with the use of dummies and interaction terms for exchange rate regimes in Pakistan. By using Hatemi – J residual based cointegration test. Test has modified by including level shift, level shift with trend and regime shift. The data span is from the period of 1982m01-2014m03 in case of Pakistan. Also negative relationship betweenIRD and REER is due to indirect relationship between inflation and nominal interest rate that leads to fall in exchange rate. Long run relationship has concluded from cointegration test between variables.
P28|Emisssion and Energy: A Catch 22|The COP21 process targets decarbonisation in three steps during the 21rst century. First the augmentation of CO2:s is to be halted. Next the 40 per cent reduction is to be implemented somehow until 2030. Finally, there is a hope for a carbon free economy at the end of this century. But how about energy? When we speak about the anthropocentric emissions of greenhouse gases, then we are in reality referring to the production and consumption of energy. Energy in a wide sense is vital for the operations of social systems, as energy is the capacity to do work. Without energy, no economic output or GDP. The COP21 Agreement calls for an energy revolution during this century, replacing traditional renewables and fossil fuels with modern renewables that are carbon free. But how could this be achieved in the many poor countries in the world?
P28|Japan's ultimately unaccursed natural resources-financed industrialization|Japan's successful industrialization in the late 19th and early 20th century largely exhausted its then abundant natural resources. Rather than exemplifying rapid development in the absence of natural resources, Japan shows how laissez-faire government and successfully transplanted classical liberal institutions, including active stock markets, exorcised a natural resources curse that undermined its prior state-led industrialization strategy. Japan's post-WWII reconstruction relied little on natural resources and more on bank financing and state direction, but was not an example of an initial industrialization.
P28|Japan's Ultimately Unaccursed Natural Resources-financed Industrialization|Japan’s successful industrialization in the late 19th and early 20th century largely exhausted its then abundant natural resources. Rather than exemplifying rapid development in the absence of natural resources, Japan shows how laissez-faire government and successfully transplanted classical liberal institutions, including active stock markets, exorcised a natural resources curse that undermined its prior state-led industrialization strategy. Japan’s post-WWII reconstruction relied little on natural resources and more on bank financing and state direction, but was not an example of an initial industrialization.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P28|On the methodology of institutional studies|"(To the 80th anniversary of Ronald Coase’s ""Nature of the Firm"") The paper deals with the comparative analysis of discrete institutional alternatives operationalized by referring to institutional design on different levels of interaction between economic agents and their groups. Theoretical differences between an institutional set of economic exchanges and an institutional boundary­ of exchanges has been accounted for, as well as the differences between compensating and eliminating the failures of institutional arrangements used to organize economic exchange. Three examples illustrating the proposed research approach are analyzed: contracting on large diameter pipes for PJSC ""Gazprom"" infrastructure projects; contracting in the area of commercial real estate renting with ""currency component""; the choice of mechanisms of governance for companies on highly concentrated markets with significant double-sided switching cost."
P28|Assessment Of Shadow Economy In Moldova Using The Input-Output Model In 2014|The shadow economy is the bane of modern society. Paradoxically, as the community is poorer, the level of the shadow economy is higher, which in turn leads to lower allocations in the budget, and as a consequence reduces social benefits, reducing the real wages of public sector employees, and the decline in living standards. Therefore, evaluation of the shadow economy is actual for any country in the world. The purpose of research is assessment of the shadow economy in the Republic of Moldova for 2014. From the methodological point of view, the authors used input-output balance method to identify and assess non-observed economy. As a result, the authors had identified elements of non-observed economy for a product group, and had calculated the losses of the state budget.
P28|Environmental Macroeconomics: Economic Growth, Fiscal Spending and Environmental Quality|In the existing literature much attention has been given to the toolbox of regulatory policy instruments for addressing environmental concerns. Microeconomic treatment of environmental policy considers the optimal allocation of a given scale of resource flow within the economy, but neglects the scale and composition of economic activity relative to the ecosystem that supports it. An ecological approach to macroeconomics requires the appreciation of physical constraints to economic growth. This paper presents the theoretical underpinnings and the empirical findings of the literature on the link between economic growth and environmental quality, as well as of the relationship between fiscal spending and environmental degradation, by reviewing the relevant literature. The empirical findings on both relationships are not robust and therefore remain inconclusive. This paper provides conclusions and directions for future research which may assist to solve this ambiguity on the examined relationships.
P28|Is There a Club of Former Centrally Planned Economies, Given the Empirical Evidence for Their Growth and Convergence Patterns?|Our analysis provides evidence in support of the following assumptions: i) poorer Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and Caucasus and Central Asia (CCA) countries are growing faster than relatively richer ones; hence there is absolute ? convergence; ii) when control variables are included into our model, larger (negative) ? coefficients are displayed, supporting the phenomenon of conditional convergence; iii) we estimate the speed of unconditional convergence to the (club’s) steady state lies within the range of 1.6 to 3.4 per cent, whereas the speed of conditional convergence remains within the range of 2.9 to 5.1 per cent; iv) there is no evidence of sigma (?) convergence, in fact there is significant increase in the dispersion of the levels of income across the economies under consideration; v) high resource abundance (within the setting of this club of countries) is associated with high economic growth; vi) high resource abundance within a broader background (including the CEE and CCA, plus OECD countries) is associated with overall negative impact on economic growth (Sachs and Warner, 1995), however a net negative effect obtains only in countries with poor institutional settings (Mehlum et al, 2006); vii) location matters for growth – the nearer a country is located to Berlin or Stockholm (whichever nearer), the higher the rate of economic growth; viii) high quality of governance has strong positive effect on economic growth; ix) the higher the educational attainment (proxy for quality of human capital), the higher the real GDP growth; and, x) these countries are expected to reach half the distance to their (unconditional) non-growth steady state in around 50 years, though this may not guarantee catch-up with the industrialised countries
P28|"Análisis de combustibles fósiles en el mercado de generación de energía eléctrica en Colombia: un contraste entre modelos de volatilidad || Analysis of Fossil Fuels in the Market for Electricity Generation in Colombia: A Contrast between Models of Volatility"|"La importancia del sector eléctrico en el crecimiento de las economías incentiva el estudio sobre las variables que determinan la ejecución de nuevos proyectos de inversión en el sector. Las barreras en la disponibilidad de los combustibles se traducen en un incremento de la incertidumbre, convirtiéndose en un aspecto fundamental en la toma de decisiones en los mercados de generación de energía. Ante esto, se realiza un contraste entre un modelo de volatilidad determinística y dos modelos de volatilidad estocástica paramétrica GARCH y EWMA, aplicados en el precio de los combustibles fósiles, con el fin de identificar trade off, entre costos y riesgo, enfrentado por los generadores en una matriz energética conformada por tecnologías basadas en carbón, gas y petróleo. Los tres modelos permiten contrastar los resultados empíricos de las covarianzas obtenidas a través de la metodología de Pearson, EWMA y Vech. La evidencia sugiere que en un contexto en el que sea necesario seleccionar uno de los combustibles, el carbón presenta menor exposición al riesgo y menor variación en su precio, implicando un menor egreso en los mercados de generación. Sin embargo, contar con la matriz energética conformada por los tres combustibles fósiles permite una menor exposición al riesgo para el mercado global. || The importance of the electricity sector in the growth of economies encourages the study of the variables that determine the implementation of new investment projects in the sector. The barriers in the availability of fuels result in increased uncertainty, becoming a key issue in making decisions in the markets for power generation. Regarding this, a contrast is performed between a deterministic volatility model and two parametric stochastic volatility models, GARCH and EWMA, applied to the price of fossil fuels, in order to identify trade off between cost and risk faced by generators in an energy matrix comprised of technologies based on coal, gas and oil. The three models allow to compare the empirical results for covariances obtained through Pearson's methodology, EWMA and Vech. Evidence suggests that, in a context where it is necessary to select one of the fuels, coal has less exposure and less variation in price, implying a lower discharge in generation markets. However, having the energy matrix formed by the three fossil fuels allows a lower risk exposure to the global market."
P28|Cognitive abilities and air pollution| The link between intelligence and air pollution is subject to controversy. Some studies report that intelligence has insignificant effect in reducing the greenhouse gas emissions. By using carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions for a large set of countries we present further novel empirical evidence on the relation between level of intelligence and air pollution. Our findings suggest that the relation follows a U-shape pattern and resembles environmental Kuznets curve.
P28|Cognitive abilities and air pollution|The link between intelligence and air pollution is subject to controversy. Some studies report that intelligence has insignificant effect in reducing the greenhouse gas emissions. By using carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions for a large set of countries we present further novel empirical evidence on the relation between level of intelligence and air pollution. Our findings suggest that the relation follows a U-shape pattern and resembles environmental Kuznets curve.
P28|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P28|Climate change impacts: Understanding the synergetic interactions using graph computing|In this study we provide a computerized graph structure for synthesizing and displaying the data on a region’s ecosystem-economic system. By applying Mathematica-based graph modelling we create a causal network of the synergistic impact mechanism among certain climate related factors. Our computational approach identifies a climate factor that affects most immediately or most strongly the others. Important factors are indicated through the use of graph theoretical tools. Our graph-based approach and its computational aspects allow for factor ranking(s) according to their importance to the network both numerically and visually, for certain settlement types. Our contribution provides quantitative estimates of impacts and adaptation potentials of five potential effects of climate change (migration, flooding- landslides- fire, air and water pollution, human health and energy-water-other resources) which play a substantial role at the synergistic impact mechanism. Results allow having a picture of the structure of synergistic impact mechanism in a glimpse. Specifically, visual output is created to detect i) the causal relationships of the synergetic mechanism under study ii) the most influential factor(s) in the synergistic mechanism and iii) classify the factor’s roles (based on the degree of their impact) within the coping mechanism.
P28|Obstacles to crop diversification and cotton harvest mechanisation: Farm survey evidence from two contrasting districts in Uzbekistan| The dominance of cotton in the irrigated areas of Central Asia has long been criticized for its ecological effects on salinization and desertification. From an economic point of view, this monoculture ties producers to state procurement, has led to the recurrent mobilization of manual labour during harvest campaigns and makes farmers vulnerable to water availability and crop failure. Crop diversification and harvest mechanisation have been proposed as strategies to mitigate these effects, provide alternative income generation channels and increase farmers´ flexibility in dealing with reduced water availability. This contribution uses 2014 survey data from two districts in Uzbekistan, Jondor in Bukhara province and Zangiota in Tashkent province, to inform this debate by identifying real-world obstacles to these strategies. The first district is dominated by the conventional cotton and wheat rotation introduced after 1991. The second district is home to a wide range of high-value crops (HVC), in particular fruits and vegetables. The evidence shows how HVCs can be a profitable alternative to the state-mandated monocultures. Moreover, water productivity of HVCs is much higher. Even so, there is practically no hands-on experience of harvest mechanisation in the traditional cotton region so far. In addition to the state delivery targets, a lack of finance, absent connections to city markets, missing role models and the complete inexperience of farmers with alternative technologies will impede a further expansion of crop diversification and the mechanisation of harvest operations.
P28|Agricultural policies in Kazakhstan| Agriculture plays an important part in Kazakhstan's self-image, and continues to be a significant economic sector, employing about a third of the workforce. In the two decades since independence, agriculture has experienced dramatic swings in performance and in public policy. During the 1990s the sector suffered from external shocks, reduced public support and inchoate land tenure reform, while providing a safety net for families suffering from the transitional recession. Since the turn of the century, the booming economy has seen rural-urban migration and substantial public funds devoted to the agricultural sector. This article illustrates the steps taken to consolidate and improve Kazakhstan's position as a major agricultural producer and exporter, while also highlighting the shortcomings of current policies. It places Kazakhstan's agricultural policy evolution in the broader context of political independence from the Soviet Union and the general course of economic reforms. We highlight the driving forces of agricultural policy evolution from a political economy perspective and give an overview of specific policy measures.
P28|Growth, Pollution, and Life Expectancy: China from 1991-2012|This paper examines the relationship between income, pollution, and mortality in China from 1991-2012. Using first-difference models, we document a robust positive association between city-level GDP and life expectancy. We also find a negative association between city-level particulate air pollution exposure and life expectancy that is driven by elevated cardiorespiratory mortality rates. The results suggest that while China's unprecedented economic growth over the last two decades is associated with health improvements, pollution has served as a countervailing force.
P28|Water Pollution Progress at Borders: The Role of Changes in China's Political Promotion Incentives|At political boundaries, local leaders have weak incentives to reduce polluting activity because the social costs are borne by downstream neighbors. This paper exploits a natural experiment set in China in which the central government changed the local political promotion criteria and thus incentivized local officials to reduce border pollution along specific criteria. We document evidence of pollution progress with respect to targeted criteria at province boundaries. Heavy metal pollutants, not targeted by the central government, have not decreased in concentration after the regime shift. Using data on the economic geography of key industrial water polluters, we explore possible mechanisms. (JEL D72, O13, O18, P25, P28, Q25, Q53)
P28|Carbon emissions trading in China: the evolution from pilots to a nationwide scheme| The Chinese central government has approved seven pilot carbon trading schemes. These pilot regions have been deliberately selected to be at varying stages of development and are given considerable leeway to design their own schemes. These schemes have features in common, but vary considerably in their approach to issues such as the coverage of sectors, allocation of allowances, price uncertainty and market stabilisation, potential market power of dominated players, use of offsets, and enforcement and compliance. Our study finds that educating the covered entities, strictly enforcing compliance rules, ascribing allowances as financial assets and defining their valid duration, and including non-compliance in the credit record of non-complying entities are crucial to enabling active participation in carbon emissions trading. Moreover, the retrospective examination of the carbon trading pilots suggests that a national emissions trading scheme (ETS) should at least be based on uniform standards for measuring, reporting, and verification, the allocation of allowances, and the rules of compliance. Until a nationwide carbon market becomes fully functional after 2019, regional ETSs continue to function in parallel but those entities covered in the existing regional ETSs will be unconditionally integrated into a nationwide ETS if they meet the latter's threshold. Policy relevance The purpose of launching the seven carbon trading schemes and the reason why these seven pilot regions are given considerable leeway to design their own schemes are to enable China to develop a nationwide ETS with expanding geographical coverage and sectoral scope to complement the administrative means on which China, to date, has predominantly relied to achieve its increasingly stringent energy-saving and carbon intensity goals. This article discusses the lessons that carbon trading pilots have learned either from their own practice or other pilots in the first compliance year, as well as the good practice that the to-be-established national scheme could follow, and discusses the potential pathways for the evolution of regional pilot carbon trading schemes into a nationwide carbon trading scheme. Insights into the design, implementation, and compliance of China's carbon trading pilots and potential pathways help make these pilots work reliably and effectively and will smooth the transition from the pilots to a national ETS.
P28|Is the price elasticity of demand for coal in China increasing?|China's dependence on coal is a major contributor to local and global environmental problems. In this paper we estimate the price elasticity of demand for coal in China using a panel of province-level data for 1998–2012. We find that provincial coal demand has become increasingly price elastic. As of 2012 we estimate that this elasticity was in the range −0.3 to −0.7 in point estimate terms when responses over two years are considered. The results imply that China's coal market is becoming more suited to price-based approaches to reducing emissions. The elimination of coal consumption subsidies could reduce national coal use and related emissions by around 2%.
P28|Are current EU cereal prices correlated?| This paper evaluates the correlations between European cereal prices in up to 87 markets of 24 Member States. History and geography play a role: The highest correlations are observed between closely located internal markets of the “old” Union; prices are more correlated along transport routes, in particular rivers. We observe that 10 years after the Accession (8 in the case of Romania and Bulgaria) we do not have a complete integration between the “old” and the “new” Member States. We advance several possible explanations: Weaker producers’ organisations, lack of storage facilities, less efficient transport facilities.
P28|Extreme Weather And Climatic Events On Agriculture As A Risk Of Sustainable Development| The Republic of Serbia suffers severe consequences caused by extreme weather and climatic events. Impact of these events on agriculture is significant, especially having in mind the link of agriculture to the wider scope of implementation sustainable development concept. This paper has as a main goal to promote a strategic approach to protect agriculture from these negative impacts. Using social science methodology, after analyses of numerous data source, authors in the paper shows the existing gap in this field. Hence, results confirmed that, the weakest link in the agriculture protection lies in inadequate level of coordination between stakeholders, and insufficient response capacities of local communities. Recommendation is that Serbia should address needs for create action in a process of mitigation consequences caused with extreme weather and climatic events on through broad-based collaboration among all stakeholders. After that action local community will be able to improve its sustainable development performance.
P28|Markets and long-term contracts: The case of Russian gas supplies to Europe|Abstract Different hydrocarbon producer sales strategies have widely divergent implications for the value of Gazprom’s gas exports to Europe. In particular, hydrocarbon producers have commonly pursued two alternative sales strategies: (i) pure commodity production (border sales) and (ii) integrated supply, trading and marketing (ISTM). The impact of these two strategies on Gazprom’s export profits are examined under three sets of scenarios: (a) the possible entry of low-cost producers, (b) oil price dynamics and (c) the future of LTCs (pricing and volume structure). We also analysed how Statoil shifted its sales strategy in light of structural changes in European gas markets and conclude that the company began employing an ISTM strategy when the market in North-west Europe became liquid. Thus, when a market is mature, with an increasing number of buyers, the best sales strategy for a large hydrocarbon producer should be based on flexibility and increasing its use of market trading to maximise the value of its commodity. We conclude that an optimal export strategy for Gazprom should involve both a substantial and increasing portion of uncommitted volumes that can be traded in markets (gas hubs) and, if needed, some form of bilateral forward contract with a minimum take-or-pay level to secure infrastructure finance.
P28|Sustainable Development, Energy And Climate Change In The European Union|Through sustainable development the needs of the current generation are fulfilled without jeopardizing the opportunities of future generations. The concept takes into account economic, social and environmental considerations. It has a wide range of applications from natural resources to population growth and biodiversity. One of its most important themes is energy. In this area, sustainable development relates with resource availability and green house gases emissions. Also it takes into account the needs of people without access to energy, and their legitimate quest for development. For the European Union, sustainable development represents an overarching objective. The present article analyzes the concept from a theoretical perspective, contrasting its strong points and weaknesses. It highlights the relation between sustainable development, energetic resources and climate change. The EU policies results in the field of energy are analyzed from the perspective of resources, energetic dependency and climate change efforts.
P28|Measuring the Security of External Energy Supply and Energy Exports Demand in Central Asia|Ensuring the security of the demand for energy exports and the supply of external energy is among the top priorities for Central Asian republics. This paper utilizes disaggregated risky external energy supply (REES) and risky energy exports demand (REED) indexes to measure the securities of energy supply and energy demand in the region. The results are compared to the indexes in the European Union (EU) and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Furthermore, this paper measures individual contribution of each Central Asian country to the regional risk exposure to disruptions of energy export demand and external energy supply. The REES indexes for coal and gas of Central Asian energy-importing countries are lower than in the EU, while the regional oil RESS index for oil is significantly higher than in the EU. The average REED indexes for both crude oil and gas are significantly lower than in OPEC economies
P28|Energy distribution and economic growth: An empirical test for China|In this paper we consider whether economic growth in China could be constrained by the physical development of the energy distribution network. Specifically, we structurally test the network theory of electricity distribution of Dalgaard and Strulik (2011) using city level data for China. In their paper they argue that the relationship between the size of the economy, measured by capital per capita, and electricity consumption per capita is governed by a simple power law with capital having an exponent bounded between ½ and ¾ depending on the efficiency of the network. We use data for 224 cities in China between 2002 and 2007 to observe whether structural estimates match those of Dalgaard and Strulik (2011) for 50 US states where they find the exponent in the power law connecting capital with electricity to be 2/3. Our results provide an estimate of the power law component to a little higher than the 2/3 found for the US which provides broad support for the model. When we look at different time periods we observe what appears to be a fall in the efficiency of the energy distribution network towards the end of our period.
P28|Does foreign direct investment impede environmental quality in high-, middle-, and low-income countries?|Under a multivariate framework, this paper aims to investigate the nonlinear correlation between foreign direct investment and environmental degradation for high-, middle-, and low-income countries with economic growth and energy consumption as additional determinants of environmental degradation. All variables were found to be nonstationary and cointegrated based on recent panel data unit-root tests and cointegration techniques. On applying fully modified ordinary least squares (FMOLS), the long-run results suggest the presence of an environmental Kuznets curve. In turn, foreign direct investment increases environmental degradation, thus confirming the pollution haven hypothesis (PHH). Moreover, the bidirectional causality between CO2 emissions and foreign direct investment is observed globally. The findings are sensitive to different income groups and regional analyses. In particular, these empirical findings aid sound economic policymaking for improving environmental quality and sustainable economic development.
P28|Kirgizistan Enerji Tüketiminin Ayristirma Yöntemiyle Analizi (2002-2011)|Bu çalisma 2002-2011 yillari arasinda Kirgizistan ekonomisi için sektörel enerji tüketimini ayrýþtýrma yöntemiyle analiz etmeyi amaçlamaktadýr. Çalýþmanýn sonuçlarýna göre sektörel enerji tüketiminin çýktý ve yapýsal etki nedeniyle arttýðý, yoðunluk etkisi nedeniyle düþtüðü görülür. Ayrýca diðer iki etkiye göre çýktý etkisi sektörel enerji tüketimi üzerinde en güçlü etkiye sahiptir. Sektörel enerji tüketimi, üretim artýþý ile daha çok ilþkili olduðu için, Kýrgýzistan ekonomisinde 2000 yýlýndan sonra görülen hýzlý ekonomik büyüme, çýktý etkisini enerji tüketimindeki artýþýn en önemli faktörü haline getirmiþtir. Yapýsal etki, milli gelir içinde tarým sektörünün payýnýn azalmasýna ve sanayi sektörünün payýnýn artmasýna baðlý olarak enerji tüketimindeki deðiþime arttýrýcý yönde etki yapmýþtýr. Yoðunluk etkisi ise diðer iki etkinin tersine, ekonomide teknolojik geliþim bakýmýndan son yýllarda görülen iyilþtirmeler ve dýþa açýlma gibi nedenlerle enerji tüketimini düþürücü yönde etki yapmýþtýr.
P28|Markets and long-term contracts: The case of Russian gas supplies to Europe|No abstract is available for this item.
P28|Myanmar: Cross-Cutting Governance Challenges|Since 2010, Myanmar has been in the midst of a multifaceted transition, involving economic reforms, the resolution of multiple long-standing civil conflicts, and a nascent transition to democratic rule. These transitions are coinciding with a resource-led economic boom. The paper assesses the current status of governance institutions, as well as their performance, in comparison to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and selected other countries. Specifically, the paper discusses outstanding problem areas related to economic governance, particularly in the legal system, the business regulatory framework, and in bureaucratic capacity as well as the potential use of external policy anchors, particularly in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) process, to strengthen Myanmar’s ongoing reform effort.
P28|Environmental Kuznets Curve: The Case of Russia|This paper investigates the relationship between economic development and environmental pollution among Russian regions based on the concept of Environmental Kuznets Curve. It shows how income inequality, growth of GRP and structure of regional economy affect emissions of three pollutants: carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide. We estimate a panel data model using the Russian Statistical Agency's data for Russian regions in the period 2000-2013. It is shown that the majority of regions in Russia have not reached a turning point when economic growth leads to decrease in pollution. Growth of the non-manufacturing sector of GRP has either no statistically significant effect on the change in emissions or its impact is ambiguous. The increase in the level of economic inequality in the region is characterized by the decrease in emissions.
P28|Energy consumption and human development: global perspective|The important objective of this paper is to study the long run relationship between Energy Consumption (EC) and traditional Human Development Index (tHDI) and impact of Energy Consumption on tradional Human Development Index. The scope of this study is that the energy consumption has a great role to play in enhancing economic growth and maintaining better quality of life and overall human development. The authors have used panel cointegration test to study the long term relationship between traditional Human Development Index and Energy Consumption. To study the impact of Energy Consumption on traditional Human Development Index, panel regression is used. Findings have confirmed the existence of the long run relationship between each other and the Energy Consumption has a significantly positive impact on traditional Human Development Index. To see how EC affects and change HDI an alternative New HDI is also introduced by incorporating energy consumption along with existing indices included in tHDI. After incorporating the energy component in New HDI, most of the countries HDI value slipped except few developed countries.
P28|Puzzling Out The First Oil Shock. History, Politics and the Macroeconomy in a Forty-Year Retrospective|The paper aims to understand if the First Oil Shock has produced long-term effects to the international economic system and its fundamentals. Herein a historical perspective will be used as an interpretative tool in order to discern the causes of the events of 1973 and its long-term consequences on the world economy during the four decades following the First Oil Shock. The circumstances and the causes that led to the shock, the events during the conflict, and the changes in the structure of the energy market, play a key role for the analysis and will be investigated according to the historical specificity. In the end, a statistical analysis is developed in order to shed light on the oil price GDP growth conundrum, to discover that for economic growth, volatility matters more than the average price of oil.
P28|Crossing the river by feeling the stones: the case of carbon trading in China|Putting a price on carbon is considered a crucial step for China’s endeavor of harnessing the market forces to reduce its energy consumption and carbon emissions. Indeed, aligned with China’s grand experiment with low-carbon provinces and low-carbon cities in six provinces and thirty-six cities, the Chinese central government has approved the seven pilot carbon trading schemes. These pilot trading schemes have features in common, but vary considerably in their approach to issues such as the coverage of sectors, allocation of allowances, price uncertainty and market stabilization, potential market power of dominated players, use of offsets, and enforcement and compliance. This article explains why China turns to market forces and is opt for emissions trading, rather than carbon or environmental taxes at least initially, discusses the five pilot trading schemes that have to comply with their emissions obligations by June 2014, and examines a wide range of design, implementation, enforcement and compliance issues related to China’s carbon trading pilots and their first-year performance. The article ends with drawing some lessons learned and discussing the options to evolve regional pilot carbon trading schemes into a nationwide carbon trading scheme. Copyright Society for Environmental Economics and Policy Studies and Springer Japan 2015
P28|On the transition from nonrenewable energy to renewable energy|In this paper we use the CMM model (Chakravorty et al.,2006) in discrete time and obtain more results concerning the exhaustion time of Non-Renewable Resource (NRE), the dynamic regimes of energy prices, of the stocks of pollution. We show that NRE is exhausted in finite time and is directly influenced by the initial stock of NRE and the costs of NRE and RE. Higher is the initial stock of NRE, far is the time of exhaustion of NRE. Higher is the cost of NRE (resp. the difference of unit costs between RE and NRE), far is the time of exhaustion of NRE. Furthermore, we show that the abatement intervenes, when necessary, not more than two periods. We also show that, when the unit extraction cost of RE is not very high, the stocks of emissions will never be binding if and only if, the initial stock of NRE is less than a critical value.
P28|Reported Utility Service Satisfaction: The Case of Electricity in Transition Economies|Since the end of the Soviet Union, the power sector in the countries resulting from its disintegration has evolved from a context of central planning towards independent regulation. There is great heterogeneity in reform progress in transition countries, with consequences to service quality and prices in utilities and also the view the population has of such services. This paper conducts an overview of the modern power sector in transition economies and analyses drivers of reported household satisfaction with the quality of electricity services in 27 countries using cross-sectional survey data from the EBRD Life in Transition Survey II, in a context of improving regulatory and infrastructural frameworks, using an ordinal random effects model with a probit link function. Key drivers of reported satisfaction are the uses of electricity within the household and some characteristics such as age, economic conditions and general life satisfaction. However, there is no evidence of the effect of power sector reform on the opinion of households. This points that the general life experience in transition can be the key driver of how households feel about utilities, as reform brings conflicting effects that stem from increasing cost sustainability, competition, transparency and quality of the service.
P28|Sustainable Development of Natural Resources through Decentralization Policies Implementation in Albania|One of the most discussed topics currently is the sustainable development of natural resources aiming to reduce the careless exploitation and guarantee the existence of these resources. In the context of sustainable development, decentralization policies in the field of natural resources have been implemented in many countries, mainly in developing one, among which even in Albania. Natural resources play a strategic role in the rural economy as a potential source of long-term development and community participation in natural resource management increase the efficiency, improve equity and justice and reduce poverty. The objectives of this paper are the reflection of the current situation in Albania after the decentralization policies implemented in the natural resource field and the evaluation of those factors that improve the impact of the decentralization policy in terms of sustainable development. These objectives are realized through quantitative methods for data processing. After data analysis we state that important factors that affect the impact of decentralization in this area are the investments made for expansion and maintenance of natural resources and the opportunity to generate income from these sources.
P28|Myanmar: Cross-Cutting Governance Challenges|The paper assesses the current status of governance institutions in Myanmar, as well as their performance, in comparison to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and selected other countries. Specifically, the paper discusses outstanding problem areas related to economic governance, particularly in the legal system, the business regulatory framework, and in bureaucratic capacity as well as the potential use of external policy anchors, particularly in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) process, to strengthen Myanmarâ€™s ongoing reform effort.
P28|Relationship between Financial Development and Energy Consumption: The Case of Turkey|This paper examines the relationship between financial development and energy consumption in Turkey over the period 1980-2011 adopting cointegration and causality methodologies. Cointegration results indicate that there is no long run relation among the variables. Causality results, on the other hand, indicate that energy-finance nexus supports neutrality hypothesis in Turkey in the short run. The inconsistency across the papers in the case of Turkey clearly addresses the fact that it does really matter which financial development indicators are proxied.
P28|Measuring and evaluating energy security and sustainability: A Case study of India|The imperative for energy security is paramount for global, national and internal stability and development. Using an indicator based approach, the present study develops a framework for sustainable energy security of India. First, it presents the energy supply and demand situation in the country under different scenarios. Then it conceptualizes the notion of energy security and quantifies it for India with the help of different indicators for energy security available in the literature. Both the supply and demand side views and both micro and macro dimensions are considered in assessing how secured India as a country is with respect to our energy future. The dimensions that include energy security are: economic, environmental, social and institutional. This will help planners and policy makers to understand India's energy scene better and design policies to develop sustainable technologies and practices to ensure energy resources last long.
P28|Sustainable energy security for India: An assessment of energy demand sub-system|This paper presents a quantitative assessment of Sustainable Energy Security (SES) of the energy demand sub-system for India by calculating a SES index. The demand sub-system has been evaluated for four dimensions of SES, viz., Availability, Affordability, Efficiency and (Environmental) Acceptability using selected metrics. A hierarchical structure has been used to construct indices using 'scores' (objective values of selected metrics), and 'weights' (subjective values, representing importance of each metric) which are then aggregated, to obtain a SES Index. Various sectors of the energy demand sub-system are evaluated and dimensional and sectoral indices are calculated for the years 2002, 2007 and 2012. Assessment of the obtained energy indices is undertaken and the results reveal that all (except one) sectoral indices have shown an increase during the period of assessment. The results show that from 2002 to 2012 the aggregate SES Index has increased by approximately 10 which indicates a gradual improvementin the sustainability and security of the energy demand sub-system.However, the SES index is approximately 0.7 (short of the desired target of 1.0), which implies that there is still a large scope for improvement in the performance of the India's energy demand sub-system. A sensitivity analysis of various indices reveals that the SES index is relatively robust to variation in weights allotted to different dimensions and hence provides a reliable assessment of the SES of the demand sub-system.
P28|On the transition from nonrenewable energy to renewable energy|In this paper we use the CMM model (Chakravorty et al., 2006) in discrete time and obtain more results concerning the exhaustion time of Non-Renewable Resource (NRE), the dynamic regimes of energy prices, of the stocks of pollution. We show that NRE is exhausted in finite time and is directly influenced by the initial stock of NRE and the costs of NRE and RE. Higher is the initial stock of NRE, far is the time of exhaustion of NRE. Higher is the cost of NRE (resp. the difference of unit costs between RE and NRE), far is the time of exhaustion of NRE. Furthermore, we show that the abatement intervenes, when necessary, not more than two periods. We also show that, when the unit extraction cost of RE is not very high, the stocks of emissions will never be binding if and only if, the initial stock of NRE is less than a critical value
P28|Chances of Romanian Tourism in the Perspective of European Competition|This paper presents a modest, but critical attempt of a summary that analyzes the main developments of tourism offer in Romania, after the events of 1989 so far. Finally some courses of action that may result in an improvement of tourist activities related to sustainable development requirements of Romania are presented.
P28|Zhaoguang Hu, Xinyanh Han, & Quan Wern, Integrated Resource Strategic Planning and Power Demand-Side Management|The edited volume presents an engaging cartography of Indian economy following two decades of liberalization on the backdrop of globalization and problem of sustainability - two defining moments of post-reforms reorganization of the economy. A wide variety of sector-specific and economy-wide studies in the collection, examine the central tenets of market-centric reforms representing globalization. The research works dealing with micro- and macro-aspects of development help us form an idea of important issues, emerging debates, dominant institutions and changes required for attainment/restoration of efficiency. Most of these writings indicate the limitations of current developmental logic in their specific settings. These studies also propose measures to tackle the problems faced while presuming growth-sustainability disconnect to be temporary in nature. A number of studies introduced new analytical categories and empirical frameworks to capture current reality in better and more meaningful ways. A third strand of writings portrays conflict between the project of globalization and issue of sustainability as a distinguishing characteristic of global capitalism although the present policy framework accord highest priority to capitalist expansion. This conflict however, has put the Indian state in a perpetual act of balancing the growth objective of global capital and welfare objective meant for those experiencing exclusion in the development process.
P28|Analyzing the Water Footprint of Indian Dairy Industry|Water footprint is a multidimensional indicator, showing water consumption volumes by source and by type of pollution; all components of a total water footprint are specified geographically and temporally. The issue of water scarcity in India is getting serious day-by-day. Water scarcity is fast becoming urban India's number one woe, with government's own data revealing that residents in 22 out of 32 major cities have to deal with daily shortages. In this paper the authors have calculated the water footprint in Indian dairy industry to assess the water intensity.
P28|Dynamics of Natural Gas Consumption, Output and Trade: Empirical Evidence from the Emerging Economies|This study examines the dynamic relationship between natural gas consumption, output, and trade in a sample of fifteen emerging economies using quarterly data for the period of 1990-2012. We employ the robust panel cointegration techniques and a heterogeneous panel causality test. Our findings confirm the presence of long-run association between natural gas consumption, output and trade. The short-run heterogeneous panel causality test suggests that natural gas consumption has feedback effect between economic growth and international trade. These findings have important implications for energy and environmental policies. The conservation policies that are designed to reduce natural gas consumption have an adverse effect on both economic growth and trade. We suggest future energy policies should focus on improving energy supply, and formulate appropriate channels to attract investments into renewable energy production with greater involvement of public-private partnership initiatives.
P28|Eurasian Economic Union: Prospects and Challenges for Development|The paper is devoted to the analysis of development prospects and problems of Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) of Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus and Armenia. It considers integration problems inside EAEU, interactions of EAEU with other CIS countries and with countries from the rest of the world. The paper shows that the major integration challenge inside EAEU is the domination of the redistributive motive over the creative one. It estimates the value of the oil and gas transfer from Russia to other EAEU members and the influence of the Russian tax maneuver on this transfer. The paper shows the need in redistribution mechanism inside EAEU as a necessary condition for getting the potential positive economic effects of free trade with other countries. It also assesses the risks for EAEU due to Russian embargo for food imports from countries of the sanctions list and possible application of tariff in the trade with Ukraine.
P28|Position of the Government in Relation to Corporate Social Responsibility|The goal of this paper is to define the role of the government and examine the opportunities and options of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in government policy and research its relevance to Czech business environment. The concept of CSR in the Czech Republic has evolved notably during the last few years and represents a coherent set of activities and practices that are an integral part of the control strategy of social, environmental and economic organizations, and are implemented by organizations on a voluntary basis beyond the scope of their legal obligations. Therefore it becomes strategically important issues in the relationship between CSR and the public policy frameworks belonging to government concerns within which organizations are operating. Governments have a role to play in ensuring that corporations behave according to the rules and norms of society and can legislate, foster, collaborate with businesses and endorse good practice in order to facilitate the development of CSR. By drawing on existing CSR approach, policy, frameworks and comprehension of CSR are demonstrated. Paper concludes that CSR needs to be understood as part and parcel of a wider system of national societal governance incorporating government institutions, business organizations and non-governmental organizations.
P28|Energy Consumption, CO2 Emissions, and Economic Growth: A Moral Dilemma|In this study we examine the dynamic interrelationship in the output-energy-environment nexus by applying panel vector autoregression (PVAR) and impulse response function analyses to data on energy consumption (and its subcomponents), carbon dioxide emissions and real GDP in 106 countries classified by different income groups over the period 1971-2011. Our results reveal that the effects of the various types of energy consumption on economic growth and emissions are heterogeneous on the various groups of countries. Moreover, causality between total economic growth and energy consumption is bidirectional, thus making a case for the feedback hypothesis. However, we cannot report any statistically significant evidence that renewable energy consumption, in particular, is conducive to economic growth, a fact that weakens the argument that renewable energy consumption is able to promote growth in a more efficient and environmentally sustainable way. Finally, in analysing the case for an inverted U-shaped EKC, we find that the continued process of growth aggravates the greenhouse gas emissions phenomenon. In this regard, we cannot provide any evidence that developed countries may actually grow-out of environmental pollution. In the light of these findings, the efficacy of recent government policies in various countries to promote renewable energy consumption as a means for sustainable growth is questioned. Put differently, there seems to be a moral dilemma, between high economic growth rates and unsustainable environment and low or zero economic growth and environmental sustainability.
P28|Environmental Macroeconomics: A critical literature review and future empirical research directions|In the existing literature much attention has been given to the toolbox of regulatory policy instruments at the disposal of policy makers for addressing environmental concerns. Microeconomic treatment of environmental policy considers the optimal allocation of a given scale of resource flow within the economy, but neglects the scale and composition of economic activity relative to the ecosystem that supports it. An ecological approach to macroeconomics requires the appreciation of physical constraints to economic growth. This paper presents the theoretical underpinnings and the empirical findings of the literature on the link between economic growth and environmental quality, as well as of the relationship between fiscal policy and environmental degradation, by reviewing the relevant literature. The empirical findings on both relationships are not robust and are therefore inconclusive. The paper provides conclusions and directions for future research which may assist to solve this ambiguity on the examined relationships.
P28|An econometric investigation of the effect of financial development on aggregate, and disaggregate energy consumption: time series assessment for Ghana|The paper has examined both long run and short run link between financial development and energy consumption in Ghana for 1970-2011 period using Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model. The ARDL test results produced significant evidence of cointegration among the variables. There are statistical significant long run and short run effects of financial development on energy consumption. The results seem to suggest that financial development is a key explanatory variable in energy consumption and as such, financial development could be relied on as a policy tool to manage energy consumption. Future research should account for the effect of structural effect and the issues of causality.
P28|An econometric modelling of government activities-total energy demand nexus for Ghana|The paper modelled both long run and short run effects of government activities on total energy demand in Ghana for the period 1970 to 2011 using Autoregressive Distributed Lag Model (ARDL). The results of the findings indicate significant evidence of cointegration between government activities and total energy demand. The results show that government activities are key explanatory variable in total energy demand. Government activities are recommended as a policy tool to manage energy demand. Further study is worth considering in the area of causality and structural breaks in unit root.
P28|Government activities and fossil fuel consumption in Ghana|The purpose of the study is to investigate the relationship between government activities (proxied by government expenditures) and fossil fuel for the period 1971-2011 for Ghana, using annual time series data obtained from World Bank database. The empirical estimates was done by employing the Autoregressive distributed lag model (ARDL), after the Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) and Kwiatkowski-Philips-Schmidt-Shin (KPSS) tests have been used to analyse the unit root properties of the variables. The unit root test results indicate the variables are unit root in levels and not in first difference. The cointegration test result shows stable cointegration link between the variables. However, the long run estimate indicates insignificant positive effect of government activities on fossil fuel consumption, whereas, the short run estimate results of the study shows there is stable short run link between government activities and fossil fuel consumption. The policy implication of the findings is that government activities is not a policy tool in the management of fossil fuel consumption.
P28|Industrial sustainable development level in China and its influencing factors|This research aims to set up a comprehensive index system to evaluate the sustainable development level of the industrial sector in China and to determine the key influencing factors that hinder the sector’s sustainable development. To achieve these research goals, we build a theoretical model with 26 indexes selected from resource, environment, economy, and society subsystems. An empirical analysis is conducted through Principal Component Analysis and Structural Equation Modeling. Results indicate that the sustainable development level of China’s industrial sector became positive in 2007 and peaked in 2012. The environment subsystem has the largest effect on the sustainable development level. The sustainable development level is also greatly influenced by solid wastes, production of non-renewable resources, energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product (GDP), and industrial research and development (R&D) expenditure. The basic conclusion is that the sustainable development level of the industrial sector in China can be enhanced through improving the utilization efficiency of resources, increasing the contribution of technology progress to GDP,and developing renewable resources.
P28|Climate Changes And Adaptation Policies In The Baltic And The Adriatic Regions|This paper provides an overview of differences and similarities of the current climate changes in the Baltic and Adriatic coastal regions and appropriate adaptation policies on national, regional and European level. All reparian countries are at different stages of developing and implementing national adaptation strategies. The proposal for an overall BSR wide Climate Change Adaptation Strategy and Action Plan has been launched with the aim to recommend actions for climate change adaptation in the Baltic region. No similar agreement has been concluded yet on the protection of the semi-closed Adriatic Sea, the surface of which is about 1/2 of that of the Baltic Sea, and whose coastal region is home to about 1/4 of that of the Baltic Sea. The differences in the socio-economic characteristics and indicators may be partly responsible for the differring attitudes, actions and reporting concerning the adaptation to climate change, both between individual countries, as well as between the two regions as a whole.
P28|Quo vadis, Ukraine? Is there a chance for success? (Quo vadis Ukraino? Czy istnieje szansa na sukces?)|If I were to say just one thing about Ukraine, I think I would have to stress it is the most underperforming country of all the countries I know. Ukraine has had, and indeed still does have, a lot of potential. In the beginning of 1990s, in 1992 to be precise, Deutsche Bank prepared an analysis of the chances for the former Soviet Union states to be reformed and developed successfully, and according to this analysis, Ukraine had the best chance among them all to be successful. We know that in reality the opposite happened, and Ukraine is in a very difficult situation now. The main reason for this situation is that when at the beginning of 1990s communist countries collapsed, the old system in Ukraine was not replaced by a new one, one of functioning market economy. It was eroded, but not exactly replaced the way it happened for example in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and the Baltic states. The country was captured by oligarchs, and a very strange, dysfunctional, and corrupted system was created instead./ Gdybym mia³ powiedzieæ tylko jedn¹ rzecz o Ukrainie, musia³bym podkreœliæ, ¿e jest to kraj osi¹gaj¹cy najgorsze wyniki gospodarcze spoœród wszystkich znanych mi krajów. Ukraina mia³a i nadal ma ogromny potencja³. Na pocz¹tku lat dziewiêædziesi¹tych ubieg³ego wieku, a dok³adnie w roku 1992, Deutsche Bank przygotowa³ analizê szans by³ych pañstw Zwi¹zku Radzieckiego na przeprowadzenie reform i pomyœlny rozwój. Wed³ug tej analizy najwiêksze szanse na sukces wœród nich wszystkich mia³a w³aœnie Ukraina. Jak wiemy, w rzeczywistoœci sta³o siê inaczej, i Ukraina znajduje siê teraz w bardzo trudnej sytuacji.G³ównym jej powodem jest fakt, ¿e gdy na pocz¹tku lat dziewiêædziesi¹tych upada³ komunizm, stary system na Ukrainie nie zosta³ zast¹piony przez nowy system gospodarki rynkowej. Zosta³ on os³abiony, ale nie zast¹piony przez nowy system, jak mia³o to miejsce na przyk³ad w Polsce, Czechos³owacji, na Wêgrzech czy w pañstwach ba³tyckich. Kraj zosta³ przejêty przez oligarchów i zapanowa³ w nim bardzo dziwny, dysfunkcjonalny i skorumpowany system
P28|Multi-model comparison of the economic and energy implications for China and India in an international climate regime|This paper presents a modeling comparison on how stabilization of global climate change at about 2 °C above the pre-industrial level could affect economic and energy systems development in China and India. Seven General Equilibrium (CGE) and energy system models on either the global or national scale are soft-linked and harmonized with respect to population and economic assumptions. We simulate a climate regime, based on long-term convergence of per capita carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions, starting from the emission pledges presented in the Copenhagen Accord to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and allowing full emissions trading between countries. Under the climate regime, Indian emission allowances are allowed to grow more than the Chinese allowances, due to the per capita convergence rule and the higher population growth in India. Economic and energy implications not only differ among the two countries, but also across model types. Decreased energy intensity is the most important abatement approach in the CGE models, while decreased carbon intensity is most important in the energy system models. The reduction in carbon intensity is mostly achieved through deployment of carbon capture and storage, renewable energy sources and nuclear energy. The economic impacts are generally higher in China than in India, due to higher 2010–2050 cumulative abatement in China and the fact that India can offset more of its abatement cost though international emission trading. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
P28|Strong or weak sustainability: a case study of emerging Asia|Sustainability can be weak or strong, depending on the nature of capital accumulation. Weak sustainability is characterized by a non-declining combined stock of capital and assumes that man-made capital can be replaced with natural capital. Strong sustainability, on the other hand, implies that natural capital cannot be replaced by any other capital. Based on this understanding, the present study analysed the growth patterns of 10 emerging Asian economies using time-series data over a 20-year period. For this purpose, the study used genuine savings as an indicator of weak sustainability and ecological footprint as an indicator of strong sustainability. The study found that the selected Asain economies, particularly the middle-income countries, are following a path of weak sustainability. While the high-income countries are gradually making an attempt, through various policy interventions, to move from a path of weak to strong sustainability, despite genuine savings having stabilized their ecological footprint per capita continues to show an increasing trend.
P28|Der II. Hauptsatz der Thermodynamik, die Philosophie und die gesellschaftliche Praxis: Eine Neubetrachtung|"Der Autor registriert, dass die Menge der verantwortungsbewusst denkenden Menschen in zunehmendem Maße fühlt, dass offenbar in der menschlichen Gesellschaft - weltweit wie auch in Deutschland - ""vieles klemmt"", ohne schlüssige Änderungsvorschläge unterbreiten zu können, was übrigens auch für die Wissenschaft gilt. Und auch die Grundlagenwissenschaft Philosophie hat mit Blick auf die Grundlagen mehr offene Fragen, als der Normalbürger vermutet. Im Beitrag wird gezeigt, wie eine neuartige Betrachtung naturgesetzlicher Zusammenhänge - speziell des II. Hauptsatzes der Thermodynamik - zu einem Naturprinzip führt, das das evolutionäre Verhalten der Natur plausibel werden lässt und - bei bewusster Anwendung - für eine menschgerechte Evolution der Gesellschaft wichtige Hinweise abzuleiten gestattet. Dass das beim heutigen Entwicklungsstand der Gesellschaft vorwiegend den Bereich Technik/Wirtschaft betrifft und die Politik fordert, versteht sich von selbst."
P28|Powering Up China: Income Distributions and Residential Electricity Consumption|Current forecasts suggest that the vast majority of growth in energy demand will come from the developing world, and that China will play a major part in that growth. This paper presents evidence suggesting that the shape of the income distribution, which is typically omitted from forecasting models, plays a major role in driving household acquisition of energy-using durable goods in rural China. We use province-level data for rural households to show that the share of the population living above the poverty line is an important determinant of household appliance holdings even controlling for average household income.
P28|Programs, Prices and Policies Towards Energy Conservation and Environmental Quality in China|China has gradually recognized that the conventional path of encouraging economic growth at the expense of the environment cannot be sustained. It has to be changed. This article focuses on China's efforts towards energy conservation and environmental quality. The article discusses a variety of programs, prices, market-based instruments, and other economic and industrial policies and measures targeted for energy saving and pollution cutting, and the associated implementation and reliability issues. The article ends with some concluding remarks and recommendations.
P28|Corporate Preferences for Domestic Policy Instruments under a Sectoral Market Mechanism: A Case Study of Shanxi Province in China|Understanding companies' preferences for various domestic policy instruments is crucial to designing and planning Sectoral Market Mechanism (SMM) in China. Based on a detailed overview of domestic policy instruments under SMM, this paper evaluates corporate preferences for diverse domestic policy instruments and identifies potential influencing factors through econometric analysis. The data were collected from 113 respondents in all 11 prefecture-level cities of Shanxi province, China. Regarding policy instruments under the system of government receiving tradable units, corporate energy saving potential, learning capacity and companies' characteristics have shown significant influences on companies' preferences. Dissemination and the popularization of knowledge are also important to help companies learn how to improve energy efficiency. In terms of policy measures with voluntary installation-level targets, corporate competition level, organizational size and ownership are the main factors influencing companies' preferences. Reducing inequality in the distribution of responsibility is especially important to gain companies' support. Under the policy with mandatory installation-level targets, it suggests that policymakers should focus on status of energy use management and internationalization orientation. Policy instruments familiar to companies that are able to relieve corporate financial pressures might be good options to gain higher acceptance. Moreover, our results show that it is very important to choose an issuance frequency of one to three years under sectoral crediting.
P28|Programs, Prices and Policies Towards Energy Conservation and Environmental Quality in China| China has gradually recognized that the conventional path of encouraging economic growth at the expense of the environment cannot be sustained. It has to be changed. This article focuses on China’s efforts towards energy conservation and environmental quality. The article discusses a variety of programs, prices, market-based instruments, and other economic and industrial policies and measures targeted for energy saving and pollution cutting, and the associated implementation and reliability issues. The article ends with some concluding remarks and recommendations.
P28|Corporate Preferences for Domestic Policy Instruments under a Sectoral Market Mechanism: A Case Study of Shanxi Province in China| Understanding companies’ preferences for various domestic policy instruments is crucial to designing and planning Sectoral Market Mechanism (SMM) in China. Based on a detailed overview of domestic policy instruments under SMM, this paper evaluates corporate preferences for diverse domestic policy instruments and identifies potential influencing factors through econometric analysis. The data were collected from 113 respondents in all 11 prefecture-level cities of Shanxi province, China. Regarding policy instruments under the system of government receiving tradable units, corporate energy saving potential, learning capacity and companies’ characteristics have shown significant influences on companies’ preferences. Dissemination and the popularization of knowledge are also important to help companies learn how to improve energy efficiency. In terms of policy measures with voluntary installation-level targets, corporate competition level, organizational size and ownership are the main factors influencing companies’ preferences. Reducing inequality in the distribution of responsibility is especially important to gain companies’ support. Under the policy with mandatory installation-level targets, it suggests that policymakers should focus on status of energy use management and internationalization orientation. Policy instruments familiar to companies that are able to relieve corporate financial pressures might be good options to gain higher acceptance. Moreover, our results show that it is very important to choose an issuance frequency of one to three years under sectoral crediting.
P28|La producción de leña en España y sus implicaciones en la transición energética. Una serie a escala provincial (1900-2000)|El trabajo presenta una estimación de la producción de leña en España desde 1900 hasta la actualidad y presenta por primera vez una evolución coherente de los usos del suelo tanto a escala agregada como a escala provincial. A partir de estos datos se ha podido construir también una serie de larga duración sobre la extracción y disponibilidad de leña que permite estudiar no sólo los niveles de consumo sino también el impacto de la transición energética en España. Para ello hemos tomado en consideración no sólo las superficies forestales, sino también las superficies dedicadas a cultivos leñosos (olivar, viña y frutales). Los principales resultados revelan una evolución del monte español caracterizada por la transición de superficies leñosas de monte bajo y abierto de quercíneas hacia el monte alto y maderable, con una clara expansión en la zona noratlántica del país. Durante este proceso se observa un fuerte auge de los cultivos leñosos en la zona mediterránea y sur del país. De esta forma se describen modelos de producción y consumo de leña divergentes en las diferentes regiones del país. Por otro lado, la reestimación de la producción de leña forestal así como la adición de la producción cultivada resulta en unas cifras de consumo por habitante que llegaron a superar los 3 kg/día incluso en el siglo XX. Tras analizar el consumo de energías inorgánicas a escala regional se pone de manifiesto la importancia que siguió teniendo la leña como combustible en buena parte del país aunque en términos relativos empezó a ser menor debido al auge de los combustibles fósiles. Estos datos alteran los tiempos y algunas de las causas de la denominada transición energética en el país.
P28|Is Mining Fuelling Long-Run Growth in Russia? Industry Productivity Growth Trends Since 1995| GDP per capita growth rates in Russia have been amongst the highest in the world since the mid-1990s. Previous growth accounting research at the macro-level suggests that this was mainly driven by multi-factor productivity (MFP) growth. In this paper we analyze for the first time the drivers of Russian growth at the level of industries. We derive a proper measure of capital services, instead of using stock measures as in previous research. Using this, we find that aggregate GDP growth is driven as much by capital input as MFP growth. Mining and Retailing industries are growing fast, but have poor MFP performance. In contrast, MFP growth was high in goods-producing industries but their share in GDP declined. MFP growth was highest in those industries that were particularly underdeveloped in the Russian economy in the 1990s.
P28|The Japanese Electricity System 15 months After March 11th 2011|The Great East Japan earthquake and tsunami on March 11th 2011 caused mass destruction, significant loss-of-life and a large displacement of people. It also placed significant strain of Japan’s electricity-generating infrastructure. There was a significant reduction in capacity due to the damage in thermal generation and gradual closure of Japan’s nuclear power plants; the ability for load-balancing across the Japanese grid was compromised due to limited interconnections between the different utilities that comprise the Japanese electricity system. This paper looks at the first fifteen months following the earthquake and tsunami: outlining the supply reduction and consequent attempts to manage the demand. In turn it highlights the foibles of Japan’s vertically-integrated monopolistic structures and the evolution of governmental and utilities response that went from decisions made “on-the-fly” to a more developed policy for peak-demand electricity savings. The findings from this paper should serve as a useful set of examples to aid decision makers in contingency planning for disruptive large-scale reduction in electricity-generating capacity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P28|Coal’S Role In The World Energetic System|The world energy needs are on the rise, and they come from developing economies, especially the emerging ones such as China or India with high demographic and economic growth rates. These countries future demand for energy will shape the world’s energetic system. They will require considerable quantities of energy to fuel their demanding economies. The last decade has shown that the world’s energetic needs are being reoriented from West to East. Coal represents an available, secure and competitive energetic resource which can help the growing need for energy. However it is not that flexible as gas or renewables and it has also a greater impact upon environment due to its greenhouse gas emissions in the context of climate change. For these reasons coal is being less used for the energetic needs of the developed economies. Will the current attributes of coal be sufficient to maintain coal’s place in the world energetic mix?
P28|Enegy Forestry A Source Of Energy For The Romanian Economy|"Using ""grown fuels"", as opposed to ""fossil fuels"" such as coal, natural gas and oil can be a possible solution to the global energy crisis by creating a decentralized power generation network. Wood is among the most efficient sources of bioenergy in terms of quantity of energy released by unit of carbon emitted compared with other energy crops. Research, development and innovation create new opportunities for the process of gathering and transforming the raw material into energy. Innovation should be targeted to deliver sustainability, biodiversity and economic growth. Romanian has a high potential and can develop energy forestry in order to reduce CO2 emissions and ensure an alternative energy solution and an energy reserve. This paper aims to analize the challenges and opportunities the biomass energy industry creates in the context of climate change mitigation which must be seen from an entrepreneurial perspective in Romania."
P28|Cointegration Relationships to Estimate the Marginal Cost of Deficit in Planning a Hydrothermal System: The Case of Brazil|The aim of this study is to analyze the behavior of gross domestic product (GDP) compared to electricity consumption in Brazil to estimate the curve of deficit marginal cost. The deficit cost is used as exogenous parameter in the chain of models for planning the operation and expansion of a hydrothermal system as part of the total cost of operation. The results show a cointegration relationship between GDP and electricity consumption; therefore, there is a long-term equilibrium relationship between GDP and electricity consumption. This relationship is used to estimate the curve of deficit marginal cost. The possible short-term imbalance can be mitigated using the vector error correction model (VEC).
P28|Foreign Direct Investment in Post-Conflict Countries: The Case of Iraq’s Oil and Electricity Sectors|Foreign direct investment is new phenomenon to Iraq, a post conflict country with abundance of natural resources. With dominant state-controlled public sector, attracting foreign investment is an added challenge to an economy devastated by years of wars. A qualitative case study was conducted to assess determinants of foreign direct investment in Iraq’s energy sector. Data was collected from interviews with business and government subject matter experts, and a review of publically available documents. Lack of security, political instability, corruption, and inadequate government policies towards foreign direct investment as symptoms found and typically shared by other post-conflict countries. The persistence of violence was not seen as a deterrent; however, foreign direct investment activity in the energy sector was virtually limited to the semi-autonomous region of Kurdistan. Investments were either wholly-owned or joint-venture enterprises. Implications to other post conflict countries, using Kuwait and Nigeria as illustrative examples, are presented and recommendations made.
P28|The drivers of energy intensity in China: A spatial panel data approach|We use a panel of 29 Chinese provinces for the period 2003–2011 to estimate the drivers of energy intensity by means of a spatial Durbin error model. We find an inverted U-shaped relationship between energy intensity and income (energy intensity Kuznets curve). Ten provinces, notably the developed east coast provinces, have already passed the turning point of 29,673 RMB. The number of years for the other 19 provinces to reach the turning point ranges between 8.3 (Jilin) and 21.8 (Yunnan). The share of the secondary sector in the own province and in neighboring provinces causes an increase in energy intensity, the capital-labor ratio a decrease. Foreign direct investment (FDI) has a significant negative spatial spillover impact on energy intensity. To improve the sustainability of its energy resources and its environmental conditions, China needs to continue reducing its energy intensity by further developing modern industrial systems to counterbalance the negative effects of its economic growth and energy consumption. An adequate policy handle is investment in research and development and stimulation of their introduction into production processes. For that purpose, market mechanisms can be readily applied, particularly energy prices that adequately reflect energy scarcity and external effects. FDI is also an effective tool to transfer advanced technology to China.
P28|CO2 emissions from household consumption in India between 1993–94 and 2006–07: A decomposition analysis|CO2 emission from anthropogenic activities is one of the major causes of global warming. India being an agriculture dependent country, global warming would mean monsoon instability and consequent food scarcity, natural disasters and economic concerns. However with proper policy interventions, CO2 emissions can be controlled. Input–output analysis has been used to estimate direct and indirect CO2 emissions by households for 1993–94, 1998–99, 2003–04 and 2006–07. Complete decomposition analysis of the changes in CO2 emissions between 1993–94 and 2006–07 has been done to identify the causes into pollution, energy intensity, structure, activity and population effects according to broad household consumption categories. Results indicate that activity, structure and population effects are the main causes of increase in CO2 emission from household fuel consumption. To identify the causes at the sectoral level a second decomposition has been done for changes between 2003–04 and 2006–07 to identify the causes in the next stage. Finally alternative energy policy options have been examined for each consumption category to reduce emissions. Combined strategies of technology upgradation, fuel switching and market management in order to reduce CO2 emissions for sectors like Batteries, Other non-electrical machinery, Construction and Electronic equipments (including Television), for which all the effects are positive, need to be adopted.
P28|Attribution of changes in the generalized Fisher index with application to embodied emission studies|The Fisher index and its extensions have been used in multiplicative decomposition analysis applied to energy and emissions. In this study, we extend the concept of “additive decomposition of the Fisher index” in the national accounts and propose an attribution analysis of the generalized Fisher index in the context of structural decomposition analysis (SDA). The proposed attribution analysis allows changes of an aggregate index derived through the application of the generalized Fisher index decomposition in SDA to be attributed to give the contributions of the individual components at a finer level. Using the proposed approach, we attribute changes in the carbon emissions embodied in China's exports and show that valuable information at the industry sector level is revealed.
P28|A comparative analysis of the impact of oil prices on oil-rich emerging economies in the Pacific Rim|This paper examines the relationship between raw materials prices and economic growth through two channels, the terms of trade (ToT) and energy efficiency (EF), in three emerging Pacific Rim economies, Russia, Indonesia and Malaysia. We demonstrate positive relationships between changes in output and oil prices and between changes in GDP and energy efficiency (EF). We examine the impact of oil prices on output growth through the ToT and EF channels. The effect of oil prices on ToT in Russia and Malaysia is positive but negative in Indonesia. Oil prices have a positive effect on EF in all three countries.
P28|Programs, Prices and Policies Towards Energy Conservation and Environmental Quality in China| China has gradually recognized that the conventional path of encouraging economic growth at the expense of the environment cannot be sustained. It has to be changed. This article focuses on China’s efforts towards energy conservation and environmental quality. The article discusses a variety of programs, prices, market-based instruments, and other economic and industrial policies and measures targeted for energy saving and pollution cutting, and the associated implementation and reliability issues. The article ends with some concluding remarks and recommendations.
P28|Corporate Preferences for Domestic Policy Instruments under a Sectoral Market Mechanism: A Case Study of Shanxi Province in China|Understanding companies’ preferences for various domestic policy instruments is crucial to designing and planning Sectoral Market Mechanism (SMM) in China. Based on a detailed overview of domestic policy instruments under SMM, this paper evaluates corporate preferences for diverse domestic policy instruments and identifies potential influencing factors through econometric analysis. The data were collected from 113 respondents in all 11 prefecture-level cities of Shanxi province, China. Regarding policy instruments under the system of government receiving tradable units, corporate energy saving potential, learning capacity and companies’ characteristics have shown significant influences on companies’ preferences. Dissemination and the popularization of knowledge are also important to help companies learn how to improve energy efficiency. In terms of policy measures with voluntary installation-level targets, corporate competition level, organizational size and ownership are the main factors influencing companies’ preferences. Reducing inequality in the distribution of responsibility is especially important to gain companies’ support. Under the policy with mandatory installation-level targets, it suggests that policymakers should focus on status of energy use management and internationalization orientation. Policy instruments familiar to companies that are able to relieve corporate financial pressures might be good options to gain higher acceptance. Moreover, our results show that it is very important to choose an issuance frequency of one to three years under sectoral crediting.
P28|Electricity Demand and Basic Needs: Empirical Evidence from China's Households|No abstract is available for this item.
P28|The Japanese Electricity System 15 months After March 11th 2011|The Great East Japan earthquake and tsunami on March 11th 2011 caused mass destruction, significant loss-of-life and a large displacement of people. It also placed significant strain of Japan’s electricity-generating infrastructure. There was a significant reduction in capacity due to the damage in thermal generation and gradual closure of Japan’s nuclear power plants; the ability for load-balancing across the Japanese grid was compromised due to limited interconnections between the different utilities that comprise the Japanese electricity system. This paper looks at the first fifteen months following the earthquake and tsunami: outlining the supply reduction and consequent attempts to manage the demand. In turn it highlights the foibles of Japan’s vertically-integrated monopolistic structures and the evolution of governmental and utilities response that went from decisions made “on-the-fly” to a more developed policy for peak-demand electricity savings. The findings from this paper should serve as a useful set of examples to aid decision makers in contingency planning for disruptive large-scale reduction in electricity-generating capacity.
P28|Three blind men and elephant: The Case of energy indices to measure energy security and sustainability|An 'Energy Index', which is aggregated from energy indicators is a rich source of information and is helpful in providing an assessment of a country's performance. This has, however, resulted in mushrooming of a plethora of indices, which claim to quantify the performance of a country in attaining the goal of energy security and energy sustainability. The paper attempts to compare three different indices, viz., 'Energy Sustainability Index', 'International Index of Energy Security Risk', 'Energy Architecture Performance Index' and their variants to establish whether they provide consistent rankings for various countries. A comparative assessment reveals that different indices provide different country rankings, which are inconsistent, especially for countries which perform poorly. Further, the impact of minor methodological change in the composition of the index is different on different countries. Based on the analysis, it can be concluded that countries which consistently rank in the top of the list of different indices have robust energy systems as they are insensitive to differences in construction of the index. However, the scores of countries which show poor performance vary widely and therefore their ranking is unreliable. This situation is akin to blind men groping the elephant with each one measuring a different part of the body (considering its huge size) and asserting their assessment of the animal's size only to be true. Therefore, while one's subjective experience may be true it may not be the totality of the truth. Similarly, although the ranking from each of the variants of the indices may be correct, they only present a part of the picture and not the whole picture of a country's energy security and sustainability. Hence, while various energy indices give relevant information, much more needs to be done, to examine energy security and sustainability with other relevant tools.
P28|Dutch disease and sustainability of the Russian political economy|"The paper aims at investigating the dependency of the Russian economy on natural resources, underlining the causes and the possible consequences of this growth strategy. The analysis tries to evaluate if the Russian manufacturing has contracted the ""Dutch Disease"", that is, if a boom in the oil and gas industry has led to a process of de-industrialization, directly through the resource movement effect and indirectly through the spending effect. In this investigation it will be emphasized the role played by the learning curves as a crucial factor in determining the comparative advantages of a country, and why an excessive reliance on exports of a single product may reduce the welfare of a nation in the long run. The research underlines how the structure of the Russian economy has been built to favor the energy industry instead of the manufacturing one. This strategy has strengthened the comparative advantage that Russia enjoyed in natural resources, so as to reduce the return on investment in the manufacturing sector, which has had to struggle also with the constant appreciation of the exchange rate. This, in the end, has produced the so called de-industrialization process, which has transformed Russia into a service-based economy. The problem resulting from this is that, when a shock happens, the economy is no more able to soften its effects. To absorb the shock, it is necessary a higher government’s expenditure or switching to a higher level of unemployment, producing instability and volatility in the country."
P28|Natural Resources And Economic Growth In Russia’s Regions|We examine the impact of natural resources on economic growth in Russia’s regions since the introduction of the mineral tax in 2002. Using novel measures of natural resource rents produced in, but not necessarily appropriated by the regions (mineral tax collections), we demonstrate that mineral wealth has not significantly affected regional economic growth since 2002, although mineral-rich regions are significantly richer than the other regions. These results are contrary to the “resource curse” hypothesis. The absence of growth benefits to resource-endowed regions, however, is also at odds with the clearly beneficial impact of natural resources on the economic growth of t the country as a whole. We conclude that the Russian central government was successful in taxing away incremental regional resource rents during 2002-2011, but the regions preserved their pre-2002 benefits derived from mineral wealth.
P28|Modelling Household Energy Demand in South Korea: The Role of Energy Efficiency Programs|This paper investigates the household energy demand function using data of South Korean economy. The structural time series model is applied for empirical analysis. Our results indicate that a rise in household income increases energy demand but energy prices lower it. This study opens up new directions policy makers to articulate a comprehensive policy for countrolling household energy demand in South Korea.
P28|Three Blind Men and an Elephant: The Case of Energy Indices to Measure Energy Security and Sustainability|An 'Energy Index', which is aggregated from energy indicators is a rich source of information and is helpful in providing an assessment of a country's performance. This has, however, resulted in mushrooming of a plethora of indices, which claim to quantify the performance of a country in attaining the goal of energy security and energy sustainability. The paper attempts to compare three different indices, viz., 'Energy Sustainability Index', 'International Index of Energy Security Risk', 'Energy Architecture Performance Index' and their variants to establish whether they provide consistent rankings for various countries.
P28|The Effects Of Applying Communitary Policy Upon The Romanian Energetic System And The Future Directions Regarding Sustainable Development|The study provides an overview on the effects and perspectives of implementation of sustainable development policies in the energy sector in Romania, by reference to the European Union. The purpose of this study is to highlight, by interpretation of the analyzed indicators, how becoming a member of the European Union has helped to improve living standards by assuming the defined objective of sustainable consumption and production. Thus, the pre and post accession trends of electricity consumption, the dependence on imported energy, the negative impact of the use of traditional energy sources on the environment and the importance of the EU Directives on finding alternative sources to support the production and energy consumption were analysed.
P28|Successes and Failures of the Russian Energy Market Reforms|The partial privatization of the Russian energy industry with retained state regulation has made it impossible to produce targeted market models. In the paper the paths of the 2001 and 2008 reforms in the electricity and gas industries and in the associated petroleum gas market are discussed. Successes and failures of the reforms are evaluated in terms of the public interest. It has been shown that the reforms in all the three industries have not yet been completed and require further development.
P28|The Symbiosis of Economic Science and Practice in Reforming|"(On the Book by S. Ya. Chernavsky ""Reforms of the Energy Regulated Branches in Russia"") The book by S. Chernavsky is devoted to the reform of the Russian energy sector and the economy as a whole. The author assesses in detail carried out reforms and develops policy recommendations in the interest of the society. In some chapters of this book the author plays the role of an analyst, in the others — that of one of the participants directly involved in the reform or its main developer. In all cases, the analysis is combined with the use of modern economic theory, mathematical models of the behavior of economic agents and empirical data. Many mathematical models presented have been developed and evaluated in cooperation with the leading Russian experts in the field of mathematical modeling and econometrics analysis that determines their validity. The obtained results and policy recommendations allow us to count on lower transformation costs and higher probability of successful implementation of reforms."
P28|Economic Ideas and Institutional Change: The Case of the Russian Stabilisation Fund|An intense discussion is taking place in International Political Economy on the influence of economic ideas on institutional change. Case studies so far have, however, mainly focused on the Western industrialised countries and research seems to be biased towards cases in which new ideas caused lasting institutional change. The present paper addresses these two shortcomings by analysing the case of the Russian Stabilisation Fund (SF). This case is an example both of the impact of global ideas on a non-Western emerging country and of a ‘near miss’ in the sense that imported neo-liberal ideas failed to assert themselves enduringly. Paradoxically, it can be shown how the neo-liberally based idea of the SF even contributed to the return to Soviet patterns of industrial policy. The main reason for this, we argue, is that the Fund’s implementation was not preceded by economic and political debates. Accordingly, the imported institution of the SF had to be filled with ideational content after its implementation.
P28|Corporate Environmental Strategies in Emerging Economies|Many companies are adopting environmentally friendly management practices in developed countries. However, the benefits of a corporate environmental strategy are less clear in emerging (developing and transition) economies, where environmental regulations may be poorly enforced and social pressures to comply are weak. Thus it is important for business leaders, policymakers, and environmental activists to understand the causes and consequences of corporate environmental strategy in these economies so that they are able to implement effective strategies, develop useful policies, and promote meaningful activities, respectively. Drawing on both the theoretical and empirical literature, this article examines a broad array of drivers behind corporate environmental strategies including internal characteristics of firms, market pressures, and pressures from government and civil society. The empirical findings for developing economies (i.e., those whose physical and human resources, along with institutions, are still developing) suggest that government and civil society provide weak incentives for corporate environmental compliance, foreign ownership and foreign customer pressure improve environmental management practices, and information disclosure programs offer some promise for improving corporate environmental performance. The empirical findings for transition economies (i.e., those transitioning from reliance on the government’s allocation of resources to market-based allocations) also suggest a positive, albeit weaker, role for foreign ownership and foreign customer pressure in improving firms’ environmental performance. However, the findings also indicate that government policies, such as stricter enforcement, granting of permits, and higher rates for emission charges, are more effective in transition economies than in developing economies. (JEL: D21, D22, K32, M14, O13, P28, P31, Q53, Q56)
P28|Money to fill the gap? Local financial development and energy intensity in Europe and Central Asia|"In this paper we provide original findings on the impact of local financial development (LFD) on manufacturing firms' energy intensity in European and Central Asian (ECA) post communist countries. We implement the two-step method of Guiso et al. (2004) in order to build a lagged measure of financial development at the local level. The paper is the first to use this methodology to assess local financial development in the ECA region and to test its effect on firm-level energy demand. According to related literature, our findings also show that firm size matters. But we also provide a new insight about the non-linear effect of financial development depending on the scope of the financial market. We show that while energy consumption of small businesses is more affected by local financial markets, large firms are more sensitive to countrywide financial in-depth. Overall, this paper provides econometric evidence for a financial access explanation of the ""energy efficiency gap"". Improving financing opportunities should increase firms’ energy efficiency. Moreover, focus on local conditions and small firms should be an important feature of active energy-saving financial policies."
P28|The relationship between reserves of oil endowment and economic growth from the resource curse viewpoint: a case study of oil producing countries|This research investigated the effective economic growth determinants using a panel data set over the period 1995 to 2010 in oil-rich countries divided by the level of democracy into two groups: countries with low and high democracy. The result of OLS method rejects the curse hypothesis; however, TSLS method reveals the reserves of oil endowment has a negative effect on economic growth of low democracy countries and the curse hypothesis is approved.
P28|Intellectual property rights protection in the presence of exhaustible resources|We construct a research and development (R&D) based endogenous growth model with exhaustible resources and investigate whether protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) can sustain perpetual growth. We show that relatively weak IPR protection is sufficient to sustain perpetual growth when goods production is more resource-intensive, whereas relatively strong IPR protection is needed for perpetual growth if production is less resource-intensive. If the resource intensity in goods production is medium, even the strictest IPR protection cannot sustain perpetual growth when the quality improvements brought about by innovations are small enough. In this case, we find that R&D subsidies can complement IPR protection in sustaining perpetual growth. We derive the socially optimal level of IPR protection, which is increasing in the resource intensity of goods production. Furthermore, we also consider a case where resource is essential for R&D activities and show a knife-edge condition for perpetual growth.
P28|The Analysis of the Long-Run Relationship Between Oil Consumption and Real GDP in Turkey Through Johansen Co-Integration Method|The main purpose of this study is to examine whether there is a long run relationship between oil consumption and real GDP in Turkey during the period 1965-2011 or not. If there is any relationship between these variables, to determine the direction of this relationship. For this purpose, the Johansen-Juselius Co-integration Method (1990) is used together with the Error Correction Model. According to the findings, there is one co-integration relationship between the series. Error correction mechanism works and the direction of the relationship is from oil consumption to real GDP. This result is important as of it demonstrates that Turkey has been depended to energy.
P28|Environmental Management Issues Prevailing in the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve|The Danube Delta has been declared since 1990 as a biosphere reserve. It is administered by a Governor and a Board of trustees acting pursuant to a specific legislative system which has improved from time to time. After 1990, in this reservation there was renounced to industrial activities for exploitation of natural resources. Pressure on biodiversity is manifested by all anthropogenic activities, however. Compliance with legislation and the introduction of new measures, established in the Danube Delta Development Strategy until the year 2020 will be materialized in improved social and economic life, as well as in preserving the landscape and conservation of biodiversity.
P28|Market-related reforms and increased energy efficiency in transition countries: empirical evidence| Energy efficiency improvement is a desirable response to growing climate change and security of energy supply concerns. This article studies the impacts of a varied set of macro-level market-oriented reforms as well as structural change on economy-wide measure of energy efficiency across a group of the transition countries. These countries experienced a rapid marketization process, which, since the early 1990s, transformed their economies from central planning towards market-driven models. We use a bias-corrected fixed-effect analysis technique to estimate this effect for the period 1990 to 2010. The results suggest that reforms aimed at market liberalization, financial sector and most infrastructure industries drove energy efficiency improvements. We find significant differences in improvements in energy efficiency between transitional Central European and Baltic States, South East Europe ones and the Commonwealth of Independent States. The reasons for these differences are also discussed.
P28|Energy and Economic Theory|This book is an up-to-date primer covering the most important subjects in energy economics, with particular attention paid to oil, natural gas, and nuclear energy, and without an excessive amount of mathematics. The first three survey chapters constitute an introductory (and mostly non-technical) short course in modern energy economics. Most of the technical analysis is taken up in the following four chapters, while the last chapter is a completely non-technical summation that can be read independent of the rest of the book. Written in a user-friendly tone, it is suitable as a textbook for undergraduate and/or graduate students, but most of the book should be accessible to anyone with a serious interest in energy economics.
P28|Understanding China's Urban Pollution Dynamics|China's ongoing urban economic growth has sharply increased the population's per capita income, lowered the count of people living below the poverty line, and caused major environmental problems. We survey the growing literature investigating the causes and consequences of China's urban pollution challenges. We begin by studying how urban population and industrial growth impacts local pollution levels and greenhouse gas production. As the urban population grows richer, its demand for private transportation and electricity sharply increases. Such privately beneficial activity exacerbates urban pollution externalities. Facing these severe environmental challenges, China's urbanites increasingly demand quality of life progress. We survey the emerging literature investigating the demand for environmental progress in China. Progress in mitigating externalities hinges on whether the powerful central and local governments choose to address these issues. We analyze the political economy of whether government officials have strong incentives to tackle lingering urban externalities. We conclude by discussing future research opportunities at the intersection of environmental and urban economics
P28|EU Gas Supply Security: Unfinished Business|Four years after the gas supply crisis of January 2009, this paper looks at the market and policy changes that have changed the European gas situation, and their implications in terms of security of supply. Several positive developments are identified, including the byapssing of Ukraine by Gazprom-sponsored pipelines; the acceleration of import diversification in large markets of western Europe; the process of ‘commoditisation’ of natural gas in north-west Europe. The lack of meaningful progress in market integration between western and eastern-central Europe, however, leaves in place one of the main factors that made the 2009 crisis possible and conferred it its political significance. Overall, the European gas security situation has evolved in a positive direction mainly because of external forces, not EU policies.
P28|Market-Related Reforms and Increased Energy Efficiency in Transition Countries: Empirical Evidence|Energy efficiency improvement is considered to be a desirable response to growing climate change and security of energy supply concerns. This paper studies the impacts of a varied set of macro-level market-oriented reforms on economy wide measure of energy efficiency across a group of transition countries. These countries experienced a rapid marketization process, which, since the early 1990s, transformed their economies from central planning towards market-driven models. We use a bias corrected fixed-effect analysis technique to estimate this effect for the 1990-2010 period. The results suggest that reforms aimed at market liberalisation, financial sector and most infrastructure industries drove energy efficiency improvements. We find significant differences in improvements in energy efficiency between transitional Central European and Baltic States, South East Europe ones, and the Commonwealth of Independent States. The reasons for these differences are also discussed.
P28|La renta petrolera en Argentina: un análisis de las últimas dos décadas|Resumen: Las políticas neoliberales implementadas desde 1989 tenían entre sus objetivos liberalizar los mercados y permitir la expansión del sector privado en los diversos sectores de la economía. En Argentina, dichas políticas abarcaron actividades estratégicas como el mercado hidrocarburífero. Los supuestos bajo los cuales fueron implementadas giraban en torno de que la “desregulación” del sector redundaría en un incremento de los niveles de inversión de riesgo y, consecuentemente, en la expansión de los volúmenes de explotación y de los stocks de reservas. Así, el objetivo principal de este artículo es analizar, por un lado, el impacto que tuvo esta liberalización en el proceso de acumulación de las empresas a través del estudio de su rentabilidad y, por el otro, cuál fue la magnitud y la trayectoria de la renta petrolera generada y cómo se distribuyó entre los principales actores desde el inicio de las reformas hasta finales del decenio de 2000.
P28|Economic Issues in the Wind Energy Development at World and European Level|Energy has become increasingly more a commodity we can not replace, a good without which modern life can not exist. Over time, sources of energy have experienced several stages of development. The quantitative involution of energy sources from fossil fuels, leading with climate change and a range of additional costs due to their scarcity, have led scientists to find them a replacement. Like any large-scale technological innovation, electricity obtained from wind power required huge cost of implementation, turning out to be a real industry. Nowadays, the investment costs are still high, but the need of this type of power to operate, made the results worth the financial efforts of those involved. Increasingly used both in developed countries and in contries with developing economies, wind energy turns out to be not only in line with sustainable development, but also profitable for investors.
P28|An Antidote to the Resource Curse: The Blessing of Renewable Energy|This paper empirically examines the validity of the resource curse in Europe and it is the first time renewable energy is inserted in this research context. The study uses panel data with a variety of explanatory variable proxies for investment, openness, rule of law, resource endowments and human capital. It employs a single equation fixed effects model with heteroskedasticity robust covariance and a simultaneous two equation model where renewable energy enters the structural equation as an endogenous variable. The resource curse is confirmed only for crude oil and resource productivity in the single equation model while renewable energy has a positive relationship to growth. In the simultaneous two equation model, countries with high oil production and emissions also have a higher production of renewable energies.
P28|Boom–bust cycle, asymmetrical fiscal response and the Dutch disease|This paper investigates the changes in expenditure policy in oil-exporting countries during boom–bust in commodity price cycles, and their implications for real exchange rate movements. To do so, we introduce a Dutch disease model with downward rigidities in government spending to revenue shocks. This model leads to a decoupling between real exchange rate and commodity export price movement during busts. We test our model's theoretical predictions and underlying assumptions using panel data for 32 oil-exporting countries over the period 1992 to 2009. Results are threefold. First, we find that changes in current spending have a stronger impact on real exchange rate compared to capital spending. Second, we find that current spending is downwardly sticky, but increases in boom time, and conversely for capital spending. Third, we find limited evidence that fiscal rules have helped reduce the degree of responsiveness of current spending during booms. In contrast, we find evidence that fiscal rules are associated with a significant reduction in capital expenditure during busts while responsiveness to booms is more muted. This raises concerns on potential adverse consequences of this asymmetry on economic performance in oil-exporting countries.
P28|Energy policy and regional inequalities in the Brazilian economy|The objective of this paper is to evaluate the long-run regional impacts of the tariff policy of the Brazilian electric power sector. This sector has undergone a reform process that started in the 1990s. Since the beginning of the reform, two spatial trends of distribution of electric power tariffs have emerged among the Brazilian states, one of convergence and another of spatial divergence. These trends have been guided by the new electric power tariff policy and by the spatial features of the Brazilian economy, which is marked by a high degree of spatial concentration and hierarchical distribution of large markets. In addition, because of the presence of strong economies of scale, the recent electric power prices differentials might be caused by differentials in market size that provide better conditions for the achievement of economies of scale for electric power utility companies located in larger markets. Given the role of electric power as an important intermediate input in the production process and the interdependence between sectors, an Energy Interregional Computable General Equilibrium model was used to simulate the long-run regional impacts of electric power tariff policy in Brazil. The simulations showed that the heterogeneity of energy-intensity and the differentials of energy substitution drive the spatial impacts of changes in electric power prices. On the other hand, the recent trend of spatial dispersion of electric power prices might contribute to a decrease in the long-run economic growth and to an increase in the regional inequalities in Brazil.
P28|The value of supply security: The costs of power outages to Austrian households, firms and the public sector|This paper presents a model for assessing economic losses caused by electricity cuts as well as Willingness-to-Pay to avoid these power outages as an approximation to the value of supply security. The economic effects for simulated power cuts from 1 to 48h, which take the affected provinces, the day of the week and the time of day into consideration, can be calculated using the assessment tool APOSTEL. The costs due to power cuts are computed separately for all sectors of the economy and for households. The average value of lost load for Austrian households and non-household consumers in the case of a power cut of 1h on a summer workday morning was calculated to be 17.1€ per kWh of electricity not supplied.
P28|Energy intensity and investment ownership across Chinese provinces|The main objective of this paper is to investigate whether openness and investment ownership are key factors in explaining the diffusion of energy-saving technologies in China. Compared with previous studies, the novel aspect of this work is the use of a rich dataset at provincial level, which allows the high level of regional heterogeneity to be taken into consideration. The unbalanced regional growth has been translated into differences in the need for energy resources across the vast territory of China. A detailed analysis of these issues may provide new insights into the energy situation in this country. The analysis is also disaggregated by type of energy: coal, electricity and petroleum. We estimate the models by panel-corrected standard errors, developed by Beck and Katz (1995), over the period 1985–2008. Results obtained confirm the hypothesis that both foreign and non-state investments play a leading role in the decline of energy intensity across Chinese regions, whereas there is no evidence of a positive contribution of state investment. The findings also reveal differences in energy intensity across regions, thus confirming the importance of accounting for the regional dimension when analyzing energy consumption in China.
P28|Energy consumption and economic growth: Evidence from the economic community of West African States (ECOWAS)|Access to modern energy is believed to be a prerequisite for sustainable development, poverty alleviation and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
P28|A PROMETHEE-GDSS for oil and gas pipeline planning in the Caspian Sea basin|The demand for oil and natural gas has severely challenged the world supply. The Caspian Sea basin holds large quantities of both oil and natural gas. Pipelines are needed to transport the oil and natural gas from this landlocked region over long distances within countries and across borders to meet this increasing demand. The evaluation of alternative export routes in the Caspian Sea basin is a complex multicriteria problem with conflicting objectives. We present a Group Decision Support System (GDSS) for the evaluation of alternative pipeline routes in this region. The proposed system decomposes the route selection process into manageable steps. The system combines Strength, Weakness, Opportunity and Threat (SWOT) analysis with the Delphi method to capture the decision makers' (DMs') beliefs. A group Preference Ranking Organization Method for Enrichment Evaluation (PROMETHEE) model is used to integrate these beliefs with subjective judgments and identify the most attractive pipeline route. The Geometrical Analysis for Interactive Assistance (GAIA) plane is used to further analyze the alternative routes and arrive at a group solution consistent with managerial goals and objectives.
P28|Natural resources and sub-national economic performance: Does sub-national democracy matter?|The differentiation in the impact of resources on economic growth is often explained by the specifics of institutional factors. The aim of this paper is to investigate how sub-national political differences influence the effect of natural resources on economic growth. Using a dataset of Russian regions, this paper demonstrates that sub-national democratization influences the growth effects of resources and considers possible mechanisms for this influence. The paper finds that in Russia, natural resources are only capable of promoting growth in the regions with non-democratic political systems that, at the same time, have an efficient and non-corrupt bureaucracy.
P28|Energy intensity and foreign direct investment: A Chinese city-level study|In this paper we investigate the relationship between the energy intensity of Chinese cities and the location of foreign firms employing a unique dataset of 206 of the largest prefecture-level cities between 2005 and 2008. Our results reveal a non linear inverted-U shaped relationship between energy intensity and city-level per capita income with the majority of cities on the downward slope of the curve. We also find evidence of a significant and negative relationship between the foreign direct investment (FDI) flows into a city and energy intensity. However, this effect varies by geographic location reflecting differences in the ability of regions to absorb and benefit from environmental spillovers. The relatively small economic effect of FDI can in part explained by the propensity for foreign firms to invest in energy intensive sectors coupled with the trend for China to invest heavily in capital intensive industries.
P28|The energy transition of the transition economies: An empirical analysis|The aggregate manufacturing energy intensity of 28 countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia had declined by 35% during 1998–2008. This study reveals a strong evidence of convergence: less efficient countries improved more rapidly and the cross-country variance in energy productivity narrowed over time. An index decomposition analysis indicates that energy intensities declined largely because of more efficient energy use rather than shifts from energy intensive to less intensive manufacturing activities. Income growth and energy price increases were the main drivers of the convergence. They dominated the impact of trade, which led to specialization in energy intensive industries.
P28|The impact of electricity storage on wholesale electricity prices|This paper analyzes the impact of electricity storage on the production cost of a power system and the marginal cost of electricity (electricity price) using a unit commitment model. Also, real world data has been analyzed to verify the effect of storage operation on the electricity price using econometric techniques. The unit commitment model found that the deployment of a storage system reduces the fuel cost of the power system but increases the average electricity price through its effect on the power system operation. However, the reduction in the production cost was found to be less than the increase in the consumer's cost of electricity resulting in a net increase in costs due to storage. Different storage and CO2 price scenarios were investigated to study the sensitivity of these results. The regression analysis supports the unit commitment results and finds that the presence of storage increases average wholesale electricity prices for the case study system.
P28|Expectations of future income and real exchange rate movements|We show that changes in expectations of future income driven by exogenous factors (such as the discovery of oil and an increase in global demand for natural resources) can cause movements in the real exchange rate (RER) in excess of, and sometimes even in the opposite direction to, what one would expect given the changes in current income. We provide both a theoretical model and empirical evidence of this. In particular, we show that the signing of numerous production sharing agreements (PSAs) between the government of Azerbaijan and foreign oil companies in 1994–1998 fueled expectations of higher future incomes, resulting in a considerable appreciation of the RER. Some of these PSAs subsequently failed or ran into difficulties, which led to a downward revision of expected future income and a depreciation of the RER in 1999–2003, even though the current income started to rise, due to an increase in the current oil revenue.
P28|Influence of the time factor on the availability of deposits of nonferrous metals|This study presents a probabilistic approach to the assessment of mineral deposits availability. This approach takes into account the joint influence of decision making involving deposits in development and the difficulty in formalizing socio-economic factors. Using this approach, we designed a model for estimating the availability of deposits with regard to the influence of the length of time elapsed prior to beginning development; values for copper deposits in Russia, the USA and Canada were calculated. The characteristics of mineral resources are determined by an experimental method for these countries. These characteristics are defined by periods when the time factor has a positive influence on deposit availability.
P28|Trade in environmental goods, with focus on climate-friendly goods and technologies|This Handbook provides state-of-the-art analysis by leading authors on the links between the international trade regime and health and environment concerns – concerns that make up an increasing proportion of WTO dispute settlement. Research Handbook on Environment, Health and the WTO surveys fields as diverse as climate change mitigation, non-communicable diseases, nanotechnology and public health care. The volume brings to the fore the debates and complexities surrounding these issues and their implications for the international trading system.
P28|EU Gas Supply Security: Unfinished Business|No abstract is available for this item.
P28|Energy Efficiency in Market versus Planned Economies: Evidence from Transition Countries|No abstract is available for this item.
P28|Science and Economics for Sustainable Development of India|This paper deals with the interface between science and economics in environmental policy making in India. It explains Nehru’s concept of scientific temper and its influence in the formulation of science and technology policy and development of the science and technology system. It reviews the evolution of global environmental policy regime and the important role assigned to science to gain insights into ecological processes, to assess the nature and causes of environmental pollution and degradation, and to use scientific evidence as basis for formulation of environmental policies. Then it assesses the roles assigned to science and economics in formulation of policies relating to pollution prevention and control and management of natural resources in India. The implications of uncertainties and risks in environmental management are highlighted for public policy.
P28|The Role of Coal Mine Regulation in Regional Development|In response to the high mortality rates and low productivity in coal mining, China began regulating coal mines in the 1990s, which has reshaped its coal economy. We empirically investigate the relationship between coal mine regulation and economic growth in China. Using two difference-in-difference approaches to compare the pre- and post-regulation periods, as well as regions with and without rich coal endowment, we find that regulation positively affects regional economy. This result is further illustrated using an OLS estimation that uses mortality rate in coal mining as a proxy for measuring the quality of regulation. The impacts are not limited only to the intra-coal industry but also spillover to the economy of related regions by relieving the crowding-out effects of coal abundance, that is, resource abundance tends to crowd out investment, human capital and innovation in non-resource sectors and thus hinders economic growth.
