P29|A Review of Rent-seekers, Profits, Wages and Inequality, The Top 20%, 2019 by Peter Mihalyi and Ivan Szelenyi|The authors, Péter Mihályi and Iván Szelényi, set themselves the ambitious task of formulating an alternative discourse about inequality in which the extent of inequality per se is not the problem but rather where inequalities stem from? Herein lies their fundamental divergence with Piketty (2014) for whom the excessive growth of “profits” is assumed to be the source of inequalities. The problem with mainstream economics and Piketty is that “profit” and “rent” are lumped together. A critical distinction between the two is warranted to grasp the relationship between inequalities, innovation and economic growth. In line with Kornai’s criticism of Piketty (2016), the authors insist on the source of inequality. Are they engendered by wages and profits earned on competitive markets or are they originated from rents due to imposed restrictions on market competition? In contrast with Piketty, the general assumption of the authors is that higher profits and wages often add to the annual growth or national income. Rents on the other hand lower annual growth. Although some forms of rent may even be useful, excessive rents breeds economic stagnation.
P29|Migration and (Macro) Economic Risksâ€“Romania s Case|Migration is one of the predominant phenomena in debating core issues of politics, economy and society at the beginning of the 21st century. In order to understand the complexity of this phenomenon, it is necessary to investigate its main determinants that maintained from historical perspective some of the characteristics from the beginning of the 20th century; however, at increased complexity, in the context of constant changes of geopolitical and economic regional configurations. The European enlargement towards the central and eastern part of the continent brought about also changes regarding increased demographic and economic risks in the absence of global migration governance, but also due to the frailty of national institutions in the field of migration and labor market. The paper intends to briefly enumerate main (macro)economic and demographic risks for Romania by underpinning the contribution of institutional factors to improving the management of this phenomenon at national level.
P29|Structural Changes in the Russian Outward Banking Foreign Direct Investment|Following recent government initiatives, such as the shift (turn) to the East and the possibility of establishing new economic and investment cooperation with the Asia-Pacific region and other regions, proposed in conditions of financial and economic sanctions imposed towards Russia by the West, the study aims to evaluate whether any significant structural changes in the Russian outward banking foreign direct investment emerged in 2013-17 as the result of the proposed initiatives. By analyzing both the macro-picture of outward banking foreign direct investment and behavioral patterns of Russian banks since 1990s, the study found that only a marginal number of Russian banks, comprising of large state-owned banks, banks closely related to the natural resource-type Russian multinational corporations, and large private banks, have the capacity to expand their operations abroad. While the increasing presence of the natural resource-type Russian multinational corporations in the Asian and African regions is slowly luring Russian banks into these markets, drastic structural changes in the outward banking foreign direct investment are unachievable in the short-term. The geographical distribution of Russian banks remains unchanged with offshore financial centers, Europe, and the Commonwealth of Independent States being the traditional destinations of Russian outward banking foreign direct investment.
P29|How Strongly The Hidden Economy Of A Small Country Can Be Influenced By Drastic Events: Case Of Macedonia|Hidden economy presents a big concern for both developing and developed countries. Of particular interest is precise determination of the temporal pattern of hidden for small developing economies, which exhibit many peculiarities. Several methods for estimation of hidden economy are effectively used in economic research. Appropriate model based on some of these methods for small developing economies is required. Modified electric energy household consumption model is proposed in this work. Using this model, temporal variations of hidden economy in Republic of Macedonia were calculated for the period 1992–2014. For the sub-period 1999–2007 the obtained values are in excellent agreement with values reported in literature obtained by dynamic multiple indicators multiple causes method, proving that the method proposed in this work produces highly relevant results. Thus obtained temporal pattern of the hidden economy in Macedonia, using deconvolution in Gaussians, is described by five contributions: baseline at 32% and four Gaussian peaks corresponding to hyperinflation, Kosovo conflict, security crisis in Macedonia and banking crisis. After the expiration of the effects of these shocks, hidden economy approaches the baseline at about 32 %. It is proposed to use this modified method for estimating size of hidden economy in various small economies.
P29|Factors influencing Pension Privatization in former communist countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia|From 1990 onwards, a significant number of former communist countries from Eastern Europe and Central Asia decided to reform their public pension system by creating a mandatory private pillar. Other ex-communist countries from the same two regions only made some parametric changes to their public pension system. There are concurrent theories trying to explain why certain countries implemented a paradigmatic reform on the pension systems while others did not. All these theories are focusing on what factors determine the decision makers to reform the public pension system: the coercion of international financial institution, demographic and economic pressures, political support, the relative strength of government and unions or the proportion of peer countries that have adopted similar measures. This study tests the influence of all the factors mentioned above on the decision to adopt the pension privatization in former communist countries from Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Using event history analysis with time-varying covariates of data from 24 states between 1990 and 2013 the study shows that the probability to reform the public pension system in one country increases as the proportion of neighbor countries who adopted the same measure rises. The conclusions of this research can be compared with those taken from the interviews with the decision makers from countries of interest. Also, the research can be used as a starting point for studying the steps backwards made on this path by Hungary, Poland and Argentina. These countries had reversed the pension privatization by transferring savings under management by private pension funds back to the public sector.
P29|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P29|As Evidenced by Theage-old Dynamics of Indicators of Major Rail System<BR>[О Чем Свидетельствует Столетняя Динамика Показателей Крупнейших Железнодорожных Систем]|The article compared results of economic development in terms of market mechanisms and centralized planning, based on an analysis of key indicators of the domestic and North American railroads for the century-long period. It was revealed that the higher and more sustainable dynamics of volume indicators, achieved in certain periods in a centrally planned economy does not show its advantages in comparison with the market economy, which is characterized by cyclical. It is shown that on the basis of centralized planning and control can not be implemented the strategy of “catching up development”. At the same time it found that the degree of success ensuring productive use of various resources in the framework of centralized planning and control is inversely proportional to their importance in the modern economy. This demonstrates the impossibility of the effective implementation of such methods of economic management. In conditions of market relations ensured advancing more efficient use of the main economic resource of our time — human capital. It is showing positive results of economic reforms in the railway transport. Made the conclusion about the necessity of development of market mechanisms and institutional framework (in particular, the removal of restrictions on the involvement of private capital in the development of the existing rail infrastructure) for the successful solution of problems of the Russian railway sector and the entire economy
P29|Dynamics of Railway Cargo Transportation as a Macroeconomic Indicator<BR>[Динамика Железнодорожных Перевозок Грузов Как Макроэкономический Индикатор]|The article substantiates the possibility of using dynamics of freight traffic as a macroeconomic indicator. There is shown a special importance in the conditions of Russian growth rates of daily average loading of goods by rail transport for the characterization of economic dynamics. There is identified seven phases of economic dynamics based on the analysis of their changes over the years 1960-2014. It is shown that the growth rate of loading goods by rail is not only adequate, but often more operatively and precisely than the traditional macroeconomic indices, reflect to changes in the economic situation. The last phase of the economic dynamics (2010-2014 yr.) was characterized as mid-crisis transition from a market downturn of 2008-2009, which was associated with the global economic crisis, to crisis, which was caused by a combination of institutional problems with the deterioration of price conjuncture of the world markets. For the improvement of economic dynamics it is necessary, first of all, strengthening and development of market institutions. A comparison of different phases of economic dynamics, related as to the period of market and centralized planned economy, allowed to dispel the myth of significant advantages the last, in smoothing intra-annual unevenness of production and transportation. This article shown the positive influence of the structural reform of railway transport on economic dynamics, emphasized the importance of developing transport infrastructure to stimulate economic growth.
P29|Does Money Buy Credit? Firm-Level Evidence on Bribery and Bank Debt|We combine information on bribery practices with firm-level accounting data to examine how bribery influences bank debt ratios for a large sample of firms in 14 transition countries. We find that bribery is positively related to firms’ total bank debt ratios, which provides evidence that bribing bank officials facilitates firms’ access to bank loans. This impact varies with the maturity of the bank debt, as bribery contributes to higher short-term bank debt ratios but lower long-term bank debt ratios. Finally, we find that the institutional characteristics of the banking industry influence the relation between bribery and firms’ bank debt ratios.
P29|Half-forgotten Personalities of economic Thought - Robert Owen|Robert Owen was a British businessman, thinker, philanthropist, campaigner and reformer, who was looking non-violently for an alternative system. He is said to be a pioneer of socialism in Britain and a leader of the utopian socialist movement in the 19th century. He is also known as a predecessor of the cooperative movement. He tried to start a set of reforms, which were not followed.
P29|Implications of the Transformation of the State-Owned Banking System into System of Foreign-Owned Banks in New Member States for Macroeconomic and Financial Stability|All studied CEECs represent heterogeneous entities with different starting positions in their transition to market economies as well as chosen paths that have constrained or enabled the emergence of macro-economic and financial fragility, associated with the dominance of foreign-owned banks in the transition economies of CEE region. The implications of foreign ownership for macro-economic stability have to be presented and interpreted with caution. When drawing conclusions on the effects of different ownership structure, one has to bear in mind that in the case of CEECs, specific historical context needs to be acknowledged, as several problems and obstacles in achieving the macroeconomic stability with the state-ownership in the banking sector were related to the transition process from socialist production regime to the introduction of market economy institutions. In the 2000s, on the other hand, the activities of foreignowned banks took place in the context of increasing global liquidity and asset prices’ boom that was taking place in the Western world. Hence, ownership as such has not mattered so much for the macro-economic stability in the CEECs, but rather internal developments, that is, transition to market economy with associated challenges in the 1990s that rendered these economies unstable, and external factors, such as international capital flows in the 2000s that incurred imbalances through the activities of the banking sector.
P29|Returns to education in transition and advanced European countries: The role of an expansion of higher education|Cross-national comparisons on returns to education were so far based on secondary evidence from national studies. Unlike in Western European countries, in Eastern countries the data on the levels and development of returns since 1990 shows a uniform upward trend in returns to higher education. Since 2004, the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) provides a unique comparative database. In 2009, midway through the period observed by EU-SILC, came the breaking point when rising returns to tertiary education started to decrease, albeit slightly. In general, differences over time are not as big as differences between individual countries. Although converging, the returns to tertiary education in Eastern and Western countries remain still far apart, considerably higher in Eastern countries. Panel analysis with economic, demographical and institutional characteristics of countries shows also substantial differences in factors of returns to tertiary education in Eastern and Western Europe. The assumed negative relationship between the share of tertiary educated workers in the working age population and the returns to tertiary education was confirmed only in Western Europe. Job vacancy rate has a significant negative impact on returns to tertiary education only in Eastern Europe. It seems that in the West, the labour market reacts on labour supply, while labour demand plays more important role in the East.
P29|The Disabled Characteristics Required by Agriproduct Processing Industry in the Upper Northern Part of Thailand|This research utilizes both quantitative and qualitative approach or so called ?mixed research methodology?. It aims to explore employing conditions of the disabled in the north of Thailand in agriproduct processing industry. Those companies- with more than 100 employees- are the population as it is required by laws to employ the disabled in the ratio of 100:1. The total number of sample are 13 companies which shows different attitudes toward employing the disabled. The majority of respondents are companies from frozen fruit and vegetables industry (46.20%), and there is 53.80% of those complied with employing the disabled laws. 84.60% of companies hires persons with mobility disability and those were assigned operational responsibility suitable for type of disability. The disabled received the minimum wage per day of 300 Baht (USD 10.00 per day) as the non-disabled receives. Only evidence shows little adjustments in the working environment to facilitate the disabled because companies prefer not to pay higher cost. In addition, companies has no preference on gender, age, educational background but prefer the disabled with professional training (23.10%). The preferred characteristics are the employees (disabled) who are responsible, able to learn and complete their task, loyal and be able to work with others.
P29|Informal self-employment in Kazakhstan|We use data from the Kazakhstan Labour Force Survey (KLFS) for the period 2006–2011 to examine factors that determine informality amongst self-employed men and women. In addition, the paper examines the response of informality propensities to the recent global crisis. The decomposition suggests that the reduction in the predicted probabilities of being informal is mainly attributable to the unexplained component. Individual characteristics have played a relatively small role, except for changes in tenure, hours of work and education. JEL classification: P29, O17 Copyright Mussurov and Arabsheibani. 2015
P29|Privatization of Industry in Central and Eastern European Countries|Since the fall of the communist regime in the early 1990s, the Central and South Eastern European countries (CEE) have gone through several phases of transition, having a mail goal the liberalization of their economies. Experiences taken from centralized planned economy to a market economy, economists have offered an opportunity to study both theoretically and in practical point of view. The economists are still debating various strategies and their economic transition, because the problems of transition in CEE countries are not fully resolved. The purpose of this article was the theoretical and empirical analysis of the privatization of the industry of Central and Eastern Europe, the current European Union Member States and the main economic indicators are built into the process, to identify structural weaknesses in the economies of emerging post communist.
P29|Environmental Policy In Romania: A Component Of The Overall Sustainable Development|This article aims to analyze some aspects of the interconnection between economic prosperity and environmental conservation as a primary activity in the support of sustainable development. Romania, in order to implement environmental strategy developed the first National Action Plan for Environmental Protection in 1995, which is a tool for implementing environmental policies, by promoting, supporting and tracking of the most important projects with significant impact on the application and enforcement of the environmental legislation. To contribute to the development of less developed region Romania must invest in the development of effective environmental management systems necessary for the protection or exploitation of natural resources in order to improve the quality of public services for the population and create a competitive business environment.
P29|The Role of Family Background in the Heterogeneity of Self-Employment in Some Transition Countries|Aim of this paper is to shed light on how some determinants, especially in the spheres of family background, differently affect the heterogeneous category of self-employment across four transition countries of Central and Eastern Europe (Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovak Republic), where more or less restrictive policies towards start-ups have been implemented during the pre-1989 years, different liberalization processes have gradually been carried out and distinct policy interventions to support self-employment have been adopted in the post-1989 period. At this end, three-stage structural multinomial logit models as discrete choice models are estimated on 2005 EU-SILC data, which also allows to account for generational changes over time. Country-specific profiles of self-employment are drawn and, even though the self-employment is often devised in a dualist perspective, which stresses its marginal nature as refuge from poverty rather than a way to accumulate capital, significant differentiations within the ranks of self-employed also exist. Copyright CEEUN 2013
P29|Motivation to Work in Russia: The Case of Protracted Transition from Noncompetitive to Competitive System|This paper aims to determine what challenges Russia faces upon transitioning to a competitive system. As a main characteristic of the labour force, the motivation to work is studied in terms of three dimensions: 1) the value of current work, 2) orientation to a potential job, and 3) aspirations with respect to work. Analysis revealed the existence in Russia of homogeneous groups of workers, in terms of their motivation; this status quo is typical of both late-industrial and postindustrial societies. The author therefore argues for the complexity of ‘competitive areas’ and the simplicity of ‘noncompetitiveness’ in contemporary Russia. Meanwhile, the socioeconomic limitations to the proliferation of intrinsic and nonhygiene motivations on the one hand, and the predominance of monetary and extrinsic motivations on the other, provide evidence that one should consider Russia a country in protracted transition.
P29|On Trade Impact of Exchange Rate Volatility and Institutional Quality: The Case of Central European Countries| This paper explores the effect of exchange rate volatility and of the institutional quality on international trade flows of transition economies in Central European Countries by applying a gravity model of balance panel between 1999 and 2008. The results show that nominal exchange rate volatility has had a significant negative effect on trade by applying Psuedo- Maximum-Likelihood (PML) estimator method over this period. The institutional quality need to be improved in case of size of government and the quality of regulation. The negative effect of exchange rate volatility on agricultural exports suggests that joining Central European Countries to the euro zone can reduce the negative effects of exchange rate volatility on trade.
P29|The role of family background in the heterogeneity of self-employment in some transition countries|The aim of this paper is to shed light on how some determinants, especially in the spheres of family background, differently affect the heterogeneous category of self-employment across a set of transition economies of Eastern Europe, where more or less restrictive policies and different liberalization processes have been adopted over time. At this end, three-stage multinomial logit models as discrete choice models are estimated on 2005 EU-SILC data. Country-specific peculiarities of self-employment profiles are drawn and, although the occupational status is often devised in a dualist perspective, significant differentiations within the ranks of self-employed also exist.
P29|Measuring systemic funding liquidity risk in the Russian banking system|The 2007-2009 global financial crisis demonstrated the need for effective systemic risk measurement and regulation. This paper proposes a straightforward approach for estimat-ing the systemic funding liquidity risk in a banking system and identifying systemically critical banks. Focusing on the surplus of highly liquid assets above due payments, we find systemic funding liquidity risk can be expressed as the distance of the aggregate liquidity surplus from its current level to its critical value. Calculations are performed using simu-lated distribution of the aggregate liquidity surplus determined using Independent Compo-nent Analysis. The systemic importance of banks is then assessed based on their contribu-tion to variation of the liquidity surplus in the system. We apply this methodology to the case of Russia, an emerging economy, to identify the current level of systemic funding li-quidity risk and rank banks based on their systemic relevance. Keywords: systemic risk, liquidity surplus, banking, Russia JEL Classification: G21, G28, P29
P29|Territorial Distribution Of Land Conflict Types In The Rural Area From Argeş County|Specialists signal out the fact that in the period after the 1989 revolution, the number and complexity of the land disputes increased, first as a result of the changes produced in the agricultural land ownership system. The information regarding the type and nature of land disputes, their emergence rate and territorial distribution is deficient. In this context, the analysis of the land disputes, as a potential disturbing factor of the natural ecosystems – human ecosystems interconditionality is extremely important at present. The paper investigates the incidence and intensity of the land disputes as they are perceived by the rural players from Argeş county and as they result from the data and information obtained from the land survey conducted in the communes of this country. The obtained results, a typology of the land conflicts, are important from the perspective of the measures that should be taken for settling up these disputes; each identified category needs a specific corrective intervention.
P29|Foreign activity of Russian banks:reconsidering multinational banking theory|The present paper targets activity of Russian banks expanding their businesses abroad. Within the framework of existing multinational theory we examine motivation, entry modes and strategies of Russian foreign banks. We demonstrated on the example of Russia that distinctive features of banking sectors of host and home countries, offshore business of Russian banks, hidden forms of expansion through third countries, role of banks in other outward foreign investments, non-transparency of legal actors of foreign banks and their strong interrelation with the state and recourse-based TNCs and large financial and industrial groups, cultural and historical background among the host and home countries, all these factors in fact do matter and should be considered when investigating the foreign expansion of banks. Some suggestions were made in order to extend existing theoretical base on multinational banking theory.
P29|Ekonomické reformy v Kórejskej ľudovodemokratickej republike|Príspevok je venovaný osobitostiam ekonomického vývoja KĽDR, jej geografickým podmienkam, histórii, nastoleniu politickej diktatúry a centrálne plánovanej ekonomiky, vplyvu jednotlivých severokórejských vodcov Kim Il Sunga, Kim Čong Ila a Kim Čong Una na ekonomiku krajiny. Popri ekonomických podmienkach sa venujeme i politickým a medzinárodným politickým podmienkam ekonomického rozvoja KĽDR. Severokórejská ekonomika zaznamenávala po Druhej svetovej vojne vysoké tempo hospodárskeho rastu spojené s industrializáciou. Postupne degradovala a v 90. rokoch 20. storočia došlo k jej kolapsu pod vplyvom dlhodobo negatívnych ekonomických podmienok a krátkodobo negatívnych prírodných podmienok. Vedenie krajiny bolo nútené začať realizovať ekonomické reformy v 90. rokoch a následne v roku 2002. V súvislosti so zmenami v riadení štátu po nástupe najmladšieho člena dynastie Kimovcov (2012) načrtávame v príspevku ďalší možný ekonomický vývoj v krajine. Nádejou pre realizáciu ďalších ekonomických reforiem v KĽDR je prijatie “Nový systém ekonomického riadenia 28. júla“ parlamentom krajiny v roku 2012.
P29|Decision to make a HOA: Empirical evidence|The data of 82 homeowners associations (HOAs) in Moscow and Perm regions that underpin HOA formation are studied. Physical conditions of the housing stock, size of the buildings and socio-economic parameters of homeowners’ community are revealed; ability of tenants to resolve the collective action problem in operating housing infrastructure is shown to be of primary importance. Thus HOA formation by homeowners is a signal of their ability to manage a house. Wealth and education also matter for the decision to make a HOA.
P29|Land Related Disputes and Conflicts in Romania|After December 1989, the Romanian government made efforts to re-establish a coherent legal and institutional framework for private rights in land but the whole process has been characterized by instability, incoherence and unjustified delays. The restitution of land properties in private ownership was a conflicting process due to divergent economic and social interests within the social base. At the beginning the restitution and privatization process was conflicted for ideological purposes mainly since decades of communist ideology advocated the equalitarian dogma, which was deeply rooted within the mentality of many people. Later on the conflicts were mainly driven by different economic interests. The actual number of land related disputes and conflicts are barely known, but estimates of these are high.
P29|Surveying transitional experience and subjective well-being: Income, work, family|This paper reviews subjective well-being studies on income, work and family life with particular attention to transition countries. The main differences in conclusions for two types of economic systems seem to be the result of uncertainty and fast changing conditions and their effect on the perception of subjective economic conditions and on expectations formation. The terms 'happiness' and 'life satisfaction' should be distinguished when evaluating the success of socio-economic policies or of a transformation period as well as when predicting the reaction of economic systems to shocks/crisis. A short summary for more than 70 studies involving subjective well-being and attitudes indicators on data from the economies in transition is included.
P29|Gobernanza y crisis del neoliberalismo|"The current financial crisis, hitting the very nucleus of capitalist metropolis and placing its roots and causes at the spheres (financial and commercial ones) that have been privileged by neo-liberals, is another sample of the scarce or nonexistent viability of neo-liberal projects, having in mind previous financial crisis in so-called ""Newly Industrialized Countries"" (Mexico, East Asia, Russia, Turkey, Argentina, etc.) Paradoxically, those defending social costs reductions and public expenditure, in favour to most vulnerable ones, and toward the reduction of public powers intervention with redistributional aims, now find themselves with the pocket full of public resources, thanks to politicians' decisions, once again obeying their actual mentors."
P29|Silencing the Call to Action: A Bird’s Eye View of Minority Language Media and Political Participation in Eurasia|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|Külföldi részvétel a hazai egyetemek és az ipar közötti együttműködésben<BR>[Foreign participation in industrial cooperation by this countrys universities]|"Mind az innovációs rendszer fejlődése, mind az egyetemi kutatások alakulása szempontjából jelentős szerepe van a magyar egyetemek és a külföldi vállalkozások közötti kapcsolatnak. Az új tudást és technológiai ismeretet globálisan kereső innovációt jól jelzi a kutatási tevékenységet végzők és finanszírozóik határokon átívelő kapcsolata. Az egyetemek külföldi vállalati partnerekhez kötődő kutatási és technológiai eredményeinek számbavétele ma még számos nehézségbe ütközik. A cikk különféle adatforrások felhasználásával, statisztikai adatbázisok másodlagos feldolgozásával és új mutatószámok képzésével kísérli meg ezt a problémát megoldani. Felhívja a figyelmet a mérési módszerekkel kapcsolatos olyan hiányosságokra, amelyek megnehezítik, hogy világos képet alkothassunk arról, hogyan is működik a globálisan nyitott innovációs rendszer, ez hogyan hat az egyetem-gazdaság-kormányzat kapcsolatát leíró ""hármas csavar"" modellre, valamint magára az egyetemi kutatásra. Végül a tanulmány néhány hasznosítható tanúsággal szolgál a kutatás-fejlesztés, a felsőoktatás és az innovációs politika formálói számára is.* Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: O19, O31, O34, P29."
P29|La Reconversión de la Izquierda Latinoamericana|"Inequality is the keyword to understand why Latin-America Left, restructured as democratic and dialogging, emerged after the sinking of communist bastions and their mutation, as the new Chinese ""Market-based socialism"". Latin-America history shows a strong and fighting Left, featuring the heroic deeds of Ernesto Guevara and Fidel Castro. But Monroe Doctrine and the Dependency promotion, by the foreign and inner enemies, thwarted that hope of the divers Lefts, now in the Government, now making opposition, now seeking for a weapon-based taking of power. Eventually the Right won and the Lefts got spread by the Region. Then the Leftist people understood that any Dictatorship would restrict freedom to most of citizens. They also learned from the capitalist game, that concentrated interests, specially in Latin-America make much more power, so they had need dialogue, consensus and negotiation toward to reach the power and govern. Nowadays, democratic Leftist Governments, try to make gradual changes, by mean of local, autonomous, heterogeneous and dynamic policies."
P29|Russia's Long and Winding Road to a more Efficient and Resilient Banking Sector|In the decade following the 1998 financial crisis Russia’s banking system grew much larger and stronger – indeed, growth rates were dangerously high – but even before the onset of the current global crisis it continued to play a limited role in intermediating savings and investment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, despite important improvements, some weaknesses in prudential supervision remained, and the Russian banking sector continued to have too many very small banks doing little if any banking business. This paper discusses the policy imperatives in the short term, in the face of the ongoing economic crisis, and reforms that could be implemented over the longer term to improve the efficiency and resilience of the financial system and raise Russia’s potential growth rate. While the current crisis is painful for the banking sector as well as the broader economy, it may facilitate a restructuring of the system that will be positive in the long run, as well as new approaches to regulation that will make banking less crisis-prone. Vers un secteur bancaire russe plus efficace et résilient en Russie Pendant la décennie après la crise de 1998 le système bancaire russe est devenu beaucoup plus grand et fort – les taux de croissance étaient même inquiétants – mais même avant le début de la crise mondiale actuelle il a continué à jouer un rôle limité dans l’intermédiation de l’épargne et l’investissement, surtout pour les petites et moyennes entreprises. D’ailleurs, malgré des pas en avant importants, il restait des faiblesses dans la surveillance prudentielle, et le secteur bancaire avait toujours trop de banques minuscules qui avaient très peu de vraies activités bancaires. Cette étude aborde les principaux défis pour la politique envers les banques à court terme étant donné le contexte de crise économique, et les réformes qui pourraient être mises en œuvre à plus long terme afin d’augmenter l’efficacité et la stabilité du secteur bancaire et de hausser le taux de croissance de la production potentielle. La crise actuelle, tout en étant douloureuse pour le secteur bancaire et l’économie, pourrait faciliter une restructuration du système qui serait positive à long terme, ainsi que des nouvelles approches à la réglementation qui aideront à diminuer la vulnérabilité du système aux crises.
P29|Is There a Role for the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe in Conflict Prevention and Peacebuilding|The focus of this essay is to enquire as to what role UNECE can play in conflict prevention and peacebuilding. The historic role of the UNECE in bridging the East-West divide and guiding the transition process of the former planned economies is testimony to the importance of this type of activity. During the transition process, political and economic systems often had to be recreated from scratch and sometimes in newly formed nation States. The lessons learned during this process, especially regarding the importance of good governance, provide the basis of the UNECE’s contribution to conflict prevention and post-conflict peacebuilding. The regional significance of peacebuilding and thus the role of a regional body such as UNECE is stressed by explaining that conflicts usually have major transboundary impacts such as migration, environmental degradation, disrupted transportation corridors, or broken trade links. The authors also provide an overview of the institutional initiatives that are being developed within the various UN agencies and other international organizations emphasizing their activities in South-east Europe and Central Asia. The essay ends by considering the future role of UNECE in creating a framework convention or standards, on the basis of agreed principles for post-conflict governance.
P29|Public Health in Europe: The 2007-2009 Financial Crisis and UNECE Activities|The economic and financial crisis of 2007-2009 had a serious impact on the larger European region. For western Europe this was the deepest economic downturn since the Second World War. Given the well-developed safety nets for this region the immediate impact on health is likely to be minor. However the crisis will negatively affect the long-run level of per capita income and has left government fiscal positions’ in a poor state; both of these developments will likely have some minor impact on health outcomes for years to come. The deterioration of government finances also raises a concern that the region’s contribution to global public health through its assistance programs may be negatively impacted. In the coming years, pollution control, including of green house gas emissions, is a major challenge for the region. Providing health care for an aging population is also a fundamental challenge for economies with problematic public finances. Eastern Europe and the European CIS were the most severely affected regions of the world. Despite the large economic downturns in these economies, this crisis was still not as great as that that occurred during the 1990s with their transition from planned economies to market economies. Although significant progress has been made in establishing social safety nets and public health programs in these countries over the last decade, these remain inadequate and as a result this economic crisis is likely to have a noticeable negative impact on public health throughout eastern Europe and the CIS. Even before the current economic downturn, there were a number of significant health concerns for eastern Europe and the CIS that were continuing to deteriorate which could have been significantly improved with realistic levels of public expenditures and the implementation of proper policies. The health care systems (often enterprise-based) and institutions collapsed during the transition due to the breakup of the economic and political systems and even the countries themselves (i.e., the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia). The poor health outcomes for the region are due to the fact that a number of diseases and social behaviors became established during the turmoil of the 1990s transition and did not recede as prosperity retuned after 2000. The increase in inequality that developed during the transition is reflected in growing inequalities for access to health care and in health care outcomes. Today, the region is characterized (relative to other regions with similar levels of income) by its high death rates from noncommunicable diseases. The issues of alcoholism and traffic fatalities are highlighted in this paper. For communicable diseases, the European CIS are central in the global fight against TB and HIV/AIDS.
P29|Gender-sensitive Economic Policies in the UNECE Region in the Context of the Economic and Financial Crisis|Gender equality is a basic human right and is as such a part of the social policy framework. At the same time, it is a multi-faceted concept with its cultural, social, legal, political and economic dimensions and interrelations. The prevalent practice in most countries illustrates that traditionally, macroeconomics and gender equality have been considered as two distinct policy areas that are independently shaped and carried out by different authorities. However, this approach fails to acknowledge the numerous interlinkages between both areas. Indeed, it is in the interest of both gender equality advocates and economic policymakers to closely cooperate. On the one hand, economic policies have an effect on gender equality through their potential to rebalance economic opportunities for both men and women and by influencing the incentive structure of economic agents; on the other hand, gender equality has an impact on the economy, for example through changes in labour force participation and the full use of human capital. This paper presents the interplay between these two policy areas highlighting mechanisms through which they influence each other, both under a structural - or long-term - perspective and in the context of the current economic crisis. The concluding recommendations are primarily directed to national decision-makers but also to international organizations, particularly financial institutions which influence national decision-making in the economic field.
P29|Capacidades Societales de Innovación. Su desarrollo en Empresas de Producción Social en el contexto del Socialismo del siglo XXI en Venezuela|"This paper aims to determine the overall development of Innovation Capacities in Society (CSI) in Social Production Companies (EPS) within a 21st-century Socialist framework in Venezuela. The methodology consisted on the research of official documentary information at national level as well as specialized social economy topics, innovation and an interview. The most relevant result is that it is not possible to develop CSI in EPS in the short term, nor within the context of 21st-century Socialism nor any other development model adopted in Venezuela due to the non-existent and / or precarious ""culture of innovation"" and ""culture of partnership"" in Venezuelan society in general, as these are essential conditions to advancing innovative, partnership processes. The conclusion is the need to carry out educational and cultural values with the aim to promote societal innovation processes in EPS and in the various innovative Venezuelan actors."
P29|Revolutionary Situation, Early Socialism and the Logic Of History in Russia|The social character of people’s attitude to each other is developing regarding the conditions, the process, and the result of labour attitude towards nature, regarding the mode of production. The movement for socialism, the revolutionary process, emerges as a necessity based on the contradictoriness development of the social character of labour. Early Socialism emerges and develops on a material and technical base, which by no means corresponds to socialism, under the conditions of the insufficiently socialised character of labour, while the capitalistic world has the supremacy in the correlation of forces. The basic contradiction of early socialism is the contradiction between the relations of production and productive forces, between social property of the means of production (formal socialization, nationalization) and insufficient growth, « immaturity » of social character of production, or, in other words, the contradiction between formal and real socialization. The theoretical and methodological approach of “The Logic of History” to the fundamental problems of social development provides a key to the comprehension of an objective reason for a number of social phenomena, thus opening a whole spectrum of research approaches.
P29|Efficiency of the poverty reduction programs: decomposition of the dynamics and structure of Russian poverty|We investigate the dynamics and the structure of the Russian poverty for the period of 1994 – 2005 in the context of the government socio-economic policy of poverty reduction. In the study we employ decompositions of relative levels of poverty on growth and redistribution components of average incomes. The trends in the depth and severity of poverty and income deficit for various so-cio-demographic groups are presented. We present decomposition of poverty according to the sources of household income at different periods of time in order to assess the contribution of vari-ous components of the household income on poverty. Our results include decomposition of sources of income on the Gini coefficient within poor and rich subgroups and inequality between these groups.
P29|Vocatie si regionalizare cultural-spirituala a locurilor geografice. Relevanta pentru planificare spatiala/speciala|The study is based on the assertion that any inhabitable space carries in itself a cultural vocation, i.e. the favorability for a specific cultural product, and spirituality is one of its major dimensions, sometimes associated up to synonymy to culture. Among the range of cultural, artistic, political, economic and social categories, religion has represented a noticeable manifestation, and the monastic phenomenon in particular represents a constant whose regional materializations are various and active. The European orthodox cultural area to which the subject of this article is subscribed reveals a well defined contemporary contour of the phenomenon and a density of its material manifestations, accentuated by the favoring political changes of the last two decades. Banishing the restrictions imposed by the communist ideology has generated on the level of religious material culture a true “explosion” of worshiping places, both parishional and monastic. The number of orthodox monasteries alone in the entire European area goes beyond 1700, which cannot remain without an impact upon the various components of social and economic life and therefore, as far as we are concerned, upon the aspects connected with their regionalizing and the influence upon the physical and spatial territorial planning. Starting from a general, continental and macro-regional distribution and going down to the local level of internal clippings to which monasteries and skytes are subscribed, the major analysis of this paper is focused on the situation in Romania which reunites over 500 monastic establishments (second to Russia numerically but on the top of the list according to social density indicators). The aspects connected with the geographical distribution correlated with architectonic, historic and structural identifiers constitute a topic that has interested along the years either only a specialized audience, or a more recent category of users that have taken into consideration their touristic potential and, through this, the secularizing component of the market and economic value. The scientific literature is nevertheless poor from the viewpoint of studies regarding the role of the monasteries in shaping the spatial culture and in organizing space, and even poorer if we think of land planning in the contemporary world, few bibliographical references being hardly available. The western reasons are related to the relict character of the active monastic phenomenon, and in the east-European societies the reestablishment of spiritual life within the framework of democracy is still fresh. Due to the amplitude (at least material) of its reestablishment, the religious life becomes an important local cultural element that has to be taken into account in the contemporary European politics. The present paper, written mainly on the basis of field research and analysis, is structured into two parts: - the analysis of monasteries spatial distribution and the internal regionalization of monastic spaces using geographical criteria and the degree of accessibility; - the relevance of this material and spiritual identity level of the Romanian space for the directions and actions of land planning, as a special form of spatial planning. Since the paper is part of larger scientific endeavor, the present study is organized mainly as an argument for at least two questions: (i) which are the relations between the Romanian Christian spirituality and culture and the European spatial planning, and (ii) what role does local culture play in the process of regional spatial planning.
P29|Changes in the use of time and the state of health of the Russian population in the 1980s-1990s|This is an attempt to answer a question about how changes in the time use and in health the population relate to each other, what connection exists between duration and character of work and the state of health. The paper draws on the data from two rounds of time budget surveys of: 1) families who kept record of their incomes and expenditures (the RF Goskomstat, 1977-1990 – over 28 thous. families), 2) the rural population of the Novosi-birsk region (IEIE SB RAS, 1975-1999, 1400-1100 persons in each). In these rounds the “previous day” ap-proach was used. Used were also the data of questionnaire surveys and official statistics. Last 20 years are a unique period in the Russian modern history reflected in most different forms on all aspects of life, including time use, everyday activity and health of population. The analysis of relationship between time use and health was made at macro levels. Health is presented by life expectancy. Time use is presented by aggregated structure of average time budget, respectively. The assessment by respondents of changes in living conditions and in their own state is seen as a measure of social-psychological well-being of the population. The direction and degree of influence between “time use – state of health” depend on macro and micro life conditions, on social-psychological well-being of the society and individual, on the “initial’ state of health of the individuals.
P29|A decisive intelligence failure? British intelligence on Soviet war potential and the 1939 Anglo-French-Soviet alliance that never was|In 1939 the British Government tried to assess Soviet war potential in order to know more about their potential ally, as part of the negotiations concerning an Anglo-French-Soviet alliance. British assessments of Soviet economic and military strength (and the internal stability of the Stalin regime) in this context have partly been neglected in earlier research, and it seems both that British estimates were much more off the mark than earlier supposed, and that the gross underestimation of Soviet strength in 1939 was probably a major factor in the British reluctance to enter into an anti-Hitler coalition with the USSR.
P29|Das georgische Steuersystem im Transformationsprozess|During the transformation process, the reform of public finances (in particular the tax system) is crucial for Georgia. There are a lot of proposals and suggestions in the financial literature concerning the introduction of tax systems in transition countries. Individual taxes or the entire tax system should be elaborated regarding certain criteria. This paper analyzes the tax reform procedures during the transition of Georgia to the free-market economy as well as the existing tax system. Concerning the taxes, the current tax system is more or less duplicated from the Western European countries. It becomes obvious that the chance of developing a rational, sustainable and adjusted tax system for transition countries was missed.
P29|High-order services and spatial change in the central and eastern european countries|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|Darázsfészek. A Gazdasági Versenyhivatal szerepea verseny strukturális alapjainak alakításában<BR>[A wasp’s nest: The Economic Competition Office’s role in shaping the vertical]|A vállalati szervezeti rendszer tervgazdaságból öröklött centralizáltsága akadályozza a piaci versenyt, ezért a mesterségesen létrehozott nagy állami cégek jelentős részét fel kell bontani. Ebben az államnak, közelebbről a verseny „gazdájának”, a Gazdasági Versenyhivatalnak aktív szerepet kell játszania. A logika világos - de elméletileg és a gyakorlatban is vitatott. A cikk bemutatja a demonopolizáció elméleti dilemmáinak jelentkezését az átalakulás idején és a feloldásukra tett kísérleteket a versenyszabályozásban és a versenyhivatal tevékenységében. Az elemzés azt mutatja, hogy a strukturális feltételek alakításában nem a versenyhivatal játszotta a főszerepet, maga is hárította az öröklött szerkezet és a privatizációs döntések felülvizsgálatának gazdasági és politikai szempontból kényesnek ítélt feladatát. A magánkézbe adáshoz kapcsolódó kisszámú fúziós döntéssel pedig jogszerűen, de nem mindig következetes érveléssel engedélyezte az egyben eladások és az összevásárlások zömét. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: L10, L40, P29.
P29|Diverging Paths: Transition in the Presence of the Informal Sector|This work suggests a development of the seminal model of transition from plan to market economy by Aghion and Blanchard (1994). We introduce an informal sector to show that its presence can generate qualitatively di?erent steady states, to which the economy converges in the end of transition. Two types of transitional dynamics are considered, and it is argued that they can help explain di?erences in evolution of formal and informal output exhibited, on the one hand, by East European countries and, on the other hand, by the former Soviet Union republics such as Russia or Ukraine.
P29|Banking Reform in Russia: Problems and Prospects|This paper examines the state of the Russian banking sector in 2004 and assesses the most important reform initiatives of the last two years, including deposit insurance legislation, a major reform of the framework for prudential supervision, steps to increase transparency in the sector, and measures to facilitate the development of specific banking activities. The overall conclusion that emerges from this analysis is that the Russian authorities’ approach to banking reform is to be commended. The design of the reform strategy reflects an awareness of the need for a ‘good fit’ between its major elements, and the main lines of the reform address some of the principal problems of the sector. The major lacuna in the Russian bank reform strategy concerns the future of state-owned banks. Despite a long-standing official commitment to reducing the role of the state – and of the Bank of Russia in particular – in the ownership of credit institutions, there is still a need for a much more ... La réforme du secteur bancaire en Russie : Les enjeux et les perspectives Cet article examine la situation du secteur bancaire russe en 2004 et évalue les principales initiatives de réforme prises au cours des deux dernières années – la législation sur l’assurance des dépôts, une vaste refonte du cadre de la surveillance prudentielle, des mesures pour renforcer la transparence du secteur, et l’adoption de dispositions visant à faciliter le développement de certaines activités bancaires. De façon générale, il ressort de cette analyse que l’on peut saluer l’approche suivie par les autorités russes en matière de réforme bancaire. La conception de la stratégie de réforme témoigne d’une sensibilité à la nécessité de trouver une «bonne harmonie» entre ces principales composantes, et les grands axes de la réforme s’attaquent à certains des grands problèmes du secteur. La plus grande lacune de la stratégie russe pour la réforme du secteur bancaire concerne l’avenir des banques publiques. En dépit d’un engagement officiel de longue date à réduire le rôle de ...
P29|Második gazdaság. Pálya(függés)történeti töredékek<BR>[Second economy. Fragments of a career (career-dependent)]|Ez az írás kissé rövidített változata annak az előadásnak, amelyet az ELTE Szociológiai és Szociálpolitikai Intézete által a nappali tagozatos szociológusképzés újraindulásának 30. évfordulója alkalmából 2002. november 20-21-én rendezett konferencián a fenti címmel tartottam.* Előadásomban a második gazdasághoz közvetlenül kapcsolódó négy személyes-családi emléktöredéket idéztem fel. A felidézett első emlék a második gazdasággal mint kutatási témával való kapcsolatba kerülésemben játszott szerepet, míg a másik három érzésem szerint döntően kihatott ez irányú későbbi kutatásaim szemléletére és talán sorsára is. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: D82, P29, P39.
P29|Methodological Tools for SIA|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|The relevance of foresight for accession countries and possibilities for co-operation|Accession countries, faced with the same challenge of joining the EU while still characterised by their own distinct level of socio-economic development, set of institutions, culture and norms, can benefit significantly from conducting foresight programmes. Yet, foresight should not be conducted for its own sake – just because it is becoming “fashionable” throughout the world, and currently being promoted by the EU. On the contrary, there should be a strong link between foresight, decision preparation and policy-making. Foresight has now reached a point, at which different approaches can be compared to highlight good practices: what has worked in certain circumstances (level of development, challenges and hence policy aims), and thus what set of tools and approaches are likely to be useful in different environments. International co-operation, therefore, can be extremely useful for accession countries in various ways. The simplest one would be to share information, exchange experience, as well as compare methods and achievements, i.e. to learn from each other. A more ambitious way could be to conduct joint foresight programmes on issues that go beyond the national boundaries, such as accession countries’ role and prospects as members in the new, enlarged EU, scope for their re-invigorated co-operation in those new settings, etc. However, trans-border foresight exercises would also require adequately adapted or even entirely new methods and techniques.
P29|Conversion de dette pour la protection de l’environnement : l’exemple de l’Écofonds polonais|[fre] L’Écofonds polonais est une formule à la fois historique, originale et efficace de conversion de dette publique au profit de la protection de l’environnement. Néanmoins, des discussions apparaissent encore, de manière récurrente, sur la nature sui generis de ce fonds, dont les conséquences pratiques peuvent être sur certains points importantes. Par ailleurs, la fin programmée des accords de consolidation de la dette polonaise, en 2010, pose plus fondamentalement la question du devenir, à terme, de l’Écofonds. Cet article revient ainsi sur la mobilisation des ressources de l’Écofonds, sur son statut et son fonctionnement et sur sa capacité à protéger l’environnement. . Classification JEL : H63, P29, Q01 [eng] Debt conversion for environmental protection : the example of the Polish Ecofund . The Polish Ecofund is a formula which is at the same time historic, original and efficient for converting public debt in order to promote environmental protection. Nevertheless, discussions are again taking place, on a recurrent basis, on the sui-generis nature of these funds whose practical consequences may be on certain points important. Otherwise, the scheduled end of the consolidation of the Polish debt in 2010, more fundamentally raises the question about the future of the Ecofund at the end of this period. This article also looks at the resource mobilisation of the Ecofund, its status, operation and on its capacity to protect the environment. . JEL classifications : H63, P29, Q01
P29|Entry Restrictions, Corruption and Extortion in the Context of Transition|This paper argues that even temporary barriers to entry present at the very beginning of transition may lead to permanent extortion development. Entry restrictions, if binding, lead to excess profits, which create an incentive to extort. The emergence of extortionists reduces the expected profit from production, making producers expect extortion in the future. If, after this adaptation of expectations, the government removes the barriers to entry, only a few new firms will enter the market. Hence, the total number of firms on the market is lower than it would have been with no barriers to entry. The low number of firms on the market allows each producer to earn relatively high pre- extortion profits, which reinforces the desire of racketeers to take part of their wealth. Consequently, part of the population is permanently diverted from production to rent-seeking activities, which may slow down economic growth, even in the long run.
P29|Ronald Reagan and the Politics of Declining Union Organization|New union members in the United States are typically gained through workplace elections. We find that the annual number of union elections fell by 50 per cent in the early 1980s. A formal model indicates that declining union election activity may be due to an unfavorable political climate which raises the costs of unionization, even though the union win-rate remains unaffected. We relate the timing of declining election activity to the air-traffic controllers' strike of 1981, and the appointment of the Reagan Labor Board in 1983. Empirical analysis shows that the fall in election activity preceded these developments.
P29|Economie de la transition : le dossier|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|Entry Restrictions, Corruption and Extortion in the Context of Transition|This paper argues that even temporary barriers to entry present at the very beginning of transition may lead to permanent extortion development. Entry restrictions, if binding, lead to excess profits, which create an incentive to extort. The emergence of extortionists reduces the expected profit from production, making producers expect extortion in the future. If, after this adaptation of expectations, the government removes the barriers to entry, only a few new firms will enter the market. Hence, the total number of firms on the market is lower than it would have been with no barriers to entry. The low number of firms on the market allows each producer to earn relatively high pre-extortion profits, which reinforces the desire of racketeers to take part of their wealth. Consequently, part of the population is permanently diverted from production to rent-seeking activities, which may slow down economic growth, even in the long run.
P29|Poverty and Expenditure Differentiation of the Russian Population|The problem of poverty and inequality measurement in contemporary Russian society is considered within the framework of the general problem of social tension reduction via efficient organization of the social assistance system. We argue that features specific to Russian transition stipulate that poverty indicators (e.g., Foster-Greer-Thorbecke family) be calculated on the basis of expenditure rather than income as it is usually done. These features are also accounted for in the econometric model of per capita expenditure distribution. The model includes special methods to calibrate, or to adjust, the distributions obtained from the official budget surveys' statistics. The results of the empirical approbation of the technique are reported, which use the RLMS (Rounds 5 – 8) statistical data as well as budget surveys of Komi Republic, Volgograd and Omsk regions.
P29|Managerial career concerns, privatization and restructuring in transition economies|We set up a dynamic adverse selection model to explain how career concerns may induce managers in state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to restructure their firms. It is shown how government monopsony power over managers led to the ratchet effect under the socialist economy, even under reforms coming short of privatization. The introduction of a managerial labour market, through privatization, introduces competition for managers and eliminates the ratchet effect, thereby inducing managers to restructure. Prospects of privatization also provide incentives to restructure even when managerial skills are asset-specific, provided insider control is strong enough to give managers enough rents from privatization. The model is consistent with the empirical evidence on restructuring of SOEs in transition economies.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P29|Financial Markets And Economic Development|AbstractThe following sections are included:Thinking about Finance and DevelopmentThe Plan of the BookReferences
P29|Pension Reform In Chile|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionMain Characteristics of the Chilean ReformsAssessment of the Main Results of Chilean ExperienceConclusionsReferences
P29|The Emerging Peruvian Capital Market|AbstractThe following sections are included:Economic PanoramaThe Lima Stock ExchangeInvestment PromotionCompensation and SettlementSecurities Depository and Settlement HouseElectronic Trading SystemPrimary Placement of Fixed-Income SecuritiesThe Lima Stock Exchange Numbering AgencyNational and International DisseminationProspects
P29|Microfinance: An Emerging Market Within The Emerging Markets|AbstractThe following sections are included:An Emerging Market?What is Microfinance?The Economic Potential and Limitations of the Microenterprise SectorAre Microentrepreneurs Poor?Between Poverty and Profits: Competing Paradigms of MicrofinanceThe Changing Environment: Financial Sector Reform in Latin AmericaCommercialization of Microfinance: Fact or Fantasy?New Microfinance Models in Latin AmericaInnovative Models for Linking Microfinance to Financial MarketsDeveloping Sources of Funding for MFIsMicrofinance from the Market PerspectiveMicrofinance from the Development Perspective: How Low Can the Market Go?References
P29|Linkages Between Rural Financial Markets, Poverty Alleviation And Conservation Of Soils And Forests: The Case Of Madagascar|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionThe Critical Triangle of Rural Development: The Case of MadagascarChanges in Rural Development: A Descriptive AnalysisData Source and Sampling FrameMajor Trends Characterizing the Critical Triangle of Rural DevelopmentTrends in Access to Financial Markets and Other Determinants of Rural DevelopmentA Causal Diagram of the Critical TriangleEconometric Model and its ResultsThe ModelInterpretation of ResultsDeterminants of Community Access to Member-based Financial InstitutionsDeterminants of Lowland Rice YieldsDeterminants of MigrationDeterminants of Rural WagesDeterminants of Expansion of UplandDeterminants of Soil Fertility of UplandImplications for PolicyReferences
P29|Bridging The Gap Between Regulated Financial Institutions And Low-Income Borrowers|AbstractThe following sections are included:Executive SummaryThe Trend Toward Increased Small Business MicrolendingWhy All the Interest in Small Business Lending in the Banking World?Barriers to Making Smaller LoansHow Banks Overcome Barriers to Making Smaller LoansImpact on Low-Income Business OwnersSummaryLenders for Community DevelopmentBackgroundMarket ResearchLoan Policy and Underwriting StandardsTechnical AssistanceCost of DeliveryLCD's StrategySummaryReferences
P29|Systemic Risk: An Overview With Applications To Transitional Economies|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionSystemic EventsExternalities and “Systemic Events”Contagion as a Criterion for Defining Systemic RiskMonetary Contractions as the Source of Systemic EventsA Broader Definition of Systemic EventsSignificance of Systemic RiskDiffering Views on the Significance of Systemic RiskSome Reservations About the “New View” of Systemic RiskChanges in Systemic Risk Over TimeFactors Affecting the Seriousness of Systemic RiskConnectivityPortfolio concentrationHomogeneityInformationPolicies for Addressing Systemic RiskLender of Last ResortDeposit InsuranceSupervision and RegulationPrompt Corrective ActionDisclosureMacroeconomic Stabilization PoliciesDifferences in Financial CrisesConcluding RemarksReferences
P29|Addressing The Bad Debt Problem In The Slovak Economy|AbstractThe following sections are included:OverviewGeneral ConceptsOrigins and Structure of the Slovak Banking SystemSlovakia's Macroeconomic RecoveryEfforts to Improve the Financial Position of the Banking SystemDirect Actions to Improve Banks' Loan PortfoliosPolicies to Ensure Prudent Bank BehaviorDevelopments in the Financial Position of Commercial BanksPayment Arrears DataPerformance of Major Banks Annual Reports Based on IASStrategy for Bank RestructuringConclusionReferences
P29|Short Term Capital Inflows And Long Term External Equilibrium|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionVolume, Nature and Composition of Net Capital InflowsWhat is Happening in Countries that are Sources of Capital Surges?Are These Capital Flows Volatile?Some Countries' Recent ExperiencesLong Term Trends Between Import and Export Growth RatesLong Term Equilibrium between Fixed Capital Formation and National Saving EffortRecent Regional PerformancesPolicy LessonsReferences
P29|The Macroeconomic Consequences Of Investment Liberalization For Developing Countries|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionInvestment Liberalization and Developing CountriesWhat Can We Learn from Trade Liberalization?Liberalization of Trade and Capital: A Case Study of TurkeyInvestment Reforms and Long Term Economic GrowthWhat We Learn From SimulationsConclusionReferences
P29|Is There Competition For Foreign Direct Investment?|AbstractThe following sections are included:Some Suggestive Macro EvidenceInterview Results Regarding Eastern EuropeIncentives: One of the Main Instruments of CompetitionConclusionReferences
P29|Towards the EMU: A Need For Exchange Rate Flexibility?|We address the question of exchange rate regime for the Czech Republic before it enters the EU and the EMU. We classify macroeconomic impacts of a single currency regime according to the traditional OCA theory. Using quantitative measures, we find the degree of macroeconomic convergence between the Czech and German (EU) economies high enough not to form a major obstacle to a common currency regime. In addition, we look at transitional specificities of the Czech economy. We analyse the real appreciation of the Czech currency and its relationship to competitiveness and find that development of cost factors exercise depreciationary pressures on the exchange rate. Conversely, a fixed regime may alleviate problems of the foreign capital influx and ensuing nominal appreciation - another idiosyncrasy of the Czech economy. However, once labour market rigidities are removed, a fixed regime may become a source of a sustainable competitive advantage, growth, and convergence.
P29|Road to EMU: Do We Need a Flexible Exchange Rate?|The authors consider the current exchange-rate regime in the Czech Republic as the Czech economy prepares for entry into the EU and the EMU. The macroeconomic impacts of a single-currency regime are classified according to traditional OCA theory. Using quantitative measures, the authors find the degree of macroeconomic convergence between the Czech and German (EU) economies sufficient enough to preclude major obstacles to the implementation of a fixed-currency regime in the Czech Republic. Also examined are the transitional specifics of the Czech economy. The paper analyzes the real appreciation of the Czech currency and its competitiveness and finds that the development of cost factors exert depreciationary pressures on the exchange rate. Conversely, a fixed regime might alleviate problems related to the influx foreign capital and consequent nominal appreciation?an idiosyncrasy of the Czech economy. However, once labor market rigidities are removed, a fixed regime offers the Czech economy a basis of sustainable competitive advantage, growth, and convergence to the EU.
P29|Macroeconomic Stabilization in Russia: Lessons of Reform, 1992-1995|In this paper we outline the main theories of persisting high inflation and test them informally by reference to the three main attempts to stabilise the Russian macroeconomy between 1992-4. We then assess the prospects for the success of the fourth and current effort.
P29|Business Start-ups in today's Poland: Who and How?|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|The Dilemmas of the Hungarian Economic Policy|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|On Your Marx, Get Set, Go: The Role of Competition in Enterprise Adjustment|No abstract is available for this item.
P29|Market Socialism and the Managerial Labour Market|This paper presents a simple ratchet model. The ratchet effect, and the inability of the government to precommit credibly to given incentive schemes, are related to the fact that the government has monopsony power over managers, as is the case under market socialism where means of production are state-owned. But the introduction of a private sector of significant size gives an outside option to managers. Creating competition with the private sector is then a way to create credible commitment to public sector incentive schemes. Efficiency can be enhanced because of managers' interests in building a reputation on the managerial labour market, giving them the possibility of this outside option.
P29|Mnohaletá Mezinárodní Diskuse O Socialismu A Trhu|This article was published in the leading Czech journal of economics named “Politicka Ekonomie” in 1967 that is during the process of Economic Reform intended to change the Soviet-type Command Economy in a sort of Market Socialism. It was curious that while the need to revive the market mechanism was accepted by the majority of economists and politicians, the famous “Socialist Controversy” that was just about this crucial problem was still virtually unknown in Czechoslovakia at that time. Our purpose was not only to provide the basic information about that controversy, but also to put it in the broader context of the evolution of the economic theory in the 19 th and 20 th century. Because of the previous domination of the orthodox Marxist economics, any developments of the non-Marxist economics after the classical contributions of Smith and Ricardo were regarded as the attempts of the “bourgeoisie” to falsify the “true” economics for the purpose of preserving Capitalism. We found it therefore necessary to start with the explanation of neoclassical concepts of marginal utility, imputation of value from final products to intermediate products and primary resources, as well as concepts of general equilibrium. After explaining these “roots” of the controversy the critical points of von Mises and Hayek are presented and the socialist responses of Maurice Dobb, Oskar Lange, Abba Lerner and others are discussed with a clear aim to show that without the market the socialist economy cannot be efficient.
P29|Cybernetics in Economics|In 1965 Kyn and Pelikan published in Czechoslovakia the book “Kybernetika v Ekonomii” (Cybernetics in Economics). This article, which was published in Prague in English gives the summary and discusses some more important ideas of that book. The book was quite successful and influenced significantly the way economists were at that time looking at the centrally planned economic system imported from the Soviet Union. The main ideas were: a) the crucial role of information in coordination of economic activities; b) the requirements of the appropriate decision making rules; c) the refutation of the prevailing negative views of randomness and spontaneity; d) the role of “natural selection” for processes of self-organization in economic systems. This provided an implicit critique of the over-centralized command economy and indicated the necessity to revive the market economy.
