P30|Media's Role in the Making of a Democrat: Evidence from East Germany|This paper explores the causal influence of media content on voting behavior. We exploit a natural experiment involving access to West German TV within the German Democratic Republic. Focusing on federal and state election outcomes in the post-reunification decade (i.e., a time at which TV content was harmonized), we find that municipalities that had access to Western TV broadcasts before reunification have lower vote shares for left-wing and right-wing extremist parties. With regard to potential channels, we provide evidence based on survey data that GDR citizens with access to West German TV were less loyal to the socialist regime, less hostile toward foreigners, and exhibited higher levels of social capital. Our findings thus support the notion that access to free media influences political attitudes and facilitates the consolidation of democracy.
P30|Gender Differences in Competitiveness: Experimental Evidence from China|Experimental evidence from both the lab and the field shows that women on average have a lower propensity to enter a competitive environment. In this paper, we investigate gender differences in competitiveness using a lab-in-the-field experiment and a subject pool consisting of Chinese adults. China provides an interesting environment to study in this regard since the country has promoted gender equality for a long time and the gender gap in earnings is small in a cross-country comparison. However, in many respects, China is still a patriarchal society. Our experimental results show that women perform equally well as men in a piece-rate task and significantly better in a competitive payment environment. Despite this, men are more than twice as likely to voluntarily choose a competitive environment. This gender difference cannot be explained by differences in risk preferences or overconfidence.
P30|Towards an Institutional Interpretation of TFP Changes in China|This research note reiterates the productivity theory in the Solow growth accounting framework to explore an institutional interpretation of changes in total factor productivity. In theory, total factor productivity or TFP growth is a costless gain in output, which captures the effect of positive externalities caused by spillovers of technological and organizational changes in a perfect market system. This provides a yardstick to gauge institutional effect on output in an imperfect market system if all inputs are properly measured. Using the Chinese case, I show that an integrated approach a la Jorgenson and Griliches (1967) that ensures a consistency between theory, methodology and measurement can facilitate empirical exercises even with data problems, and a so-constructed TFP index for China can satisfactorily reproduce China's post-reform productivity path with institutional interpretations.
P30|Implications of the Polish 1999 Administrative Reform for Regional Socio-Economic Development|On 1 January 1999, four major reforms took effect in Poland in the areas of health, education, pensions and local administration. After 20 years, only in the last case does the original structural design remain essentially unchanged. We examine the implications of this reform from the perspective of the distance of municipalities from their regional administrative capital. We show that despite fears of negative consequences for peripheral regions, the reform did not result in slower socio-economic development for those municipalities that found themselves further from the new administrative centres. We argue that regional inclusiveness in the process of development is likely to be an important factor behind the stability of Poland's administrative design.
P30|Social Preferences, Public Good Provision, Social Capital and Positional Concerns: Empirical Evidence from the South Caucasus|This paper aims to study the impact of positional concerns on an understudied set of policy-relevant variables: social preferences, public good provision, and social capital. We utilize data from the “Caucasus Barometer” survey administered in three post-Soviet transition economies: Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia. Controlling for absolute income and other individual and household characteristics, we find that the relative deprivation of a household has negative impacts on its members’ social preferences, public good provision, and social capital. In contrast, relative advantage has only positive influences on the variables of interest (if any).
P30|Long-run effects of family policies: An experimental study of the Chinese one-child policy|We present lab-in-the-field experimental evidence of the effects of the Chinese one-child policy on individuals’ preferences and behavior as adults. The experiments were conducted in three different provinces because the policy was not strictly implemented at the same time in all provinces. We measure risk and time preferences, as well as subjects’ competitiveness, cooperation, and bargaining behavior, sampling individuals born both before and after the introduction of the policy. Overall, we do not find any sizeable or statistically significant effects of the one-child policy on preferences or behavior in any of the experiments. These results hold for heterogeneity in the timing of the implementation of the OCP in different provinces, for heterogeneity among individuals, and for various robustness checks.
P30|Russia And The Eurasian Economic Union: Conflicting Incentives For An Institutional Compromise|The Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) is the first and relatively successful attempt to establish strong multilateral institutions of post-Soviet regional integration. The EAEU has greater scope of supranationalism compared to all previous post-Soviet integration projects and the Union’s multilateral institutions are based on the formal recognition of equal status of all the members. However, such a union is unlikely to promote the Russian economic and political dominance in the region, at least compared to what would be attainable through bilateral deals. On contrary, the post-soviet countries got opportunities to act more independently from Russia. We argue that it was the Ukrainian crisis in spring 2014 and the need to promote the domestic image of Russia as “great power” that created incentives for Russian leadership to accept institutional compromises necessary to initiate the Eurasian Economic Union.
P30|International Presence of the Japanese Study of Russian and East European Economies|In this article, I examine the oversea activities of Japanese researchers in the field of Russian and East European economic studies based on objective data and offer several suggestions for improving their presence in the international academic community. The presence of Japanese scholars of Russian and East European economies as measured by the number of relevant articles published in international journals is still marginal at best, despite their high participation rates in academic conferences abroad. This may partly be due to the fact that many Japanese researchers are not effectively utilizing available international resources. Furthermore, although many of the works produced by Japanese experts have important implications in the research field, only a handful of them are submitted to international journals. In this and many other respects, there is still much room for enhancing the international status of the Japanese study of Russian and East European economies.
P30|Shocked by therapy? Unemployment in the first years of the socio‐economic transition in Poland and its long‐term consequences|We examine the long‐term implications of unemployment for material conditions and well‐being using the Polish sample from the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE). Retrospective data from the SHARELIFE survey are used to reconstruct labour market experiences across the threshold of the socio‐economic transformation from a centrally planned to a free market economy in Poland. These individual experiences are matched with outcomes observed in the survey about 20 years later to examine their correlation with unemployment at the time of the transition. We find that becoming unemployed in the early 1990s correlates significantly with income, assets and a number of measures of well‐being recorded in 2007 and 2012. Using plant closures to reflect exogenous changes to labour market status at the time of the transition, we are able to confirm the causal effect of unemployment on income and house ownership 20 years later, but find no evidence for a long‐term causal relationship between unemployment and such measures of well‐being as life satisfaction, depression and subjective assessment of material conditions.
P30|External Instability in Transition: Applying Minsky's Theory of Financial Fragility to International Markets|This inquiry argues that the successful completion of the transition process in the post-Soviet economies is constrained by the prevailing social structure and low levels of technological progress, both of which require institutional reforms aimed at increasing growth in national income, productivity, and the degree of export competitiveness. Domestic policy implementation has not shown significant improvements on these fronts, given its short-term orientation, but instead resulted in stagnating growth rates, continuously accumulating levels of external debt, and decreasing living standards. The key to a successful completion of the transition process is therefore a combination of policies targeted at the dynamic transformation of production structures within an environment of financial stability and favorable macroeconomic conditions.
P30|The Unfinished Business of State-owned Enterprise Reform in the People’s Republic of China|This paper examines the progress of state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform in the People’s Republic of China. After defining SOEs and considering their scope of operation within the PRC economy, the focus of the paper is on the major reform waves that followed the deterioration of SOE profitability in the early 1990s. The oil industry serves to illustrate industry-specific SOE reform trends as well as the latest reform developments. Until today, a stable, successful, long-term arrangement of state ownership has remained elusive. SOE reform is incomplete as long as a number of fundamental governance issues are not resolved. But these are difficult to resolve in the context of Party-controlled state-owned enterprises.
P30|Sexuality in the Communist Family Union ? Concepts about Love, Sex and Marriage during the Early Communist Regime in Bulgaria|The paper focuses on the disciplining of sexuality in the family frame during the first two decades of the communist rule in Bulgaria. It analyses legislative documents against divorce, abortion and cohabitation; speeches of high-standing party functionaries on the role of the communist family and the danger from sexual corruption; the media campaigns and early repressive practices against youngsters with loose behavior. The paper draws the conclusion that both the conceptualization and the legislative actions aiming to preserve family morality perceived sexual practices in Bulgaria during the early communist regime as legitimate as long as they were reproductive sexual relationships between spouses. The pursuit of sexual satisfaction as an end in itself, even within the framework of family life, was rendered unacceptable. In this respect the study uses some of Foucault?s reflections about ?the great appropriation of sexual ethic by family morals? but also tries to show the difference between communist and bourgeois family. In its final part the paper makes an attempt to clarify the reasons for the intensification of the repression upon sexuality in Bulgaria under communist rule.
P30|The mainstream economics interpretation of the local state and central-local relations in Post-Mao China: a critical review|Decentralization and the role of local governments have long been touted as key factors in the Chinese economic miracle. This paper intends to critically assess the chief theories advanced by mainstream economics in its attempt to make sense of these aspects of ChinaÃ­s growth story. Firstly the theoretical underpinnings of fiscal federalism, new institutional economics, and market-preserving federalism approaches will be presented, as these theories offer the bedrock for most of the applied insights in which China is framed through the lenses of the central-local relations debate. Secondly, the idea of Ã«market-preserving federalism, Chinese-styleÃ­ will be critically appraised, highlighting its shortcomings. Thirdly, the paper proceeds by bringing in the mainstream response to these problems, relying on the notion of political incentives and career concerns faced by local cadres. It will be argued that the continual adherence to some core tenets dear to the new institutional economics literature in all previous explanations prevents this broad camp of knowledge to properly grasp the complex dynamics of ChinaÃ­s decentralization drive and the role of local governments in the process. Finally, and in closing, an alternative approach will be offered.
P30|Comparative Economic Studies and Comparative Economics: Six Decades and Counting|Abstract This paper reviews the history of Comparative Economic Studies and the role that it has played in the development of the field of comparative economics. While we emphasize developments in the past 10 years when we served as co-editors, the development of the journal and of the field of comparative economics is placed in the context of the entire 60-year history of Comparative Economic Studies and of its predecessors.
P30|Can Television Reduce Xenophobia? The Case of East Germany|Can television have a mitigating effect on xenophobia? To examine this question, we exploit the fact that individuals in some areas of East Germany - due to their geographic location - could not receive West German television until 1989. We conjecture that individuals who received West German television were exposed more frequently to foreigners and thus have developed less xenophobia than people who were not exposed to those programs. Our results show that regions that could receive West German television were less likely to vote for rightwing parties during the national elections from 1994 to 2017. Only recently, the same regions were also more likely to vote for left-wing parties. Moreover, while counties that hosted more foreigners in 1989 were more probable to vote for right-wing parties in most elections, we find that counties that recently hosted more foreign visitors showed less xenophobia, which is in line with intergroup contact theory.
P30|Capitalism and Socialism: Review of Kornai's Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy|Understanding the nature of capitalism has been a central theme of economics. The collapse of the East Bloc and the global financial crisis spurred the reemergence of the political economy as a new frontier and the revival of interest in the nature of capitalism. Kornai's book fills an important intellectual gap in understanding the dynamic nature of capitalism by comparing it with its mirror image, socialism. To further develop the themes contained in the book, serious challenges are posted theoretically and empirically, as well as in subjects, such as hybrid capitalism.
P30|Rebalancing in China: a taxation approach|The rebalancing of the Chinese economy is analyzed through a heterogeneous taxation of various types of firms. Based on a two-country dynamic general equilibrium model, the paper applies tax reforms to raise consumption, reduce some firms' overinvestment and maintain a high level of welfare. To rebalance consumption and investment, taxation may allow reallocating a part of the labor force to firms that are not overinvesting. Moreover, the correction of distortions in production factor costs (capital and labor) is necessary during certain reforms applied in the model; that is, on the one hand, higher credit costs for State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and, on the other hand, a catch-up of foreign firms' wages by domestic firms (public and private). In this model, firms' credit cost is a key channel because it impacts both firms' investment and household consumption (through returns on savings). These consumption and investment reforms bring welfare benefits to households, and the results are close to direct welfare maximization. In this framework, the rebalancing of the domestic demand does not require the readjustment of the external financial position because the aggregate savings rate remains high and the supply of domestic assets is reduced. Finally, another theoretical framework proposes a heterogeneous taxation of consumption across home and foreign goods to enhance consumption.
P30|Infrastructural Development and Poverty Alleviation in Indonesia (Municipal Panel Data 2002 – 2013)|"""Objective – This study attempts to provide comprehensive findings on the impact of several kinds of infrastructural developments and government budgets on specific purposes, as well as agricultural and non-agricultural productions, on poverty alleviation in Indonesia between 2002-2013. Methodology/Technique – This study uses macroeconomic data at a municipal level to provide more precise findings when comparing provincial and national level data. The study uses an adaptation of the theory of international development. Findings – This research shows that electricity and sanitation are more effective at eradicating poverty than water infrastructure. In addition, household access to infrastructure is more effective in combatting poverty than the government budget for infrastructure development. The study also performs correlation matrices, dividing the data into the western and eastern parts of Indonesia, to provide more robust findings. Agricultural production is more effective in the western part of Indonesia, yet non-agricultural production is more relevant towards poverty reduction in the eastern part of Indonesia. Novelty – This study yields some empirical results and conclusions for economic development in Indonesia, finding that the key problem lies in the effectiveness of budget arrangement within the framework of fiscal decentralization."""
P30|TV and entrepreneurship|We empirically analyse whether television (TV) can influence entrepreneurial identity and incidence. To identify causal effects, we utilise a quasi-natural experiment setting. During the division of Germany after WWII into West Germany with a free-market economy and the socialistic East Germany with centrally-planned economy, some East German regions had access to West German public TV that - differently from the East German TV - transmitted images, values, attitudes and view of life compatible with the free-market economy principles and supportive of entrepreneurship. We show that during the 40 years of socialistic regime in East Germany entrepreneurship was highly regulated and virtually impossible and that the prevalent formal and informal institutions broke the traditional ties linking entrepreneurship to the characteristics of individuals so that there were hardly any differences in the levels and development of entrepreneurship between East German regions with and without West German TV signal. Using both, regional and individual level data, we show then that, for the period after the Unification in 1990 which made starting an own business in East Germany, possible again, entrepreneurship incidence is higher among the residents of East German regions that had access to West German public TV, indicating that TV can, while transmitting specific images, values, attitudes and view of life, directly impact on the entrepreneurial mindset of individuals. Moreover, we find that young individuals born after 1980 in East German households that had access to West German TV are also more entrepreneurial. These findings point to second-order effects due to inter-personal and inter-generational transmission, a mechanism that can cause persistent differences in the entrepreneurship incidence across (geographically defined) population groups.
P30|Woman and the labour market in East and West Germany: Socialist legacy and pre-socialist tradition|There is a large and successful literature exploiting the division and re-unification of Germany as a natural experiment for analysing the effects of political regimes on economic behaviour. This paper contributes to this literature by reassessing the role of legacy effects of socialist labour market policies for explaining the much higher female labour force participation (FLFP) in East Germany as compared to West Germany. The starting point of the analysis is the empirical pattern that FLFP was already higher in the East before German separation. Applying difference-in-differences analyses on participation rates shows that there is, if anything, only a small long-term socialist treatment effect. Apparently, there is no effect in areas that have been either rural or heavily industrialized before German separation. In line with previous research, this study finds that there is an East German mark-up for social acceptance of maternal employment. An additional and novel finding of this study is that current social acceptance of maternal employment is also driven by pre-war differences in female labour supply. This corresponds to a remarkable mark-up of married East German women in the labour market before German separation that is also descriptively shown in the paper. Overall, the results suggest that potential legacy effects of socialism on attitudes toward working women do not necessarily translate into meaningful East-West differences in terms of actual female labour force participation.
P30|Bank Capital, Liquidity Creation and Deposit Insurance|Abstract This paper examines how the introduction of deposit insurance influences the relationship between bank capital and liquidity creation. As discussed by Berger and Bouwman (Rev Financ Stud 22:3779–3837, 2009), there are two competing hypotheses on this relationship which can be influenced by the presence of deposit insurance. The introduction of a deposit insurance scheme in an emerging market, Russia, provides a natural experiment to empirically investigate this issue. We use the difference-in-difference approach on a large dataset of all Russian banks. Our findings suggest that the introduction of the deposit insurance scheme has different effects on the relationship between capital and bank liquidity creation across different types of banks. It is those banks characterized by relatively high household deposit ratios that are most affected by the introduction of deposit insurance program. For these banks, deposit insurance reduces the impact of capital on liquidity creation. These findings have important policy implications as they suggest that deposit insurance and capital requirements should not be considered separately by bank regulators.
P30|Lifting the iron curtain: school-age education and entrepreneurial intentions|We exploit Germany’s reunification to identify how school-age education affects entrepreneurial intentions. We look at university students in reunified Germany who were born before the Iron Curtain fell. During school age, all students in the West German control group received formal and informal education in a free-market economy, while East German students did or did not receive free-market education. Difference-in-differences estimations show that school-age education in a free-market economy increases entrepreneurial intentions. An event study supports the common-trends assumption. Results remain robust in matched samples and when we exploit within-student variation in occupational intentions to control for unobserved individual characteristics.
P30|Други Канон И Маршалов План Као Модел Економске Политике<BR>[Other Canon and Marshall’s Plan as a Model of Economic Policy]|Serbian: Разматрају се основне карактеристике Маршаловог плана као типа економске политике. За разлику од политике саморегулишућег тржишта, која је заснована на (нео)либералној теорији и представљена Вашингтонским договором, политика маршаловског типа, активног уплива државе у привредне токове, заснована је на многовековној традицији и представљена Другим каноном. Обе врсте политика могу се историјски пратити до времена физиократа и меркантилиста, али у савременим условима потпуно адекватно могу да буду представљене плановима Моргентауа и Маршала, насталим за и примењеним у Немачкој после Другог светског рата. Моргентауов план одговара (нео)либералној политици и резултира деиндустриализацијом земље, док Маршалов план насупрот томе одговара политици Другог канона и резултира индустријализацијом земље. Из тих карактеристика следи да транзиционе земље за своје привреде треба да примене економску политику оваплоћену у Маршаловом плану. English: The paper considers the main characteristics of Marshall’s plan as an economic policy model. Unlike the self-regulating market policy, which is based on the neo-liberal policy and defined by the Washington Consensus, the Marshall-type policy, with its active state interference in economic processes, is based on the many centuries’ tradition and reflected in the Other Canon. Both policy types can be traced to the times of physiocrats and mercantilists, but in present circumstances they can be represented through Morgenthau Plan and Marshall Plan, originated after the World War Two and applied in Germany. Morgenthau’s Plan corresponds to the neoliberal policy and its consequence is the country deindustrialization, while Marshall’s Plan corresponds to the Other Canon policy and results in industrialization. Therefore, we deduce that transition countries need to apply the economic policy incorporated in Marshall Plan in order to develop their economies.
P30|Dollarization in North Korea: Evidence from a Survey of North Korean Refugees|This study measures the degree of dollarization in North Korea using results from a survey of 231 North Korean refugees. Specifically, we compare foreign currency use of households as both store-of-value substitutes (i.e., asset substitution) and transaction substitutes (i.e., currency substitution) before and after the confiscatory currency reform of 2009. The degree of dollarization has advanced since the currency reform in terms of both asset and currency substitutions. Survey results also indicate that the Chinese yuan is frequently used in the Sino-North Korean border area, whereas the US dollar is predominantly used in non-border areas. Furthermore, foreign currency increasingly serves as a medium of exchange not only for large transactions but also for smaller transactions, such as food purchases.
P30|Can Television Reduce Xenophobia? The Case of East Germany|Can television have a mitigating effect on xenophobia? To examine this question, we exploit the fact that individuals in some areas of East Germany – due to their geographic location – could not receive West German television until 1989. We conjecture that individuals who received West German television were exposed more frequently to foreigners and thus have developed less xenophobia than people who were not exposed to those programs. Our results show that regions that could receive West German television were less likely to vote for right-wing parties during the national elections from 1998 to 2013. Only recently, the same regions were also more likely to vote for left-wing parties. Moreover, while counties that hosted more foreigners in 1989 were also more likely to vote for right-wing parties in most elections, we find counties that recently hosted more foreign visitors showed less xenophobia, which is in line with intergroup contact theory.
P30|CEO Incentives in Chinese State-Controlled Firms|This article investigates CEO incentives in Chinese state-controlled firms. We find that firm performance is positively related to CEO compensation. We also find that firm performance is positively associated with CEO promotion and negatively associated with CEO turnover. CEOs for state-controlled firms thus face significant incentives, not only in monetary form but also in terms of career prospects. These results suggest that the CEO labor market in China’s state sector exhibits characteristics like those found in managerial labor markets in developed countries. Moreover, we show that local institutions are associated with the relationship between CEO incentives and firm performance, with the relationship being stronger in regions characterized by stronger institutions. Overall, our results demonstrate that firm performance is associated with CEO incentives for state-controlled firms in China, suggesting that there is a functioning labor market for top managers in China’s state sector.
P30|TV and Entrepreneurship|Can TV influence the entrepreneurial decisions of individuals? To identify causal effects, we utilize a quasi-natural experiment, namely that during the division of Germany after WWI into the capitalistic West Germany and the socialistic East Germany, West TV was exogenously available only in some regions of the latter. Using regional and individual data, we show that, after the Reunification, entrepreneurship is higher among the residents of East German regions with West TV signal, indicating a direct effect of TV on the entrepreneurial mindset of exposed individuals. Moreover, we find second-order effects due to intergenerational transmission, which cause persistent differences.
P30|Radicalism Versus Gradualism: An Analytical Survey Of The Transition Strategy Debate|Academic debate on a transition strategy for former socialist economies continues even a quarter century after the collapse of the communism in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. In this paper, through an analytical survey of 137 preceding studies, we present an overall picture of the debate and examine the relationship between the debate attitudes and the literature attributes in related studies. We found that the radicalists maintain a consistent debate attitude from the viewpoints of time speed and policy sequence of economic transition, while the debate attitude of the gradualists is more diversified. We also found that there is another group of researchers that stays within the framework of the radicalism-versus-gradualism debate while at the same time keeping at arm's length from both the radicalists and the gradualists. In addition, our cross tabulation analysis and regression estimation of qualitative selection models provide interesting findings on the relationship between the debate attitudes and the literature attributes.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P30|Ownership, Institutions & Firm Value: Cross-Provincial Evidence from China|The distinctive political-economic setups of emerging economies engender special corporate governance issues that warrant added attention to the broader institutional environments. Using a unique provincial firm-level dataset, we investigate how control natures, ownership concentration, and provincial differences in government quality and financial deregulation jointly affect the market value of Chinese listed companies. Firstly, the presence of a central government controller is generally associated with higher Tobin's Q, while a negative premium is found for firms ultimately controlled by local governments. We then use alternative concentration measures and an instrumental variable approach to confirm a nonlinear relationship between blockholder ownership and Tobin's Q, implying that firm value first decreases and then increases as blockholders own more shares. Further analysis reveals that government quality has a significant, positive moderating effect on the relationship between different control natures and firm value, while the valuation effect of ownership concentration also depends on regional financial development.
P30|Left behind but doing good? Civic engagement in two post-socialist countries|The fall of socialism in Central and Eastern Europe restored ordinary citizens’ rights and freedoms and ended their political and social isolation. While the freedom of movement was quickly embraced, civil society revival lagged due to the eroded civic norms, declining social capital, and worsening economic conditions. In this paper, we examine the link between the out-migration of relatives and friends and the pro-social behavior of the left behinds in two post-socialist countries—Bulgaria and Romania—the EU's poorest, and among the least happy and most corrupt member states. We show that having close contacts abroad is consistently positively associated with civic engagement and that the cultural transmission of norms from abroad could be driving the results. Specifically, the strength of the civic engagement culture of the family or friend's destination matters for the pro-social behavior of respondents in the home countries. Our results imply that the emigration of family and friends may have positive but previously undocumented consequences for the individuals and communities left behind in Bulgaria and Romania. Given civil society's role for development in post-socialist Europe and the socio-economic and institutional challenges that Bulgaria and Romania face compared with the rest of the EU, understanding the channels fostering civil society and well-being are important for national and EU policymakers.
P30|Institutions and economic growth in transition countries — new experiences and implications from financial crisis 2007–2010 (Part 1)|Motivation: Cross-country growth regressions indicate that institutions are important for growth. Some institutions are created, protected and enforced by the government — they are the institutions of state. The most important for economic growth are: economic freedom and protection of property rights, political freedom (or democracy), quality of governance and the rule of law. The changes that took place after 1989 in the countries of Central-Eastern Europe were not only political but also economic. The post-socialist transition was, above all, a change of the institutions of state. It was a kind of the so-called ‘quasi-natural experiment’. Therefore, my intention is to answer the question: how the institutions of state affect economic growth in transition countries. Aim: The aim is to identify the impact state institutions had on the economic growth in transition countries during the financial crisis of 2007–2010. Results: In the first part of this article I review the literature and present hypothesis about dependency of economic growth and institutions during the financial crisis in transition countries. In the relevant literature there is a consensus that without an appropriate institutional background, market incentives do not lead to optimal resource allocation. Institutions have a particularly crucial impact in the case of post-socialist countries which have undergone political and economic transition. A significant and positive impact on economic growth rate is exercised by such institutions as: protection of property rights and political stabilization, government efficiency and rule of law. The experiences of transition countries confirm also the significance of economic freedom for economic situation.
P30|Institutions and economic growth in transition countries — new experiences and implications from financial crisis 2007–2010 (Part 2)|Motivation: Cross-country growth regressions indicate that institutions are important for growth. Some institutions are created, protected and enforced by the government — they are the institutions of state. The most important for economic growth are: economic freedom and protection of property rights, political freedom (or democracy), quality of governance and the rule of law. Institutions are especially important in transition countries. Two questions arise: were institutions important for economic growth in transition countries during the financial crisis? What happened to the institutions of state during the financial crisis? Aim: The aim of the second part of this article is to verify two hypothesis about institutions and economic growth in transition countries, which were put forward in the first part of this article. In order to estimate the relationship between institutions and economic growth in transition countries during the crisis, a cross-sectional regression was conducted. Additionally the Granger causality test was conducted. Results: The obtained results indicate that during the recession, in countries were before the crisis the institutions were worse, the pace of the economic growth was greater (hypothesis 1 should be rejected). In order to verify hypothesis 2 that the economic growth contributes to changes in state institutions in such a way that the faster the pace of growth the greater the improvement in state institutions a cross-sectional regression was used and the Granger causality test was conducted. Obtained results do not confirm the hypothesis 2. The estimates of parameters were in line with the expectations but statistically insignificant.
P30|Mind the employment gap: an impact evaluation of the Czech multi-speed parental benefit reform|Parental leave is a key policy tool for addressing work-life reconciliation issues inherent to parenthood, including maternal employment and its continuity. The 2004 Czech accession to the EU shed light on the scope of the employment gap between women with and without children at pre-school age, highest among all the OECD countries (41 pp). This is due to very long universal paid parental leave: 4 years per child. In order to tackle this gap and to conform to the EU trend, a major reform was designed in 2008, and this paper investigates its effects on mothers participation and employment. I use the Labour Force Survey to assess the effect of this reform on maternal employment and activity levels, thanks to a difference-in-differences identification strategy. The reform provided an extensive change in financial incentives in favour of shorter leaves, and I show that effects on return-to-work timing are large and significant. However, if mothers do respond to the incentive by advancing the timing of the return to work by one year, the eligibility restrictions as well as the public childcare shortage narrow - de facto - the scope of the effect, which merely compensates for the massive opposite trend induced in the 1990s.
P30|Do migrants think differently? Evidence from East European and post-Soviet states|This research analyzes differences in values and beliefs between individuals in European and postSoviet states who intend to emigrate and those who do not. In particular, we investigate which political, economic and social values and beliefs are significant determinants of the intention to emigrate, after controlling for relevant socio-economic and demographic confounding factors. The results indicate that self-selection patterns exist in some dimensions, such as evaluation of home country governance and institutions, political participation and trust in other people, while they are absent in other dimensions, such as economic liberalism, views on democracy and free markets. Results also indicate that migrant self-selection patterns are heterogeneous across regions. This analysis aims to improve our understanding of the determinants of emigration, as well as of its possible consequences on the dynamics of governance and institutions.
P30|When do gender wage differences emerge ? a study of Azerbaijan's labor market|Building on recent analyses that find a sizeable overall gender wage gap in Azerbaijan's workforce, this paper uses data on young workers in their early years in the labor market to understand how gender wage gaps evolve over time, if at all. The paper uses a unique database from a survey of young people ages 15?29 years. The analysis provides evidence that new labor market entrants begin with little or no gender differences in earnings, but a wage gap gradually emerges over time closer to the childbearing years. The gender wage gap grows from virtually zero, or even a small, positive gap in favor of women, until age 20 years, to about 20 percent two years later and even more than 30 percent at age 29 years. The gap in labor supply rises from almost zero to about 20 percent during the years from 19 to 22, while the gap in hours worked falls from positive (up to six hours per week more than their male counterparts) to negative (up to five hours per week less) over the same period in the life cycle. When decomposing the gap at different deciles of the wage distribution, it appears that most of it is at the lower and upper ends of the distribution, among young adults and prime-age workers. Selection of women into employment is strong and strongly skill-based: when controlling for sample selection bias, the gender gap becomes positive.
P30|From planning to chaos to market: Ethnic inequality in Bulgaria|We document changes in relative earnings of the ethnic Turkish workers in Bulgaria through the country’s transition from planning to markets. Using data from four periods: pre-transition communist era (late 1980s), early transition years (early 1990s), late transition years (early 2000s), and post-transition (late 2000s), we find that the level of raw ethnic inequality (measured as earnings differences between Turkish and Bulgarian workers) increased immediately after the regime change and plateaued throughout the course of transition. Ethnic inequality measures adjusted for observable characteristics follow a similar pattern but post-transitional differences between ethnic groups disappear. Changes over time in the ethnic earnings gaps differ for men and women. The raw and adjusted male ethnic gaps increased steadily during transition years but dropped post-transition, while the raw female ethnic gap fluctuated across the four periods. The adjusted female ethnic gap disappeared completely in the postransitional years. We identify different sources of the changes in the level of ethnic inequality, such as changes in the labor market characteristics and in the wage structure. Evidence suggests that the decline in the relative earnings of Turkish men was due primarily to the widening of the wage structure. Turkish working women improved their relative standing mainly from more favorable changes in labor market characteristics. These changes were only partially due to a selection in labor force participation.
P30|Lessons from Enterprise Reforms in China and Vietnam|This paper surveys a few key features of SOE reforms in China and Vietnam, focusing particularly on the evolution of ownership structures and on the relative weight of market regulatory mechanisms, and discusses their general implications for socialist development. It tentatively concludes that some broad principles informing and constraining any feasible socialist-oriented economic strategy can indeed be identified.
P30| Do migrants think differently? Evidence from East European and post-Soviet states| This research analyzes differences in values and beliefs between individuals in European and post-Soviet states who intend to emigrate and those who do not. In particular, we investigate which political, economic and social values and beliefs are significant determinants of the intention to emigrate, after controlling for relevant socio-economic and demographic confounding factors. The results indicate that self-selection patterns exist in some dimensions, such as evaluation of home country governance and institutions, political participation and trust in other people, while they are absent in other dimensions, such as economic liberalism, views on democracy and free markets. Results also indicate that migrant self-selection patterns are heterogeneous across regions. This analysis aims to improve our understanding of the determinants of emigration, as well as of its possible consequences on the dynamics of governance and institutions.
P30|Struggling for new lives: Family and fertility policies in the Soviet Union and modern Russia|During the 20th century, Russian women were assigned the triple role of social and political activists, workers, caregivers and mothers. This paper makes an overview of the main steps undertaken first by the Soviet and later by the modern Russian governments to influence family formation models and fertility levels, in order to improve the demographic situation over the period from 1917 until 2015. The overview pays close attention to such measures of demographic policy as marriage and divorce regulation, support of families through family benefits and the tax system, reconciliation of family and work spheres (maternity/paternity leaves, workplace flexibility measures), fertility promotion, childbearing and childcare support, as well as rare reproductive health protection initiatives.
P30|The Impossibility of Democratic Socialism: Two Conceptions of Democracy|Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny (1994) have used Public Choice analysis to criticize market socialism. Peter J. Boettke (1995) and Peter T. Leeson and Boettke (2002) have argued that F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom (2007 [1944]) constituted a form of Public Choice analysis as well, in particular presaging an application of Arrow's Impossibility Theorem to democratic socialism. This essay demonstrates that additionally, Hayek's book adumbrated the distinction between liberal or limited democracy and illiberal or totalitarian democracy. This distinction between two conceptions of democracy provides another means of criticizing democratic socialism. The democratic political system and socialist economic system are fundamentally incompatible, making democratic socialism impossible, in the sense that democracy cannot fulfill for socialism what democratic socialists expect from it. Democratic socialism will fail, not because those in power will betray their trust or abuse their power, but because the fundamental institutional constraints of democracy are incompatible with socialist economics.
P30|Interest Groups and the Impossibility of Democratic Socialism: Hayek, Jewkes, and the Arrow Theorem|Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny (1994) have used Public Choice analysis to criticize market socialism. Peter J. Boettke (1995) and Peter T. Leeson and Boettke (2002) have argued that F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom (2007 [1944]) constituted a form of Public Choice analysis as well. Boettke and Leeson say that Hayek adumbrated a form of Arrow's Impossibility Theorem. This essay shows that Hayek was joined by John Jewkes in presaging a form of the Arrow theorem. In addition, this essay expands on the analysis by Boettke and Leeson, elucidating the broader implications which the Arrow theorem has for democratic socialism in particular. Democratic socialism is demonstrated to be impossible, in the sense that it cannot successfully accomplish the goals of its advocates. This is because the Arrow theorem implies that democratic political institutions are fundamentally incompatible with socialist economics.
P30|Labor Economics in a Planned Economy: F. A. Hayek and John Jewkes on the Impossibility of Democratic Socialism|Milton Friedman (1962) is associated with the claim that political and economic freedom cannot be distinguished (cf. Lawson and Clark 2010), using the famous example that there can be no freedom of speech where the government owns the printing presses. Less well-known is F. A. Hayek's example, drawn from labor economics, used to illustrate the same principle. Hayek was joined in this by his less well-known colleague, John Jewkes. Hayek and Jewkes argued that without a freely operating price system, central economic planning cannot function without compulsory regimentation of labor. Similarly, no state may simultaneously fix “fair” wages and demand a given pattern of productive output and employment. It is impossible to both achieve income equality and accomplish an economic plan. Hayek's and Jewkes's examples help explain why democratic socialism is impossible, in the sense that it cannot accomplish what its advocates desire.
P30|The Foreign Policy of a Democratic Socialist Regime: From Intervention to Protection to Warfare|Discussions of democratic socialism have focused on whether that system is compatible with domestic civil liberties. Less attention has been paid to its foreign policy implications. Despite the widespread acceptance of the democratic peace hypothesis, democratic socialism would be incompatible with peaceful foreign relations. Economic intervention and economic planning – even democratic – cannot be successful without insulating the domestic economy from foreign competition. This implies economic nationalism and autarky. Moreover, democratic socialism is often justified by the notion that the democratic will of the people should be absolutely sovereign. Such a conception of democracy has no place for constitutional limits on power. Such an unlimited democracy would soon prove illiberal and liable to be captured by a demagogic authoritarian dictator, and this would only exacerbate the deleterious foreign policy consequences of economic nationalism. Democratic socialism is therefore incompatible with the cosmopolitan and humanitarian values of democratic socialists.
P30|About Political Change in Greece|There have been almost 40 years after the restoration of democracy in Greece and a peculiar prosperity, which was consciously cultivated by the leaders of political and economic elites, was promoted before the onset of the financial crisis. However, from the beginning of the financial recession, the temporal illusions have been revealed and the need of a complete transformation of the financial policies has been expressed, while a significant transformation of the entire political culture has started. Parties such as SYRIZA, Independent Greeks(ANEL) and Golden Dawn took advantage of the growing social discontent by propagating their selves as exponents of ordinary people and of their concerns or their fears, as the expression of resistance against an avoidable sellout of public values. However, crisis has exposed a number of successive truths which were elaborately hiding in the underbelly of the detaining political and socioeconomic system. These truths were exteriorized once it became clear that the foundations on which the Greek society was based after the restoration of democracy, were weak and insufficient to guide the country’s way towards a modern future.
P30|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P30|Explaining the Migration Intentions Of Romanian Youth: Are Teenegers Different?|The paper aims at determining the factors that influence the decision of young Romanians to migrate with the focus on adolescents, as they are the most willing to emigrate. We have used a survey-based analysis of data provided by the Friedrich Ebert Foundation in Romania and logistical regression models in order to estimate the significant factors that motivate young individuals to migrate. The results indicate that age is a relevant factor for the intention of the youth to migrate: the younger a person is, the higher the probability of wanting to emigrate. The use of internet and social class of the family are factors that determine the teenagers’ propensity to migrate, while the feeling of discrimination and the entrepreneurial behaviour are key factors that influence the migration intentions of young adults.
P30|A Comment on “What Is Wrong with the West’s Economies?” by Edmund Phelps|Abstract The paper confront the Phelps’ theses on a decay of what he calls a flourishing era of capitalism with the commentator’s own experience with approaches that countries in Central and Eastern Europe must have adopted in the early 1990s during the so called transition. Unlike Phelps, the commentator states that an attachment to the text-book economics can hardly prevent the innovativeness and creativity of architects of institutional change. Moreover, the commentator claims that not only the 19th century but also the above few years of the end of the last century enjoyed Phelpsian flourishing.
P30|A Comment on “What Is Wrong with the West’s Economies?” by Edmund Phelps|Abstract Professor Phelps has written a plea for social, technological, and economic innovation as the key to human flourishing. I cannot see how the middle class drab life could be alleviated by innovation. This paper criticises his views and argues that people need what I call openings (opportunities) that channel their natural activities in the right way.
P30|De la transformación a la bancarización de las cajas de ahorros españolas: un análisis de los resultados perseguidos<BR>[From the transformation to the bancarization of Spanish saving banks: an analysis of the results pursued]|Esta investigación tiene su origen en el proceso de reordenación que ha acontecido en el sector bancario español. Dicha reestructuración se ha llevado a cabo para tratar de reducir las dudas sobre la viabilidad de las entidades bancarias a medio y largo plazo y así poder restituir de nuevo la confianza en el sector. Aunque la crisis económico-financiera ha afectado a todo el sector bancario, ha sido el subsector de las cajas de ahorros el que ha experimentado la mayor transformación mediante fusiones, absorciones y a través de Sistemas Institucionales de Protección –SIP-, y el que se ha visto sometido al denominado proceso de bancarización. Considerando lo anterior, la presente investigación se centra en el estudio de las cajas de ahorros para trata de comprobar si dicha transformación y consiguiente proceso de bancarización ha permitido que se satisfagan los objetivos perseguidos con la reordenación bancaria. Para ello, se analiza la evolución de magnitudes económico-financieras relevantes para el sector bancario durante el período comprendido entre 1999 y 2012. Los resultados sugieren que no todas las cajas de ahorros han visto mejorados sus ratios de eficiencia, solvencia, brecha financiera y obra social, lo que indica que aún queda bastante por hacer para lograr solventar los problemas que afectan al sector estudiado.
P30|When Do Gender Wage Differences Emerge? A Study of Azerbaijan's Labor Market|Building on recent analyses that find a sizeable, overall gender wage gap in Azerbaijan's workforce, this paper uses data on young workers in their early years in the labor market to understand how gender wage gaps evolve over time, if at all. Using a unique database from a survey of young people age 15-29 years old, we provide evidence that new labor market entrants begin with little or no gender differences in earnings, but a wage gap gradually emerges over time closer to the childbearing years. The gender wage gap grows from virtually zero, or even a small, positive gap in favor of women, until the age of 20 years to about 20% two years later and even more than 30% at the age of 29 years. The gap in labor supply rises from almost zero to about 20% during the years from 19 to 22, while the gap in hours worked falls from positive (up to 6 hours per week more than their male counterparts) to negative (up to -5 hours per week) over the same period in the life cycle. When decomposing the gap at different deciles of the wage distribution, it appears that most of it is at the lower and upper end of the distribution, among young adults and the prime-age workers. Selection of women into employment is strong and strongly skill- based: when controlling for sample selection bias, the gender gap becomes positive.
P30|The Belarus Economy: The Challenges of Stalled Reforms|Twenty-five years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Belarus stands out as a special case in transition blending, on the one hand, signs of relative prosperity, socially oriented policies and sprouts of entrepreneurships and, on the other hand, remnants of the communist past. The core of the Belarusian economic model throughout most of this period was a combination of external rents and soft budget constraints on the state-owned part of the economy backed by a strong system of administrative control. In periods of favourable external conditions this mix provided for relatively high rates of economic growth and allowed the authorities to maintain a ‘social contract’ with the population targeting close to full employment. But this model also led to the persistent accumulation of a quasi-fiscal deficit which time and again came to the surface, and its subsequent monetisation provoked macroeconomic and currency turmoil. At present, Belarus’ economic model has run up against its limits and policy changes seem inevitable.
P30|Institutional effects on economic performance in post-socialist transition: A dynamic panel analysis|This article uses dynamic panel analysis to investigate the relationship between institutional improvement and economic performance in 29 transition countries. The contribution of this paper is two-fold. First, we find that per capita GDP is determined by the entire history of institutional reform under transition and that, conditional on this history, per capita GDP adjusts to recent institutional changes. Moreover, we find that the time-horizon over which we measure institutional change matters, with five-year changes showing the clearest effects on current levels of per capita GDP. Secondly, we address the pronounced methodological heterogeneity of this literature. To compensate for incomplete theoretical guidance from the institutional literature, we draw upon an institutional meta-regression analysis to inform our model specification. Our analysis covers the period 1992–2007.
P30|Political Selection In China: The Complementary Roles Of Connections And Performance| Who becomes a top politician in China? We focus on provincial leaders—a pool of candidates for top political office—and examine how their chances of promotion depend on their performance in office and connections with top politicians. Our empirical analysis, based on the curriculum vitae of Chinese politicians, shows that connections and performance are complements in the Chinese political selection process. This complementarity is stronger the younger provincial leaders are relative to their connected top leaders. To provide one plausible interpretation of these empirical findings, we propose a simple theory in which the complementarity arises because connections foster loyalty of junior officials to senior ones, thereby allowing incumbent top politicians to select competent provincial leaders without risking being ousted. Our findings shed some light on why a political system known for patronage can still select competent leaders.
P30|Transition and capital misallocation : the Chinese case|This paper demonstrates that the allocation of household savings to State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in China, and not to the increasing share of private firms, explains both the patterns of capital flows (FDI entries and the accumulation of foreign assets) and the drop in the consumption share during China's transition. The contribution is to explain these two elements in a dynamic general equilibrium model with TFP growth that differentiates FDI and foreign assets. In addition to other frictions, financial intermediation and SOEs have the crucial role by misdirecting household savings. It modifies firms' labor and capital intensiveness, and creates shifts in savings accumulation and capital flows. Moreover, the increasing share of credit-constrained private firms hinders wage growth, and returns on household savings are low to finance SOEs; these two elements reduce the consumption share. With a calibration adapted to the Chinese economy and deterministic shocks, the model also matches to a large extent the data for a variety of stylized facts over the last 30 years.
P30|Unbalanced credit distribution in emerging economies and FDI|This empirical study shows that an increasing credit distribution to State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), to the detriment of private firms, slows the increase in inward FDI in emerging economies. The first approach is global and dynamic; it relies on GMM and Bayesian techniques, utilizing a sample of 40 emerging countries over the period 1988-2008. Then, a sectoral approach is implemented for 1992-2012 and strengthens the negative effect on inward FDI (but the difference of financial dependence between sectors does not have clear effects). Finally, certain policy actions can improve the allocation of domestic and foreign capital in emerging economies.
P30|Underpaid and Corrupt Executives in China’s State Sector|Abstract This study examines the role of executive compensation in public governance. We collect data on corruption cases that involve top-level executives in Chinese listed state-controlled firms. We find a significant positive relationship between underpayment of executives and the likelihood of an investigation into corrupt behavior. We also show that corruption is positively associated with firm performance and that the relationship between underpayment of executives and corruption is influenced by firm performance, suggesting that top managers are more likely to engage in illicit behavior if they are compensated poorly while the firms under their control perform well. Finally, we find that pay-performance sensitivity decreases when top executives are involved in corruption investigations, indicating a lack of pecuniary incentives. Our empirical findings point toward an important relationship between executive compensation and corrupt behavior, thus providing valuable input to the understanding of executive pay and its effects in China’s state sector.
P30|25 Years of the Transition Strategy Debate: Radicalism versus Gradualism|In this paper, we trace the academic debate on the transition strategies that former socialist countries have adopted and implemented in evolving towards a market-oriented economy through a comprehensive review of the preceding literature. The debate has developed as an argument between two conflicting reform philosophies, namely, radicalism and gradualism. Despite that a quarter century that has passed since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we found that academic discussion regarding these two reform alternatives has continued, and there is no sign of convergence. We also found a close relationship between the debate attitudes and the literature attributes, such as authorship, research contents and publication media.
P30|Socialist Legacies of Personnel and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies: An Analytical Review|Socialist legacies of personnel / human resource management are examined, reviewing 83 studies based on the context of transition from the socialist management to the modern management in European transition economies. The results show that the studies tend to exhibit a relatively strong preference to explain transitions accompanied by institutional legacies of socialist personnel management as associated with the traditional industrial sectors inherited from the socialist period. Cultural legacies are relatively focused widely throughout all European transition economies, but EU accession of these countries gives negative impact on maintaining studies on Socialist-specific cultural legacies. Socialist legacies in personnel and human resource management remain strong contextual characteristics in European transition economies.
P30|Political Volatility and Capital Markets: Evidence from Transition|This paper looks at the effects of political volatility in transition economies to ascertain how nascent political institutions affect fledgling capital markets. Asymmetric (GJR) GARCH modeling of monthly data was taken for 21 transition economies on financial volatility, political volatility, and monetary policy to test the drivers of financial volatility in transition. The key implication from these results is that political stability needs to be tended to both in the formal realm and the informal realm in order to avoid potentially damaging financial volatility. The need for consistent political institutions remains in transition economies as much as in developed countries.
P30|Fluctuation of Yuan/Dollar: Time Series Co Integration Analysis|In this era of new revolution of globalization and trade liberalization, exchange rates (ER) are one of the fundamental factors in international trade. This research focus on the determinants of trade i.e. Import, export, industrial growth, consumption level and oil prices fluctuation brings changes in exchange rate and its influence eventually on balance of payments in China. Data was collected on annual basis for thirty one years. By applying cointegration, it is estimated that there exist a long run relationship. China has significantly and correctly signs the short run dynamic. Exchange rate does not Granger cause balance of payment and balance of payment does not granger cause exchange rate. In conclusion, we found that the balance of trade, economic growth factors and oil price brings changes in exchange rate. Furthermore, we found the unilateral or bilateral effect of balance of payment and exchange rate. Moreover, apart from the selected determinants of trade, there are many other macroeconomic factors (inflation rates, interest rates, speculation, change in competitiveness, relative strength of other currencies and government debt) and microeconomic factors (political stability position and regional relationship) which may also play role in determination of exchange rates.
P30|Dynamics of Co-integration: A Story from United Kingdom`s Economy|Exchange rate is a significant factor in international macroeconomics; it affects are witnessed in the recent past on different currency crises in many economies and has attracted focus of policy makers around the globe. But the question is can the exchange rate policy really be used to influence trade flows? Whether we really can say what effect on trade balance a depreciation or appreciation of exchange will have? Is the connection between exchange rate, trade balance and balance of payments is strong enough for us to be able to base a policy on it? So, this research study focuses on the above questions for United Kingdom (UK) economy. Data of defined variables is collected on annual basis for thirty one years. By applying cointegration, it is estimated that there exist a long run relationship. UK has significantly and correctly signs the short run dynamic. Exchange rate does not Granger cause balance of payment and balance of payment does not granger cause exchange rate. In conclusion, we found that determinatnts of balance of trade affect the exchange rates, also, these rates have an considerable effect (positive or negative) on balance of payments.
P30|Migrant well-being after leaving transition economies|Most comparative research suggests that immigrants from post-socialist countries earn less than natives, work in jobs for which they are overqualified, and may experience unhappiness compared with natives, other immigrants, and non-migrants. In contrast, one study presents causal evidence which shows that moving from transition economies to live in the West increases the incomes, life satisfaction, and freedom perceptions of those who move. Credibly assessing whether leaving transition economies improves movers’ quality of life remains a challenging empirical question.
P30|George Orwell and the Incoherence of Democratic Socialism|George Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen-Eighty Four were intended to advocate democratic socialism by portraying undemocratic forms of socialism as totalitarian. For Orwell, democracy was a political institution which would limit the abuse of power. But there are several problems with democratic socialism which ensure its failure. In Orwell's novel A Clergyman's Daughter, Orwell's views of economics and politics are inconsistent and conflicting in a way that ensures democratic socialism will not succeed on Orwell's terms. Democratic socialism in general is criticized according to F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom and John Jewkes's The New Ordeal by Planning, whose arguments differ crucially from those against market socialism by Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny. An economic analysis of the political institutions of democratic socialism shows that democratic socialism must necessarily fail for political (not economic) reasons even if nobody in authority has ill-intentions or abuses their power.
P30|Two Opposing Economic-Literary Critiques of Socialism: George Orwell Versus Eugen Richter and Henry Hazlitt|Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four criticized totalitarian forms of socialism from a Public Choice perspective, assuming that socialism would work as an economic system as long as the proper political institutions were in place to curb the potential for the abuse of power. This is contrasted with two novels by others who took the opposite approach: Richter's Pictures of the Socialistic Future and Hazlitt's Time Will Run Back. These two assumed that the political implementation of socialism would be perfect but that socialism would necessarily turn totalitarian because of the problem of economic calculation. These novels assumed away the Public Choice problem of institutions and the abuse of power and focused on the political implications of socialism as a purely economic system. Contrasting these two sets of novels shows how the Austrian and Public Choice schools criticize socialism in two entirely different ways.
P30|George Orwell as a Public Choice Economist|George Orwell is famous for his two final fictions, Animal Farm (Orwell 1945a) and Nineteen Eighty-Four (Orwell 1949a). These two works are sometimes understood to defend capitalism against socialism. But as Orwell was a committed socialist, this could not have been his intention. Orwell's criticisms were directed not against socialism per se but against the Soviet Union and similarly totalitarian regimes. Instead, these fictions were intended as Public Choice-style investigations into which political systems furnished suitable incentive structures to prevent the abuse of power. This is demonstrated through a study of Orwell's non-fiction works, where his opinions and intentions are more explicit.
P30|Two Opposing Economic-Literary Critiques of Socialism: George Orwell Versus Eugen Richter and Henry Hazlitt|Orwell's famous fictions, Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four criticized totalitarian forms of socialism from a Public Choice perspective, assuming that socialism would work as an economic system as long as the proper political institutions were in place to curb the potential for the abuse of power. This is contrasted with two novels by others who took the opposite approach: Richter's Pictures of the Socialistic Future and Hazlitt's Time Will Run Back. These two assumed that the political implementation of socialism would be perfect but that socialism would necessarily turn totalitarian because of the problem of economic calculation. These novels assumed away the Public Choice problem of institutions and the abuse of power and focused on the political implications of socialism as a purely economic system. Contrasting these two sets of novels shows how the Austrian and Public Choice schools criticize socialism in two entirely different ways.
P30|La corruption : Fondements microéconomiques et Déterminents macroéconomiques<BR>[Corruption: Microeconomic Foundations of Macroeconomic Determinants]|The purpose of this article is to study the relationship between the economic sphere and the phenomenon of corruption was also seen by some economists as Leff (1964), Huntington (1968), Him (1985), Beck and Maher (1986) who say that the relationship is beneficial to the economy as it would improve economic efficiency. The work of Mauro (1995), which form the first empirical estimates on the same query. According to this author, the harmful nature of corruption on investment and economic growth and hence the vital role played by the state in the development of nations. We finally focus on the determinants of corruption i.e. the micro-economic determinants and macroeconomic determinants.
P30|В Память Об Академике Богомолове<BR>[In Memory of Academician Bogomolov]|The paper shows some of the most important points in life and work of Oleg Timofeevich Bogomolov, a great Russian economist and an Academician of AS USSR and RAS. Even though in his 88-year long life Oleg Timofeevich was considered one of the best Soviet and Russian scientists and awarded many prizes, his work has so far not had corresponding social impact. This especially applies to his opinions and papers written in the period of perestroika and market reforms, when his warnings were largely ignored, although they proved to be prophetic. В статье показаны основные даты жизни и работы Олега Тимофеевича Богомолова, великого русского экономиста, академика АН СССР и РАН. Хотя в течение почти 88-летней жизни Олег Тимофеевич слыл за одного из лучших советских и российских учёных, даже приобрел не мало признаний и наград, его работы как правило не имели должного общественного влияния. Особенно подчёркиваются его положения и работы в период перестройки и рыночных реформ, когда его предупреждения не были приняты, хотя и оказались пророческими.
P30|Egypt: The Political Economy of a Vicious Circle - Egitto: la political economy di un circolo vizioso|The current article attempts to outline a medium-term political economy framework to interpret the recent revolutionary and counter-revolutionary waves in Egypt. The January 2011 revolution has, among its many determinants, deep socio-economic roots which must be traced back to the failure of the economic recipes proposed by Egypt’s leaders since 1952. All of Egypt’s presidents have skilfully exploited a particular form of economic rent, defined here as “geopolitical rent”, in order to avoid tackling the structural imbalances of the Egyptian economy. On the contrary, they have allowed for the enlargement and consolidation vested economic interests by different sectors of the state apparatus in symbiosis with a crony bourgeois class, while the population has been kept politically quiescent through populist policies of subsidization and mass public hiring. The unsustainability of this approach has come to the fore when a spiralling debt forced the country into a structural adjustment process, and the events of January 2011 must be red against this background. The recipe proposed by the current counterrevolutionary government of general Abdel Fattah al-Sisi doesn’t constitute a novelty, and the status quo it has restored is much more unstable than it seems. - L’articolo tenta di delineare un quadro interpretativo di medio termine per analizzare le recenti ondate rivoluzionarie e contro-rivoluzionarie verificatesi in Egitto. Le radici della rivoluzione del gennaio 2011 possono essere rintracciate, pur se non esclusivamente, all’interno di profondi fattori di natura socio-economica riconducibili al fallimento delle ricette economiche adottate a partire dal 1952. I presidenti avvicendatisi in questi decenni hanno abilmente sfruttato un genere molto particolare di rendita economica, qui definita “rendita geopolitica”, evitando di affrontare i disequilibri strutturali dell’economia egiziana. Al contrario, essi hanno permesso a numerosi settori dell’apparato statale di estendere e consolidare i propri interessi in simbiosi con una borghesia parassitaria, mentre l’acquiescenza politica della popolazione è stata garantita da politiche economiche populiste di sussidio ai beni di consumo e assunzioni di massa nella pubblica amministrazione. L’insostenibilità di questo approccio è emersa nel momento in cui la crescita esponenziale del debito pubblico ha costretto il Paese ad avviare un processo di aggiustamento strutturale, ed è in questo contesto che vanno letti gli avvenimenti del gennaio 2011. Le ricette economiche proposte dall’attuale governo contro-rivoluzionario del generale Abdel Fattah al-Sisi non apportano novità significative in questo senso, e lo status quo restaurato dal nuovo regime egiziano è più instabile di quanto sembri.
P30|Bright past, shady future? Past and potential future export performance of CEE countries in a comparative perspective| This article examines the reasons behind the remarkable export performance of transition economies in the last two decades. Following Redding and Venables and Fugazza, we decompose export performance into the gains due to the advantageous access to foreign markets and export gains on the basis of internal supply capacity. We find that size of the economy, inward FDI penetration, most notably in the manufacturing sector, export unit values, denoting the structural changes of CEECs' exports, and the quality of institutions and infrastructure had a significant positive impact on exporting countries' supply capacity, while productivity had a negative impact. The latter is mostly due to unfavourable trends in ULC since EU accession. Unlike in EU-15 and BRIC countries, internal supply capacity is becoming decreasingly important as a basis of CEECs' export performance. At the same time, trends in cost competitiveness are worsening relative to competing countries, while benefits of EU accession have been mostly exploited. This may compromise the CEECs' future export growth.
P30|The Future Of Fdi In South Eastern European Countries: Messages From New Eu Member States|This paper looks at the interlinking of inward FDI, EU accession, and transition-related structural reform processes, and identifies the largest lags of SEE-6 countries in EU accession and transition processes, whose removal would have a positive impact on inward FDI. The analysis is based on EBRD Transition Indicators, the World Bank Doing Business Index, and the World Bank Governance Index. We find an obvious correlation of inward FDI, transition, and EU accession processes of NMS-10 countries and claim that SEE-6 countries will broadly follow the same pattern: their relative position as FDI recipients will gradually improve along with the progress of EU accession and transition processes. The analysis identifies the following main gaps of the SEE-6 in these processes: (i) in terms of economic system development - enterprise restructuring and governance, and sectoral reforms in energy, infrastructure, capital markets, and private equity; (ii) in terms of the governance of economy and society at large - regulatory quality and rule of law; and (iii) in terms of the business environment - dealing with construction permits, enforcing contracts, and registering property. Progress in narrowing down these gaps would mean a step forward in EU accession and transition, and consequently an improvement of SEE-6 countries’ positions as locations for inward FDI.
P30|Book Translations As Idea Flows: The Effects Of The Collapse Of Communism On The Diffusion Of Knowledge| We use book translations as a new measure of international idea flows and study the effects of Communism's collapse in Eastern Europe on these flows. Using novel data on 800,000 translations and difference-in-differences approaches, we show that while translations between Communist languages decreased by two thirds with the collapse, Western-to-Communist translations increased by a factor of 4 and quickly converged to Western levels. Convergence was more pronounced in the fields of applied and social sciences, and was more complete in Satellite and Baltic than in Soviet countries. We discuss how these patterns help us understand how repressive institutions and preferences towards Western European ideas shaped the international diffusion of knowledge.
P30|The impact of institutional volatility on financial volatility in transition economies : a GARCH family approach|The volatility of financial markets has been a relevant topic for transition economies, as the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union have seemingly en-dured high levels of volatility in their financial sectors during the transition process. But what have been the determinants of this financial volatility? This paper posits that institutional changes, and in particular the volatility of various crucial institutions, have been the major causes of financial volatility in transition. Examining 20 transition economies over various time-frames within the period 1993-2012, this paper applies the GARCH family of models to examine financial volatility as a function of institutional volatility. The results from the EGARCH and TGARCH modelling supports the thesis that more advanced and more stable institutions help to dampen financial sector volatility at their levels, while institutional volatility feeds through directly to financial sector volatility in transition. Keywords: institutions, financial sector, volatility, transition, GARCH, EGARCH, TGARCH JEL Codes: G20, O43, P30
P30|Cultural Policy In Transitional Economies: New Challenges|The article is dedicated to the new conditions of countries’ development in the post-crisis period. Challenges to the cultural and socio-economic policy during last decade were analyzed. Religious factors are offered to be considered as important mechanisms of solving transition period problems, and at the same time as the causes of many conflicts in the world. It was offered to include those factors as inevitable elements into modern policy making process.
P30|Female Labour Supply in the Czech Transition: Effects of the Work-Life Conciliation Policies|Czech conciliation policies, i.e. social, family and employment policies affecting households’ fertility and employment choices, have gone through dramatic changes since the 1989 transition to market economy. After a brief presentation of conciliation policies and practices before and after the transition, we focus on the 1995 Czech Parental Benefit reform and we evaluate its impact on mothers’ labour supply. The payment of parental benefits was extended to 4 years instead of 3 without an equivalent extension of the job protected parental leave, leaving to mothers the choice of either guaranteed employment or additional twelve months of benefits. We use difference-in-differences strategy of identification to assess the net effect of this reform on mother’s labour market participation. We find a sizeable and negative impact on mothers’ probability of return to work at the end of the parental leave.
P30|Bank privatization, finance, and growth|This paper examines whether privatizing state-owned banks improves finance and economic growth. To do so, we exploit regional banking variations in Russia induced by the idiosyncratic creation of “specialized banks” in the last years of the Soviet Union (1988–91) that were subsequently privatized. Starting in 1999 private banks including surviving spetsbanks emerged as an important source of external finance for private firms and households. We document that the regional concentration of spetsbanks in the early years of the Russian federation is orthogonal to economic fundamentals that are related to growth after the emergence of bank finance. Results indicate that while privatized banking increased lending significantly, it did not increase economic growth. However, privatization did increase growth when banks retained fewer political connections and when regional property rights were better protected, highlighting the importance of both factors.
P30|Bank valuation in new EU member countries|This paper studies the role of institutional reforms in affecting bank valuation in new European Union (EU) member countries. It takes advantage of the dynamic nature of institutional reforms in transition economies and explores the causal effects of those reforms on banks’ Tobin's Q over the period of 1997–2008. Using a difference-in-difference approach, the paper shows that Tobin's Q increases substantially after these countries reform their legal institutions and liberalize banking. However, it decreases after stock market reforms. After further examination of the interactive relationships between different reforms and bank valuation, it is observed that when the banking reform is well implemented, legal reform can have a stronger impact on banks’ Tobin's Q. On the other hand, banking reform and security market reform has a substitutive relationship. The analysis also suggests that foreign ownership, market power, and asset diversification significantly affect Tobin's Q. These results are robust even after simultaneously controlling for equity risk.
P30|Institutional development and bank stability: Evidence from transition countries|This paper takes advantage of the dynamic nature of institutional reforms in transition economies and explores the causal effects of those reforms on bank risk. Using a difference-in-difference approach, we show that banks’ financial stability increases substantially after these countries reform their legal institutions, liberalize banking, and restructure corporate governance. We also find that the effects of legal and governance reforms on bank risk may critically depend on the progress of banking reforms. A further examination of alternative risk measures reveals that the increases in financial stability among banks mainly come from the reduction of asset risk. Banks tend to have lower ROA volatility and fewer nonperforming loans after reforming the institutional environment. Finally, we split our sample into foreign and domestic banks and find that the enhancement of financial stability is more pronounced for domestic banks.
P30|The role of the state in resolving business disputes in China|In this paper, we follow the theoretical framework proposed by Djankov et al. (2003) to investigate the role of the state in resolving business disputes and its impact on enterprise performance. Using a survey of private enterprises in China, we first construct an index to quantify the power of the state vis-à-vis the market in resolving business disputes, and then find that enterprises located in regions where the government has a greater relative power enjoy better performance. Our results suggest that the regulatory state has played a positive role in the economic transition in China.
P30|The Construction Of A Questionnaire To Measure Self-Induced Concatenated Demotivation|"The concept of self-induced concatenated demotivation describes the ""chain"" of demotivational processes and interactions of employees, in the contexts of post-socialism, job characteristics, dominant forms of motivation and group cohesion in work organizations. The aim of the preliminary research was to construct a questionnaire to measure the concept of self-induced concatenated demotivation and the relations between its latent dimensions. The study included a “snowball“ sample of 196 participants aged 20 to 65, of both genders, with heterogeneous professions and degrees in education. Based on the results of factor analysis three latent dimensions have been obtained, that account for only 36% of the total variance of the manifest area of self-induced concatenated demotivation, which we have named: pessimism/rationalization, social orientation, the ability to evaluate other people. The questionnaire to measure self-induced concatenated demotivation of employees has proved to be a low but satisfactory reliable measuring instrument for all three dimensions of the concept"
P30|Interpreting Communist Systems and Their Differences in Operation and Transformation as Networks|Why some party-states collapse and others don't? Why some transformations are accompanied by economic crisis while others by economic growth? Are first political or economic transformation strategic alternatives? This paper comprises the essence of the author’s comparative research on party-state systems in Europe and Asia embodied in a comparative interactive party-state model interpreted as network. Networks evolve during the decision-making process formed by the tightly intertwined dependency and interest promotion relationships among actors in the party, the state, and the economy. The model also describes the structural background of the different operation and transformation of party-state systems as specific patterns of power distribution in the network forging the different ways and instruments of self-reproduction, and different sequence, speed and conditions of system transformation.
P30|急進主義 対 漸進主義－－移行戦略論争の体系的レビュー－－|旧社会主義諸国の移行戦略を巡る議論は，いまもなお脈々と続いている。本稿は，その本流である急進主義対漸進主義論争に寄与した先行研究135 点の体系的レビューを通じて，同論争の全体像を提示すると共に，これら先行研究の主張態度と文献属性の相関関係を検証した。その結果，主張態度という観点から，総じて急進主義派は一枚岩的であるのに対して，漸進主義派の内部では，反急速主義，段階主義，並びに双方の折衷的な見解を表明する3 つの研究者集団がほぼ拮抗している様が見出された。また，急進主義対漸進主義論争の枠内には止まりつつも，急進主義からも漸進主義からも一定の距離を置く，いわゆる中立派的な研究者集団の存在も確認された。更に，主張態度と文献属性の相関関係に関するクロス表分析及び質的選択モデルの回帰推定は，論争の背景像や今日に至る道筋を理解する上で，大変示唆に富んだ事実関係を明らかにした。
P30|Public perspective towards social impact of Chang E lunar probe program|TDuring the past decades, assessing the impact of technological project and related engineering has long been paid attention. The objective of this research is to investigate technological project and related engineering’s social impact through public perspective. The present article investigated the social impact of China’s Chang E Lunar Probe project by using Social Impact Assessment (SIA) methods, resulting from a research study conducted in 2012. SIA is a collective of the systematic methods used to investigate the influence of engineering, project or policy and to present their potential social impacts. A survey from public respondents indicated that public spoke highly of Chang E Probe on the whole. Furthermore, a factor analysis of the perspective of public perspective towards Chang E Lunar Probe project has discovered such impact were mainly assessed in four dimensions by public, these impacts were military impact, political impact, public support and educational impact. From the results obtained so far, it revealed that public perspective towards the political impact of the Chang E Probe varies from each other but unified when they assess Chang E’s military impact, meanwhile student’s perspective towards the educational impact of Chang E Probe was largely different from other publics.
P30|A kínai reformfolyamat politikai gazdaságtani logikája<BR>[The politico-economic logic of the Chinese reform process]|Kína az elmúlt több mint három évtizedben szegény, elmaradott országból a világgazdaság egyik legfontosabb szereplője lett. Szocialista rendszerét egy sajátos kapitalista rendszer váltotta fel, miközben politikai struktúrája lényegében változatlan maradt. A folyamatok során a vezetés mindvégig ügyelt arra, hogy a kommunista párt egyeduralmát semmi se veszélyeztethesse, ugyanakkor megfelelő források álljanak rendelkezésre hatalma megtartásához. A tanulmány a kínai reformfolyamatot politikai gazdaságtani szempontból vizsgálja, különös figyelmet szentelve az intézményi változásoknak. Bemutatja, milyen okok és tényezők álltak a reformok elindításának hátterében, milyen változások következtek be a szereplők érdekviszonyaiban a reformok előrehaladtával, és mire lehet számítani a reformok jövőjét illetően. Úgy tűnik, hogy a jelenlegi rendszer érdekviszonyai a reformok folytatása ellen hatnak, ellehetetlenítve a piacgazdaság intézményrendszerének további kiépítését. A járadékok és privilégiumok az elitet abban sem teszik érdekeltté, hogy komolyabb politikai reformokat hajtson végre, így a kialakuló csapdahelyzet megakadályozza az átmenet kiteljesedését. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: D72, P16, P26, P30.
P30|Making sense of China's Economic Slowdown|"This paper aims to review the factors inducing China's successful economic transformation, so as to find the causes of the subsequent economic slowdown, from the New Institutional Economics (NIE) viewpoint and the Marxian viewpoint, respectively. The former school is primarily concerned about the ""supply-side"" driver (changing rules of game for producers) of increasing economic output and efficiency, while the latter is basically sharing with the Marxian concern of the ""demand-side"" driver (an egalitarian pattern of income distribution which underpins mass-consumption) of increasing economic output and sustainability. NIE emphasize that unless a free and open market for ideas is created, China cannot sustain its economic growth or advance itself into a global centre of technological innovation or scientific discovery. However, this paper points out that the creation of an active market for ideas would not always guarantee the sustainability of economic growth, drawing the lessons from Japan's experiences. This paper suggests that it takes more or less several years to create an active market for ideas to transform to a new phase of post-industrialization. In addition, in the phase of post-industrialization, rapid product obsolescence is brought by severe competition in which rival firms are accelerating the introduction of competitive products to the market, which may expose innovative firms to fundamental uncertainty."
P30|Making sense of China's Economic Slowdown|"This paper aims to review the factors inducing China's successful economic transformation, so as to find the causes of the subsequent economic slowdown, from the New Institutional Economics (NIE) viewpoint and the Marxian viewpoint, respectively. The former school is primarily concerned about the ""supply-side"" driver (changing rules of game for producers) of increasing economic output and efficiency, while the latter is basically sharing with the Marxian concern of the ""demand-side"" driver (an egalitarian pattern of income distribution which underpins mass-consumption) of increasing economic output and sustainability. NIE emphasize that unless a free and open market for ideas is created, China cannot sustain its economic growth or advance itself into a global centre of technological innovation or scientific discovery. However, this paper points out that the creation of an active market for ideas would not always guarantee the sustainability of economic growth, drawing the lessons from Japan's experiences. This paper suggests that it takes more or less several years to create an active market for ideas to transform to a new phase of post-industrialization. In addition, in the phase of post-industrialization, rapid product obsolescence is brought by severe competition in which rival firms are accelerating the introduction of competitive products to the market, which may expose innovative firms to fundamental uncertainty."
P30|Accountability in One-Party Government: Rethinking the Success of Chinese Economic Reform|This paper develops a new argument for the Chinese Communist Party´s success in implementing the post-Mao economic reform. We build a three-player political agency model, showing that the credibility of the threats of deposition by the selectorate and of revolts by citizens are both crucial factors in determining policy outcomes in the authoritarian political system. As the effective size of the selectorate and the cost of revolution vary dramatically across time, our results explain why different types of economic policy arise in different periods in China.
P30|Drama of the Bulgarian National Character during the Years of Transition|The character of a nation is a system of sustainable and lasting repetitive stereotypes that create a bright /even unique/ but conscious, public outspokenness, the distinctive features, which the representatives of a nation posses, manifested in specific social activities. This study examined the achievements in character development of the Bulgarian nation in recent decades. The author argues, that in the presence of a strong state, developed economy and a functional system for the production of cultural products, the Bulgarian national character observes a peak phase (from the 60s to the 80s of the twentieth century) in the development of its democratic potential. Politically and ideologically unprepared (and chaotically executed) the transition to democracy after November 10, 1989 in Bulgaria, creates a situation, where the Bulgarian national character experiences a civilization breakdown. Rapid deterioration of the socio-economic situation in the country led to unprecedented impoverishment of the broad masses and created significant changes in the thoughts, feelings, emotions, motivations and forms of adequate human behavior in both the private and the public life of the population. Thus the previously existing condition of comfort has been largely lost and the individual is faced with unfamiliar alternatives for planning of their personal and family future.
P30|Stanowiony i spontaniczny lad gospodarczy w procesie transformacji systemowej Polski i bylej NRD|Monografia powstala w ramach finansowanego przez Narodowe Centrum Nauki projektu badawczego NN 112258439 „Koncepcje stanowionego i spontanicznego ladu gospodarczego w procesie transformacji systemowej gospodarki Polski i bylej NRD”. Poprzez przyjecie relatywnie dlugiego horyzontu czasowego analizy 1990-2010 spelniony zostal postulat powrotu historii do badan ladu gospodarczego. Nie jest to bowiem jedynie statyczna analiza roznych aktualnie istniejacych typow gospodarki rynkowej (variety of capitalism), tylko badania o charakterze par exellence dynamicznym. Poprzez empiryczne badanie sprzezenia zwrotnego pomiedzy stanowionymi i spontanicznymi elementami ladu na przykladzie wymienionych gospodarek oraz wspolwystepujacych z tym przemianami rynkowego ladu gospodarczego w badanym dwudziestoletnim podjeto probe wniesienia wkladu do konkretyzacji wysoce abstrakcyjnych teorii ladu stanowionego (Euckena) oraz ladu spontanicznego (von Hayeka). Wyrazamy przekonanie, iz stanowi to istotny i potrzebny krok w kierunku podwyzszenia ich walorow aplikacyjnych dla polityki gospodarczej.
P30|Changes In Informal Institutions In Poland And Transition Countries|The research paper presents institutional systems of economies in the following transforming countries: Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia. The article aims at indicating the changes which have taken place in informal institutions' structures since the early nineties. It also attempts to determine how informal institutions are supporting formal institutions. Heading towards building new institutional systems, transforming countries face a barrier of slowly evolving informal institutions. A mismatch between institutional struc-tures can be noticed in transforming countries. Low level of trust in people, re-sistance to new ideas, strong attachment to traditional behavioural patterns and excessive role of “connections”, relatively low level of self-expression, high expec-tations towards the state and its welfare functions, and low social activity within the society, can be observed. The institutional changes in informal components have been presented using data from World Values Survey, CEPII and G.Hofstede research.
P30|Смещение Неоклассической Экономической Парадигмы ‒ Предпосылка Повышения Качества Макроэкономического Образования<BR>[Removal of the neoclassical economic paradigm – condition for the improving of macroeconomic education]|Russian. В работе расматривается необходимость смещения современной господствующей неоклассической экономической теории. Показывается, что она с предпосылками равного качества и значения всех деятельности, и всемогущества саморегулирующего рынка, не имеет возможности и сил объяснить факторы экономического развития, появления и расширения бедности. Причём, это относится как к одной отдельно взятой стране, так и к международным обстоятельствам. В качестве новой парадигмы, которая должна заменить неоклассическую, выдвигается Другой канон, обосновывающийся на многовековой традиции и биологических метафорах. Он происходит из эпохи Возрождения, был подтверждён многовековым опытом современных развитых экономик, через применение политик которые в современном мире запрещают применять неразвитым странам, пока они сами их применяют. В отличие от неоклассических политик, воплощённых в (нео)либеральной политике Вашингтонского консенсуса, приводящих к дезиндустриализации, политики Другого канона, обоснованные на политиках образца плана Маршалла, приводят наоборот к индустриализации как предпосылке выхода неразвитых стран из кризиса и бедности. Смещение неоклассической экономической парадигмы появляется в этом смысле как предпосылка повышения качества макроэкономического образования и должна обеспечить лучшее понимание экономических проблем и процессов. English. The article considers a need for displacement of the contemporary neoclassical economic theory. This theory and its presumptions of equal quality and importance of all the economic branches, as well as the power of the self-regulating market, have proven unable to explain the economic development factors, nor the appearance of poverty and its growth. This has been demonstrated in cases of individual countries, as well in the international context. The Other Canon, based on many centuries’ tradition and biological metaphors, represents a new paradigm, which is suggested as a substitute for the neoclassical one. It dates back to the Renaissance period, and it has proved successful in many centuries’ experiences of the contemporary developed countries. In the contemporary world, the developed countries forbid the underdeveloped one from using these policies, at the same time applying them themselves. The neoclassical policies embodied within the Washington Consensus neoliberal policies lead to deindustrialization. On the contrary, the Other Canons policies, based on the policies such as Marshall Plan, lead to industrialization, which is the main requisite for the underdeveloped countries to find a way out of crisis and poverty. The dismissal of the neoclassical economic paradigm appears to be the condition for an improvement of macroeconomic education and is ought to secure a better understanding of economic problems and processes.
P30|Governance and Developing Asia: Concepts, Measurements, Determinants, and Paradoxes|Recent years have seen the emergence of a considerable volume of literature on governance and its role in economic and social development of a country. This paper provides a critical review of the literature. This review brings into the open a number of serious conceptual, measurement, and data issues as well as the existence of an Asian governance paradox—i.e., a general disjunction between growth and governance in most Asian economies. This paradox seems to suggest that much of the current policy discussion on governance is essentially faith-based. It calls into question the quality of the existing data and the analytical basis of the policy orthodoxy.
P30|Institutional Quality – Determinant Of Transition Performances In Central And Eastern European Nations|This study attempts to investigate the impact of institutions on the effectiveness of transition results achieved by emerging economies from Central and Eastern Europe. After more than two decades significant economic and social disparities have arisen between these nations. Consequently, the relationship between institutional efficiency and progress is investigated using a multiple linear regression model. Given the Romanian poor transition performances, the purpose of this paper is to highlight that even if Romania had followed a shock therapy, the resultant of institutional interaction at formal-informal level would have been the same. As results emphasize, the inertial character of informal values inherited from the past faded the echo of good formal initiatives. In the light of such circumstances, performances of countries such as Poland or the Czech Republic become not only understandable, but far from being reached in Romania.
P30|Diffusion of Innovation in Service Firms (Hungarian versus Slovakian Business Service Firms)|The current global financial and economic crisis has brought into prominence the patterns of economic modernisation of post-socialist countries in the Central and Eastern European (CEE) region. One of the key factors of successful modernisation and sustainability of competitiveness in these economies is the firms’ innovative capability. The paper aims to map and assess the various forms of organisational innovations and their drivers based on original company survey data collected in Hungary and Slovakia among firms operating in the Knowledge Intensive Business Services sector in 2008 and 2009.
P30|What Does “Change of System” Mean?|The study discusses the concepts of capitalism, socialism, democracy and change of the system, which are since long interesting for the author. When discussing these fundamental problems of the post-socialist transformation, the distance from the daily events is maintained, though writing of this study is inspired by concrete political events. The main objective of the study is to present a mean and a method of approach. How can a person approach the positive definition of the social structure? How can the positive and negative approach be kept separate in the theoretical analysis? These are not easy problems and their solving is not a usual task. The study gives many examples of these theoretical tasks. To distinguish the less significant daily attempts from the really big historic transformation, fundamental facts of the change of the system are reminded, about how the capitalist economy and parliament democracy have emerged.
P30|"What Does ""Change of System"" Mean?"|"The article proposes an approach to the analysis of social change and contributes to the clarification of concepts of economic policy. It deals in particular with the notion of ""change of system"". The author considers positive and normative aspects of the analysis of capitalist and socialist systems. The necessary and sufficient conditions for the system to be changed are introduced, their fulfillment is discussed drawing upon the historical and statistical data. The article describes both economic and political peculiarities of the transitional period in different countries, especially in Eastern Europe."
P30|A puha költségvetési korlát I<BR>[The soft budget constraint I]|A tanulmány javaslatot tesz a puha költségvetési korlát fogalmának tisztázására. A fogalmat széles körben alkalmazzák mind a szocialista és posztszocialista, mind pedig a piaci gazdaságok elemzése során. A szerzők által megfogalmazott értelmezés fel öleli a puha költségvetési korlát jelenségcsoportjával kapcsolatos megközelítések zömét, és egyben osztályozza az okokat és a következményeket (I. rész). Ezen az értelmezésen alapul a témáról szóló elméleti irodalom áttekintése, valamint összeve tése a dinamikus elkötelezettség problématikájával foglalkozó más közgazdasági irodalommal (II. rész). Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: P10, P20, P30, P40, G20, G30, H60, H70.
P30|A puha költségvetési korlát - II<BR>[The soft budget constraint II]|A tanulmány javaslatot tesz a puha költségvetési korlát fogalmának tisztázására. A fogalmat széles körben alkalmazzák mind a szocialista és posztszocialista, mind pedig a piaci gazdaságok elemzése során. A szerzők által megfogalmazott értelmezés fel öleli a puha költségvetési korlát jelenségcsoportjával kapcsolatos megközelítések zömét, és egyben osztályozza az okokat és a következményeket (I. rész). Ezen az értelmezésen alapul a témáról szóló elméleti irodalom áttekintése, valamint összeve tése a dinamikus elkötelezettség problematikájával foglalkozó más közgazdasági iro dalommal (II. rész). Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód:P10, P20, P30, P40, G20, G30, H60, H70.
