P31|Globalization and state capitalism: Assessing Vietnam's accession to the WTO|What do state-owned enterprises (SOEs) do? How do they respond to market incentives? Can we expect substantial efficiency gains from trade liberalization in economies with a strong presence of SOEs? Using a new dataset of Vietnamese firms we document a set of empirical regularities distinguishing SOEs from private firms. Then we empirically study the effect of the 2007 WTO accession on selection, competition, and productivity. Our results show that WTO entry is associated with higher probability of exit, lower firm profitability, and substantial increases in productivity for private firms but not for SOEs. Our estimates suggest that the overall productivity gains would have been about 40% larger in a counterfactual Vietnamese economy without SOEs. We highlight some economic mechanisms possibly driving these findings through the lenses of a model of trade with heterogeneous private and state-owned firms. The model suggests that political/regulatory barriers to entry and access to credit are key drivers of the different response of SOEs to trade liberalization. Further empirical tests broadly validate these insights.
P31|The Unfinished Business of State-owned Enterprise Reform in the People’s Republic of China|This paper examines the progress of state-owned enterprise (SOE) reform in the People’s Republic of China. After defining SOEs and considering their scope of operation within the PRC economy, the focus of the paper is on the major reform waves that followed the deterioration of SOE profitability in the early 1990s. The oil industry serves to illustrate industry-specific SOE reform trends as well as the latest reform developments. Until today, a stable, successful, long-term arrangement of state ownership has remained elusive. SOE reform is incomplete as long as a number of fundamental governance issues are not resolved. But these are difficult to resolve in the context of Party-controlled state-owned enterprises.
P31|Corporate Ownership and Managerial Turnover in China and Eastern Europe: A Comparative Meta-Analysis|In this paper, we perform a meta-analysis of 736 estimates extracted from 31 previous studies to compare China and Eastern Europe from the viewpoint of the relationship between corporate ownership and managerial turnover. Our results strongly suggest the presence of asymmetric circumstances between the two: Namely, in Eastern Europe, private outside investors and large shareholders exert a positive influence on managerial discipline of the companies they invest in, and the government is also actively involved in the corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. In contrast, the Chinese government and the Communist Party of China have such significant control over companies as corporate owners that private shareholders only have limited influence over top management. In this sense, Chinese firms are more likely than their East European counterparts to face a greater problem in corporate governance.
P31|Socialist Legacies and Human Resource Management in European Transition Economies : An Analytical Survey|This paper takes up the human resource management studies targeting European transition economies (ETEs) in the context of transition economies and empirically examines the relationship between the existing studies, which discuss the institutional and cultural legacies of their socialist period, and the attributes of the literature. This analytical survey clarifies that the major studies in human resource management in ETEs still keep focus on the old socialist legacies, particularly in traditional industries, and that the socialist institutional legacies are actively and continuously discussed in ETEs to understand the diversity of European HRM, though there is a possibility that the divergence theory based on cultural legacies may become inapplicable in accordance with their deepening integration with the EU economy.
P31|Digital economy and development: an empirical study on motorcycle driver jobs in Uganda|This study investigates how the digital economy benefits motorcycle taxi drivers in Uganda. It focuses on three motorcycle related businesses connected the digital economy and studies the impact of the digital economy on drivers’ gross profit. The results show that the digital economy directly enhances the financial capability of motorcycle drivers and their work efficiency. Likewise, it indirectly creates greater demand for motorcycle drivers in the market, including for motorcycle taxi drivers connected to motorcycle taxi app platforms and e-commerce motorcycle delivery drivers. Another crucial point for the motorcycle taxi drivers to benefit from the digital economy is the enhancement of their employability skills.
P31|Can a Tiger Change Its Stripes? Reform of Chinese State-Owned Enterprises in the Penumbra of the State|The majority of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in China were privatized through ownership reforms over the last two decades. Using a comprehensive dataset of all medium and large enterprises in China between 1998 and 2013, we show that privatized SOEs continue to benefit from government support relative to private enterprises. Compared to private firms that were never state-owned, privatized SOEs are favored by low interest loans and government subsidies. These differences are more salient with the Chinese government’s trillion-dollar stimulus package introduced after the 2008 global financial crisis. Moreover, both SOEs and privatized SOEs significantly under-perform in profitability compared to private firms. Nevertheless there are clear improvements in performance post-privatization. The tiger can change its stripes; however, the government’s behavior seems to be sticky.
P31|State-owned firms behind China’s corporate debt|While China’s overall debt-to-GDP ratio is not particularly high, its non-financial corporate debt relative to GDP is higher than in other major economies. State-owned enterprises account for over three quarters of that debt with a size exceeding GDP. This paper provides insights into the size of debt, leverage and debt service burden by various non-financial SOE groupings including by size, extent of state ownership, level of the owner, broad and detailed sector and region. Although the debt stock of local SOEs increased the fastest, firms under government agencies leveraged up more quickly and their debt service burden also grew most rapidly. SOEs in services industries increased their debt fastest, in particular in social services, transportation, real estate and construction. In turn, warehousing and real estate firms have the highest leverage. Firms in the three provinces of Xinjiang, Shanxi and Qinghai rank among the top five in all the three indicators of debt to revenues, leverage and debt service burden. Large SOEs owe most debt and leveraged up, while small and medium-size ones reduced their leverage. The surge in the debt service burden of small SOEs coincided with an increase in state assets in this group of firms. Sector-wise, state assets increased most in competitive industries. Empirical analysis shows that higher leverage and labour productivity are more conducive to a surge in SOE debt. Such surges appear to be triggered by falling interest costs, pointing to the role for easy monetary conditions in the rapid SOE debt accumulation. Recent corporate governance reforms of SOEs will likely act as disciplining device on SOE borrowing.
P31|Evaluation de la performance des institutions de microfinancement (IMF) : étude de cas des IMF de la région MENA<BR>[Performance evaluation of microfinance institutions (MFIs): a case study of MFIs in the MENA Region]|This paper is about analyzing the performance of MFIs. In the microfinance sector, the definition of performance varies according to the purpose of the MFI : Is it to reach the maximum of the poor, or to achieve sustainability and financial performance ? The framework for analyzing the performance of MFIs has become a very broad field thanks to the remarkable growth experienced by the microfinance sector. In this work we chose the case of the MENA region. To be done we have to apply the DEA method. The study shows that the efficiency of the MFIs studied varies according to their legal status.
P31|La microfinance dans la région MENA entre performance financière et performance sociale : étude de cas de 18 IMF<BR>[Microfinance in the MENA region between financial performance and social performance : a case study of 18 MFIs]|This paper is about analyzing the performance of MFIs. Our study focuses on Arab MFIs in the MENA region. We chose 18 MFIs from 7 Arab countries in the MENA region namely : Tunisia ; Morocco ; Egypt ; Palestine ; Jordan ; Lebanon and Yemen. Our goal is to answer the following questions : Are Arab MFIs in the MENA region performing well ? What is the orientation of these institutions ? To answer these questions we followed a methodology that brings together two parties. The first step involves using the DEA method to evaluate the performance of the MFIs in our sample. The second step is to apply the PCA (principal component analysis) on the efficiency scores obtained from the DEA method, in order to determine the orientation of each entity examined.
P31|State capitalism, economic systems and the performance of state owned firms|In this paper, we pursue two related research questions. First, we enquire whether state owned enterprises (SOEs) perform better than privately owned firms in a large variety of emerging markets. To test this, we develop a unique dataset using firm-level data from the World Bank Enterprise Survey (WBES), resulting in a sample of over 50,000 firms from 57 understudied countries including emerging capitalist, former socialist and state capitalist ones. Our results suggest that SOEs do display productivity advantages over private firms in these understudied economies. Our second research question asks whether the performance of state-owned firms in these understudied countries is context specific, namely whether performance depends on the institutional system to which a country is classified. We refer to these systems as configurations. In particular, we are interested in whether state owned firms perform better in “state capitalist” countries including China and Vietnam. We find empirical support for the argument that the “state led” configuration provides better institutional support for the ownership advantages of SOEs than others.
P31|Misallocations go a long way: evidence from firm-level data|We analyze the link between resource misallocation and subsequent long-run economic growth. We use two unique and novel sources of data for Poland and measure misallocation inherited from the period of central planning, i.e. period where input prices did not determine the use of inputs at firm, industry and country level. We assess sectoral, regional and cohort dimension of the inputs misallocation. We then show that undercapitalization was more prevalent that overcapitalization, and that it was due mostly to the firm and sector level variation in factor inputs. Given this insight, subsequent reallocation of the resources required shifting of inputs not only between firms, but also between sectors: a process which is relatively more prone to frictions due to specialization and information. When analyzing the link to the rate of growth once market mechanisms were reinstated, we find that regions with more misaligned firms (especially in terms of undercapitalization) experienced lower subsequent economic growth. This result proves highly robust, even three decades since the market mechanisms were reinstated.
P31|Structural change and misallocation. Firm-level evidence from Poland|Early transition literature linked large number of firm failures with the inability to overcome the pre-transition misallocation of resources, i.e. the inadequate capital-labor ratio. We look at the link between misallocation and firm survival using a rich firm-level dataset of over 1600 manufacturing plants established in a centrally planned economy after 1945. Our duration models include the standard Olley-Pakes misallocation measures as well as firm-level counterfactual level of capital that takes into account the present day market allocation and productivity. We show that i) misallocation was rather a firm-level than sector-level phenomenon and more importantly ii) it did not have a sizeable effect on the actual firm survival. Moreover, privatization tends to be negatively related to firm survival. This may imply both inappropriate self-selection into privatization programs and possibly inadequate implementation of the privatization.
P31|Strengthened State Capitalism: Nationalized Firms in China|We examine the nationalization of listed firms in China. Using a manually collected data set of 115 cases of ownership transfer from private to state control, we find that nationalization is positively associated with firm performance. When we analyze potential mechanisms through which nationalization may affect firm performance, we find a positive effect on benefits in the form of market power, government subsidies and bank financing. We also identify significant costs in the form of a higher tax burden, higher employment costs, and higher levels of corporate donations following nationalization. Finally, we show that weak local institutions exacerbate the influence nationalization has on firm performance and the benefits and costs tied to a shift to state control. These findings shed light on the effects when the government actively takes a more prominent role in the economy by becoming a controlling shareholder in large companies.
P31|Ownership Concentration and Firm Performance in European Emerging Economies: A Meta-Analysis|This paper aims to perform a large-scale meta-analysis to examine the relationship between ownership concentration and firm performance in emerging economies of Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. A meta-synthesis of 1517 estimates collected from 69 previous studies indicated the presence of a statistically significant and positive effect of ownership concentration on firm performance. The synthesized effect size, however, is only modest at best. A meta-regression analysis conducted to identify the factors underlying the small effect size revealed that differences in target industries, estimation periods, design of ownership variables, data sources, estimators, and choices of control variables could have had systematic and profound effects on the empirical results presented in previous studies. We have also noted that publication selection bias is strongly suspected in this research field, and that, due to the magnitude of this bias, existing studies cannot be expected to provide genuine evidence regarding the effect of ownership concentration on firm performance in European emerging economies. Further empirical studies are required to identify the true effect in this region.
P31|International Presence of the Japanese Study of Russian and East European Economies|In this article, I examine the oversea activities of Japanese researchers in the field of Russian and East European economic studies based on objective data and offer several suggestions for improving their presence in the international academic community. The presence of Japanese scholars of Russian and East European economies as measured by the number of relevant articles published in international journals is still marginal at best, despite their high participation rates in academic conferences abroad. This may partly be due to the fact that many Japanese researchers are not effectively utilizing available international resources. Furthermore, although many of the works produced by Japanese experts have important implications in the research field, only a handful of them are submitted to international journals. In this and many other respects, there is still much room for enhancing the international status of the Japanese study of Russian and East European economies.
P31|Tax Policy and Toxic Housing Bubbles in China|This paper explores the effects of a government tax policy in a growth model with economic transition and toxic housing bubbles applied to China. Such a policy combines taxing entrepreneurs with a one-time redistribution to workers in the same period. Under the tax policy, we find that the welfare improvement for workers is non-monotonic. In particular, there exists an optimal tax at which social welfare is maximized. Moreover, we consider the welfare effects of setting the tax at its optimum. We show that the tax policy can be welfare-enhancing, compare to the case without active policies. The optimal tax may also yield a higher level of welfare than the case even without housing bubbles. Finally, we calibrate the model to China. Our quantitative results show that the optimal tax rate is about 23 percent, and social welfare is significantly improved with such a tax policy.
P31|Capital Structure and Oligarch Ownership|This study examines the effects of oligarch ownership on corporate capital structures. Using panel data from Ukraine, I find that oligarch-owned companies employ significantly more debt and liabilities than their peers. However, there is no direct relation between oligarch ownership and target capital structure. Whereas the determinants of target leverage are similar across all owners, differences in firm characteristics also have a fairly small effect. I show that larger leverage is due to better access to debt, which results in lower rebalancing costs and faster restructurings of oligarch-owned companies. The findings clearly suggest that oligarchs benefit from the accumulated advantages.
P31|Tax Policy and Toxic Housing Bubbles in China|This paper explores the effects of a government tax policy in a growth model with economic transition and toxic housing bubbles applied to China. Such a policy combines taxing entrepreneurs with a one-time redistribution to workers in the same period. Under the tax policy, we find that the welfare improvement for workers is non-monotonic. In particular, there exists an optimal tax at which social welfare is maximized. Moreover, we consider the welfare effects of setting the tax at its optimum. We show that the tax policy can be welfare-enhancing, compare to the case without active policies. The optimal tax may also yield a higher level of welfare than the case even without housing bubbles. Finally, we calibrate the model to China. Our quantitative results show that the optimal tax rate is about 23 percent, and social welfare is signicantly improved with such a tax policy.
P31|The welfare state and liberal democracy: A political economy approach|This paper attempts to shed some light on the developments of welfare states in highly developed nations since WW2 within the context of a narrative which seeks to combine institutional distinctions, termed 'varieties of capitalism', with the historical regimes of regulation theory in a political economy perspective which puts interested political actors at centre stage. It will be argued that in a liberal democracy, the elite has the framing and agenda-setting power to 'manufacture a political will' according to its interests. The welfare state is not the result of a long social struggle on the part of the needy; rather, it results in its general features from the minimal state of meritocratic exigencies. Under the very peculiar circumstances of the post-WW2 era, this even translated into a rise in social welfare spending to more than a third of national income. The particular design of welfare state organisation was the subject-matter of political conflict, and a clear distinction between liberal and coordinated market economies can be attributed to cultural differences and institutional settings. Yet the core of the welfare state conception serves the interest of the meritocracy as much as those who benefit from social programmes and re-distribution. And the neoliberal attack on the welfare state since the 1980s is not a necessary re-calibration due to changing economic conditions or a growing lack of solidarity among the people but an expression of a modified cost-benefit analysis from the elite's perspective.
P31|Rentabilité et coût du capital dans le projet industriel algérien-Le cas de la Société Nationale des Véhicules Industriels (SNVI)|La restructuration des entreprises publiques en Algérie en vue de leur insertion dans un modèle d’économie de marché a nécessité depuis les années 1980 la mise en place d’un ensemble d’institutions et la transition d’un mode de régulation monopoliste vers un mode plus concurrentiel. Cependant, l’institution Etat est restée jusqu’à nos jours l’institution clé soutenant un régime d’accumulation dépendant des ressources en hydrocarbures. La politique budgétaire et financière de l’Etat a donc soutenu et financé la restructuration des entreprises publiques dans le cadre d’une nouvelle stratégie industrielle orientée vers la substitution d’importation et la diversification des exportations. La restructuration de la SNVI opérée depuis les années 1990 s’est inscrite dans une démarche globale de politique industrielle visant à assainir les entreprises publiques et refinancer les investissements productifs en vue de pouvoir soit privatiser, soit nouer des partenariats. Cette stratégie a nécessité le transfert de ressources budgétaires pour financer les investissements et assainir la dette et les découverts bancaires qui a constitué un coût du capital supporté par l’Etat. La politique de partenariat avec des investisseurs étrangers vise à poursuivre un processus de restructuration et de restauration de la compétitivité sur un marché ouvert à la concurrence mais sous régulation sous régulation de l’Etat.
P31|Capitalism and Socialism: A Review of Kornai's Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy|Understanding the nature of capitalism has been a central theme of economics. The collapse of the Eastern Bloc and the global financial crisis spurred the reemergence of the political economy as a new frontier and the revival of interest in the nature of capitalism. Janos Kornai's book Dynamism, Rivalry, and the Surplus Economy: Two Essays on the Nature of Capitalism fills an important intellectual gap in understanding the dynamic nature of capitalism by comparing it with its mirror image, socialism. To further develop the themes contained in the book, serious challenges are posed theoretically and empirically, as well as in subjects, such as hybrid capitalism.
P31|Convergence of public and private enterprise wages in a transition economy: Evidence from a distributional decomposition in Vietnam, 2002–2014|We examine the transition of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in Vietnam from a wage perspective by decomposing the difference in wage distributions between SOE employees and non-SOE employees during the period 2002–2014. In 2002, SOE employees enjoyed higher pay than non-SOE employees owing to characteristics difference and any factors other than either the price of skills or the characteristics difference, so-called residuals difference. University graduates were the main contributor to the endowments difference. However, we found that SOE pay schemes converged with those of non-SOEs by 2014, in terms of both the price of skills and residuals.
P31|Change in the Ownership Policy Paradigm in Poland: State Control vs. Privatisation|The paper presents an analysis of the shift in the ownership policy of the Polish government in office since 2015 towards a more active role of the state and a more reluctant attitude towards privatisation. This shift reflects a general change in the paradigm of the role of the state towards the concept of the state as a strong market player, which includes the strengthening of its ownership functions. Among others, it has led to stalling the privatisation process and concentrating only on its fiscal goals. Possible factors causing this statist shift are divided into two dichotomic groups: the government’s good faith vs. the impact of rent-seeking interest groups and endogenous vs. exogenous factors. Our main conclusion is that despite similarities with the trends observed in some other countries, endogenous factors such as increasing capture of the state by rent-seeking groups, and not the exogenous ones, including the global financial crisis, contributed most to the growing statist trends in the Polish state’s ownership policy.
P31|Income inequality and oligarchs in Russian regions: A note|We trace the rise of the so called oligarchs in post-Soviet Russia and examine their relationship to income distribution in Russia. When Russia moved to a market economy in the 1990s a new business elite evolved. Russia's distinctive path towards market economy, among other factors, gave rise to the oligarchs who now control large parts of the economy and have a strong standing within politics and society. Using a unique regional data set on the locations of oligarchs’ businesses across the Russian regions, we test Acemoglu's (2008) proposition that oligarchic societies experience extreme income inequality. Our results show significantly higher levels of income inequality in regions with a higher presence of oligarchs.
P31|Institutions and Managerial Task Allocation: Evidence from Chinese Entrepreneurs|This study presents theoretical and empirical analyses of the time allocation of entrepreneurs as a response to weak property rights protection. Using a nationwide random-sample survey of more than 3,000 entrepreneurs in over 100 cities in China, we find that entrepreneurs, responding to the violation of property rights, spend large proportions of their working time on lobbying activities to protect their businesses at a cost to management time. Moreover, the sensitivity of lobbying time to property rights protection is reduced if the entrepreneur is politically connected or if the firm is larger or older.
P31|China's Decentralized Privatization and Change of Control Rights|A distinct feature of China's privatization is that its design and implementation are decentralized and administered by the local governments. Based on a proprietary survey dataset containing 3,000 firms in over 200 cities, this paper studies how city governments choose among various privatization methods, how these methods transfer control rights, and how they influence privatization outcomes. We find that less political opposition to labor downsizing and greater fiscal capacity prompt cities to choose direct sales to insiders (MBOs) as their privatization method. This method transfers the most control rights to private owners, retains the least government supports and is associated with most hardened budget constraints, restructure most effectively, and achieves the greatest performance improvement.
P31|The Impact of Self-efficacy on International Student Entrepreneur Intention|Entrepreneur self-efficacy is the level to which people perception of their capacities to successfully perform the various roles and tasks of entrepreneurship (Chen et al., 1998; De Noble et al., 1999; French, 2009). The research sampled students from two universities in Cyprus. The data was collected through a questionnaire. Statistical Package for Social Science software was used for data analysis. It was discovered that, in exception of motive toward business success and status in the society, emerging small and medium size enterprise do not have motive for economic growth, though the significant relationship between status in the society and self-efficacy were discussed. Conclusively, there exist a negative relationship between selfefficacy and desire for status among entrepreneurs.
P31|A contractual analysis of state versus private ownership|We uniquely analyze the advantages and disadvantages of private ownership versus state ownership under various circumstances by focusing on three aspects: external risk, internal governance, and relative importance of owners versus managers. Our theoretical analysis indicates that private ownership is better than state ownership if the business environment is risky, corruption is limited, or the manager plays a more important role than the owner. Our empirical analysis supports our theoretical findings and reveals that better internal governance, more external risk and greater importance of the manager will magnify the benefits of privatization.
P31|Rise of ‘Red Zaibatsu’ in China: entrenchment and expansion of large state-owned enterprises, 1990-2016|Ever since Deng Xiaoping’s reforms commencing in the 1980s, how to improve efficiency of state-owned enterprises has been on the government agenda. Progress has been made but more slowly than one expects in the decade. Even worse, against all the odds, China’s large state-owned firms, mega-SOEs, the backbone of Maoist economy previously, have gained exponential growth in the past decade. Reforms of that part of the economy have stalled. Why? To reveal the rationale and mechanisms of the rise of mega-SOEs, this study establishes a two-stage game model for an ‘authoritarian market economy’ (or a ‘market-Leninist economy’) where market monopoly and rent-seeking by state-owned conglomerates is firmly entrenched. Our findings confirm a ‘subgame perfect Nash equilibrium’ in China’s authoritarian market economy that has led the state (the owner or ‘principal’) and the large state-owned firms (the manager or the ‘agent’) to a paradox which prevents continuous reforms towards a Pareto solution for efficiency improvement.
P31|Cyclical Trend of Labor Reallocation in Poland: Transition and Structural Change| Two main features of the reallocation process that took place in Eastern European and Former Soviet Union countries should be distinguished. The first feature was the decline in public sector employment as a result of the collapse of state-owned enterprises, linked with an increase in private sector employment as new private firms emerged and old public companies were privatized. The second feature was, and still is, the reallocation of labor from manufacturing to the service sector. Data from the Polish Labor Force Survey for the period 1995–2015 were used to construct measures of worker flows, gross and net, and their cyclical properties were used as a way to test the predictions of structural change and transition theories. It was found that labor market adjustments tend to amplify in upturns of the business cycle, while worker flows contribute only a fraction to the changing structure of employment. The policy implications of these findings are discussed.
P31|Corporate control market: stages, specific features, regulation|Russia’s market for mergers and acquisitions came into being in the early 1990s when mass privatization of state-owned property gained momentum. More specifically, it was not until after the Russian financial crisis of 1998 that mergers and friendly takeovers took place in Russia. Up until then there were ‘acquisitions through privatization’ that can be regarded as a primary manifestation of the initial stage of building a market for corporate control (from 1992 till the onset of the financial crisis of 1998). Reorganization proceeded privatization in 1/3 of cases, was coupled with privatization in 1/3 of cases and followed privatization in 1/3 of cases. Also, the practice of consolidating Russian assets through both M&A and outsider shareholding was adopted in the mid-1990s. In 1998, the equity of about 40% of surveyed enterprises was partially held by outside corporate shareholders, and more than 13% of those enterprises were integrated with suppliers or consumers.
P31|Post-Privatization Ownership And Firm Performance: A Large Meta-Analysis Of The Transition Literature|This paper aims to perform a large-scale meta-analysis of the relationship between post-privatization ownership and firm performance in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Baseline estimation of a meta-regression model that employs a total of 2,894 estimates drawn from 121 previous studies indicated the superior impact of foreign ownership on firm performance in comparison with state and domestic private entities. Furthermore, the estimation of an extended meta-regression model that explicitly controls for the idiosyncrasies of transition economies and privatization policies strongly suggested that differences between countries in location, privatization method, and speed of policy implementation strongly influence the link between postâ€ privatization ownership structure and firm performance. We also found that these factors not only cause a remarkable gap between countries in terms of ex post improvement in firm performance but also significantly affect the interrelationship between foreign investors, domestic outsider owners, and firm managers, and the relative superiority of various domestic outsiders. Conclusive evidence of the harm caused to ex post firm performance by voucher privatization is one of the most noteworthy empirical findings in this paper.
P31|Are some owners better than others in Czech privatized firms? Even meta-analysis can’t make us perfectly sure|We use a total of 1171 estimates extracted from 34 previous studies and perform a meta-analysis to examine the relationship between ownership structures and firm performance in Czech mass-privatized firms. We find that, in contrast to the remarkable effect of foreign ownership on firm performance and restructuring activities, domestic private entities were incapable of outperforming the state as owners of Czech companies. Our assessment of publication selection bias, however, indicates that the collected estimates do not contain genuine evidence for many types of corporate ownership. Further development and improvement in this study area are necessary to capture the true effect. Finally, we also point out the importance to draw (meta-analysis) inferences based on studies that employ adequate methodology.
P31|Ownership dynamics and firm performance in an emerging economy: a meta-analysis of the Russian literature| This paper provides a meta-analysis of studies on the effect of ownership on the performance of Russian firms over 20 years of rapid institutional and economic changes. We review 29 studies extracted from the EconLit and Web of Science databases with a total of 877 relevant estimates. We find that the government negatively affects company performance regardless of its administrative level. In contrast, private ownership is positively associated with firm performance. However, the effect size and statistical significance are notably varied among different types of private ownership. While the effect of insider (employee and management) ownership is comparable to that of foreign investors, the effect of domestic outsider investors is considerably smaller. Our assessment of publication selection bias reveals that the existing literature does not contain genuine evidence for a series of ownership types and, therefore, some of the findings have certain limitations.
P31|Corporate Governance System and Regional Heterogeneity: Evidence from East and West Russia|Using a unique firm-level dataset obtained from a large-scale questionnaire survey conducted in late 2015, we examined the generality and heterogeneity of corporate governance systems between the eastern and western regions of Russia. The survey results strongly suggest that various characteristics of corporate governance systems observed in industrial firms and listed companies are, in fact, common and long-term trends that are seen across all Russian business sectors. At the same time, however, we also found pronounced regional heterogeneity between the eastern and western regions, with companies in the east being more reluctant than those in the west to introduce a governance system to monitor and supervise top management. Regression analysis shows that this finding is robust, even after a series of firm-level attributes are simultaneously controlled for.
P31|Boosting firm dynamism and performance in China|With persisting slower growth worldwide and in China, over-capacity in some heavy industry sectors, declining profitability, and intensifying competition from other, lower-cost emerging economies, corporate behaviour in China needs to change and focus more on efficiency and sustainability. This need is further intensified by mounting environmental pressures and China’s ambition for greener and more sustainable growth. A larger proportion of firms, including state-owned enterprises, should step up innovation efforts and improve corporate governance practices. To this end, supportive policies are needed, fostering an environment that is more conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship, and facilitating resource reallocation through the exit of unviable firms. At the same time, fraudulent corporate practices must be halted and State assets need to be better managed. Reforms are under way or envisaged that will help improve corporate performance and, more broadly, deliver more resilient and environmentally sustainable growth and continuing progress in living standards. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of China (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm).
P31|Corporate governance and firm performance in China|A key priority in China’s “new normal” period -- where returns on investment are slackening -- is corporate governance, which could lead to enhanced productivity by a better management of resources at the firm level. Corporate governance principles for listed firms follow global best practices, though their history is relatively short and the Chinese stock market has a number of features, which make the investigation of the impact of various corporate governance practices on firm performance of particular interest. Productivity is considered as a major measure of firm performance, but for comparison accounting indicators are also used to check the impact of selected corporate governance practices using firm-level data of listed firms between 1999-2015. The results are broadly in line with the existing literature: once controlling for endogeneity, there is no evidence that a greater share of independent directors boosts firm performance in general. At the time when the requirement that at least one third of directors must be independent was introduced in 2002, however, profitability improved. A greater salary gap between executives and staff hurts productivity, but boosts ROA and ROE, which are often among the objectives of executives and thus encourage them to seek short-term returns, even at the expense of productivity. While volume-based growth may lead to higher performance by the accounting ratios, it does not necessarily guarantee higher productivity. If such an expansion is debt financed, it can even harm productivity. Excessive ownership concentration appears harmful, but a certain degree of concentration may improve performance. Institutional investors, even though may own only a tiny fraction of shares, are found to boost firm performance. This Working Paper relates to the 2017 OECD Economic Survey of China (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/economic-survey-china.htm).
P31|Convergence of public and private enterprise wages in a transition economy: Evidence from a distributional decomposition in Vietnam, 2002–2014| We examine the transition of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in Vietnam from a wageperspective by decomposing the difference in wage distributions between SOE mployees and non-SOE employees during the period 2002–2014. In 2002, SOE employees enjoyed higher pay than non-SOE employees owing to characteristics difference and any factors other than either the price of skills or the characteristics difference, so-called residuals difference. University graduates were the main contributor to the endowments difference. However, we found that SOE pay schemes converged with those of non-SOEs by 2014, in terms of both the price of skills and residuals.
P31|Domestic Value Added in Exports: Theory and Firm Evidence from China|China has defied the declining trend in domestic content in exports in many countries. This paper studies China's rising domestic content in exports using firm- and customs transaction-level data. The approach embraces firm heterogeneity and hence reduces aggregation bias. The study finds that the substitution of domestic for imported materials by individual processing exporters caused China's domestic content in exports to increase from 65 to 70 percent in the period 2000-2007. Such substitution was induced by the country's trade and investment liberalization, which deepened its engagement in global value chains and led to a greater variety of domestic materials becoming available at lower prices.
P31|Corruption in Procurement and the Political Cycle in Tunneling: Evidence from Financial Transactions Data|"We provide evidence of corruption in allocation of public procurement and assess its efficiency. Firms with procurement revenue increase tunneling around regional elections, whereas neither tunneling of firms without procurement revenue, nor legitimate business of firms with procurement exhibits a political cycle. Data are consistent with the corruption channel—cash is tunneled to politicians in exchange for procurement contracts—and inconsistent with alternative channels. Using the strength of correlation between procurement revenue and tunneling around elections as a proxy for local corruption, we reject the ""efficient grease"" hypothesis: in more corrupt localities, procurement contracts go to unproductive firms. (JEL D22, D72, H57, K42, P26, P31, P37)"
P31|The Reversal of the Privatisation Logic in Central European Transition Economies (An Essay)|The main ambition of this study is to explain the unexpected change in the transition process of some Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries starting in the second half of the 2000s. Special attention is paid to changes in and the attitudes of governments toward state ownership. Although statist approaches gained momentum in the economic policy of various states in and after the 2008/2009 crisis, this did not mean a fundamental reorientation expressed in changes in the main economic conditions such as ownership patterns. Nevertheless, governments in some CEE countries seem to flirt with such ideas too in the general policy of increasing state economic intervention. The privatisation process was stopped and in a number of cases, formerly privatised assets were re-nationalised. Governments strengthened their influence in the governance structure in mixed-ownership companies. The main body of the present paper provides a better understanding of this change in state property policies. We also call attention to the risks of a reversal of the privatisation logic. An increasing role of the state as proprietor may today strengthen similar negative political and economic consequences and risks as the ones against which the privatisation agenda of the 1990s was suggested. It can reduce competition, give way for political and personal rentseeking, and weaken the functions of market economic institutions.
P31|Praca jako obowiązek a praca jako źródło satysfakcji. Studium historyczne roli i znaczenia pracy w dziejach Polski (po 1945 roku) / Work as a Duty versus Work as Source of Satisfaction. Historical Study of the Role and Importance of the Work in Polish History (After 1945)|The paper presents an analysis of the ethical, political and economic aspects of human work within two Polish historical periods – the years of the People’s Republic of Poland and after 1989. The starting point for the analysis was the assumption that every time period, each age, leaves a mark on man’s work. Analysis of the People's Republic of Poland period gives an opportunity to consider human work understood as a duty and right of every human guaranteed by the Constitution of 1952. Questioning the principles ruling the labour market by the ideologists of the People’s Republic of Poland and, as a consequence, the politicization of labour, resulted in the collapse of the work ethic. Work, as it was at that time a commonly available good, lost its value, regarded as the source of life satisfaction, and thus became ridiculed. After 1989, in relation to the de-politicization of the Polish labour market, the employee became active in searching for a job. The phenomenon of unemployment resulted in competition on the labour market and the employer was thus given the opportunity to freely select a group of employees. As a result, the employer became a distributor of a ‘rare commodity.’ That, in turn, led to the situation where the approach of employers towards employees turned into the employer's diktat. It is the employer who determines the conditions of employment, standards of work and place of work. A lack of alternative that many employees face often makes them accept the dictated conditions of work. What is more, in Poland we deal with the insufficiently developed participation of employees in managing the enterprises, which is an effect of breaking off the bilateral dependency of employee and employer.
P31|Funkcjonowanie samorządów pracowniczych w wybranych krajach realnego socjalizmu / Workers’ Self-Management in the Selected Countries of the Real Socialism Socio-Economic System|The aim of the article is to present the attempts of establishing institutions of a system of worker’s self-management in the selected countries of the so-called real socialism system in Eastern Europe. The analysis considers three of those countries, namely Yugoslavia, Poland and Hungary, whose experiences in participation of the employees’ implementation were the most significant. Particular attention was paid to the evolution of socialist regimes approach to workers’ self-management. The paper tries to answer the question whether workers’ self-management posed a threat to the socialist regimes persistence. The research method used in the study is an indepth survey and analysis of literature and legal acts.
P31|The Labor Market in Azerbaijan|This paper analyzes the development of the labor market in Azerbaijan from the early 1990s until the early 2010s. The analysis shows that the labor market has a range of positive characteristics such as high labor force participation and employment, low youth and female unemployment, flexibility, and a low share of the “working poor”, all of which can beneficially influence future economic prospects. However, the Azerbaijani labor market also experiences certain undesirable developments, such as an increase in the share of labor with primary education, a shift towards elementary occupations, a high share of self-employment, and an excess of labor cost growth over productivity growth, all of which can threaten further economic development.
P31|Privatization In Serbia – An Assesment Before The Last Round|Serbia has had a long history of privatization. It commenced in 1990 and was only fully completed, as defined by the privatization legislation, in 2015. The reasons for this are many and complex and the paper provides a short historical overview. Privatization, however, began in earnest after the democratic revolution of 2000 and the paper analyses the political motives behind the adoption of the current model. The paper goes on to explain the model design, as well as its dynamics and results. The analysis probes more deeply into the specific weaknesses of auction implementation, showing that an alternative approach could have produced better results in terms of revenue. The specific institutional flaws that led to a high failure rate in the privatization of companies are identified and analysed. These weaknesses lie in the design, implementation, and monitoring, which led to results that were not in line with the goals of the privatization process. The designers of the privatization model gave scant attention to broader institutional coherence, which enabled largescale manipulation of the process. In some cases this enabled motives unrelated to the future of the firm being privatized to dominate the process. Finally, the scope of the, last round of privatization in Serbia, which commenced in June 2015, and the probable results are discussed.
P31|The Post-Acquisition Performance Of Acquired Companies: Evidence From The Rebulic Of Serbia|This paper explores the post-acquisition performance of acquired companies in the Republic of Serbia, and whether company size is a factor of postacquisition performance. The data were collected from 91 managers in 10 acquired companies in Serbia. The acquiring companies came from Germany, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium, Norway, Greece, and Serbia. The results of the analysis show that 70% of managers believed that there had been improvement in post-acquisition performance. The improvement in performance was achieved for the most part by cost reduction. The results of this study indicate that there are statistically significant differences between large, medium, and small companies. Large companies had the best improvement in financial performance, and medium companies were the best regarding improvement of non-financial performance.
P31|Corporate Governance of SOEs and performance in transition countries. Evidence from Lithuania|This paper investigates whether and to what extent corporate governance mechanisms affect the efficiency of State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) operating in transition economies. Furthermore, it examines the relationship between corporate governance practice and its impact on both wholly state run SOEs and majority state run SOEs. We employed a unique dataset of corporate governance ratings (related to quality of transparency, quality of board, and quality of strategic planning, implementation and control) of commercial Lithuanian SOEs relating to the period following the introduction of the corporate governance reforms in the years 2012-2013. In order to investigate our research hypotheses, we set-up a two stage empirical research strategy that combined a non-parametric efficiency estimator (i.e., Data Envelopment Analysis) with a bootstrapped truncated regression. We built two aggregate indexes of corporate governance ratings to represent one dimension of corporate governance quality. We then ran a battery of regressions using both the aggregated and the single corporate governance indexes as independent variables. First, the paper finds that the wholly state ownership model of SOEs is positively correlated to efficiency (i.e., wholly SOEs are more efficient than majority SOEs). Moreover, overall corporate governance practices are efficiency-enhancing; more specifically, board quality and strategic planning seem to be effective internal governance mechanisms in promoting overall organizational efficiency. Interestingly, we uncovered that there exists a relationship between concentration of ownership and corporate governance practices, but this mitigated efficiency enhancement in wholly state run SOEs compared to majority state run SOEs. This effect was driven by the lower quality of the board. Overall, our findings illustrate that corporate governance reforms have enhanced efficiency, but wholly SOEs require a better implementation in order to achieve full efficiency gains.
P31|Effects of foreign direct investments. Evidence from Southeast Europe|The purpose and research objective of this study is probing effects of foreign direct investments in Southeast Europe economies. For this purpose six countries have been chosen and a sample has been drawn for: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Slovenia. In order to conduct this analysis we use Enterprise Surveys available by the World Bank which are done using firm-level data of a representative sample of economy's private sectors. The conception of this analysis is examining the effects of how foreign direct investments contribute to the development of domestic firms and the overall economy. In general, foreign direct investment is defined as dominant or controlling ownership of a company in one country, by an entity based in another country. As of the beginning of the transition process, foreign direct investments remain priority, as essential pillar, that moves forward the society toward developed market economy. The data used in this article are analyzed with an econometric model, which as employed in this study examines the interrelationships between output and set of variables that influence FDI patterns. Further, we are interested in the way foreign direct investments shape the economy.
P31|Remote markets as shelters for local distortions: Evidence from China|We study how the presence of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) distorts private firms' decision on interprovincial sales in China. Using data from World Bank Investment Climate Survey and Annual Survey of Manufacturing Firms in China, we find evidence that the prevalence of SOEs in a city-industry where private firms reside will affect these firms' decision on the allocation of sales between interprovincial markets versus adjacent market. The direction of the effect on private firms, however, depends crucially on the private firms' access to credit. Specifically, the prevalence of SOEs leads to a higher propensity to sell to remote markets for firms with adequate financial access, whereas the opposite is true for firms who are credit constrained. We build a parsimonious model which links political/market distortion, market access, and credit constraint to explain these patterns, and argue that remote markets can serve as shelters for local distortions resulted from SOEs presence for some private firms.
P31|Investment efficiency, state-owned enterprises and privatisation: Evidence from Viet Nam in Transition|Our research firstly tests the difference in investment efficiency between state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and private firms and secondly evaluates the effect of privatisation and equitisation policies on the investment efficiency of former state owned enterprises (SOEs). We use a novel dataset from Viet Nam which covers large and non-listed SMEs across construction, manufacturing, and service sectors. Our methodology uses a structural model to test the relationship between Tobin's Q and capital spending. While evident differences in investment efficiency are found across heterogeneous groups of private firms (size, industry, financially constrained and location), we find no evidence of investment spending being linked to marginal returns by SOEs across all sectors and size classes. However, former SOEs that have been privatised and equitized with a minority state shareholding display positive links between Q and investment. In fact, the link is stronger for these firms than for private firms. Differences are also evident across size and sector highlighting that the method of divestment chosen by government shareholders has a differential impact on efficiency across groups of firms and industries.
P31|Where does privatization work? Understanding the heterogeneity in estimated firm performance effects|Why do the reported effects of privatization on firm performance vary so much? This paper provides new estimates of these effects and tests potential explanations for heterogeneity using comprehensive, long-panel data for 70,000 firms in five East European economies. We estimate that privatization raises measures of profitability, productivity, and growth by about 5–12% on average, but with substantial variation across countries and time periods. Analyzing heterogeneity in privatization effectiveness, we find little systematic role for firm size, financial dependence, exchange listing, or technological complexity, but important variation by fraction privatized, ownership concentration, firm quality, and the macroeconomic and institutional environment.
P31|A rational path towards a Pareto optimum for reforms of large state-owned enterprise in China, past, present and future|Since Deng Xiaoping’s historic move towards a market economy in post-Mao China during the 1980s, by far, the most challenging task in China’s reforms has been that related to the moribund state-owned sector due to a range of ideological, political, as well as economic reasons. Such reforms have so far been slow and hesitant, moving forward and backward with mixed results. This paper tackles the pros and cons of such reforms and aims to square a rational strategy based on what has been done so far in the state sector. Unlike a narrow approach currently prevailing in the literature, this paper establishes a partial equilibrium model which incorporates the principal-agent problem into a mixed oligopoly model to explore an optimal strategy for state-owned enterprise reforms in China. We argue that ceteris paribus the current illnesses of low efficiency and rent-seeking commonly suffered by China’s state-owned sector can be cured by a two-pronged strategy in which the importance of property rights holds the key. We have identified two ‘Coase Property Right Points’ in the commonly known choices of institutional changes in a reforming Soviet economy to firstly, make it more efficient, and then Pareto optimal. One institutional change is a ‘joint-stock reform’; the other, a ‘full privatisation reform’. In particular, this study regards ‘social-extra policy burdens’ as the main obstacle to improve much needed efficiency in the state sector. Coase Property Right Points show the necessity for a reduction of the social-extra policy burdens vis-à-vis the state sector’s true comparative advantage
P31|Market Quality in the Russian Far East from the Viewpoint of Company Management- Preliminary Report on Microeconomic Comparative Analysis with European Regions|In the framework of the project titled “Market Quality in the Russian Far East from the Viewpoint of Company Management” initiated by the Economic Research Institute for Northeast Asia (ERINA), a Japan-Russia research team carried out a large-scale questionnaire survey of Russian firms located in 17 federal subjects from October to December 2015 (ERINA Enterprise Survey). In this paper, we briefly describe the background, purpose, and organization of the project and report the chronology, outline, and preliminary results of the enterprise survey.
P31|Reserve requirements and optimal Chinese stabilization policy|China’s central bank frequently adjusts reserve requirements for macroeconomic stabilization. We evaluate the effectiveness of such policy in a two-sector DSGE model. A heavy-industry sector—proxied as state-owned enterprises (SOEs)—is financed through government-guaranteed bank loans subject to reserve requirements, while more productive private firms rely on unregulated off-balance sheet financing. Increasing reserve requirements reallocates resources towards private firms, raising both aggregate productivity and SOE bankruptcies. Optimal reserve requirement adjustments complement money supply adjustments in improving macroeconomic stability and welfare. However, gains are greater under sector-specific shocks, which call for resource reallocation, than under aggregate shocks.
P31|On the use of interview data for the microsimulation of ideological conflicts : an analysis of the political cleavages of the European left|There is an increasing number of interview projects like the European Values Study (EVS) or the International Social Survey Programme (ISSP), which collect in many different countries internationally comparative interview data. Some of them even offer time series, which go back to the 1980ies. Unfortunately, these public datasets are generally not suitable for the analysis of political conflicts and socio-cultural cleavages. Hence the present paper tackles the problem of extracting conflict data from such interview projects by means of a new microsimulation method: instead of analysing the original interviews by focusing on individuals, the paper proposes to look at the value-differences between randomly matched artificial pairs of respondents. These artificial dyadic data records are used to simulate virtual encounters of persons, who may have either the same or different opinions about a certain issue. In the first case there is harmony, in the second virtual conflict that can be statistically aggregated for all analysed dyads of persons. This way it becomes possible to measure the total amount of conflict of a group (i) with the rest of society, (ii) with a similar group in another country, and (iii) with a politically opposite group. The afore-mentioned methodology of simulated virtual conflicts is used in order to analyse the variation of the ideology of the political left in different European countries. Of special interest are conflicts about traditional left values like equality, social security, and state ownership of industry, which concern respondents, who are partisans of the left as well as those, who identify with a right party. On the basis of the already mentioned European Values Study, the analysis is performed for three typical countries with rather different left party traditions: Sweden, France, and the UK.
P31|Evolution of bankruptcy institution: from insolvency of state-owned enterprises towards electronic SRO trading facilities|Bankruptcy legislation in the post-Soviet Russia was for the first time introduced in 1992 by the Executive Order of the President “On Measures for the Support and Rehabilitation of Insolvent State-Owned Enterprises (Bankrupt Debtors) and the Application of Special Proceedings to Them” No. 623 of June 14, 1992, which stipulated grounds for liquidation of enterprises, special liquidation proceedings such as reorganization, rehabilitation, direct administration of the enterprise, independent management, auctions for sale of enterprise, and other provisions concerning bankruptcy.
P31|Performance Improvement for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) with Social Financing Model|"""Objective – This study aims to analyze the implementation of Qardhul Hasan in Islamic Banking in Indonesia. This study uses the phenomenology approach to explain the phenomenon. Methodology/Technique – Data were collected through in-depth interviews, observation, and documentation and analysis was conducted using the Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) and the Sharia Analysis. Findings – Results drawn from the Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis (IPA) show that: (1) The meanings of Qardhul Hasan in Islamic Banking in Indonesia are diverse. Qardhul Hasan was interpreted as loans and charity. The sources of fund drawn from the Qardhul Hasan sources in Islamic Banking in Indonesia originated from Infaq, charity, non-halal funds, fines, and donations. Qardhul Hasan in Islamic Banking in Indonesia was implemented with two models: Productive Loan Fund Distribution and Social Fund Distribution. From the Sharia Analysis, it was noted that most of the Qardhul Hasan objects were approved by the Islamic Economic Theory. Novelty – The novelty of this study lies in the analysis results which proposed that (1) Qardhul Hasan should be interpreted according to its goodness principles, (2) Source of Funds for Qardhul Hasan should come from ZISWAF, and (3) The model of empowerment should be developed according to the needs of the Indonesian population, especially as a maritime country"""
P31|Political Loyalty Vs Economic Performance: Evidence from Machine Politics in Russia’S Regions|Electoral authoritarian regimes often rely on patron-client relationships and political machines to win elections. While a growing literature has focused on the reasons why authoritarian regimes might want to hold elections, the economic consequences associated with the need to win elections have been less intensely studied. In this paper, we argue that while holding elections might offer authoritarian regimes a range of informational and other advantages in the short and medium run, the long-term economic costs can be significant and potentially destabilizing. This effect is especially strong in transition economies, where outdated and inefficient economic structures might be kept alive for political reasons. The theory is tested with an original dataset of gubernatorial appointments from a leading electoral authoritarian regime, the Russian Federation. We find that by incentivizing regional governors to use their political machines to win elections for the regime, the Kremlin effectively punishes those governors that are successfully developing their regional economies, with the effect being especially strong in regions where a high percentage of the population lives in Soviet-era single company towns.
P31|ポスト私有化期の所有構造と企業パフォーマンス : 移行経済研究のメタ分析|本稿の目的は，筆者ら独自の大規模文献データベースを用いたメタ分析によって，ポスト私有化期の所有構造と企業パフォーマンスの相関関係を実証的に検証した移行経済研究の全体像を明らかにすることである。先行研究121点から抽出した総計2894の推定結果を用いたメタ回帰モデルのベースライン推定は，他の所有主体との比較における外国投資家の傑出した企業パフォーマンス効果を立証したものの，所有者タイプ間の差異に関する一連の理論的仮説を包括的に実証するには至らなかった。移行国及び私有化政策の特異性を明示的に制御した拡張メタ回帰モデルの推定結果は，研究対象国の所在地域，私有化方式及び政策進行速度に見られる国家間の相違性が，既存研究の実証結果に顕れた不透明性の原因であることを強く示唆した。なかでも，事後的な経営再建効果という観点から見た，バウチャー私有化方式の有害性を明確に表した分析結果は，本稿の特筆すべき実証成果である。
P31|Firm entry and exit during a crisis period: Evidence from Russian regions|In this paper, we aim to empirically analyze the determinants of firm entry and exit in Russia using a regional-level panel data for the years of 2008–2014, with special emphasis on institutional failures and the politico-economic impact of external crises. We found that these two elements exhibit statistically significant and economically meaningful effects both on the creation and destruction of Russian firms, controlling for potentially explanatory factors. Our empirical results also suggest that the process of firm entry and exit is manifold across Russian regions due to their heterogeneity. Nevertheless, a surprisingly robust estimate of the world oil price (irrespective of the difference in target regions) suggests a possible high exposure of each Russian region to a global crisis. This comes from the importance of oil trade with the world and, accordingly, the ongoing crisis may bring a harmful influence to regeneration of Russian businesses.
P31|Catalog Of Cooperatives Units Its Formation In Quintana Roo, Mexico, Creacion Del Padron De Entidades Cooperativas Del Estado De Quintana Roo, Mexico|The organization of the current economy is represented by the model of modern enterprise that allows large volumes of production and profits for the owners, but deteriorating working conditions for people who only contribute their work. In this model, other forms of organization are trying to alternate and compete within the same market system, through free workers called an association. The most recognized practice in Mexico and Quintana Roo, are cooperatives which are the research object in this study. Despite being backed by an international movement, he left to encourage their training at national and State levels, reflected in aspects such as lack of information and activity log. So, the purpose is to present a database of cooperative units from the analysis of basic Information on National Statistical Directory of economic units 2015 and the Ministry of the Economy, supported by documentary research and interviews with key players. This creation served to encourage, facilitate and enable future study of these entities that could impact development of the State. The main contribution is a register of entities that is functional and legal and which the Constitution defines as cooperatives
P31|The FDI-led development model revisited? The case of Hungary|Countries of East-Central Europe underwent fundamental economic and political changes in their transition process. Their economies were restructured and modernized, became integrated part of the world’s most competitive value chains. Although, benefits of the FDI-led development process did not spread spatially evenly, moreover, they might be smaller than what was expected the achieved economic and political results were remarkable. Yet, in some of these countries acknowledgement of benefits have been started to be overshadowed by strong criticism that sometimes queries the advantages of the FDIled development at large. The main question of the paper is if this criticism is reflected in (both positively and negatively) discriminating policies of the Hungarian state towards foreign companies? The main finding of the paper is that the main aim of changing FDI-related policies is not a decisive break with the model, but rather to split the strong networks of multinational business in order to increase the room of selective and arbitrary advantage and disadvantage measures of the government. This means first of all a departure from the concept of “competition state” towards “patronage state”.
P31|The emergence of patronage state in Central Europe. The case of FDI-related policies in Hungary|Despite of profound development success of Central European economies of the past 25 years Hungarian and Polish governments have started openly query the applicability of various elements of the “competition state”. They took measures to curtail the activity of multinational firms that have played important role in the successful modernization process of the region. The paper makes an attempt to explain the rationale of this policy using political economy approach. It defines economic policy changes as shifts in the power relations of national elites. It is highlighted that the selective advantage and punishment measures taken are labelled economic patriotism. Yet, economic patriotism is interpreted in this paper as the application of covert discrimination policies applied for the benefit of spatially defined interest groups. The discussed policies are targeted rather at closely defined companies. They are therefore not regarded as tools of economic patriotism but rather of state clientism, or a departure from competition state towards patronage state.
P31|From party state capture to party business capture - Model feature of Visegrád countries?|The FDI-led development path of the Visegrád countries has been queried most recently. The paper analyses one of the potential reasons of this strategic turn: the struggle between political elites. One elite was bound to the strong presence of multinational business and the institutions of the “competition state”. Their positions were challenged by another political elite that allied mainly with local bourgeoisie. One main arena of conflicts is the economy where political elites try to widen their influence in order to gain financial support. New forms of rent seeking and corruption became possible after the V4 accession to the EU when the flow of financial aid increased. Aid was channeled to partisan firms in public procurement tenders that made legal corruption possible. Political and social control over this practice declined with the demise of classic program parties’ role in politics and the raise of populist “business firm” political parties.
P31|Long-Lasting Labour Market Consequences of German Unification|This article shows how the impulses of the transformation process in eastern Germany have spread through the economy and the labour market. The form of transformation has long-term effects on the form of control over the economy; it is managed largely from western firms. This fact has manifold consequences for the innovation behaviour of plants, among others, which in turn is further related to productivity and thus to the labour market. We argue that this transfers further to persistently lower wages and higher unemployment rates in eastern compared with western Germany.
P31|Entrepreneurship in the East German Transition Process: Lessons for the Korean Peninsula|This paper summarizes the role of entrepreneurship in the East German transformation process that followed the breakdown of the socialist regime and subsequent unification with West Germany. The main aim of this exercise is to derive conclusions and recommendations for a potential unification of the Korean Peninsula. We demonstrate that the formation of new businesses played a significant role, while efforts to adapt formerly state-owned firms were much less successful. In East Germany, newly emerging firms created the major share of employment opportunities, while incumbent socialist firms shed vast amounts of labor or disappeared completely. The main implication for a potential unification of the Korean Peninsula is that policy should have a special focus on entrepreneurship. In particular, it should try to utilize and strengthen the entrepreneurial abilities of the North Korean population and to create favorable conditions for the emergence of prospering new businesses.
P31|State ownership and corruption|Abstract We test two interesting results that can be obtained from a simplified version of the theoretical model of Shleifer and Vishny (Q J Econ 109(4):995–1025, 1994) that studies bargaining between politicians and managers of state-owned firms. The model suggests that firms with more state ownership tend to pay less in bribes but not have a different experience of costly obstacles imposed on them by politicians. In our full sample, the results suggest that a one percentage increase in state ownership is associated with a $125 reduction in the total annual informal payment of the firm and with a 0.5 % decrease in the probability that a firm will consider corruption to be an obstacle to their current operations. We refine these average relationships by splitting the sample by global region. Only in our Europe and Central Asia sample do we find strong evidence in support of the first result and again we find a significant effect of state ownership on obstacles.
P31|Market Reactions to the First-Time Disclosure of Corporate Social Responsibility Reports: Evidence from China|Abstract We examine whether investors value the disclosure of first-time standalone corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports, and whether market valuations differ between government-controlled and privately controlled firms. Using a matched sample of Chinese publicly listed firms, we find that CSR initiators have higher market valuations than matched CSR non-initiators, and CSR initiators controlled by the central and local governments have lower market valuations than CSR non-initiators and CSR initiators controlled by private shareholders. Additional analyses demonstrate that CSR initiators with high CSR reporting quality and perceived credibility have higher market valuations than CSR initiators with low CSR reporting quality and medium or low perceived credibility of CSR reporting. We do not find convincing evidence that CSR mandate, litigation risk, and prior stock returns affect market reactions to CSR reporting. Overall, we find that the market values standalone CSR reports, and that CSR reporting quality and perceived credibility are important factors in market valuation.
P31|Lessons from Enterprise Reforms in China and Vietnam|This paper surveys a few key features of SOE reforms in China and Vietnam, focusing particularly on the evolution of ownership structures and on the relative weight of market regulatory mechanisms, and discusses their general implications for socialist development. It tentatively concludes that some broad principles informing and constraining any feasible socialist-oriented economic strategy can indeed be identified.
P31|Studying Complementarities between Modes of Innovation Strategies in Transition Economies|This paper explores the existing interrelationships between the firm’s innovation activities and productivity performance as well as studies complementarities among innovation strategies in transition economies. Specifically, on the basis of BEEPS V dataset and using extended CDM model, we have investigated the existence of possible complementarities between various types of innovation modes (product, process, marketing and organizational innovations) in their impact on the firm’s productivity. The traditional CDM framework was modified through accounting for the simultaneous occurrence of different types of innovation inputs - in-house and out-house knowledge generation activities - and through the estimation of their joint effects on various modes of innovation. In compliance with the results of previous studies, we find that CDM model properly describes the existing interrelations between the firm’s innovation activity and its productivity performance in transition economies. In particular, our results show that the firm’s decisions on in-house and out-house knowledge development processes are interdependent. The study results suggest that implementation of internal R&D strategy can stimulate not only technological innovations but non-technological innovative activity as well. However, we find that external knowledge acquisition strategy has positive and statistically significant effect on innovation output only when the firm’s innovation mix incorporates non-technological novelties. Our results show that only those modes of innovation output combinations that assume all the types of innovations and/or the combination of process and non-technological innovations have positive and statistically significant impact on the firm’s productivity. Another vital point of this analysis is that conducting either product or process innovation in isolation will result in a negative productivity performance. The important contribution of this paper is that it tests for complementarity between innovation strategies of firms in transition economies. Our tests reveal complementarity between the following two combinations of innovations: product/process and process/non-technological innovations. The key policy implication of our findings is that while performing all the three innovation modes jointly has a positive impact on firm’s performance, economically preferred options are: either to choose pure technological innovation strategy (product&process mode) or to perform strategy focused on organizational restructuring (process/non-technological mode).
P31|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P31|Reforming and Restructuring Ukrzaliznytsia: A Crucial Task for Ukrainian Reformers|If the Ukrainian economy is to be successfully restructured going forward, a restructured railway system will have to be part of the picture. Ukraine’s economy depends on the production and sale of a number of bulk commodities, including coal, iron ore, steel, and agricultural products, that require shipment by rail in order to reach both domestic and export markets economically. In this paper we first discuss in more detail the crucial role that UZ plays in the Ukrainian economy. We follow with a survey of the world experience with railways restructuring: a large number of countries have already undertaken the task of converting aging government-owned monopoly railways into more dynamic and competitive transport enterprises, and their experience in very diverse settings may have important lessons to offer. We then examine the current state of rail reform plans in Ukraine. We conclude with discussions of an alternative path forward that seems most likely to be successful in Ukraine, based on both the experience elsewhere and the country’s current situation.
P31|Limiting Factors For The Development Of The Serbian Hospitality Industry|Heterogeneity and complexity determine multidisciplinary approach to the hospitality research. Identification and analysis of limited hospitality development factors imply very complex scientific approach. Case study methodology is applied on Republic of Serbia, which is transition country and candidate for EU accession. Research results identified key factors which had impact on lag, stagnation and contemporary level of hospitality development. Firstly, way of executed privatization process of hospitality companies in Serbia i.e. only ownership transformation, as part of business transformation, was done (organizational, management, technological, financial and human resources parts of business transformation didn’t implement). Secondly, non-acceptable terms and conditions of credit lines for financing privatization and future business of privatized hospitality companies. Furthermore, buyers of privatized hospitality companies didn’t prepared adequate projections of cash flow and sources of financing (owned and borrowed). Finally, technological development and human resources were result of the first mentioned limited factor. In order to improve business in hospitality industry in transition economies, all stakeholders should be involved. State should improve business environment. Educational institutions should create applicable programs on market. Investors should be ready to invest in technological and human resource development. Banks should implement the best financing practice from headquarters in EU.
P31|Change in Economic Policy Paradigm: Privatization and State Capture in Poland|Kozarzewski and Ba³towski analyse the causes and manifestations of this trend in economic policy in Poland. They use privatization policy as an example. The authors examine the effects of the privatization policy and point to a large unfinished agenda in ownership transformation that has had an adverse impact on the institutional setup of the Polish state, creating grounds for rent seeking and cronyism, which, in turn, impede the pace of privatization. They find out that it is the increasing capture of the state by rent-seeking groups, and not, contrary to popular opinion, the global financial crisis, that most contributes to the growing statist trends of Poland’s economic policy.
P31|Cobb–Douglas production function on FDI in Southeast Europe|Abstract In this research, we focus on effects of foreign direct investments in Southeast European economies. Using World Bank Microdata Library and specifically Enterprise Surveys, we take a sample of six countries. The model is based on firm-level data of a representative sample of economy’s private sectors for Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia and Slovenia. What we are closely examining are the effects of foreign direct investments on the development of domestic firms and the overall economy. Foreign direct investment is usually defined as dominant or controlling ownership of a company in one country, by an entity based in another country. Transition economies undergo a set of structural transformations intended to develop market-based institutions through economic liberalization, where prices are set by market forces. Hence, foreign direct investments remain main concern as major source of capital utilized toward enterprise restructuring. This research is built on Cobb–Douglas production function where data are analyzed with econometric models, which as employed in this study examines the interrelationships between output and set of variables that influence foreign direct investments arrangements. Additionally, according to the results, estimates are specified on the ways foreign direct investments mold the economy.
P31|Public-private wage differential in a post-transition economy: A copula approach to the switching regression model|In this study, we estimate the public sector wage premium in a post-transition economy, a quarter of a century since the collapse of the old regime. Our methodology uses a copula method to estimate the switching regression model, which allows for the relaxation of the restrictive assumption of joint normality. We control for employment selection into both sectors using an instrument based on information regarding learned professions. We use data from the Polish Survey of Earnings by Occupations (2012). Contrary to earlier results for Poland, we found positive selection into employment in both sectors, with positive ATET and negative ATEU. The results suggest that both private and public sector employees select themselves into the sector in which they earn more than they would in a counterfactual scenario.
P31|The Labor Market in Azerbaijan|This paper analyzes the development of the labor market in Azerbaijan from the early 1990s until the early 2010s. The analysis shows that the labor market has a range of positive characteristics such as high labor force participation and employment, low youth and female unemployment, flexibility, and a low share of the “working poor”, all of which can beneficially influence future economic prospects. However, the Azerbaijani labor market also experiences certain undesirable developments, such as an increase in the share of labor with primary education, a shift towards elementary occupations, a high share of self-employment, and an excess of labor cost growth over productivity growth, all of which can threaten further economic development.
P31|Intangible Capital in a Transition Economy - Improvements and Constraints: An Analysis of Serbian Firms|During the 1990s Serbian economy stayed on the margin of major investment flows, technology progress and businesses in international markets. In view of the deficiency in capital except for some FDI, we analyse to what extent Serbian economy can develop some other resources, such as human capital, internal relations, management and marketing skills, innovations and other fields perceived as intangible capital elements. Analysing a total of 71 firms we attempt to identify whether the role of intangible assets was recognised within the firms and - according to the results obtained - to recommend some policy measures. The paper addresses three major issues: (i) human capital accumulation including internal relations, (ii) external relations, as well as (iii) innovation, R&D and competencies.
P31|"A ""de Soto Effect"" in Industry? Evidence from the Russian Federation"|The strengthening of land rights has been proposed as a policy to reduce financial market frictions and promote private investment in low- and middle-income countries. But assessments of these potential effects have proven inconclusive. One reason may be that research has focused on actors that face difficulties accessing credit for reasons other than the security of land tenure. We explore the effect of greater tenure security in a setting in which non-land-related financial market frictions are apt to be mild--that is, among large urban industrial enterprises. Exploiting policy variation across Russian regions and firm-level survey data, we show that private land rights facilitate credit access and promote investment.
P31|Industrial Policy and Competition|Using a comprehensive dataset of all medium and large enterprises in China between 1998 and 2007, we show that industrial policies allocated to competitive sectors or that foster competition in a sector increase productivity growth. We measure competition using the Lerner Index and include as industrial policies subsidies tax holidays, loans, and tariffs. Measures to foster competition include policies that are more dispersed across firms in a sector or measures that encourage younger and more productive enterprises. (JEL L11, L25, L52, O14, O25, O47, P31)
P31|Corporate governance, state ownership and cross-listing: Evidence from Chinese A-share listed firms|This paper analyses the relationship between corporate governance, state ownership and cross-listing by using data from 2,113 Chinese A-share listed firms during the period 2008 to 2013. Firstly, corporate governance features in state-owned vs. non-state-owned and cross-listed vs. domestically-listed firms are examinde. Secondly, this paper investigates whether state ownership and cross-listing affect the sensitivity of the relation between corporate governance and firm value in Chinese listed firms. The effects are rather mixed.
P31|Trade Liberalization and Markup Dispersion: Evidence from China's WTO Accession|In this paper, we empirically investigate whether trade liberalization affects markup dispersion, a potential source of resource misallocation. The identification uses China's WTO accession at the end of 2001. We show that trade liberalization reduces markup dispersion within a narrowly defined industry. We also examine both price and cost responses to trade liberalization, as well as heterogeneous effects across firms and across locations. Our study contributes to the literature by identifying another potential channel through which free trade benefits a nation. (JEL F13, L11, O14, O19, P23, P31, P33)
P31|Workers’ Participation In A Former Labour-Managed Economy: The Case Of Serbian Transition|It is well known that Serbia – along with the other Southeast European successor states of former Yugoslavia – emerged from a country recognized for its specific labour-managed institutional arrangement. The paper recalls the main premises of the literature on the labour-managed firm and the theoretical contributions on participatory forms of management that seem most relevant to a transition economy like Serbia’s. It proceeds to analyze the main changes that occurred in Serbia during transition to a market economy, illustrating some of its specific features and how privatization led to the conversion of workers self-management into property rights. In order to analyze the role of employees in decisionmaking, and more generally their current position in privatized and newly established private firms, a survey was undertaken in 2013 based on a questionnaire for managers in 69 Serbian firms. The survey suggests that internal relations in enterprises are relatively undeveloped, particularly regarding the distribution of responsibilities in decision making at various organisational levels, hampering the efficient fulfilment of firms’ objectives. It appears that decision-making processes are usually designed in such a way as to give an excessive role to the owner as the exclusive decision-maker. The position of workers seems to be particularly poor regarding their rights to be informed, to make proposals, and/or to participate in decision-making in general. Moreover, even traditional workers’ rights are neglected (unionization, collective bargaining etc.). The survey also suggests that in those firms with a more active role of workers, there is a higher degree of workers’ satisfaction and loyalty to the firm.
P31|China’s Decentralized Privatization and Change of Control Rights|A distinct feature of China’s privatization is that both its design and its implementation are highly decentralized and are administered by the local governments. Based on a survey of 3,000 firms in over 100 Chinese cities, this paper studies how city governments choose among various privatization methods, how these different methods transfer control rights from the government to private owners, and how various privatization methods lead to different restructuring and performance. Our data indicate that although privatization in China has made substantial progress in reallocating control rights from the government to private owners, the degree of remaining government influence in corporate decisions across different privatization methods varies significantly. More importantly, political and fiscal constraints critically determine city governments’ decisions on how to privatize. Cities with less political opposition to labor shedding and where the government has stronger fiscal capacity tend to choose direct sales to insiders (MBOs) as the privatization method, which transfers control rights to private owners most completely. As a result, MBO firms restructure most effectively and achieve the greatest performance improvement.
P31|Effets perçus de l’intégration relationnelle entre fournisseur et client:le cas de la prestation logistique au Vietnam|(VF)Le cadre conceptuel développé dans l’article s’appuie sur l’analyse des processus d’intégration dyadique de la chaîne logistique. Il se fonde sur une revue extensive de la littérature pour aboutir à une hypothèse de recherche relative à la relation entre intégration relationnelle de la chaîne logistique et performance logistique perçue. Le terrain est constitué par une enquête conduite par questionnaire auprès de 139 industriels du secteur alimentaire au Vietnam. Il en ressort que l’intégration relationnelle entre l’industriel et son PSL impacte fortement sur la performance logistique perçue par l’industriel.(VA)The conceptual framework developed in this paper is based on analysis of the dyadic supply chain integration process. By relying on an extensive literature review, we build a research hypothesis relating to the relationship between supply chain integration and perceived logistical performance. A questionnaire survey was conducted in Vietnam with the participation of 139 managers of food industry. The main result of the research can be summarized as following: the relational integration between manufacturer and LSP impacts heavily on logistical performance perceived by the manufacturer.
P31|CEO career concerns and investment efficiency: Evidence from China|This paper investigates the impact of CEO career concerns on a firm's investment efficiency for publicly listed Chinese companies from 2002 to 2009. We use CEO age and appointment of new CEO as proxies for CEO career concerns. For the whole sample, we demonstrate that younger CEOs and newly appointed CEOs are prone to invest less and more efficiently. We divide our sample into state-owned enterprises and non-state-owned enterprises, depending on their ultimate ownership. The age effect seems stronger in state-owned enterprises and the new appointment effect seems stronger in non-state-owned enterprises. Our results indicate that CEOs have long-term career concerns that can improve a firm's investment efficiency even in a transitional economy such as China.
P31|The political determinants of executive compensation: Evidence from an emerging economy|In regulated economies, corporate governance mechanisms such as executive compensation are less driven by market-based forces but more subject to political influence. We study the political determinants of executive compensation for all listed Chinese firms in the context of an exogenous shock that removed market frictions in share-tradability. Under strong political constraints, state ownership reduced the managerial pay levels and increased pay-for-performance sensitivity (to asset-based benchmarks). Board independence and compensation committees do not curb managerial pay, and market-based factors do not have a significant influence. However, these effects reversed following the governance shock (removal of market frictions in share tradability).
P31|Asset stripping and firm survival in mass privatization: Testing the Hoff-Stiglitz and Campos-Giovannoni models in Montenegro|We provide the first test of and find support for the Hoff and Stiglitz (2004a,b) model predicting under what conditions mass privatizations are accompanied by asset stripping. We also test and do not find support for the main prediction of the Campos and Giovannoni (2006) model. In addition to testing the theory, we tackle an important policy-oriented issue of why a large number of efficient firms disappeared during mass privatization in the booming economy of Montenegro. Econometrically, we present the first study to look at firms that disappeared during a mass privatization transition, improving upon prior studies that focused only on existing firms and ignored survival bias. Our analysis suggests that asset stripping and firm disappearance were present, and that asset stripping was a likely reason for the loss of efficient firms. We show that because more productive firms were liquidated, it is important to model survival bias in the selection of firms remaining in samples when estimating the effects of privatization or other ownership changes. We also show that one needs to distinguish between true start-ups and liquidated firms that re-appear as start-ups. In the absence of the rule of law, many firms that appear to have disappeared were in fact appropriated by managers and politically connected individuals.
P31|Let the markets begin: The interplay between free prices and privatisation in early transition|This paper revisits the period of early post-communist transition to study the immediate impact on economic growth of the interplay between price liberalisation and large-scale privatisation in 27 economies. The trajectories along these two dimensions were quite different across transition economies in the period under scrutiny – this diversity is well mirrored by available indicators, which I use to approach empirically the interaction between that pair of reforms. My estimates suggest that the negative short-run effect of privatisation may be counterweighted by the existence of a system of non-distorted price signals. These results seem to be in broad agreement with previous analyses, which I review briefly. Given the small size of my sample and other possible data issues, particular care is taken when examining the robustness of the findings. While not rejecting earlier explanations (e.g. based on the importance of initial conditions, namely the dimension of inherited distortions in production), this paper offers the suggestion of an additional view on why the so-called transformational recession was deeper in some countries than in others – countries which have privatised without fully liberalising prices may have experienced more economic harm.
P31|Corporate governance of Chinese privatized firms: Evidence from a survey of non-listed enterprises|By using a dataset containing over 1200 Chinese non-listed firms, this study examines the corporate governance of privatized firms. Based on the summary statistics for 22 governance structures, I find that privatized domestic private firms have set up stronger governance than domestic private firms that have not experienced privatization. I propose seven hypotheses to explain the leading performance of privatized firms on corporate governance. I find that while some differences are explained by the diversity of firm-level characteristics, privatized firms’ better performance on setting up a board of directors and providing the CEO with company shares is highly robust. Finally, I find strong correlations between local governments’ fiscal conditions in the privatization year and privatized firms’ governance, which suggests a significant role played by local governments in shaping corporate governance during the privatization process.
P31|Ownership, related party transactions and performance in China|Purpose - – The purpose of this paper is to investigate the relative performance of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and privately controlled firms in China, and whether related party transactions (RPTs) add to or subtract from their relative performance, measured by return on assets (ROA). Design/methodology/approach - – Univariate and multivariate analyses of a sample of 90 firms that were listed in China between 2007 and 2009 (comprising 45 SOEs and 45 privately controlled firms matched on industry and size). Findings - – The authors find that SOEs engage in more tunneling, but find no evidence that privately controlled firms engage to a greater degree in either tunneling or propping. During this period, SOEs outperformed privately controlled firms by almost 4.5 per cent in terms of ROA (unadjusted for RPTs), but their performance advantage was completely offset by tunneling by about 6 per cent of ROA such that they underperformed privately controlled firms by a net 1.5 per cent of ROA. Research limitations/implications - – The research is limited by a relatively small sample size, and in measuring the value of RPTs as the total value of the transactions (which is observable) instead of the difference between the transaction prices and arms-length prices (which would be preferable but is not observable). Practical implications - – The economics of investing in Chinese firms with different controlling interests and RPTs may be of interest not only to investors and other stakeholders in Chinese firms listed domestically, but also to international investors in overseas and cross-listed Chinese firms. Originality/value - – This paper synthesizes research from ownership on performance and RPTs on performance, to disentangling the relative effects of ownership control and RPTs on the performance of Chinese publicly listed firms.
P31|A Model of China's State Capitalism|Despite consistently lower productivity, China’s state-owned enterprises (SOEs) exhibited higher profitability than non-SOEs after 2001 while the opposite was true in the 1990s, even with markets becoming increasingly liberalized and GDP growth remaining high throughout the whole period. To address this growth puzzle, we develop a general-equilibrium model based on the following under-appreciated vertical structure featured in China’s state capitalism: SOEs monopolize key upstream industries, whereas downstream industries are largely open to private competition. We show how the upstream SOEs extract rents from the liberalized downstream industries in the process of structural change and globalization. The unprecedented prosperity of SOEs is thus symptomatic of the incompleteness of market oriented reforms, distorting factor prices, impeding structural change, depressing GDP, and reducing public welfare. We also explain how this vertical structure emerged endogenously, and why this development model of state capitalism is not sustainable. General implications for other countries are also discussed.
P31|Exchange Rate Volatility and Macroeconomic War: A Comparative Study of India and Pakistan|Exchange rate has proved its behavior in determining the country economic position in this age of globalization and trade liberalization. Therefore, this research investigates that the determinants of trade i.e. Import, export, industrial growth, consumption level and oil prices fluctuation brings changes in exchange rate and its influence eventually on balance of payments in comparison of Indian and Pakistani economies. Data of defined variables is collected on annual basis of India and Pakistan for thirty one years. By applying cointegration, it is estimated that there exist a long run relationship in both countries. India and Pakistan has significantly and correctly sign the short run dynamic and some of the factors have not. In Pakistan balance of payment does granger cause exchange rate. For India, exchange rate does not granger cause balance of payment. It is concluded that exchange rate is very important determinant of trading in an open economy. Dealing in foreign exchange market, currency change affects every economy including developed or developing. This occurs because of the market forces of supply and demand, which pushes countries exchange rate as depreciated and appreciated.
P31|Is Privatization Working in Ukraine? New Estimates from Comprehensive Manufacturing Firm Data, 1989-2013|"This paper estimates the relative multi-factor productivity (MFP) of privatized and state-owned enterprises using a long panel on all initially state-owned manufacturing firms in Ukraine. The large size and length of the time series in the data permit us to track the privatization process and to estimate the impact of privatization within industry-year cells and with controls for firm fixed effects and trends. Results with these methods imply an average 5-10% relative MFP for majority privatized versus state-owned firms. The gap increases with time since privatization, reaching about 15-17% five years after privatization. It also increases with calendar time although recent privatizations are associated with smaller relative MFP. We find no evidence of ""sequencing"" of privatization based on 1992 relative MFP, but the data suggest a higher survival rate for privatized versus state firms and one that is more closely linked to 1992 MFP. The results also imply that MFP gains from privatization are decreasing in pre-privatization MFP. The relatively few cases in which foreign investors take control result in much higher relative MFP, 22-40% on average, compared to domestic private ownership, but the gap is much lower when the foreign source country is ""offshore"" Ã¢â‚¬â€œ an indirect channel for Ukrainian nationals Ã¢â‚¬â€œ and it is also lower when the source is Russia. Privatization of 100% ownership has much larger effects than partial privatization of either minority or majority stakes, ownership structures that have largely disappeared since the early 2000s, as Ukraine has sold off remaining shares. Nevertheless, our database contains more than 1000 majority state-owned manufacturing firms as of 2013 that could be considered for privatization in the future."
P31|New firms entry, labor reallocation, and institutions in transition economies|In the transition from central planning to a market economy in the 1990s, governments focused on privatizing or closing state enterprises, reforming labor markets, compensating laid-off workers, and fostering job creation through new private firms. After privatization, the focus shifted to creating a level playing-field in the product market by protecting property rights, enforcing the rule of law, and implementing transparent start-up regulations. A fair, competitive environment with transparent rules supports long-term economic growth and employment creation through the reallocation of jobs in favor of new private firms.
P31|Institutions, economic liberalization and firm growth: evidence from European transition economies|This article investigates the determinants of firm growth using a dataset matching firm-level data with country indicators of access to external finance, governance, and economic liberalization in ten European transition countries over the period 1996–2011. We find that the quality of state rebuilding after the collapse of communism matters. First, country governance adds something above the impact of a change in variables that proxy for access the external finance. Second, the results also show that economic liberalization has no direct effect on firm growth. Instead, its impact operates through country governance. The countries that benefit the most in terms of firm growth are those with higher than average country governance indicators. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P31|Foreign Capital, GDP and Effects Affairs of Macedonia|This paper focuses on Southeast Europe and analyzes foreign capital movements, gross domestic product and possible effects, through a case study of Macedonia. There are many respectable sources of data, especially macro data and firm-level data that are used in this research. What we are interested in are the movements of foreign direct investment i.e. foreign capital, gross domestic product and effects of such changes, and possible contributions to the development of domestic firms and the overall economy. Foreign direct investment is usually defined as dominant or controlling ownership of a company in one country, by an entity based in another country. As of the beginning of the transition process, foreign direct investments remain priority, as essential pillar, that moves forward the society towards developed market economy. Further, we are interested in the possibility that these two indicators have positive and upward climb to facilitate this developing economy.
P31|Xi Jinping Regime Trying to Avert the gTwo Traps h - Will the policy of gtilting leftward politically and rightward economically h be sustainable?|Since launching the reform and opening-up initiative, China has been aiming to achieve economic development and a transition to a market economy at the same time. During this process, there is the risk that China could be caught in two traps: a middle-income trap and a transition trap. Indeed, there are already signs that this risk is becoming a reality, including the widening income gap, environmental degradation, corruption among bureaucrats, a decline in the potential growth rate associated with a shortage of labor, and the stalling of the reform of state-owned enterprises. To avoid being caught in these two traps, the government of Xi Jinping has set forth the policy of gtilting leftward politically and rightward economically, h which seeks to strengthen General Secretary Xi fs power base on the political front and to unleash the vitality of the market and companies by minimizing government intervention on the economic front. The details of economic reforms were decided at the Third Plenum of the Chinese Communist Party held in November 2013. With these reforms expected to meet resistance from vested interests, the government must obtain the people fs support for the economic reforms and undertake political reforms to promote democracy and the rule of law.
P31|State Capitalism vs. Private Enterprise|We study the efficiency of internal capital markets at state-controlled and privately owned business groups in China. Using highly granular data on within-group capital flows, we document stark differences: while private groups allocate more capital to units with better investment opportunities, state groups do the opposite. Minority shareholders in state owned firms suffer as a result. Product market competition and external monitoring by outside investors help discipline state groups’ tendency to ignore investment opportunities. We conjecture that capital allocations at state groups reflect the private career objectives of their chairmen. We show that promotion depends not on increasing profitability but on avoiding layoffs. Consistent with a career motive, we find that capital allocations are used to prop up large and struggling employers, but only if the chairman has a realistic chance of being promoted and if the cost of self-interested behavior is not too high.
P31|Geographical Concentration of Soviet Industries: A Comparative Analysis|This paper analyzes the geographical concentration of manufacturing industries in Russia before the beginning of transition. We calculate Duranton- Overman (Duranton, Overman, 2005) indices of localization and dispersion for 4-digit US SIC 1987 industries of civilian manufacturing in the RSFSR in 1989. Comparative analysis reveals that industries in the RSFSR were less localized than in geographically compact countries of Western Europe. On the other hand, compared to another country with large territory and low population density - Canada, industries in RSFSR exhibit similar overall degree of geographical dispersion. Compared to Canada, Russia has less localization in the technologically sophisticated industries. Such pattern of industrial localization suggests that the Soviet planning system could account for the benefits of localization near inputs or near consumers, but could not internalize the knowledge spillover externalities, that are especially important for the technologically advanced industries.
P31|Transformacja wartosci a postawy przedsiebiorcze Polakow/The Transition of Values and Entrepreneurial Attitudes of the Poles|Poland’s transformation occurs in individuals’ attitudes and behaviour. Several years ago, the entrepreneur in Poland was associated with corruption and borderline legal activities. Today, many entrepreneurs are looked upon as positive role models. Social acceptance of entrepreneurial attitudes in Poland is growing. Increased susceptibility to entrepreneurial behaviour in a society will increase the rate at which new businesses are established, enhancing market dynamics, and accelerating innovative changes. But in Poland entrepreneurs are not seen as a positive example, unlike in the United States. Willingness to take risks, self-expression and independence are not met with social acceptance, especially if rewarded with high incomes. The research undertaken by the author is aimed at analysing the essence of entrepreneurial attitudes and changes in the social acceptance of entrepreneurial behaviour.
P31|China’s Great Convergence and Beyond|A recent wave of economic research has studied the transformation of China from a poor country in the 1970s to a middle-income economy today. Based on this literature, we discuss the factors driving China’s development process. We provide a historical account of China’s rise, fall, and resurgence. We then discuss the stylized facts associated with China’s growth process and review a comprehensive theory of its economic transition. Finally, we discuss China’s future. In particular, we review some recent studies about technological and politico-economic factors that may foster or hinder its future economic performance.
P31|Who posts performance bonds and why? Evidence from China's CEOs|Despite their theoretical value in tackling principal–agent problems at low cost to firms there is almost no empirical literature on the prevalence and correlates of performance bonds posted by corporate executives. We show that they are an important feature in today's CEO labour market in China: around one-tenth of corporations deploy performance bonds and they are equivalent to around 14% of CEO cash compensation. Consistent with principal–agent theory bonds are negatively associated with firm sales volatility. The complementarity between bonds and other incentive mechanisms such as bonuses and stock holding is consistent with optimal reward structures for multi-tasking agents. Those CEOs posting bonds are higher in the Communist Party ranks, were promoted via tournaments, and run larger firms, findings consistent with using bonds as an incentive to attract and retain the most able workers. Although state-owned enterprises are just as likely as privately owned ones to use bonds in CEO contracts, some of the theoretical predictions which assume profit-maximising firms do not hold where the state has an ownership stake.
P31|Firm growth and productivity in Belarus: New empirical evidence from the machine building industry|Using a unique dataset comprising information for (up to) 153 firms in the machine building sector in Belarus, we investigate the determinants of firm growth for an economy where state ownership of enterprises is widespread. We use panel data models based on generalizations of Gibrat’s law, total factor productivity estimates and matching methods to assess the differences in firm growth between private and state-controlled firms. Our results indicate that labor hoarding and soft budget constraints play a particularly important role in explaining differences in performance between these two groups of firms.
P31|"Breaking the ""Iron Rice Bowl"" and Precautionary Savings: Evidence from Chinese State-Owned Enterprises Reform"|"We use China's large-scale reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the late 1990s as a natural experiment to identify and quantify the importance of precautionary saving for wealth accumulation. Before the reform, SOE workers enjoyed the same job security as government employees. Since the reform, over 35 million SOE workers have been laid off, although government employees kept their ""iron rice bowl."" The change in unemployment risk for SOE workers relative to that of government employees before and after the reform provides a clean identification of income uncertainty that helps us estimate the importance of precautionary saving. In our estimation, we correct a self-selection bias in occupational choice and disentangle the effects of uncertainty from pessimistic outlook. We obtain evidence that precautionary savings account for at least one-third of the wealth accumulation for SOE workers between 1995 and 2002."
P31|Privatization of Industry in Central and Eastern European Countries|Since the fall of the communist regime in the early 1990s, the Central and South Eastern European countries (CEE) have gone through several phases of transition, having a mail goal the liberalization of their economies. Experiences taken from centralized planned economy to a market economy, economists have offered an opportunity to study both theoretically and in practical point of view. The economists are still debating various strategies and their economic transition, because the problems of transition in CEE countries are not fully resolved. The purpose of this article was the theoretical and empirical analysis of the privatization of the industry of Central and Eastern Europe, the current European Union Member States and the main economic indicators are built into the process, to identify structural weaknesses in the economies of emerging post communist.
P31|Does autonomy matter in state owned enterprises? Evidence from performance contracts in India|The empirical effect of enterprise autonomy on the performance of state-owned enterprises is surprisingly scant despite autonomy being a preferred reform instrument in many countries, and of ten chosen over privatization. Using longitudinal data on performance contracts for state-owned enterprises in India, this paper empirically examines whether granting increased autonomy to state-owned enterprises through such contracts positively impacts enterprise profitability. Further, using the unique reform experience of India as a natural experiment, whereby enterprise autonomy has been simultaneously pursued with partial privatization for a subset of enterprises, a unique contribution of the study lies in investigating whether ownership divestiture through partial privatization has any effect once enterprises are imparted managerial autonomy, or whether ownership per se matters. Classifying state owned enterprises into three types, namely those that have been granted autonomy, those with autonomy and partially divested ownership, and those with neither, the study finds robust evidence of a positive impact of managerial autonomy on enterprise profitability. Additionally, once autonomy is controlled for, the study finds at best a weak effect of partial privatization. These results raise doubt on earlier findings of a robust positive effect of partial privatization in India in studies that did not explicitly control for enterprise autonomy thereby raising the possibility that the positive privatization effect that showed up was in actuality, an autonomy effect.
P31|Privatization and state property management in post-transition economies|Privatization was a centerpiece of the Central and Eastern European (CEE) transition process, the main drivers of which were the desire to increase the role of private business, the need for economic restructuring and increasing of efficiency and ambitions to crush the economic might of the communist regime and establish the basis of a new political elite. Until the mid-2000s the main transition goals of CEE economies were largely achieved, which is also expressed in their EU-accession. However, the transition process did not create economic systems fully comparable with more established market economies of the EU. After successful stabilization and large scale de-nationalization of state property the first two drivers of privatization lost importance. Furthermore external pressure from international organizations such as the World Bank or the European Commission declined. After becoming members of the “club” only the third driver remained intact and CEE governments started to rethink their relationship towards state property using it as an “uncontrolled tap of public money”. Weak civil and political control institutions enabled these processes. This development is illustrated by the examples of Hungary and Poland. This paper aims at contributing to the development of the theory of CEE capitalism models with the analysis of the changing role of state ownership and privatization.
P31|Corporate Environmental Strategies in Emerging Economies|Many companies are adopting environmentally friendly management practices in developed countries. However, the benefits of a corporate environmental strategy are less clear in emerging (developing and transition) economies, where environmental regulations may be poorly enforced and social pressures to comply are weak. Thus it is important for business leaders, policymakers, and environmental activists to understand the causes and consequences of corporate environmental strategy in these economies so that they are able to implement effective strategies, develop useful policies, and promote meaningful activities, respectively. Drawing on both the theoretical and empirical literature, this article examines a broad array of drivers behind corporate environmental strategies including internal characteristics of firms, market pressures, and pressures from government and civil society. The empirical findings for developing economies (i.e., those whose physical and human resources, along with institutions, are still developing) suggest that government and civil society provide weak incentives for corporate environmental compliance, foreign ownership and foreign customer pressure improve environmental management practices, and information disclosure programs offer some promise for improving corporate environmental performance. The empirical findings for transition economies (i.e., those transitioning from reliance on the government’s allocation of resources to market-based allocations) also suggest a positive, albeit weaker, role for foreign ownership and foreign customer pressure in improving firms’ environmental performance. However, the findings also indicate that government policies, such as stricter enforcement, granting of permits, and higher rates for emission charges, are more effective in transition economies than in developing economies. (JEL: D21, D22, K32, M14, O13, P28, P31, Q53, Q56)
P31|El Papel de los Muertos en el Cerebro de los Vivos: Metáforas en las Revoluciones Francesas (1789-99, 1848-51, 1870-71), Iraní (1977-81) y Bolchevique (1917-1924)<BR>[The Role of the Dead in the Living Brain: Metaphors in French Revolutions French (1789-99, 1848-51, 1870-71), Iran (1977-1981) and Bolshevik (1917-1924)]|This paper work assesses the key aspects of a framework for research on revolutions. Our approach includes a heuristic based on an idea suggested by Marx in the 18th Brumaire of Louis Bonaparte: “The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brain of the living”. From this maxim of Marx advance on conventional interpretations by postulating that the language and metaphors are a challenge in several respects: (1) The brain is a physical basis for understanding key political revolutions, (2) advances in neuroscience and language (Lakoff/Johnson/Narayanan) have allowed the reconstruction of conceptual frameworks in various fields, including philosophy, mathematics and politics (3) The language expressed in songs, text, flags, emblems, illustrations, slogans, speeches and rumors is key to represent and demonstrate loyalty to the idea of revolution and, more crucially, to “make” the revolution, (4) Metaphors are a powerful rational action in revolutionary processes. One interpretation of these can contribute to decipher, for example, how the brain are activated in neural systems that link past and present, how to operate the symbolic frameworks of language to influence political opinion, how metaphors interact with processes artificial simulation or how metaphors evolve in a revolution from simple metaphors.
P31|The effect of general consumer attitudes and personality traits on attitudes towards domestic and multinational products in the Balkan region|This study examines consumer attitudes toward products of multinational and domestic companies in the Balkan region. In four ex-Yugoslav countries, various variables (general consumption attitudes, personality traits, and demography) were compared and analyzed as determinants of consumer attitudes towards domestic and multinational products. The data for the analysis was derived from a representative sample of 7450 Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, and Bosnian consumers by means of a syndicated field survey (PGM-Valicon 2008). The results in general do not support the assumption that regions are homogeneous in terms of consumer attitudes. The key findings at the regional level indicate that attitudes towards domestic products are driven by a different set of predictors than are attitudes towards products of multinational companies (MNC).
P31|Density imprints and organisations’ survival chances: a question of organisational ancestors|While previous studies in organisational ecology have shown that the population density at the time of an organisation’s founding influences its survival chances, the present study proposes that clarity regarding the form and function of a category of organisations moderates this effect. Focusing on four industries in East Germany and their development in the aftermath of the transition from socialism to a free market economy in 1990, results support prior findings (i.e., a high population density at an organisation’s founding decreases its survival chances). However, this effect is less harmful when environmental experiences with the organisational form are small. The present study’s results contribute to the recent discussion on population density, and they highlight the importance of transition economies as research contexts for organisational ecology.
P31|Obtaining international results through partnerships: evidence from Russian MNEs in the IT sector|The paper discusses the internationalisation specifics and results of Russian MNEs in the IT sector. The strategies of these firms are focused more on the acquisition of customers than of technologies when expanding abroad. As the technological sophistication of Russian companies and foreign firms in the high-tech sector is about equal (if compared to natural resource-based enterprises), our findings indicate that partnership-oriented strategy provides Russian firms with a better chance of obtaining positive results when expanding abroad. IT companies from Russia are relatively less influenced by their home government, being shaped more by economic than political factors in their international expansion Hence, we argue that they seem to be more marketing-oriented in their international expansion than their natural resource-based counterparts.
P31|Zwischen Instrumentalisierung und Bedeutungslosigkeit. Mitarbeiter-Partizipation im organisationalen Kontext in Mittel- und Osteuropa|Im vorliegenden Band behandeln renommierte Autoren aus dem Bereich der Sozial- und Managementwissenschaften in deutsch- und englischsprachigen Beitraegen das Thema der Partizipation in Organisationen in gleichermassen konzeptueller wie empirischer Sicht. Waehrend sich die eher konzeptuell gehaltenen Beitraege dem Begriff und der Semantik der Partizipation sowie prominenten betrieblichen Partizipationspraktiken eher skeptisch naehern, widmen sich die staerker empirisch argumentierenden Beitraege der Vermessung und Beschreibung von Stand und Entwicklung der Institutionen und Praktiken der betrieblichen Partizipation in mittel- und osteuropaeischen Transformationslaendern. Waehrend im konzeptuellen Teil neben der betrieblichen Partizipation auch generelle gesellschaftliche Aspekte der Partizipation sowie der Bereich der Wissenschaft untersucht werden, fokussieren sich die empirischen Arbeiten auf die betriebliche Partizipation und ruecken dabei Transfer und Verbreitung verschiedener Partizipationsmodelle wie partizipative Fuehrung, Mitarbeitergesellschaften oder Arbeitnehmervertretungen ins Zentrum ihres Interesses. Und waehrend die konzeptuellen Beitraege tendenziell den Aspekt der Instrumentalisierung der Partizipation hervorheben, arbeiten die empirischen Beitraege eher ihre relative Bedeutungslosigkeit in den Laendern Mittel- und Osteuropas heraus. Der Band bietet auf diese Weise einem akademischen ebenso wie einem praktisch interessierten Publikum wichtige konzeptuelle und empirische Er-kenntnisse zur Rolle, zu Grenzen und Loesungsansaetzen von partizipativen Strukturen und Instrumenten im Kontext der Restrukturierung von Arbeit, Personal und Organisation im Transformationsprozess.
P31|Breaking the “Iron Rice Bowl” and Precautionary Swings: Evidence from Chinese State-Owned Enterprises Reform|We use China’s large-scale reform of state-owned enterprises (SOE) in the late 1990s as a natural experiment to identify and quantify the importance of precautionary savings for wealth accumulation. Before the reform, SOE workers enjoyed the same job security as government employees. After the reform, a cumulative of over 35 million SOE workers have been laid off, although government employees kept their “iron rice bowl.” The change in unemployment risks for SOE workers relative to that of government employees before and after the reform provides a clean identification of income uncertainty that helps us estimate the importance of precautionary savings. In our estimation, we correct a self-selection bias in occupational choices and we disentangle the effects of uncertainty from pessimistic outlook. We obtain evidence that precautionary savings contribute to about one-third of the wealth accumulations for SOE workers between 1995 and 2002. Precautionary savings motive is thus an important factor that drives the observed rising Chinese saving rate.
P31|Instabilitatea financiara, ciclurile si rolul institutiilor|In this study I review the main scientific contributions of Minsky and other scholars to the financial instability and crisis issues, and the role of institutions in modeling the medium and long business and financial waves. The topics developed in this paper are the following: the relationships between financial instability, business and financial crisis and institutions; the thwarting of the explosive instability by the specific institutions' actions and regulations; the impact of the institutional changes on the business and financial cycles; the empiric approach to the business and financial cycles and their synchronization in the Central and Eastern Europe countries / members of the EU, taking into account the main characteristics of the changes in these countries' institutions.
P31|Financial Instability, Cycles and the Role of Institutions|In this study I review the main scientific contributions of Minsky and other scholars to the financial instability and crisis issues, and the role of institutions in modeling the medium and long financial and business waves. The topics developed in this paper are the following: the relationships between financial instability, financial and business crisis and institutions; the thwarting of the explosive instability by the specific institutions’ actions and regulations; the impact of the institutional changes on the financial and business cycles; an empiric approach to the financial and business cycles and their synchronization in the Central and Eastern European countries/ members of the EU, taking into account the main characteristics of the changes in these countries’ institutions.
P31|Labor reallocation and firm growth: benchmarking transition countries against mature market economies|L11, O12, P31. Copyright Mitra et al.; licensee Springer. 2014
P31|Business Environment - The Case Of Western Balkan Countries|This paper investigates and compares development of the Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) sector and different obstacles for development of this sector in the Western Balkan countries (WBCs). Many evidence from the countries of central Europe show that the development of SMEs and entrepreneurship is a key factor for a successful transformation from command to market based economy in WBCs. SMEs create new jobs, products and services, help in restructuring former state enterprises, which is very important for transition countries, and generate government revenues. Also, SMEs stimulate private ownership and entrepreneurial skills and innovations. A special accent in this paper is put on many international reports and datasets relevant to the assessment of business environment in this region. In this paper, the author uses only some such as: The Global Competitiveness Report of World Economic Forum, World Bank’s Doing Business Index, Heritage Foundation's Index of Economic Freedom, European Charter for Small Enterprises and Small Business Act of OECD and European Commission (EC) and Indicators of Business, Corruption and Crime in WBCs of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). The author has come to the conclusion that, in respect of SMEs, WBCs lag behind the countries in the European Union. This article aims to analyze the system of regulation and administrative facilitation aspects of doing business in the above-mentioned countries and, whether or not this system stimulates, the development of private SMEs and entrepreneurship.
P31|Can We Really Explain Worker Flows in Transition Economies?|This paper employs a new rich source of data on worker reallocation in transition economies and provides a decomposition of the aggregate changes into those attributable to sectoral reallocation, those attributable to transition per se and those attributable to demographics. Aghion and Blanchard (1994) provide a theoretical framework that allows to conceptualize a reallocation from an (implicitly inefficient) public sector to a (more efficient) private sector, which is extremely useful in the analyses of economic transition. However, transition processes are not isolated from global trends such as a shift from industry to services, which is more explicitly tackled in the sectoral reallocation models of Caballero and Hammour (1996, 2001). Finally, there are also demographic processes, which exhibit in labor market exits by people with outdated or no longer necessary skills and in labor market entries by people with possibly better matched competences. The aggregate changes in transition economies are a combination of these three mechanisms. We thus test the validity of Aghion and Blanchard (1994) as well as Caballero and Hammour (1996, 2001) in the context of 26 transition economies over the period 1989-2006. We find that demographics and education can accommodate a fair share of shift from public to private and from manufacturing to services - as opposed to the actual worker flows between jobs. Whether or not this results in reduced employment at the end of the transition process stems not from the wage setting mechanism (such as collective bargaining, indexation, etc.) but rather seems to be related to the policies able to keep older cohorts in employment.
P31|Genossenschaftliche Solidarität auf dem Prüfstand|No abstract is available for this item.
P31|Performance management system implementation in a Southeast European transitional country|Very few papers analyse PMS implementation in developing and transitional countries and the importance of PMS implementation for success in transition. Providing a Serbian perspective on PMS implementation, the study aims to identify and analyze important factors and variables that influence PMS implementation in transitional countries and the importance of PMS implementation for success in transition. Obstacles for PMS implementation are connected with a misunderstanding of the need for performance measurement for employees on the lower level, unwillingness for sharing data on the top management level and available resources for PMS implementation.
P31|Determinants of foreign direct investment ownership mode choice: Evidence from Nordic investments in Central and Eastern Europe|This paper addresses the determinants of foreign direct investment (FDI) ownership mode choice of firms in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) based on three most important theoretical paradigms of IB studies i.e. transaction cost economics, resource based view and institutional theory. The empirical analysis of 720 FDIs made by the firms from all four Nordic countries in CEE region during 1990-2007 revealed that the probability WOS formation was increased by the high R&D intensity of the industry of the investment, low target country risk, large economic size and high economic growth in the target country. The further in-depth analysis revealed that for FDIs made during 1990s, product diversity; while for FDIs made during 2000s, international experience and strength of market conforming values in the target country became significant determinants of ownership mode choice for Nordic FDIs.
P31|Drivers and strategies of international new ventures from a Central European transition economy|This paper contributes to SME internationalization theory by offering region-specific propositions on early internationalization of Central and Eastern European (CEE) firms. We suggest that special treatment of international new ventures from CEE transition economies is justified due to constraints faced by their founders, particularly not only limited financial resources but also relatively low human and social capital. We propose that some of the region-specific drivers which contribute to early internationalization involve domestic market entry barriers and arbitrage opportunities related to the higher purchasing power of consumers from developed economies. Additionally, we find that in order to overcome resource limitations, CEE international new ventures apply effectuation and bricolage to exploit controlled resources and flexibly adapt to the market situation.
P31|Management disclosure practices for disaggregated (financial) information in Slovenian unlisted companies|The focus of the present study is the management practice of disclosing disaggregated (financial) information in a company’s annual report. In this study, a sample of 232 Slovenian unlisted companies has been examined. The results show that less than a quarter of the companies disclose disaggregated information. Moreover, the multiple regression analysis reveals that the scope of the disclosed disaggregated information is not influenced by the company’s size, financial leverage, profitability or growth, but that only a company’s membership in the construction industry sector is a relevant determinant. Furthermore, additional analysis reveals that the companies’ proprietary information does not influence the management practices regarding which disaggregated information to disclose.
P31|Towards solution based thinking: characteristics of servitization at Hungarian manufacturing companies|The main purpose of the article is to describe the servitization process of Hungarian manufacturing companies based on data of the Hungarian Competitiveness research. Servitization aims at supplying a bundle of products and services that offers complete solutions for customers. In this paper we analyze to what extent characteristics of ser-vitization in developed countries are also applicable in a developing macro-environment, i.e. in Hungary. Results of our analysis show that, generally, Hungarian manufacturing companies do not place strategic emphasis on services. Nevertheless, our sample contains a number of manufacturing companies that have taken actions to servitize both on strategic and operational level. However, in case of these companies financial benefits attributable to higher levels of servitization do not yet seem to materialize.
P31|Towards solution based thinking: characteristics of servitization at Hungarian manufacturing companies|The main purpose of the article is to describe the servitization process of Hungarian manufacturing companies based on data of the Hungarian Competitiveness research. Servitization aims at supplying a bundle of products and services that offers complete solutions for customers. In this paper we analyze to what extent characteristics of ser-vitization in developed countries are also applicable in a developing macro-environment, i.e. in Hungary. Results of our analysis show that, generally, Hungarian manufacturing companies do not place strategic emphasis on services. Nevertheless, our sample contains a number of manufacturing companies that have taken actions to servitize both on strategic and operational level. However, in case of these companies financial benefits attributable to higher levels of servitization do not yet seem to materialize.
P31|Antecedents of Strategic Orientations in Romanian SMEs: An Institutional Framing Perspective|Using data from 325 Romanian SMEs, we test the joint effect of perceived opportunities and threats in a situation of macro institutional change on strategic orientations. Our findings show that perceived threats moderate the impact of perceived opportunities on SMEs strategic orientation in such a way that perceived threats increase the positive association between perceived opportunities and the prospector strategic orientation, as well as the negative association between perceived opportunities and the defender strategic orientation. Implications of current findings for the framing perspective in institutional theory are also discussed and directions for future research are drawn.
P31|Subsidiary autonomy in transition economies: Italian SMEs in Central and Eastern European countries|This paper aims at shedding new light on the variables that indicate the level of autonomy of subsidiaries of internationalizing companies. Specifically, we examine subsidiaries located in the transition economies of Central and Eastern European Countries (CEECs). We identified a sample of 72 subsidiaries of micro, small and medium-sized Italian companies, and we assessed the impact of three variables on the subsidiary’s autonomy: the size; the strategic aim in the local market (market seeking or cost reduction); and the degree of economic development of the local country. Our results suggest that subsidiary's autonomy reflects local country characteristics, but not the economic development. Our findings also show that subsidiaries looking for penetrating the local market are generally more autonomous than the ones pursuing cost-cutting strategies.
P31|Governance of public-private partnerships: Lessons learned from an Albanian case|Service infrastructure public-private partnerships (PPPs) in Albania have revealed significant governance problems. The aim of this research is to examine the technical-rational and social contractual issues of PPPs within the broad context of risk, and accordingly propose a governance framework. The research builds on international PPP literature to develop an analytical conceptualization. It uses document review and interviews to construct a case study of a Concession Contract for the Water Supply in Elbasan, Albania, which became operational in October 2002 and failed in December 2007. The research indicates that failure within this so-called PPP largely occurred within the technical-rational governance system due to unforeseen risks. This led to a breakdown in the social contract, through political risk. It is required a governance system that enhances risk assessment and diminishes the likelihood of negative political behaviors.
P31|Una mirada a la conformación del poder popular en Chile: la independencia hacia 1973|“La legitimidad, desde esta perspectiva, es un valor social que emana de la sociedad y se agrega e incorpora a los constructos sistémicos como el único valor legítimo de éstos.” Como explica Gabriel Salazar (2011), en un Estado neoliberal hay una escases de legitimidad y por lo tanto también una gobernabilidad intentando mostrar legitimidad. Sin embargo, el ciudadano quiere recuperar su soberanía y lo hace a través de “la gobernanza; o sea: el poder (y derecho) de mantener a políticos, tecnócratas y militares sujetos al control cívico y la razón histórica de la ciudadanía. Poco a poco, subrepticiamente, los movimientos de la sociedad civil tienden a exigir, proponer o construir un sistema político donde al gobernanza y no la mera gobernabilidad sea el componente legal de la política cotidiana”. En este contexto, se entiende la comunidad como base del desarrollo de la soberanía y la soberanía como base del poder popular.
P31|Can the Socialist Market Economy in China Adhere to Socialism?|The recent round of debate over Chinaâ€™s state and private economy has fundamentally touched upon whether or not China should abandon or strengthen the socialist elements within the market economy. In this paper, we argue that the debate is, in essence, a continued class struggle in the political and ideological superstructure. Then we discuss the foreseeable future of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) under current political and economic conditions. We will further propose the necessary reforms for the SOEs to move towards a truly socialist form of public ownership.
P31|Empirical Evidence on Relationships between Ex Ante Innovation Pursuit and Post-M&A Performance in the Vietnamese M&A Industry, 2005-2012|This research aims to communicate new results of empirical investigations to learn about the relationship between determination of controlling an acquired firm’s capital, assets and brand versus its capability of innovation and ex post performance of the rising Vietnamese M&A industry in the 2005-2012 period. The analysis employs a categorical data sample, consisting of 212 M&A cases reported by various information sources, and performs a number of logistic regressions with significant results as follows. Firstly, the overall relationship between pre-M&A pursuit’s determination on acquiring resources and performance of the post-M&A performance is found significant. There exist profound effects of a ‘size matters’ strategy in M&A ex post performance. When there is an overwhelming ‘resources acquiring’ strategy, the innovation factor’s explanatory power becomes negligible. Secondly, for negative performance of post-M&A operations, the emphasis on both capital base and asset size, and the brand value at the time of the M&A pursuit is the major explanation in the post-M&A period. So does the absence of innovation as a goal in the pre-M&A period. These two insights together are useful in careful M&A planning. Lastly, expensive pre-M&A expenditures tend to adversely affect the post-M&A performance. As a general conclusion, this study shows that innovation can be an important factor to pursue in M&A transitions, together with the need to emphasize and find capable and willing human capital, rather than a capital base (equity or debt) and existing values of the acquired brands.
P31|Institutional Determinants of New Firm Entry in Russia: A Cross-Regional Analysis| We investigate how the regional institutional environment—in particular, the political environment—affects Russian new firm entry across regions, industries, firm size classes, and time. We find that entry rates in Russia are explained by natural entry rates and the institutional environment. Industries that are characterized by low entry barriers in developed market economies are found to have lower entry rates in regions subject to greater political fluidity, as in the case of gubernatorial change. We also find that higher levels of political fluidity and democracy increase relative entry rates for small-sized firms but reduce them for medium-sized or large ones. © 2013 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
P31|China's Unfinished State-owned Enterprise Reforms|This article discusses China’s incremental approach to SOE reform, the difficulties of continuing this approach as the need to make efficiency gains across all sectors of the economy becomes more acute, and future reform options and the challenges in carrying them out.
P31|Social Economy, Entrepreneurship and local development: the case of 'Arcturos' environmental centre|The concept and the activities of social economy are not particularly developed in Greece. Several institutions have made some attempts to change that during the past few years but they failed due to the lack of the proper and flexible institutional frame that would administratively and financially support the initiatives. The domain of Social Economy in Greece has not been acknowledged as such, even though there is a considerable number of institutions that operate under its roof. Generally, the Greek society tends to attach to such initiatives a notion of 'charity'. There are three main advantages of the social enterprises, according to the literature and the European experience: - Support of local development - New products and services offered - Employment for people that face difficulties Research on the third system has proved that its approach present a number of advantages compared to the public or private profit-oriented domain. It also has a positive impact on employment and on the important aspects of social and economic life. This is true especially on a local level as it improves the quality of life, it develops new economic factors, it enhances the social bonds and the social unity and it boosts creativeness and innovativeness. In order to examine the role and contribution of social enterprises in the local development, an empirical research was realized in November 2012. The field of the research was the Municipality of Amyntaio, where the social enterprise 'ARCTUUROS Environmental Centre' is situated. ARCTUROS is a Greek, non-governmental organization seeking to enhance biodiversity and sustainability in the Greek rural areas. ARCTUROS implements cross-border projects in order to protect mountainous ecosystems, with an emphasis on bears and large mammals, aiming at the integrated management of protected mountainous regions and the provision of expertise for natural environment interventions. ARCTUROS Environmental Center resolved the problem of captive bears and wolves in Greece and raised public awareness about large mammals. ARCTUROS is a non-profit civil partnership that lobbies to protect nature by developing actions of public awareness, environmental education and volunteerism. The research was realized through structured questionnaires the examination of which, leads us to interesting conclusions about the impact of a social enterprise on remote and disadvantaged areas.
P31|How much do the characteristics of independent directors and supervisory board members affect firm performance in China?|This paper investigates and compares the characteristics of independent directors and supervisory board members in Chinese listed firms. The occupational backgrounds of independent directors and supervisory board members in listed firms are very different. Besides, different firms have different preferences in employing independent directors and supervisory board members according to their demands. Moreover, the empirical results show that characteristics of independent directors and supervisory board members have no clear relationship with firm performance. No matter their professional backgrounds or age, the independent directors and supervisory board members do not have the authority to affect the decision making process of management. Thus they cannot really contribute to firm performance.
P31|China's Goal of Combining Economic Self-Reliance With Its Development: Changing Perspectives and Challenges| The attainment of self-reliance (zi li geng sheng) is an important goal for China. However, approaches to achieving it have altered greatly since the People’s Republic was established in 1949. Following the split between China and the Soviet Union in 1960, Mao Zedong claimed that China could achieve this goal by promoting economic self-sufficiency at the national level as well as at subnational levels. This approach resulted in a considerable economic burden for China. While national economic self-sufficiency probably was forced on China by the hostility of foreign nations towards it, subnational self-sufficiency was not. Following the death of Mao Zedong in 1976 and the eventual rise to power of Deng Xiaoping, China’s market reforms began in 1978. With the introduction of the household responsibility system in agriculture, China gave up relying on communes and collectives for its agricultural production. The market reforms began in rural areas but were only slowly extended to urban areas because of some opposition to some politbureau numbers to the market reforms. The process of the market reforms since 1978 is outlined with some attention being given to the political hurdles involved in achieving these reforms. As a result of these reforms, the goal of subnational economic self-sufficiency has well and truly been abandoned and national self-sufficiency is no longer practised. These changes have brought new economic risks for China and the Chinese people. The benefit, however, has been greater economic growth and the enhanced global status of China. While economic self-sufficiency is no longer an over-riding goal for China, one part of zi li geng sheng is still very important for it nationally, namely, to control one’s destiny, that is, to be in charge of one’s own affairs, goals and decision-making.
P31|CEO Incentive Contracts in China: Why Does City Location Matter?|Abstract CEO incentive contracts are commonplace in China but their incidence varies significantly across Chinese cities. We show that city and provincial policy experiments help explain this variance. We examine the role of two policy experiments: the use of Special Economic Zones (SEZs) to attract Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), and the privatisation of State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs). The introduction of SEZs is found to be uncorrelated with the prevalence of CEO incentive contracts. However, firms are more likely to use such contracts in areas that saw rapid SOE privatisation, irrespective of the firm’s own current ownership status and irrespective of the size of the SOE sector in the late 1970s. The positive effect of privatisation is robust to various estimation techniques and model specifications. These findings suggest that domestic privatisation policies have been more influential than FDI in driving the expansion of incentive contracts in China.
P31|What Determines State Capture in Poland?|In this paper we examine the determinants of ex-ante state capture analyzing all the legal acts that have been passed in the period 1990-2011 in Poland. We find that during this the majority of legal acts were passed with the aim to satisfy the interest of particular groups. Furthermore, the regression analysis shows that the likelihood of state capture increases during the period of economic growth and local elections. The likelihood of state capture, however, declines during presidential elections. The results we attribute to different interests of political parties in the period of local and presidential election. Finally, we find that the state capture increased over the years in Poland. Additionally, we show that the EU accession did not prevent state capture in Poland. In contrast, the financial crisis of 2007 resulted in a wake-up effect and the likelihood of state capture declined in Poland.
P31|Environmental performance of state-owned and privatized eastern European energy utilities|Privatization in Eastern Europe has helped in the transition of the region's economies from planned to free market. However, the effects of privatization on the environment are relatively unknown and many firms remain under state ownership today. We compare the environmental performance of state-owned and privatized energy utility plants in Eastern Europe utilizing a novel panel data that includes reported sulfur dioxide emissions, energy input, and ownership status. We find that state-owned plants emit more sulfur dioxide than privately owned plants; this is environmentally significant as privatization is associated with a reduction in emissions of about 55%.
P31|Investment behavior and ownership structures in Ukraine: Soft budget constraints, government ownership and private benefits of control|This paper analyzes the relationship between investment behavior of firms and ownership and corporate governance variables for a sample of large Ukrainian firms 2003–2007. The paper sheds light on the role of the ownership structures of firms and its effect on investment behavior via the presence of private benefits of control, financial and soft budget constraints. We find a negative impact of government ownership on investment and evidence for soft budget constraints. Foreign ownership is associated with financial constraints. Firms with management ownership do not appear to suffer from financial constraints. These and other findings demonstrate a significant role for private benefits of control consistent with the presented investment model that allows for private benefits of control and financial and soft budget constraints.
P31|Institutional reforms, productivity and profitability: From rents to competition?|This paper explores the divergent effects of institutional reforms on firm’s productivity and profits. To assess this empirically, we investigate the impact of various components of economic liberalisation on the performance of firms from Central and Eastern European countries from 1998 to 2006. The impact of reforms on profitability vis-à-vis productivity differs, which we interpret as an indication that profitability is an ambiguous measure of performance: one needs to distinguish between unproductive rents and productivity-based quasi-rents. We find that competition-enhancing liberalisation measures have more impact on state owned firms as compared with domestic and foreign owned firms.
P31|Institutional and demographic influences on the presence, scale and geographic scope of individual Chinese real estate investment|We use the results of a survey taken in ten large Chinese cities to investigate several aspects of Chinese real estate investment. The survey provides significant (though not comprehensive) information on the personal and family characteristics and real estate holdings of the survey respondents. In this paper we ask three inter-related questions: 1. What factors are associated with individuals who own property in China? 2. What factors are associated with the extent of such ownership—i.e. what determines the number of properties owned? 3. What factors determine the geographical extent of this ownership; in particular, who owns local property and who owns geographically dispersed?
P31|Agriculture, structural change and socially responsible development in China and Vietnam|This path-breaking book investigates the challenges of realizing the Asian century. Prosperity in Asia does not only mean economic growth; the issues of public health, sanitation, income equality, the social safety net and efficient use of natural resources are also important. It argues for new policy initiatives in social, environmental and natural resource areas of South, Southeast and East Asia.
P31|Governance and enterprise restructuring in Southeast Europe|Purpose - The purpose of this paper is examine governance and enterprise restructuring in Southeast Europe (SEE) (Western Balkans) transition economies. International organizations classify the following countries in SEE (Western Balkans): Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. Design/methodology/approach - The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) has governance and enterprise restructuring as a basic indicator of economic transition and defines it as effective corporate governance and corporate control exercised through domestic financial institutions and markets, fostering market-driven restructuring. The corporate governance is most often defined in terms of the roles, responsibilities, and interactions of top management and the board of directors. Using data of SEE economies, the interrelationships between governance and enterprise restructuring and set of policies that influence the governance patterns will be examined. Findings - Due to the analysis of the first assumption where a relation was made between governance and enterprise restructuring and imposed set of policies, the results have shown that there are mixed outcomes. The second hypothesis analyzed the importance and progress of corporate governance and enterprise restructuring. Originality/value - The paper shows that the overall outcome of SEE countries is mixed, as there are significant improvements in some countries and noteworthy lags in others. Indeed, needed considerable improvement is needed in corporate governance, institution-building controlling agency problems and in imposing already adopted regulation; as well as adopting new ways of enterprise restructuring policies within existing policies of overall transition economy restructuring.
P31|Where Does the Demand for Regulation Come From? The State’s Return to the Retail Trade in Russia|From the beginning of economic reform in 1992, the retail trade sector was one of the most liberalized market segments in the Russian economy. However, the state was suddenly brought back in during the late 2000s. A restrictive Federal trade law passed after continuous and furious debates in December 2009. It created a new precedent of administrative regulation imposed on a highly competitive industry. Where did the demand for state regulation come from? What interest groups stood behind this new helping hand policy? Which arguments in a course of political and expert debate were used to justify the state intervention? Who has benefited from the new formal institutional arrangements? The author addresses these issues by revealing the para-political practices of formal institutional building in the trade sector, which has been largely neglected by scholarly research. This paper uses data collected from two series of in-depth interviews with key market actors and political experts in 2008-2009 together with records from the expert meetings arranged by several Federal Ministries in which the author took part. Survey data of 512 retailers and suppliers collected in five Russian urban areas in 2010 are also employed to reveal interest groups that have benefited from the new regulatory policy. In conclusion, this paper argues that public officials used a liberal rhetoric of the competition protection to develop new instruments of political and administrative control over large and medium-sized businesses, and finds that the actual results of state intervention deviate remarkably from the declared goals.
P31|Economics of Corporate Form: Why Do Russian Firms Prefer to Be Closed Companies?|In Russia, an overwhelming number of joint-stock companies (JSCs) choose to become closed companies despite the fact that this corporate form strays far from the primary nature of stock companies. Using the results of a Japan-Russia joint enterprise survey conducted in 2005, we examine a variety of factors as to why Russian stock companies select to become closed companies. Our empirical results suggest the following four factors encouraging many of Russian firms to be closed JSCs: (a) a widespread insider-dominating corporate ownership structure emerging as a result of the mass-privatization policy; (b) a strong orientation among managers toward closed corporate organization due to the underdeveloped capital and managerial markets; (c) slumping needs for corporate finance; and (d) insufficient financial support from local financial institutions. The empirical relationship between corporate form and ownership structure exists, even if we assume the endogeneity of the two elements.
P31|Executive Board: The Russian Experience|In this paper, using a unique dataset of joint-stock companies, we empirically examine the determinants of the choice and size of the collective executive board, a core element of the multi-tier board system of Russian firms. Our empirical evidence strongly suggests that the need of company executives for a collective management system is a key driver for the formation of a collective executive board, while outside investors are generally indifferent toward its adoption as a means to strengthening the monitoring and control functions over top management. We also found that Russian firms in the pursuit of the internationalization of their business activities tend to avoid the establishment of a collective executive board, which is a diverse corporate organ from the viewpoint of the international standard of corporate governance systems.
P31|Firm-Level Determinants of Board System Choice: Evidence from Russia|In this paper, using a unique data set of joint-stock companies, we empirically examine the determinants of the choice and size of the collective executive board, a core element of the multi-tier board system of Russian firms. Our empirical evidence strongly suggests that the need of company executives for a collective management system is a key driver for the formation of a collective executive board, while outside investors are generally indifferent toward its adoption as a means to strengthening the monitoring and control functions over top management. We also found that Russian firms in the pursuit of the internationalization of their business activities tend to avoid the establishment of a collective executive board, which is an unorthodox corporate organ from the viewpoint of the international standard of corporate governance systems.
P31|Asset Stripping, Rule of Law and Firm Survival: The Hoff-Stiglitz Model and Mass Privatization in Montenegro|We provide the first test of the Hoff and Stiglitz (2004) model predicting whether and under what conditions mass privatizations are accompanied by asset stripping. In addition to directly testing the theory, we also tackle an important policy-oriented issue of why a large number of efficient firms disappeared during mass privatization in a booming economy of Montenegro. Econometrically, we present the first study to look at firms that disappeared during a mass privatization transition, improving upon prior studies that focused only on existing firms and assumed away survival bias. Our analysis suggests that asset stripping and firm disappearance were present, and that asset stripping was a likely reason for the loss of efficient firms. We show that because more productive firms were liquidated, it is important to model survival bias in the selection of firms remaining in samples when estimating the effects of privatization or other ownership changes. We also show that one needs to distinguish between true start-ups and liquidated firms that re-appear as start-ups. In the absence of the rule of law, many firms that appear to have disappeared were in fact appropriated by managers and politically connected individuals.
P31|The Effects of Bailouts and Soft Budget Constraints on the Environment|This paper investigates the effects of financial relief programs, commonly referred to as ‘bailouts’, on pollution. A partial equilibrium soft budget constraint model of the firm is developed to identify the effect of bailouts on the emission decisions of firms. The results from the model indicate that the expectation of bailouts increases ex ante emissions. A more stringent emissions tax is required to achieve the same level of emissions if bailouts are available than if bailouts are not available; however, a tradable permit system will maintain the same emissions level if bailouts are available as when bailouts are not available. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2013
P31|Inward entry of Japanese banks into the Russian market|The paper represents a case study of Japanese banks operating on the Russian banking market. We particularly analyze motivation, organizational representation, entry modes and strategies of Japanese banks. We argue that in case of Japanese banks both the specificity of the home country (Japan) (relationship banking, main bank system) and host country (Russia) indeed plays an important role in expanding their businesses abroad. The shares of Japanese banks in total banking assets, deposits and lending rate of the Russian banking sector remain low, and in general Japanese banks in Russia might be regarded as “followers” of the Japanese business in Russia. Meanwhile, we also provide evidence that PULL factors are the driving forces providing reasoning for the exceptions from this rule in the behavioral patterns of Japanese banks. The paper summarizes history of foreign expansion of Japanese banks into the Russian market and aims to conduct analysis under the framework of the multinational banking theory.
P31|Determinants of Ultimate Control of Large Firms in Transition Countries: Empirical Evidence|We identify the ultimate ownership structures of the 20 largest firms in 12 transition countries in 1996, and the subsequent patterns of ownership change over 1996-2008. Of the state-controlled companies in 1996 more than half are still in state hands in 2008. Better quality of governmental institutions, larger external but not domestic government debt, smaller company size, and higher company profitability increase the likelihood of privatization as well as the likelihood that the company ends up ultimately in foreign hands. We document that, after 20 years, control structure and institutional quality convergence on the West is still largely incomplete.
P31|Labor Allocation in China: Implicit Taxation of the Heterogeneous Non-State Sector|Using China’s Annual Survey of Industrial Production, we estimate the marginal revenue product of labor (MRPL) for all state-owned and above-scale non-state manufacturing firms for 2001-2004 and 2004-2007. We find that labor productivity varies systematically within industries by ownership type and thai non-state firms face implicit labor taxation relative to state-owned enterprises (SOEs). We also find that, in keeping with ongoing reforms of the state sector, ownership differentials fall over time, with gaps between non-state enterprises and SOEs falling by about half over time. Within the non-state sector, enterprises registered as legal persons have higher MRPL, on average, than do firms registered as collective or private enterprises. Disaggregating this group using information on equity shares reveals that firms registered as legal persons and majority owned by legal persons have the highest MRPL relative to SOEs. Indeed, these enterprises show significantly higher MRPL than those firms directly controlled by the state. Legal-person firms with majority state ownership have MRPL differentials similar to those for legal-person firms with majority private or majority collective ownership. This evidence is consistent with continuing, albeit diminishing, implicit labor subsidies for directly SOEs but not for firms whose shares are owned by the state, even if those shares are registered to legal persons.
P31|Labor Allocation in China: Implicit Taxation of the Heterogeneous Non-State Sector| Using China's Annual Survey of Industrial Production, we estimate the marginal revenue product of labor (MRPL) for all state-owned and above-scale non-state manufacturing firms for 2001--2004 and 2004--2007. We find that labor productivity varies systematically within industries by ownership type and that non-state firms face implicit labor taxation relative to state-owned enterprises (SOEs). We also find that, in keeping with ongoing reforms of the state sector, ownership differentials fall over time, with gaps between non-state enterprises and SOEs falling by about half over time. Within the non-state sector, enterprises registered as legal persons have higher MRPL, on average, than do firms registered as collective or private enterprises. Disaggregating this group using information on equity shares reveals that firms registered as legal persons and majority owned by legal persons have the highest MRPL relative to SOEs. Indeed, these enterprises show significantly higher MRPL than those firms directly controlled by the state. Legal-person firms with majority state ownership have MRPL differentials similar to those for legal-person firms with majority private or majority collective ownership. This evidence is consistent with continuing, albeit diminishing, implicit labor subsidies for directly SOEs but not for firms whose shares are owned by the state, even if those shares are registered to legal persons. (JEL codes: L16, O53, P23, P31) Copyright The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Ifo Institute, Munich. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
P31|Institutions and Organizational Structure: The Case of State-Owned Corporate Pyramids| Pyramidal organizational structures are common throughout the world. This article considers an explanation for pyramids built by the state: separating firms from political interference. Although intermediate pyramidal layers insulate managers from a pyramid's top owners and hence induce agency costs, they also minimize political costs of state intervention. All else equal, the optimal division of power between the government and the managers should be the point at which the marginal agency costs are equal to the marginal political costs. Our empirical results, based on hand-collected data for 742 local government-owned Chinese business groups are generally in line with this hypothesis. (JEL: D21, D23, G32, L22, L32, P31). The Author 2012. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Yale University. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com, Oxford University Press.
P31|The Impact of Innovation on Business Growth: Romanian SME SectorAbstract:Today SMEs make up the vast majority of enterprises, and account for a substantial share of gross domestic product (GDP) and workforce. At the same time, researches are written about this majority of small and micro size firms that constitute the core of the economy and they have been interested in innovation and growth for a long time. This study proposes to investigate how the innovation is a crucial concept involving creativity, organization and profitability for Romanian SME sector and how deployment of external resources is influenced by the nature of innovation as well as by the context of the innovation process. The results shows that innovations are implemented in the course of ordinary operational activities hardly noticed from day to day. However, the cumulative effect of innovations is usually sufficient to maintain a competitive position when changes in markets follow predictable patterns|No abstract is available for this item.
P31|The Supply and Demand Factors Behind the Relative Earnings Increases in Urban China at the Turn of the 21st Century|All of the demographic and skill groups in China's urban labor market received increases in their real earnings from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s. This paper analyzes these relative earnings increases with respect to the relative supply and demand changes for each of these imperfectly substitutable labor inputs. The relative movements of both supply and demand were consistent with the relative earnings increases across experience groups, but only the relative demand movements were consistent across education groups, and neither of the movements could help explain the gender differences.
P31|Do Trust-Based Relations Improve Firm’s Performance? Evidence from Transition Economies|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the impact of trust-based relations on firm’s performance in transition economies. The trade credit variable is used as a proxy of trust-based relations and the propensity score matching method is employed to establish casual link between relational governance and business performance in the study. The research is conducted using data from a large survey of firms across 28 transition economies. The results of the study suggest that informal trust-based institutions of contract governance represent an important way for enhancing of business performance. To say distinctly, our findings indicate that in transition economies trade credits positively affect firms’ sales growth. They provide incentives for more intensive innovation activities and ensure higher labor productivity rates. The firms that trust their partners are characterized by larger proportions of reinvested profits as well. The main contribution of this paper is that it provides new empirical insights into the casual link between trust-based relations and business performance of firms in transition economies.
P31|THE DEVELOPMENT OF ROMANIAN SMEs SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE 20TH CENTURY| An indicator for a nation’s and its people’s wealth is provided by the dimensions of its middle-class. As SMEs constitute the spinal bone of the modern economic system, this paper’s purpose is to present the development of the Romanian SMEs throughout the 20th Century: from the flourishing times before the Second World War, during the darkness and gloominess of the communist ruling, to the times of change and transition, respectively to today’s world economic crisis. The main purpose of this analysis is to try to aim at pointing out the links established among a friendly political environment, a healthy economic system, a set of strong and clear ethic values of the managers and the well-being of the people. It becomes clear that there can be identified a strong connection between the willingness of managers and entrepreneurs to assume responsibilities and the dimension of private property. The main assumption of this paper is that the half-century of communist ruling has managed to sweep away the sense of responsibility that is driven by private proprietorship and which is essential for the development of the business environment.
P31|Public Sector Pay Gap In Serbia During Large-Scale Privatisation,By Educational Qualification|The paper explores the effect of large-scale privatisation of public sector activities on public-private sector pay differential, for groups of workers according to educational qualification on average and across the pay distribution in Serbia, from 2004 until 2008. The paper finds that both unskilled and skilled men and women in the public sector saw significant improvements in their financial position relative to their private sector counterparts with the progress of the economic transition. The results showed that the size of the public sector pay premium declines both with higher educational level and higher percentile of earnings distribution. This indicates, between and within groups, the inequality-reducing feature of the public sector pay determination.
P31|CEO Bonding: Who Posts Performance Bonds and Why?|"Despite their theoretical value in tackling principal-agent problems at low cost to firms there is almost no empirical literature on the prevalence and correlates of performance bonds posted by corporate executives. Using data for China we examine their incidence and test propositions from principal-agent theory regarding their correlates. Around one tenth of corporations deploy performance bonds. They are sizeable relative to CEO cash compensation. Ceteris paribus, CEO's posting performance bonds are more likely than other CEO's to have their compensation linked to firm performance in other ways and the elasticity of their pay with respect to firm performance is greater. They are also more likely to hold company stock. Thus bonds appear to be complements to rather than substitutes for other forms of corporate incentive. The negative association between bonds and sales volatility is consistent with principal-agent theory. Positive associations between performance bonds and firm age, the CEOs ranking in the Communist Party, and city-level clustering in the use of bonds are all consistent with ""legacy"" effects dating back to the use of performance bonds in the early reform period. The only corporate governance measure that is strongly and robustly associated with an increased use of bonds is employee representation on the board of directors."
P31|The CEO Labour Market in China's Public Listed Companies|Using panel data for all of China's public listed firms over the period 2001-2010 we examine how firms have recruited and rewarded their executives over a decade of huge growth and turbulence. CEO pay is sensitive to firm performance, although the elasticities are lower than for the United States and Europe, especially with respect to returns on assets (ROA). CEO pay rises with firm size and growth, with elasticities resembling those for the United States. We find no dramatic response to the stock market crash of 2007/08. The elasticity of pay to stock returns falls to zero after the crash, while elasticities with respect to sales and ROA remain significant. Executive cash compensation rose steeply throughout the period Ð in contrast to the United States. There are steep gradients in executive compensation within firms, consistent with tournament prizes, and around two-thirds of CEO appointments are internal promotions. Within-firm executive compensation rose at a faster rate than executive compensation across firms, helping to explain why CEO turnover rates declined a little over the decade. Turnover rates did not spike with the stock market crash. Privatisation and reforms to corporate governance contributed to growth in executive compensation. A picture emerges of an executive labour market in which firms are linking pay to performance and relying on incentive structures within firms to foster executive talent.
P31|What Do We Know About China's CEO's? Evidence from Across the Whole Economy|All that we know about the CEO labour market in China comes from studies of public listed companies and state-owned enterprises (SOEs). This paper is the first to examine the operation of the CEO labour market across all sectors of the Chinese economy. We do so using World Bank enterprise data for the first part of the 21st Century. Incentive schemes are commonplace throughout the economy and include contracts linking CEO pay directly to firm performance, annual bonus schemes, the posting of performance bonds, and holding company stock. These incentive mechanisms appear to complement rather than substitute for one another. The elasticity of pay with respect to company performance is one or more in two-fifths of the cases where CEOs have performance contracts, suggesting many face high-powered incentives. CEOs also face a real dismissal threat and financial penalties if they fail to deliver. Incentive contracts are used to attract the most talented executives, as indicated by educational attainment and position in the Communist Party. However, government involvement in the appointment of a CEO reduces the likelihood that the CEO will receive an incentives-based contract, perhaps because governments appoint “bureaucrats” to perform roles which incorporate social and political as well as economic goals. Firms with good corporate governance are more likely to deploy incentive contracts. A picture emerges of a well-functioning labour market for executives in China that exhibits many of the traits common to CEO labour markets in the West.
P31|Staged privatization: A market process with multistage lockups|Most privatizations around the world take the form of staged privatization with multistage lockups and step-by-step unlocking of shares. A lockup prevents the shares of a company from being sold to the public for a specified or unspecified period of time. This paper presents a theory and provides empirical evidence for staged privatization under market forces. The theory is based on a specification of a lockup effect on demand, where the existence of this lockup effect is shown by our empirical analysis. With this theory, we can analyze how various factors, such as the lockup effect, demand elasticity, growth potential and business fluctuations, affect staged privatization, in particular, the equilibrium speed of privatization. Our paper is the first to analyze a market-oriented, multistage privatization process, instead of a fully government-controlled or centrally planned process. Interestingly, staged privatization resembles initial public offerings (IPOs). Hence, our study can shed light on IPOs from a unique angle. Our empirical analysis provides evidence in support of our theoretical findings.
P31|Political considerations in the decision of Chinese SOEs to list in Hong Kong|This paper investigates why Chinese state-owned enterprises (SOEs) with strong political connections (i.e., politically connected firms) are more likely to list overseas than non-politically connected firms. We find that connected firms' post-overseas listing performance is worse than that of non-connected firms. This evidence suggests that connected firms' managers list their firms overseas for private (political) benefits. Consistent with this private benefits explanation, we further find that connected firms' managers are more likely to receive political media coverage or a promotion to a senior government position subsequent to overseas listing than domestic listing.
P31|State and Denationalization: Risks and Constraints of a “New Privatization Policy”|It will be some time before we can fully appreciate the radical nature of the socio-economic effects produced by the global crisis of the end of the first decade of the twenty first century. However, it is already evident that the two leading market economic systems of the Western world – that of the USA, based on an ideology of free market competition, and the socially oriented system of Europe, were unable adequately to respond to the initial phase of the crisis. Moreover, the only measures that proved capable of preventing financial and economic collapse were those taken by states that possessed powerful levers for acting upon the economy as the crisis unfolded. Russia was one of these states, though circumstances in Russia were not typical.
P31|Crossing the River by Touching Stones?: The Reform of Corporate Ownership in China|The privatization of Chinese enterprises in a low-legal-protection environment raises the question as to how minority shareholders are assured that their capital will not be expropriated. This paper sheds some light on this issue by examining the influence of controlling shareholders on the corporate performance of listed firms from 1997 to 2006. The first main finding is that firms controlled by local governments are more valuable to minority shareholders, whereas firms controlled by individuals are less valuable. The second main finding is that the post-WTO-accession relinquishment of control from local governments to private shareholders appears to have reduced corporate performance. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2012
P31|Ownership structure, corporate governance and productive efficiency in China|This paper investigates whether and to what extent ownership structure and corporate governance affect productive efficiency in a sample of 744 publicly listed manufacturing firms in China between 1999 and 2006. The paper finds that firm efficiency, as estimated using stochastic frontier analysis and data envelopment analysis, is negatively related to state ownership while positively related to public and employee share ownership. In addition, the relationship between ownership concentration and firm efficiency is U-shaped, indicating that the largest shareholder may engage in tunneling activities. As the identity of the largest shareholder changes from government, government-controlled legal entity to other types of legal entity, firm efficiency significantly improves. These results provide strong evidence that political interferences have reduced firm efficiency. Moreover, firms with more independent board are more efficient, supporting the argument that board of directors can be an effective internal governance mechanism. Furthermore, provincial market development, a proxy for the strength of external governance mechanism, is positively related to firm efficiency. Overall, the findings illustrate that restructuring state-owned enterprises via improvements in corporate governance has enhanced firm efficiency, but partial privatization without transfer of ownership and control from the state to the public remains a major source of inefficiency in corporate China. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012
P31|Privatization and Poverty Reduction in Vietnam Optimal choices and its potential impacts|Since its transition from a centrally planned economy to a market economy, Vietnam has been under pressure to reduce the size of the state-owned sector. In this process, the private sector has emerged. The objective of this paper is to examine how the privatization could contribute better to economic growth and hence further accelerate poverty reduction in Vietnam. We use the multi-sectorial integrated activity analysis model, and apply it to the data of the Vietnamese economy in 2007 to measure the impacts of ownership restructuring on economic growth. If labour and capital could reallocate across sectors and type of ownership, what would be the optimal allocation of activities and the feasible level of domestic final demand? Factor inputs are capital and four types of labour, namely technicians, high skilled, low skilled and unskilled workers. The model keeps track on asymmetric mobility of labour endowments by skill levels. Main contributions of this paper are fourfold. First, we demonstrate that that at the optimum, privatization does not mean to weaken the economic power of state sector. Second, we propose a specific pattern of SOE reform for Vietnam. Third, alternative experiments on the mobility of labour to shows that there is a trade-off between further privatization toward economic efficiency gain and job-creation in Vietnam, which means privatization does not contribute to job creation. Last, the paper shows that current skill situation of Vietnam’s labour force will be a ‘bottle neck’ for Vietnam economic growth in the near future.
P31|The Introduction of Piecework in East Germany, 1945-51|This paper examines the introduction of piecework, a key aspect of the Soviet workplace, in occupied East Germany. As elsewhere, its implementation encountered persistent hostility from the workforce. What made this episode different, though, was that this process occurred within a context of acute economic and political uncertainty. As this paper demonstrates, the party’s various efforts to control the workplace laid the foundations for the Sovietisation of East Germany. This paper utilises a wide range of primary sources to recount this story. It focuses its attention not just on worker resistance, but also on the interactions between party and worker, between different organisations operating within the occupation zone, between the Soviet military and German communists, and within the party itself. It argues that the introduction of piecework was part of a dual process whereby the party acquired control of the economy and then learnt how to direct it. To achieve the latter, it first needed to learn how to control and direct itself. This paper also illustrates the importance of signalling mechanisms in a planned economy.
P31|What do we know about China's CEO's?: evidence from across the whole economy|"All that we know about the CEO labour market in China comes from studies of public listed companies and state-owned enterprises (SOEs). This paper is the first to examine the operation of the CEO labour market across all sectors of the Chinese economy. We do so using World Bank enterprise data for the first part of the 21st Century. Incentive schemes are commonplace throughout the economy and include contracts linking CEO pay directly to firm performance, annual bonus schemes, the posting of performance bonds, and holding company stock. These incentive mechanisms appear to complement rather than substitute for one another. The elasticity of pay with respect to company performance is one or more in two-fifths of the cases where CEO's have performance contracts, suggesting many face high-powered incentives. CEO's also face a real dismissal threat and financial penalties if they fail to deliver. Incentive contracts are used to attract the most talented executives, as indicated by educational attainment and position in the Communist Party. However, government involvement in the appointment of a CEO reduces the likelihood that the CEO will receive an incentives-based contract, perhaps because governments appoint ""bureaucrats"" to perform roles which incorporate social and political as well as economic goals. Firms with good corporate governance are more likely to deploy incentive contracts. A picture emerges of a well-functioning labour market for executives in China that exhibits many of the traits common to CEO labour markets in the West."
P31|CEO Bonding: Who Posts Performance Bonds and Why?|Despite their theoretical value in tackling principal-agent problems at low cost to firms there is almost no empirical literature on the prevalence and correlates of performance bonds posted by corporate executives. Using data for China we examine their incidence and test propositions from principal-agent theory regarding their correlates. Around one-tenth of corporations deploy performance bonds. They are sizeable relative to CEO cash compensation. Ceteris paribus, CEO's posting performance bonds are more likely than other CEO's to have their compensation linked to firm performance in other ways and the elasticity of their pay with respect to firm performance is greater. They are also more likely to hold company stock. Thus bonds appear to be complements to rather than substitutes for other forms of corporate incentive. The negative association between bonds and sales volatility is consistent with principal-agent theory. Positive associations between performance bonds and firm age, the CEOs ranking in the Communist Party, and city-level clustering in the use of bonds are all consistent with 'legacy' effects dating back to the use of performance bonds in the early reform period. The only corporate governance measure that is strongly and robustly associated with an increased use of bonds is employee representation on the board of directors.
P31|The CEO Labour Market in China's Public Listed Companies|Using panel data for all of China's public listed firms over the period 2001-2010 we examine how firms have recruited and rewarded their executives over a decade of huge growth and turbulence. CEO pay is sensitive to firm performance, although the elasticities are lower than for the United States and Europe, especially with respect to returns on assets (ROA). CEO pay rises with firm size and growth, with elasticities resembling those for the United States. We find no dramatic response to the stock market crash of 2007/08. The elasticity of pay to stock returns falls to zero after the crash, while elasticities with respect to sales and ROA remain significant. Executive cash compensation rose steeply throughout the period - in contrast to the United States. There are steep gradients in executive compensation within firms, consistent with tournament prizes, and around two-thirds of CEO appointments are internal promotions. Within-firm executive compensation rose at a faster rate than executive compensation across firms, helping to explain why CEO turnover rates declined a little over the decade. Turnover rates did not spike with the stock market crash. Privatisation and reforms to corporate governance contributed to growth in executive compensation. A picture emerges of an executive labour market in which firms are linking pay to performance and relying on incentive structures within firms to foster executive talent.
P31|Privatization, investment, and ownership efficiency| We provide a model that explains the following empirical observations: (i) private ownership is more efficient than public ownership, (ii) privatizations are associated with increases in efficiency, and (iii) the increase in efficiency predates the privatization. The two key mechanisms explaining the results are: (i) a government owner keeping control can affect long-run employment levels when investing and (ii) a privatizing government has a stronger incentive to invest than an acquiring firm: the government exploits the fact that investments increase the sales price not only due to the increase in the acquirer's profit, but also due to a reduced profit for the non-acquirer. Copyright 2012 Oxford University Press 2011 All rights reserved, Oxford University Press.
P31|Cognitive Capitalism: Foundations, Assessment and Evaluation of New Perspectives|"The objective of this paper is to stipulate that the new mode of regulation of the economy must be understood in terms of cognitive capitalism. We will keep the idea that the dynamics of transformation which confronted modern societies are characterized by the fact that the accumulation increasingly wear on knowledge. First, we will explain and argue our position with reference to some stylized facts and essential breaks that characterize the crisis of industrial capitalism and the transition to immaterial capitalism. It will also issue to put into perspective the nature of new challenges that characterize the advent of immaterial capitalism. We will also study the problem behind the formulation of the hypothesis of cognitive capitalism and the way that, far from being opposed, proposes to address the shortcomings of an approach that finance the autonomous actor and principal of all current changes of capitalism. Moreover, rather than revolution, the knowledge economy recovers mechanisms of economic development studied since the classical authors. We will spot if this economy is the ""paradise"" promised to developing countries. A key point is reported on the issue of knowledge production. Often discussed bias, this production does not explain clearly enough potential levers of territorial public action. This observation motivates the development of a model of knowledge production. All these benchmarks will be developed in the second part."
P31|Kommunisten, Kapitalisten und Konsumenten: ueber den Wandel der normativen Einstellungen chinesischer Unternehmer und Konsumenten seit 1978. (Communists, capitalists, and consumers: On the evolving norms of Chinese entrepreneurs and consumers since 1978)|Die chinesische Wirtschaftsreform seit 1978 hat den ethischen Diskurs vielfaeltiger gemacht. Im Spannungsfeld zwischen Kommunisten, Kapitalisten und Konsumenten entstehen zum Teil voellig neue Normvorstellungen und Wertebotschaften. Diese Entwicklung ist zum einen durch eine hohe Widerspruechlichkeit und Schnelllebigkeit gekennzeichnet. Andererseits beschreibt sie einen tiefgreifenden Wertewandel der chinesischen Konsumgesellschaft, auf den sich Unternehmen einstellen muessen. (Chinese economic reform since 1978 has pluralized the country’s ethical discourse. Communists, capitalists, and consumers compete against each other on the basis of newly emerging norms and values. This development is characterized by widespread inconsistencies and fast moving changes. At the same time, Chinese consumer society is undergoing a deep rooted transformation that business has to adapt to and deal with.)
P31|Contemporary performance measurement systems in central and eastern Europe: a synthesis of the empirical literature|The paper presents a synthesis of contemporary performance measurement systems (PMS) research in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). The literature review is organized around four determinants of contemporary PMS: multidimensionality, strategic focus, cascading, and alignment between PMS and compensation. Discussion of findings and future research directions are suggested along these four determinants while taking into account different institutional, legislative, and cultural contexts of the CEE countries. The paper delivers tentative implications for management researchers and management accounting researchers to guide future thinking and research on PMS in CEE countries. Finally, relevance of research findings for managers is discussed.
P31|Gender specifics in entrepreneurs’ personal characteristics|This paper explored Slovenian entrepreneurs’ personal characteristics to understand the existing gender gap in transitional countries, testing the proposed model among small and medium-sized company owners (N = 201; 32.3% female, 67.7% male). The research operationalized entrepreneurs’ characteristics according to psychological and non-psychological motivation factors; the former resulted in four types of Slovenian entrepreneurs while the latter was divided into human and social capital. Significant differences emerged among genders related to certain psychological motivation factors and social capital categories, but not human capital. Women remain an unexploited source of entrepreneurship; thus, Slovenia should establish effective mechanisms to promote female entrepreneurship.
P31|The influence of entrepreneur’s characteristics on small manufacturing firm debt financing|This paper investigates how entrepreneur’s characteristics determine debt financing of small manufacturing firms. In particular, we investigate the influence of entrepreneurial self-efficacy, strong and weak social ties, gender, age, and entrepreneur’s educational level on small firm debt financing. Research results show that small firm debt financing is determined by weak and strong social ties, entrepreneurial self-efficacy, and entrepreneur’s educational.
P31|The impact of a project organisational culture and team rewarding on project performance|The purpose of this paper is to identify the level of project organisational culture in Slovenian enterprises and the impact of that culture on team motivation and project execution compared with monetary rewards for finalising projects in time and within budget. The research showed a high level of project organisational culture and that only one-third of enterprises have implemented reward systems, while the results of the analysis proved that a project organisational culture along with rewards increase the motivation of team members and consequently reduces project delays and cost overruns.
P31|Continuity and change in Romanian societal culture dimensions|Our study contributes to the literature about societal culture dimensions, as reflected by the perceptions and expectations of students and present managers. We find some similarities but also statistically significant differences between students and middle managers in Romania in terms of their perception on nine societal culture practices as well as their expectations about societal culture values. The research sample consists of 427 undergraduate and graduate students in engineering and business and 216 middle managers. Our results show similarities in perceptions of society’s future orientation, institutional collectivism and assertiveness and significant differences in perception of the other six cultural practices. Similarities in expectations (values) were also noted concerning gender egalitarianism and assertiveness.
P31|Cultural standards of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Empirical findings and implications for strategic human resource management|According to theoretical approaches to strategic human resource management (SHRM), knowledge about a country’s business culture and the ability to develop appropriate skills are a source of competitive advantage. This article analyses cultural standards in the transition economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the basis of narrative interviews with twelve Austrian managers and feedback sessions with thirty Bosnian business experts we identify seven cultural standards, for example regarding bureaucratic behaviour, decision making and customer focus. Therewith we contribute to culture specific human resource management (HRM) research and deficient crosscultural literature for transition economies.
P31|School management in Serbia: Key aspects of its relation to school succes|This paper provides an overview of the present state of management of school systems in the Republic of Serbia, and discusses the issue of introducing professional school management. Present underdevelopment of school management reflects the fact that decision making on virtually all aspects of education are strictly state centralized. Education process also suffers from poor cooperation between parents and school. The survey was conducted in 12 schools in the Republic of Serbia, the participants being head teachers, teachers, school psychologists and pedagogical consultants. In this paper, the key research findings are discussed with respect to the necessity of efficient school development planning and allowing education staff greater control over the education process.
P31|Linking the cultural capital of the entrepreneur and early performance of new ventures: A cross-country comparison|We explore the impact of an entrepreneur’s cultural capital on the performance of new ventures in both mature and transition economies. Results show that individualistic values of the founder influence early performance of new ventures, irrespective of the country context; and that in less advanced transition economies, the entrepreneur’s cultural-background profile has a stronger influence on new venture performance than education or industry experience. Our findings support the assumption that entrepreneurial performance in new ventures is culture-driven, and suggest that economic analyses of entrepreneurial actions should encompass cultural values as well.
P31|The impact of technology-enhanced organisational learning on business performance: An empirical study|This paper focuses on a presentation of the conceptualization of a structural model that was developed to examine the impact of technology-enhanced learning and organizational learning on the business performance of some Slovenian companies with more than 50 employees. In accordance with the stakeholder theory and balanced scorecard (BSC), both the financial and non-financial aspects of the performance are considered. The results of the study indicate the strong impact of technology-enhanced learning on organizational learning and non-financial business performance.
P31|Do managers at two hierarchical levels differ in how they assess their company’s market orientation?|The purpose of the presented empirical study was to examine the cultural and behavioural adoption of a market orientation as perceived by two groups of managers: general managers and marketing managers. With regard to market-oriented behaviours, a distinction is made between a responsive and a proactive market orientation. Based on a single-informant approach, comparisons between both groups of managers are made by testing invariant latent mean structures. An analysis of 363 companies from a South-east European country reveals that the general managers perceived all components of a market orientation significantly better than the marketing managers.
P31|Exploratory study of quality and excellence approaches and continuous improvement from the perspective of new institutionalism|This paper is based on the findings of empirical research conducted in 110 Slovenian companies. Using statistical methods, we examine the effect of the EFQM Excellence Model on the institutionalization of total quality management (TQM) tools and approaches, as well as financial results to motivate TQM implementation. Within the whole group of companies, special attention was paid to the results of applicants for the Slovenian Business Excellence Prize (SBEP), which were compared with other companies. The SBEP group showed better results compared with the other companies with regards to benchmarking, peer assessment, participation in quality and excellence awards, knowledge sharing, self-assessments and financial results.
P31|Measuring corporate social responsibility towards employees|The paper presents a new methodology for measuring a corporate social responsibility (CSR) level based on the Integrative model of CSR. According to the model, which reflects European theoretical fundamentals of CSR, a company cannot be viewed as socially responsible if it does not accept at least basic responsibilities towards all its stakeholders. The main aim of the paper is to present the methodology of determining the CSR basis towards one selected stakeholder – employees, and to provide a set of indicators for measuring a CSR level towards them. The functionality of the indicators was tested in empirical research and proved to be applicable. The paper can be viewed as a guideline to define a CSR basis towards other stakeholders by analogy.
P31|Relationship between GLOBE organizational culture dimensions, job satisfaction and leader-member exchange in Serbian organizations|The aim of this paper is to investigate the relationships between GLOBE organizational culture dimensions, facets of job satisfaction and the leader-member exchange relation in Serbian organizations. One of the most important aspects of this study was the demonstration of the utility of applying more general cultural theory to the study of organizational cultures. The sample consists of 256 middle managers in Serbian organizations. The results obtained proved that organizational culture dimensions are significant predictors of all facets of job satisfaction and that relations between some organizational culture dimensions and facets of job satisfaction are moderated by the leader-member exchange (LMX) variable. Our results may be of interest for human resource managers in Serbian organizations as well as for foreign investors.
P31|Industrial decline and labor reallocation in a transforming economy: Romania in early transition|Industrial decline and restructuring in the transition economies presents a prime example of the relationship between changes in aggregate economic indicators and underlying microeconomic adjustments. This paper employs matched labor force survey data to focus on the magnitude and determinants of the labor market flows associated with the fall in industrial employment in Romania from 1993 to 1995. The data show not only a large drop in aggregate industry employment, but also a decline in each of the disaggregated two-digit sectors. Nonetheless, there are substantial gross flows in both directions, again with significant heterogeneity across sectors. Workers leaving jobs in industry have a variety of destinations: jobs in other industrial sectors, in agriculture, and in services, as well as unemployment and non-participation in the labor force; the data show all of these paths to be significant. Multinomial logit estimates indicate that the probability of paths is affected by both individual and firm characteristics. Among other results, university and general high school education tend to raise the probability of job-to-job flows, particularly from industrial jobs to other industrial jobs and to service sectors, but not to agriculture. Workers with primary and vocational education have the highest probability of becoming unemployed and the lowest probability of finding new jobs in services (less than a third the probability for those with university education). Compared with workers in state-owned companies, workers from the private sector, especially from enterprises of mixed ownership have a greater probability of exiting their industry, as well as higher probabilities of finding jobs in services. The largest outflows, however, concern workers from industrial cooperatives, most of whom become unemployed. The data present a mixed picture of social dislocation and improved reallocation. Copyright Earle; licensee Springer. 2012
P31|Subsidiary evolution in a transition economy: Kemira GrowHow in the Russian fertilizer market|This paper illustrates subsidiary evolution in a transition economy through the development of a multinational company’s Russian subsidiary. Building on the concept of subsidiary evolution, we analyze how knowledge transfer from headquarters and application of the subsidiary management’s local knowledge contributed to the process of change. Our empirical analysis is based on four in-depth interviews with senior managers from the company's headquarters and the Russian subsidiary and on documentary evidence. Our results show that the subsidiary capabilities were developed as a combination of knowledge transfer from headquarters at the beginning of the operations and of learning by the Russian management.
P31|Coping with the market: Are there cohort effects for organisations in transition?|This paper investigates the employment growth of small and medium-sized firms that survived the transformation process of the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We find that firms founded in the later period of the GDR’s existence have especially low growth prospects, even 10 years after German reunification. The later phase of the GDR was marked by tightening measures intended to enhance political influence on the planned economy, accompanied by a sharp economic decline. Thus, organizations were more deeply embedded in planning structures that were more rigorous than those present in the first years of the GDR’s existence. We argue that these organizations therefore developed less appropriate practices for coping with a market economy than organizations founded in other periods.
P31|Coping with the market: Are there cohort effects for organisations in transition?|This paper investigates the employment growth of small and medium-sized firms that survived the transformation process of the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We find that firms founded in the later period of the GDR’s existence have especially low growth prospects, even 10 years after German reunification. The later phase of the GDR was marked by tightening measures intended to enhance political influence on the planned economy, accompanied by a sharp economic decline. Thus, organizations were more deeply embedded in planning structures that were more rigorous than those present in the first years of the GDR’s existence. We argue that these organizations therefore developed less appropriate practices for coping with a market economy than organizations founded in other periods.
P31|Coping with the market: Are there cohort effects for organisations in transition?|This paper investigates the employment growth of small and medium-sized firms that survived the transformation process of the German Democratic Republic (GDR). We find that firms founded in the later period of the GDR’s existence have especially low growth prospects, even 10 years after German reunification. The later phase of the GDR was marked by tightening measures intended to enhance political influence on the planned economy, accompanied by a sharp economic decline. Thus, organizations were more deeply embedded in planning structures that were more rigorous than those present in the first years of the GDR’s existence. We argue that these organizations therefore developed less appropriate practices for coping with a market economy than organizations founded in other periods.
P31|A managerial perspective of dynamic capabilities in emerging markets: The case of the Russian steel industry|The paper critiques current thinking in the area of dynamic capabilities, exploring and challenging previous research on Dynamic Capabilities (DC) utilizing an application and empirical research within the Russian steel industry. Multiple sources of evidence arising from an in-depth study over a period of three years are deployed including semi-structured interviews with senior managers, as well as internal management reports, and other documentary evidence. The research concludes that practitioners need not choose between either routine-building on the one hand, or radical renewal on the other, but must recognize that dynamisms typically derive from the establishment of respective internal processes, followed by rapid-decision making. This paper focuses on the higher education area in a small Central European country. Its purpose is to explore the concept of culture, the concept of knowledge management (KM) as well as the correlations among their dimensions at the university level. Since we assume that it is educational personnel who is involved in KM processes, our research covered the teaching staff. Our questionnaire is based on a similar research carried out by Wilkens et al. (2004). The literature is reviewed and the empirical analysis is performed in order to examine and to explain the relationship between organisational culture and knowledge management. The findings presented in the paper can be important for further development of the higher education sector in Central and Eastern European countries as well as for other profit oriented industries.
