P34|Deposit Insurance, Market Discipline and Bank Risk|Using evidence from Russia, we explore the e ect of the introduction of deposit insurance on bank risk. Drawing on within-bank variation in the ratio of firm deposits to total household and firm deposits, so as to capture the magnitude of the decrease in market discipline after the introduction of deposit insurance, we demonstrate for private, domestic banks that larger declines in market discipline generate larger increases in traditional measures of risk. These results hold in a di erence-in-di erence setting in which state and foreign-owned banks, whose deposit insurance regime does not change, serve as a control..
P34|Understanding the average impact of microcredit expansions: a Bayesian hierarchical analysis of seven randomized experiments|Despite evidence from multiple randomized evaluations of micro- credit, questions about external validity have impeded consensus on the results. I jointly estimate the average effect and the heterogeneity in effects across seven studies using Bayesian hierarchical models. I find the impact on household business and consumption variables is unlikely to be transformative and may be negligible. I find reasonable external validity: true heterogeneity in effects is moderate, and approximately 60 percent of observed heterogeneity is sampling variation. Households with previous business experience have larger but more heterogeneous effects. Economic features of microcredit interventions predict variation in effects better than studies’ evaluation protocols.
P34|Do economic freedom and board structure matter for bank stability and bank performance?|This paper investigates the effects of economic freedom, regulations and bank governance on bank performance and risk-taking in 18 European countries for the period 2004–2016. To this end, we use the Fraser economic freedom index and its sub-components namely credit, labor and business market regulation. Our results reveal that economic freedom increases bank performance and contributes to financial stability and soundness. Moreover, we show that liberal credit, labor and business regulation improves the profitability of banks and reduces risk-taking. Regarding the bank governance variables, we find that a large board increases the probability of default whilst the results are mixed for bank performance. Also, we show that experienced directors are associated with less risk-taking and better bank performance. The impact of female directors is positive on bank performance. Regarding the risk-taking of banks, we find that, in a liberal environment, women lead to less credit risk. Finally, the compensation of directors increases bank performance and reduces risk-taking. Our findings change depending on the time period and the location.
P34|Politics And Banking In Russia: The Rise Of Putin|We investigate whether lending by the dominant Russian state bank, Sberbank, contributed to Vladimir Putin’s ascent to power during the presidential elections of March 2000. Our hypothesis is that Sberbank corporate loans were used as incentives for managers at private firms to mobilize employees to vote for Putin. In line with our proposed voter mobilization mechanism, we find that the growth of regional corporate Sberbank loans in the months before the presidential election is related to the regional increase in votes for Putin and to the regional increase in voter turnout between the Duma election of December 1999 and the presidential election of March 2000. The effect of Sberbank firm lending on Putin votes is most pronounced in regions where the governor is affiliated with the regime and in regions with extensive private employment. The effect is less apparent in regions with a large part of their population living in single-company towns, where voter intimidation is sufficient to get the required result. Additional robustness checks and placebo regressions confirm the main findings. Our results support the view that additional Sberbank corporate loans granted prior to the March 2000 presidential election facilitated Putin’s early electoral success.
P34|Deposit insurance, market discipline and bank risk|Using evidence from Russia, we explore the effect of the introduction of deposit insurance on bank risk. Drawing on within-bank variation in the ratio of firm deposits to total household and firm deposits, so as to capture the magnitude of the decrease in market discipline after the introduction of deposit insurance, we demonstrate for private, domestic banks that larger declines in market discipline generate larger increases in traditional measures of risk. These results hold in a difference-in-difference setting in which state and foreign-owned banks, whose deposit insurance regime does not change, serve as a control.
P34|The persistent institutional effect of liberal colonialism: Evidence from China's financial policies|The effect of liberal colonialism on the allocation of capital persists to this day. As Lange et al. (Colonialism and development: A comparative analysis of Spanish and British colonies. 2006) define and suggest, the authors exploit the colonial history of China during 1896-1911 with qualitative evidence to measure liberal colonialism. They document that liberal colonialism promotes the subsequent efficiency of financial policies on capital allocation in 2004 through the quality of economic institutions.
P34|The real value of China’s stock market|This paper shows that, counter to common perception, stock prices in China are strongly linked to firm fundamentals. Since the reforms of the early 2000s, stock prices are as informative about future profits as they are in the US. Although the market is segmented from international equity markets, Chinese investors price individual stock characteristics like other global investors: they pay up for size, growth, liquidity, and long shots, while they discount for systematic risk. Price informativeness is significantly correlated with corporate investment e ciency. For international investors, China's stock market offers high average returns and low correlation with other equity markets.
P34|The real value of China’s stock market|This paper shows that, counter to common perception, stock prices in China are strongly linked to firm fundamentals. Since the reforms of the early 2000s, stock prices are as informative about future profits as they are in the US. Although the market is segmented from international equity markets, Chinese investors price individual stock characteristics like other global investors: they pay up for size, growth, liquidity, and long shots, while they discount for systematic risk. Price informativeness is significantly correlated with corporate investment e ciency. For international investors, China's stock market offers high average returns and low correlation with other equity markets.
P34|Bank ownership and profit efficiency of Russian banks|The paper examines how the type of ownership affects the profit efficiency of Russian banks. Using bank-quarter data for selected banks in the period 2004–2015, we combine stochastic frontier anal-ysis (SFA) methodology with an intermediary approach to assess profit efficiency. Our key findings show that foreign-owned banks are the most efficient, followed by state-owned banks and private domestic banks. We also find that the profit efficiency of foreign-owned banks was higher than that of other banks during the economically stable periods of 2004Q1 to 2008Q2 and 2014Q1 to 2015Q3, and that state-owned banks were more efficient than others in the period of financial turmoil from 2008Q3 to 2013Q4 due to state support. These results are robust when we consider these banks in terms of branch network diversity, risk preferences, and specialization.
P34|Institutions and determinants of firm survival in European emerging markets|We analyze the impact of institutional quality on firm survival in 15 European emerging markets. We employ the Cox proportional hazards model with a large dataset of firms during 2006–2015. Our results show that institutional quality (IQ) is a significant preventive factor for firm survival, and it displays diminishing returns as its effect is largest for low-level IQ countries and smallest for high-level IQ countries. In terms of specific indicators, the level of national governance and the extent of corruption control exhibit the key impacts. In terms of firmspecific controls, indicators of ownership structure and aggregate financial performance are the economically most significant factors associated with increased survival probability of firms in European emerging markets.
P34|Survival of Service Firms in European Emerging Economies|Using a dataset of 126,591 service firms in 17 European emerging economies, this paper aims to estimate firm survivability in the years 2007–2015 and examine its determinants. We found that 31.3%, or 39,557 firms, failed during the observation period. At the same time, however, the failure risk greatly differed among regions, perhaps due to the remarkable gap in the progress of economic and political reforms. Moreover, the results of survival analysis revealed that large shareholding, labor productivity, and firm age played strong roles in preventing business failure beyond differences in regions and sectors.
P34|Firm Failure in Russia during Economic Crises and Growth : A Large Survival Analysis|In this paper, we trace the survival status of more than 110,000 Russian firms in the years of 2007–2015 and examine the determinants of firm survival across periods of economic crisis and growth. Applying the Cox proportional hazards model, we find that the effects of some variables regarded as key determinants of firm survival are not always robust across business cycles. Among the variables that constantly affect firm survival across business cycles and industries, concentration of ownership, the number of board directors and auditors, firm age, and business network are included. By contrast, the effects of some ownership-related variables on firm survival vary depending on the nature of economic recessions such as a global crisis and a local one. There is also evidence that an international audit firm increases the probability of firm survival; however, gaps in the quality between international audit firms and those from Russia decrease over time. These findings suggest that one should not make hasty generalizations regarding the determinants of firm survival by looking at a specific economic period or industry.
P34|The Development and Transformation of the People’s Republic of China’s Financial System|We look at the development and transformation of the People’s Republic of China (PRC)’s financial system since the start of economic and financial reforms in 1978. We describe how despite the rapid development of capital markets since the 1990s, the PRC’s financial system continues to be dominated by bank lending. Reforms have not eliminated the credit expansion impetus of large commercial banks, while the effectiveness of capital-based constraints and administrative measures is far below potential. Large state-owned banks have become important players in bond and equity markets, as well as important sources of liquidity provision for smaller commercial banks and a range of non-bank financial institutions through a combination of inter-bank funding activities, wealth management products, and shadow banking/grey capital market activities. The importance of non-bank financial institutions has also continued to grow. Off-shore markets have increased the overseas holdings of financial assets, but their potential remains limited by capital controls and the fragility of the domestic financial system. An unintended consequence of this is that although the PRC’s state run financial system has become more complex and more interconnected domestically, foreign participation remains low.
P34|Mean Reversion and Momentum in Central and Eastern European Countries ? A Case Study on Poland and Romania|There is considerable evidence that both mean reversion and momentum exist in stock prices, especially in well developed countries. We analyze these phenomena for two Central and Eastern European countries that experienced very different transitions from centrally-planned to market economies: Poland and Romania. While being considered an emerging market, Poland?s stock market capitalization increased from 3 percent of GDP in 1995 to about 30 percent in 2017. Romania?s stock market capitalization in the 1990s and early 2000s was less than 6 percent of GDP and only recently increased to about 21 percent. We examine how mean reversion and momentum have affected stock prices in these two very different emerging economies and we find very similar results. For both, the speed at which stocks converge back to their fundamentals (i.e., mean reversion) is much faster than that of the developed markets, with half-lives only slightly greater than 9 months. These results are similar to the ones obtained for the Chinese market (see Wu, 2011), but much shorter than the 3-4 years found for the well-developed economies. We also find that, similarly to the Chinese market, the momentum effect is weak. As a result, in most cases, a strategy combining mean reversion and momentum generates abnormal excess returns only for holding periods of less than 12 months.
P34|Trusting banks in China|Trust in banks is essential to financial system effectiveness. This study examines the determinants of trust in banks in China. Using the most recent wave of the World Values Survey, which included information on trust in banks from the survey in China in 2012, we perform ordered logit estimations to investigate the potential influence of a large set of individual and provincial indicators on trust in banks. We observe the influence of certain sociodemographic indicators. Membership in the Communist Party and living in a rural area are negatively associated with trust in banks. Age and satisfaction with financial situation contribute to higher trust in banks, while being married and having a higher level of education tend to lower trust in banks. Access to information regardless of the type of media disseminating the information newspapers, television, internet) seem to have no impact on trust in banks. Economic values influence trust in banks. In particular, individuals who favor inequality as an incentive for individual effort or support an expanded government ownership role in the economy tend to trust banks more.
P34|Russia's 1999–2000 election cycle and the politics-banking interface|We investigate whether lending by the dominant Russian state bank, Sberbank, contributed to Vladimir Putin’s ascent to power during the presidential elections of March 2000. Our hypothesis is that Sberbank corporate loans could have been used as incentives for managers at private firms to mobilize employees to vote for the incumbent regime. In line with our proposed voter mobilization mechanism, we find that the regional growth of Sberbank corporate loans in the months before the presidential election is related to the regional increase in votes for Putin and to the regional increase in voter turnout between the Duma election of December 1999 and the presidential election of March 2000. The effect of Sberbank firm lending on Putin votes was most pronounced in regions where the governor was affiliated with the regime and in regions with extensive private employment. The effect was less apparent in regions with many single-company towns, where voter intimidation is sufficient to get the required result. Additional robustness checks and placebo regressions confirm the main findings. Our results support the view that additional Sberbank corporate loans granted prior to the March 2000 presidential election facilitated Putin’s early electoral success.
P34|Bank lending, crises, and changing ownership structure in Central and Eastern European countries|We examine the interactions of bank lending dynamics, ownership structures, and crisis phenomena in the banking systems of Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries. Using a panel dataset of more than 400 banks for the period from 1994–2010, we show that the impact of ownership structure on a bank’s lending activities in CEE countries was conditional upon the type of crisis, namely, whether it was a host, home, global, or simultaneous crisis. In contrast, our evidence indicates that bank-specific characteristics, such as deposit growth and profitability ratios, are significant determinants of credit growth during both normal economic times and crisis periods, regardless of the crisis type. Moreover, we provide indirect evidence of the benefits of banking sector diversification dependent upon the criterion of parent banks’ country of origin.
P34|Market power and risk of Central and Eastern European banks: Does more powerful mean safer?|As understanding the market power–risk relationship in CEE banking systems is of the utmost importance to policy-makers in these countries, we investigate whether CEE banks must have greater market power to be safer. Our results suggest that more market power reduces the fragility of banking institutions, on one hand, and that banking market concentration tends to make these banks riskier, on the other. Our findings are robust to whatever form of market power-risk relationship and whatever market-power measures we use. More precisely, financial markets perceive CEE banks with more market power as less fragile, while the latter are also better capitalised with respect to the distribution of their returns. Moreover, they are even (much) better capitalised when they hold less-diversified and less-liquid assets and when they operate within a stricter banking regulatory environment, which suggests a risk-stabilising role for diversification, liquidity and the bank regulatory environment in these countries.
P34|What drives bank performance in transitions economies? The impact of reforms and regulations|This paper investigates the effects of financial regulations and structural reforms on the cost efficiency of the banking industries of 10 Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries for the period 2004–2009. Cost efficiency scores are estimated using stochastic frontier analysis, whilst panel regressions examine the impact of regulation and liberalisation on bank performance using the EBRD transitional reform indicator and the Fraser economic freedom index. By considering both indexes we are able to account for the effects of progress towards more sound banking practices as well as the impact of the credit market, labor market and business sector regulatory regimes on bank efficiency. Our empirical analysis shows that structural reforms on labor and business markets exert a positive impact on bank performance. In line with the public interest view, we find the effect of credit regulation banking on cost efficiency is positive. We also find that better capitalized banks are more cost efficient.
P34|Firm survival in new EU member states|We analyze firm survival determinants in four new European Union member states (the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia). We employ the Cox proportional hazards model on firm-level data for the period of 2006 to 2015. We show that in all four countries, less concentrated control of large shareholders, higher solvency, and more board directors are linked with the increased probability of firm survival. However, an excessive number of board directors has a detrimental effect. Firms with foreign owners and higher returns on their assets exhibit better survival chances. Conversely, across countries and industries, larger firms and those hiring international auditors have lower probabilities of survival. A number of specific determinants influence firm survival in different ways, emphasizing the importance of country and industry differences when studying firm survival. We also document that in an economic sense, determinants associated with the legal form, ownership structure and corporate governance show the most beneficial effects with respect to firm survival.
P34|Deposit Insurance and Depositor Monitoring: Quasi-Experimental Evidence from the Creation of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation|In the Banking Acts of 1933 and 1935, the United States created the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which ensured deposits in commercial banks up to $5,000. Congress capped the size of insured deposits so that small depositors would not run on banks, but large and informed depositors – such as firms and investors – would continue to monitor banks’ behavior. This essay asks how that insurance scheme influenced depositors’ reactions to news about the health of the economy and information on bank’s balance sheets. An answer arises from our treatment-and-control estimation strategy. When deposit insurance was created, banks with New York state charters accepted regular and preferred deposits. Preferred depositors received low, fixed interest rates, but when banks failed, received priority in repayment. Deposit-insurance legislation diminished differences between preferred and regular deposits by capping interest rates and protecting regular depositors from losses. We find that before deposit insurance, regular depositors reacted more to news about banks’ balance sheets and economic aggregates; while preferred depositors reacted less. After deposit insurance, this difference diminished, but did not disappear. The change in the behavior of one group relative to the other indicates that deposit insurance reduced depositor monitoring, although the continued reaction of depositors to some information suggests that, as intended, the legislation did not entirely eliminate depositor monitoring.
P34|A Bivariate Modelling of the Electricity Consumption-Financial Development Nexus for Ghana|The current study modelled the long run and short run links between financial developments and disaggregate energy consumption (electricity consumption) in Ghana for the period 1970 to 2011 using Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The findings of the study on the cointegration test indicate significant evidence of cointegration between electricity consumption and financial development. The findings seem to suggest that financial development is a key explanatory variable in electricity consumption management in order to attain sustainable energy consumption and economic growth. The issues of structural breaks in unit root and direction of causality should be consider in future studies.
P34|Bivariate modelling of the financial development-fossil fuel consumption nexus in Ghana|The present paper modelled the relationship between financial developments and fossil fuel energy consumption in Ghana for the period 1970-2011 by applying Autoregressive Distributed Lad Model (ARDL). The findings of the paper on the cointegration test indicate significant evidence of cointegration between fossil fuel consumption and financial development. The findings seem to suggest that financial development is an explanatory variable in fossil fuel consumption management in achieving sustainable oil energy consumption for economic growth. The direction of causality between the two variables should be examined in future studies as well as multivariate analysis and structural breaks.
P34|Microfinance beyond self-employment: Evidence for firms in Bulgaria|This paper provides new evidence on the impact of microfinance on job creation beyond self-employment. We examine wage-employment effects for a typical program in Eastern Europe with average loan sizes that are considerably above what has been studied so far. We apply propensity score matching extended by a difference-in-differences estimator to panel data from an individual-lending program to firms in Bulgaria. Our results indicate that microcredit has very positive effects on job creation. Participating firms have on average 2.5 (or 33 percent) more employees two years after receiving a microcredit than matched non-participants. This strong effect seems to be related to a certain loan size threshold necessary for positive impacts to unfold. Effects are largest for the smallest firms, supporting findings from other studies that small firms are more constrained by credit than large firms. Investigating dynamic effects for up to six years after treatment, we furthermore show that effects are long lasting.
P34|Структурные Или Институциональные Сдвиги? Попытка Измерения На Примере Банковского Сектора<BR>[Structural change, institutional change and their measurement: The case of banking]|The paper attempts measuring institutional change, taking the case of the Russian banking industry in 1991-2016. I put forward a set of metrics featuring the actors and the relevance of banking for the economy. At the first stage, the communist-era credit system falls apart, and so do coordination mechanisms between monetary and real sectors of the economy. After the 1998 crisis, evolution goes in the direction of greater government involvement in banks and centralized allocation of financial resources. Structural change has not yet led to a fully different modus operandi of the banking industry. The contribution of this paper is that it tackles the interplay between structural and institutional change in a particular economic sector.
P34|Formal and informal household savings: how does trust in financial institutions influence the choice of saving instruments?|We investigate whether trust in different financial institutions influences the choice of saving instruments. Is trust a significant determinant of household saving behavior? How does trust in different financial institutions affect the composition of household savings? Using unique survey data for ten emerging market economies in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe, we show that trust in the financial system increases the probability of holding formal savings and the diversification among formal saving instruments. Trust in the financial system and in foreign banks are significantly associated with holding contractual and capital market saving instruments. Trust in the safety of deposit has the largest positive effect on bank savings. Trust in domestic banks increases the likelihood of holding formal savings the most and trust in foreign banks decreases holdings of informal savings the most.
P34|Inflation and Stock Market Returns Volatility: Evidence from the Nigerian Stock Exchange 1995Q1-2016Q4: An E-GARCH Approach|The paper investigated the effect of inflation on stock market returns on the Nigerian stock exchange market, employing a volatility modeling approach. Using monthly data on stock market returns and consumer price index inflation rate, the paper employed GARCH and E-GARCH volatility modeling techniques for analysis. The study found that CPI inflation is not an important variable in explaining stock market return volatility in Nigeria. The E-GARCH model did not find existence of asymmetry in the stock return series; that is good news and bad news have identical impact on stock returns in Nigeria. The GARCH model show high persistence in the stock returns series, though a shock to stock returns has only a temporary impact.
P34|The financial systems in Russia and Turkey: recent developments and challenges|Following the severe financial crises of the 1990s and early 2000s, substantial efforts have been undertaken in Russia and Turkey to diversify and deepen the financial systems. However, despite unquestionable improvements, financial deepening in Russia and Turkey has taken place at a slower pace than in other major emerging economies. Our paper highlights that this is in part a consequence of a highly volatile economic environment and deep-seated institutional and structural bottlenecks. Though authorities in both countries have committed to sounder economic policies and have implemented important structural reforms to improve the institutional environment and overcome structural weaknesses, over time reform fatigue has gradually taken hold. As a consequence significant gaps and weaknesses in the institutional and business environments still characterize, to a different degree, Russia and Turkey. These factors have not only slowed the development of the financial system as a whole, but have also contributed to the build-up of key vulnerabilities, which have come to the fore more recently in the context of a less supportive external environment.
P34|Comparative Analyses Of The Banking Environment In Transition Countries|This paper investigates the dynamics of the banking environment in early and late transition countries for the period 2000-2012. We consider macroeconomic, governance, economic freedom, financial depth, industrial, bankspecific, and CSR variables to compare the banking environment in transition countries. Our analyses show the presence of differences in the banking environment of two groups of transition countries: however, this gap shrunk over the period 2000-2012. The late transition countries have lower scores in the variables ‘Investment’ and ‘Financial freedom’, implying that in the future the governments of these countries may focus on improving the investment and financial climate.
P34|Digital Currency In The Current Cyber Security Environment|This paper presents a view over the development of new technologies and infrastructures that lead to the rise of decentralized digital currencies such as Bitcoin. In the context of an evolving cyber security environment and increasing dependence on computer systems, such solutions present not only interesting applications, but also challenges to developers, regulators and even users. We analyze several financial applications branching out of this technology and various derivatives from the initial developments, such as smart contracts. Also, we look at several limitations that have to be addressed in order for these technologies to be sustainable for the future and succeed.
P34|Factors Influencing Insolvency At The Level Of Companies|The purpose of the study from the present work was to assess the risk of insolvency at the level of companies in Romania, via an analysis based on the calculation of financial ratios as significant for the state of companies. The correlations established between the values of financial rates and their influence upon the state of insolvency were tested using the logistic model and the probability model on a data sample consisting of a total of ten companies, grouped into companies in insolvency and companies with healthy financial statements having as reference period 2008 - 2012. The results of the study point to the direct influence of indebtedness and speed of rotation of the insolvency claims.
P34|Greek Banking Expansion in South Eastern Europe and its Role in the Post-2009 Recession|Capital investments by Greek banks in South Eastern Europe expanded rapidly during the period immediately before and after the introduction of the Euro. Through mergers and acquisitions, direct investments in a network of affiliated banks and subsidiary companies, as well as credit granted to Greek industrial capital invested in the region, by the mid-2000’s the Greek banking system had come to possess a substantial share of the entire South Eastern European banking sector. The commitment to support subsidiaries in the area has had negative consequences as regards the provision of credit and liquidity in the rapidly shrinking post-2009 Greek economy. The so-called Vienna initiative involved undertakings by major international financial bodies and the most important European institutions to maintain the exposure of western parent banks to emerging Europe. In conjunction with the Greek sovereign debt crisis, this increased the overall burden of the bailout loans, and hence European Union and IMF involvement in Greece. This in turn contributed to the imposition of austerity measures that impaired an already fragile internal market.
P34|The Great Recession and social preferences: Evidence from Ukraine|We use detailed survey data to document stark differences between West and East Ukraine when it comes to household attitudes toward market-based economies and democratic institutions. Along both of these dimensions, Eastern Ukrainians are decidedly less supportive of liberal systems. We also find that economic attitudes changed in response to the global financial crisis. West Ukrainian households who were affected more extensively by the crisis were more disappointed with the market and private ownership, while in Eastern Ukraine economic attitudes became less pro-market across the board. Our evidence suggests that attitudes and values are determined by both deep-rooted factors and more transient macroeconomic shocks.
P34|Information sharing and the volume of private credit in transition: Evidence from Ukrainian bank-level panel dataAuthor-Name: Grajzl, Peter|The effect of lenders' information sharing on the volume of credit is ambiguous in theory and underexplored empirically. Departing from the scant existing literature, which draws on country-level aggregate data, we study the impact of information sharing on the volume of private credit by examining unique bank-level panel data from Ukraine, a transition economy where information sharing among banks is only a recent phenomenon. Employing the fixed-effects framework and dynamic panel methods to address endogeneity due to the non-exogenous nature of banks' choice to participate in information sharing, we find no credit volume effect of information sharing when information sharing takes place through the central bank-administered public credit registry. In contrast, information sharing through private credit bureaus is associated with an increase in the volume of bank lending, in particular when a bank is partner of multiple private credit bureaus. This effect is robust and non-negligible in magnitude.
P34|Tax evasion and well-being: A study of the social and institutional context in Central and Eastern Europe|The paper examines the relationship between tax evasion and individuals’ well-being by using a subjective question on life satisfaction in fourteen Central and Eastern European countries. The paper focuses on the role of institutions and social capital in molding this relationship. The results indicate that evading taxes is negatively associated with individuals’ life satisfaction. This negative relationship seems to be shaped by a positive perception of formal tax-related institutions and a high level of formal social capital. A similar analysis run for two generational groups, distinguished in terms of whether having had working experience during communism, yields further interesting results: while associational engagement (i.e. formal social capital) has a crucial role to the younger generation in the way they experience the relationship between evading tax and how satisfied they are with their life, for the older generation it is their social networks (i.e. informal social capital) that shape this relationship.
P34|Does Biological Endowment Matter for Demand for Financial Services? Evidence from Russian Household Survey|There are many studies revealing factors which influence the demand for financial services. However genetic features, determining the individual’s overall postnatal behaviour, have not been studied within this context. This paper extends the previous literature by studying to what extent individual biological endowment, proxied by prenatal testosterone (PT) (measured by the 2D:4D ratio), can determine personal demand for bank services and insurance. We use data from the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey of 2011–2012. Our findings confirm the existence of the link between inherent biological variation and financial inclusion: PT affects the use of bank cards, intention to take out a loan, having a bank deposit and the consumption of insurance products
P34|The Evolution of Corporate Governance in the Global Financial Crisis : The Case of Russian Industrial Firms|In this paper, using a unique dataset of industrial firms obtained from enterprise surveys conducted across the Russian Federation in 2005 and 2009, we trace back structural changes in the corporate governance system before and after the global financial crisis. We also empirically examine the impacts of the crisis on the organization of boards of directors and audit systems. Our survey results reveal that, in the Russian industrial sector, the quality of corporate governance has been improved through the crisis. Furthermore, we found that, corresponding to the alignment hypothesis, in firms that decisively reformed their management and supervisory bodies in response to the 2008 financial shock, the total number of worker representative directors significantly declined, as did their proportion to all board members. On the other hand, we also found that, in firms that substantially reorganized their audit system to cope with the crisis, the independence of the audit system was undermined remarkably, corresponding to the expropriation hypothesis. Findings that management behaviors predicted by the two conflicting hypotheses are simultaneously detected—and that their targets are significantly different—deserve special mention.
P34|Regulatory responsiveness in India: A normative and empirical framework for assessment|This paper seeks to measure the extent to which Indian regulators are responsive in the performance of their functions. The paper focuses on one function common to all Indian statutory regulators, namely, regulation making. To measure responsiveness, the paper constructs an index of benchmarks of responsive conduct, with corresponding quantifiable outputs. It empirically measures the responsiveness of the telecom and securities markets regulators in India, on this index. The paper finds that there are significant differences among the laws governing Indian regulators in the context of the requirement to be responsive, and that the degree of responsiveness of Indian regulators is directly proportional to the legal requirement for following participatory processes.
P34|Is it worth issuing bonds in China? Evidence from stock market reactions|There has been a considerable expansion of corporate bond markets in China in the recent years. The objective of this study is to examine the stock market reaction following bond issuance by Chinese companies. In addition to analyzing for positive or negative reactions to bond issues, we consider the influences of ownership and management characteristics on the stock market reaction. Applying an event-study methodology to a sample of 481 bond issues of 347 Chinese companies over the period 2009–2013, the univariate results show that Chinese bond issues typically generate a positive stock market reaction. The reaction is only significantly positive, however, in the case of central state-owned companies (as opposed to those owned by local or provincial governments). The multivariate results indicate that insider ownership influences stock market reaction to a bond issue, while management characteristics have no discernable impact.
P34|Role of Public Investment in Growth and Poverty Reduction in Transition Economies|This paper explores the linkages among public investment, growth and poverty in light of the existing theories, evidence and methods for 30 transition economies using the panel data for 1995-2010. Using Least Square Dummy Variable technique, we conclude that public investment is growth enhancing; furthermore, the impact is even higher if associated with foreign direct investment. However, public investment is still not strong enough to reduce poverty, poverty gap and inequality in income distribution. In case of the latter, it has rather worsening impact. But if public current expenditure is spent primarily on educational subsidies, this brings pro-poor growth impact.
P34|Access to Finance and Agency: An Overview of the Constraints to Female-Run Enterprises|A large proportion of women in Pakistan engage in home-based production rather than wage employment in the public space to generate an income. This article provides an overview of the literature on the role of access to finance and women’s decision-making power (at the household level) on the likelihood of business creation and growth by women. The literature shows that finance has little impact on business and household outcomes; this suggests that other constraints are at play when it comes to women setting up an enterprise or making business decisions. This overview shows how self-control – risk aversion and present biasedness – can inhibit business investment. Household members may also ‘capture’ a woman’s financial resources, including business loans or savings, and put them to unproductive use. Further, social and cultural norms may dictate whether setting up an enterprise is seen as an ‘appropriate’ activity for women. Against the backdrop of several government and private initiatives to promote enterprise, exploring these issues provides us with important insights into how female-run businesses can be encouraged and supported.
P34|Development of the microfinance organizations market in Russia: The conflict of interests of investors, borrowers and the government|The article analyzes the problems of functioning of Russian microfinance organizations (MFO), caused by a worsening economic situation in the country, an impoverishment of the population, and difficulties of attracting financial resources from banks. It grounds the necessity of MFO’s existence and adequacy of methods of their work. The basic tendencies of the given business development, experts opinions and forecasts are considered. Recommendations for perfecting the legislation directed at protection of interests of borrowers and microfinance organizations are formulated.
P34|Currency substitution in CESEE: why do households prefer euro payments?|This paper uses microdata from 2014 to examine the determinants of currency substitution in Central, Eastern and Southeastern European (CESEE) countries. To analyze the hysteresis of euroization in these countries, we combine the standard search-theoretic model of money demand with recent findings on the preference of CESEE households for saving in cash as well as with aspects of economic geography. In Southeastern Europe, unlike in Central and Eastern Europe, network externalities and lower trust in the local currency than in the euro are still important factors. Expectations that the local currency will depreciate, income in euro and the expectation of an official adoption of the euro are important explanatory factors for all CESEE countries. Despite the heterogeneity across the region, our results suggest that institutions and policies that foster trust are key to promote de-euroization.
P34|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P34|Growth, deregulation and rent seeking in post-war British economy| Post-war political consensus about the need for government action to rectify market failure began to unravel in the 1970s, and even the need for prudential control of banking and finance began to be challenged by the start of the 1980s. Regulatory oversight was relaxed in the belief that emerging techniques in financial engineering would render irrelevant fears of sharp periodic downturns that have historically been the consequence of lightly regulated finance. The outcome of this new policy, embracing the idea of unregulated markets to deliver greater prosperity, is disappointing. We find that the average growth rate of UK GDP and output per person employed for three decades from the start of liberalization was no greater than that in the previous three post-war decades. Cyclical fluctuations were deeper. A remarkable feature of the second period is the sharp rise in income inequality in favour of the very top earners. An illusion of greater prosperity for a wider segment may have been created in the second period due to asset price bubbles and housing inflation.
P34|Social networks and informal financial inclusion|Using the 2011 China Household Finance Survey (CHFS) database, this article explores the heterogeneous impacts of social networks on informal financial inclusion for rural and urban households and identifies two mechanisms through which the informal institution changes households’ financial market decisions. The IV-Probit and IV-Tobit estimation results indicate that social networks significantly increase the probability of the household’s informal financial market participation, the size of informal lending and financing and the ratio of informal lending over the total household assets. By reducing risk aversion and the precautionary saving, we find social networks play a larger role in the urban area of China compared to the rural counterpart. And notably, the effects of informal institution, shaped by various cultural factors and kinships, remain strong and persistent even with formal institutions being firmly established.
P34|Six Randomized Evaluations of Microcredit: Introduction and Further Steps|Causal evidence on microcredit impacts informs theory, practice, and debates about its effectiveness as a development tool. The six randomized evaluations in this volume use a variety of sampling, data collection, experimental design, and econometric strategies to identify causal effects of expanded access to microcredit on borrowers and/or communities. These methods are deployed across an impressive range of locations--six countries on four continents, urban and rural areas--borrower characteristics, loan characteristics, and lender characteristics. Summarizing and interpreting results across studies, we note a consistent pattern of modestly positive, but not transformative, effects. We also discuss directions for future research. (JEL D14, G21, I38, O15, O16, P34, P36)
P34|The Impacts of Microcredit: Evidence from Bosnia and Herzegovina|We use an RCT to analyze the impacts of microcredit. The study population consists of loan applicants who were marginally rejected by an MFI in Bosnia. A random subset of these were offered a loan. We provide evidence of higher self-employment, increases in inventory, a reduction in the incidence of wage work and an increase in the labor supply of 16-19-year-olds in the household's business. We also present some evidence of increases in profits and a reduction in consumption and savings. There is no evidence that the program increased overall household income. (JEL C93, G21, I38, J23, L25, P34, P36)
P34|Bank Ownership And Cost Efficiency In Russia, Revisited|This paper adds to the literature on banking in transition with regard to the comparative efficiency of public, private and foreign banks. We perform stochastic frontier analysis (SFA) of Russian bank-level quarterly data from 2005 to 2013. The method of computation of comparative cost efficiency is amended to control for the effect of the revaluations of foreign currency items in bank balance sheets. All public banks are split into the core and other state-controlled banks. We employ the generalized method of moments to estimate a set of distance functions measuring the observed differences in the SFA scores of banks and bank clusters, depending on the heterogeneity in risk preference and asset structure. These distance functions explain the changes in bank efficiency rankings. Our results on comparative bank efficiency are qualitatively different from those in mainstream papers. The efficiency scores of Russian banks are higher and less volatile, and spreads between the scores of different bank types are narrower than hitherto believed. Foreign banks appear as the least cost-efficient type of market participants, while the core state banks are, on average, nearly as efficient as domestic private banks. We suggest that foreign banks are capable of being more cost efficient than others if they increase loans-to-assets ratios above the sample median level. Core state banks, conversely, lead in terms of cost efficiency if their loans-to-assets ratio falls below the sample median level. Our approach is potentially applicable to the analysis of bank efficiency in other dollarized emerging markets
P34|Did foreign banks “cut and run” or stay committed to Emerging Europe during the crises?|Our objective is to examine empirically the behavior of foreign banks regarding real loan growth during a financial crisis for a set of countries in which these banks dominate the banking sectors due primarily to having taken over large existing former state-owned banks. The eight countries are among the most developed in Emerging Europe, their banking sectors having been modernized by the beginning of the time period.We consider a data period that includes an initial credit boom (2004 – 2007) followed by the global financial crisis (2008 & 2009) and the onset of the Eurozone crisis (2010). Our main innovations with respect to the existing literature on banking during the financial crisis are to include explicit consideration of exchange rate dynamics and to separate foreign banks into two categories, namely, subsidiaries of the Big 6 European MNBs and all other foreign-controlled banks. Our results show that bank lending was impacted adversely by the crisis but that the two types of foreign banks behaved differently. The Big 6 banks remained committed to the region in that their lending behavior was not different from that of domestic banks corroborating the notion that these countries are a “second home market” for these banks. Contrariwise, the other foreign banks were primarily responsible for fueling the credit boom prior to the crisis but then “cut and ran” by decreasing their lending appreciably during the crisis. Our results also indicate different bank behavior in countries with flexible exchange rate regimes from those in the Eurozone. Hence, we conclude that both innovations matter in empirical work on bank behavior during a crisis in the region and may, by extension, be relevant to other small countries in which banking sectors are dominated by foreign financial institutions.
P34|Les exigences de fonds propres influencent-elles l’efficience des banques ?. Leçons d’une expérience naturelle en Chine|We use the first regulation on the capital requirements on Chinese banks in 2004 to examine the exogenous impact of these requirements on bank efficiency. We measure efficiency on a panel of 100 banks for the period 2004-2009 with the Battese and Coelli [1995]’s model. We find that capital requirements have a positive impact on bank efficiency. We conclude then that the positive influence of capital requirements on efficiency strengthens its beneficial impact on financial stability. Our findings are in favor of tighter capital requirements in China to reduce the risks of financial instability. Classification JEL : G21, G28, P34
P34|La politique de change chinoise et la place du renminbi dans le système monétaire international|The Chinese exchange rate regime has much fluctuated since the removal of the dollar peg in July 2005. Theoretically, it can be viewed as an ?upward crawling peg? relative to a basket of currencies whose precise composition is not revealed. Here we estimate the composition of this basket over different periods and show that times of fast appreciation match a declining dollar weight in the basket. The ?crawling appreciation? was meant to answer trade partners? complaints about an undervalued renminbi giving rise to distortion of competition. After ten years of this regime, the undervaluation has been completely wiped off. The Chinese central bank is still closely monitoring the forex market, although the authorized volatility has increased. After fighting against upward market pressures through accumulating huge amounts of dollar reserves, the central bank must now tackle downward pressures and capital outflows, which result in loss of forex reserves. In parallel, exchange rate controls have been softened in order to promote the utilization of the renminbi by non-residents, particularly for the settlement of international trade. The Chinese authorities would like to benefit from an international currency, although they want to control every step of the financial opening. The inclusion of the renminbi in the special drawing rights (SDR) of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which has been debated for years, would show the international recognition of the internationalization process. Classification JEL: E58, F31, F33, G15, O19, P34.
P34|Internationaliser la monnaie tout en s’endettant massivement : le cas de la Chine|This article reviews the steps that China has taken towards financial reform with particular attention to capital account liberalization and internationalizing the use of the Renminbi (RMB). After a slowdown in the reform momentum during the global financial crisis, there is a clear push towards reform, especially as regards RMB internationalization. During the same period, though, China?s debt has doubled reaching levels which are clearly above those of most emerging markets. This clearly increases the risks imbedded in financial reform and, in particular, capital account liberalization. At this juncture, though, China has no option but to press for reform since it will allow China to better allocate its savings notwithstanding the cost of accepting a higher equilibrium interest rate, especially for the borrowers. Classification JEL: E58, F31, F32, G15, G18, P34.
P34|How has the global financial crisis affected syndicated loan terms in emerging markets? Evidence from China|This paper examines the impact of the recent global financial crisis on the cost of debt capital (syndicated loans) in a leading emerging market, namely China, using the difference‐in‐differences approach. Before the crisis, China adopted banking reforms allowing the entry of foreign banks and more domestic participation in the syndicated loan market. As a result, during the crisis, the volume of syndicated loans grew steadily, in contrast to other countries. In addition, the amount of foreign syndicated loans decreased and average maturity increased compared with the pre‐crisis period. Our findings provide useful information to policy makers for devising effective responses to financial crises.
P34|Financial System Development and Economic Growth in Transition Economies:New Empirical Evidence from the CEE and CIS Countries|We examine the role of financial development in economic growth in the former Communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States during the first two decades since the beginning of transition. These countries, which had undeveloped financial systems under Communism, provide an interesting test of the relationship between financial development and growth. Our study is the broadest in terms of coverage and time period. We find that measures of financial market efficiency and competitiveness are more important than the size of the market in terms of promoting economic growth.
P34|Understanding financial inclusion in China|We use data from the World Bank Global Findex database for 2011 to analyze financial inclusion in China, including comparisons with the other BRICS countries. We find a high level of financial inclusion in China manifested by greater use of formal account and formal savings than in the other BRICS. Financial exclusion, i.e., not having a formal account, is mainly voluntary. The use of formal credit is however less frequent in China than in the other BRICS. Borrowing through family or friends is the most common way of obtaining credit in all the BRICS countries, but other channels for borrowing are not very commonly used by individuals in China. We find that higher income, better education, being a man, and being older are associated with greater use of formal accounts and formal credit in China. Income and education influence the use of alternative sources of borrowing. Overall financial inclusion does not constitute a major problem in China, but such limited use of formal credit can create a challenge for further economic development.
P34|Board leadership structure for Chinese public listed companies|It is widely accepted that board leadership structure and whether the chairperson and CEO roles should be undertaken jointly or separately affects the performance of a firm. Despite this consensus, empirical evidence presents major uncertainties as to the direction and degree of this influence. This study contributes to this debate by examining the relationship between board leadership structure and firm performance and the expense ratio, using propensity-score matching methods for Chinese PLCs from 2003–2010. It is reported that whilst CEO duality is not related to companies' profitability ratios, it is linked to a higher expense ratio compared to matched companies with a separate board leadership structure. This indicates that a separate board leadership structure is an effective corporate governance arrangement to reduce agency costs for Chinese PLCs.
P34|Trade credit and ethnicity: Case of ethnic minority area in China|Using data for trade credit practices, this work investigates interfirm trust formation by ethnic minority firms in the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China. The main findings of this research are as follows. First, there is a general ethnic bias against ethnic minority firms in receiving trade credit. Second, ethnic minority firms are less eager than Han firms to build interfirm trust with their business partners by offering trade credit, which is partly due to their financing constraints. Third, ethnic minority firms have less trust of other ethnic minority firms in offering trade credit. Fourth, these trade credit practices by ethnic minority firms tend to be more pronounced in those surviving after 2005. Fifth, ethnic minority firms do not share their members' information regarding productivity within their circle of ethnic minority firms. Overall, interfirm trust is insufficiently formed, even among ethnic minority firms.
P34|Political and economic incentives of government in partial privatization|This study examines the government's incentives to control partially privatized SOEs in share issue privatization in China. In addition to controlling firms in strategic industries, in certain geographical areas, and that have related party transactions, our result shows that government selects and controls firms that have better valuations and employs more workers vis-à-vis comparable private firms. Particularly, local governments, which are more likely to face hard budget constraints, might spend the profits of government controlled firms to hire more workers (Boycko et al., 1996), suggesting that government pursues efficiency and political objectives simultaneously. Our study finds that local governments prefer to control relatively more efficient firms that hire more workers, while central government prefer to controls firms that hire more workers regardless of efficiency. We estimate the impact of government's decision on firm valuations and employment and find a pronounced economic impact to preserve employment and a limited impact to improve efficiency.
P34|Applying the New Metafrontier Directional Distance Function to Compare Banking Efficiencies in Central and Eastern European Countries|This paper establishes a new metafrontier directional technology distance function (MDDF) under a stochastic framework, rather than a deterministic setting like the one proposed by Battese et al. (2004). The new MDDF allows for calculating comparable technical efficiencies for banks under different technologies relative to the potential technology available to the industry across nations. The inefficiency term of the new MDDF is further associated with relevant environmental variables of the form proposed by Battese and Coelli (1995). The new MDDF is then applied to examine and compare bank efficiencies of 17 Central and Eastern European countries. Non-performing loans (NPLs) are regarded as an undesirable, jointly produced with various loans, and the omission of them tends to underestimate technical inefficiency scores. Evidence is found that the estimated technology gap dominates technical efficiencies. Bank managers are suggested to swiftly adopt new financial innovations with an eye to shift the group frontier closer to the metafrontier.
P34|Cost efficiency of the banking industry and unilateral euroisation: A stochastic frontier approach in Serbia and Montenegro|This paper aims at investigating the differences in cost efficiency of the banking industry in Serbia and Montenegro over the period 2005–2012. These two countries operated under a common monetary regime until 1999 and followed two different monetary regimes thereafter: unilateral euroisation in Montenegro and monetary independence in Serbia. A stochastic frontier approach incorporating bank-specific and country-related variables is used to analyze cost efficiency in the banking sectors of Serbia and Montenegro. The analysis shows that a bank operating at given conditions in terms of ownership, market and other specific characteristics presents significantly higher cost efficiency if it operates in Montenegro rather than in Serbia. We argue that this result may relate to the choice of unilateral euroisation made by Montenegro. It is also shown that foreign-owned banks, higher capitalized banks and banks with lower non-performing loans operate at higher cost efficiency.
P34|Foreign bank ownership and household credit|Theoretical and empirical work on banking emphasizes the role of banks in overcoming information asymmetries and agency problems between borrowers and lenders. This paper investigates the importance of bank ownership in determining the sorts of customers that a bank serves, and consequently, the sorts of information problems a bank lender chooses to address. Using survey data for over 16,500 households from 19 emerging economies in Central and Eastern Europe in 2010 this paper is the first to document that information asymmetries in the retail credit market lead foreign banks to cherry-pick financially transparent clients in similar ways as documented previously for enterprise credit. First, a higher market share of foreign banks in a country is associated with a larger gap in credit use between households with and without formal employment. Second, among mortgage borrowers, clients of foreign banks are more likely to be formally employed, are more likely to have personal assets, and are richer than clients of domestic banks. Third, consistent with these results, retail lending techniques of foreign banks rely more on financial information and collateral than those of domestic banks.
P34|SME Stock Exchanges - Should They Have a Greater Role?|Access to finance is widely recognized as one of the main impediments for growth and development of the small and medium enterprises. This article presents certain aspects of development of stock exchanges oriented towards small and mediumsize enterprises. It aims to contribute towards the growing debate on funding of small and medium enterprises through dedicated stock exchanges and serve as a useful contribution to stakeholders to undertake certain steps toward implementation of effective policies for design of exchanges dedicated to financing of small and medium enterprises.
P34|SME Stock Exchanges – Should They Have a Greater Role?|Access to finance is widely recognized as one of the main impediments for growth and development of the small and medium enterprises. This article presents certain aspects of development of stock exchanges oriented towards small and medium-size enterprises. It aims to contribute towards the growing debate on funding of small and medium enterprises through dedicated stock exchanges and serve as a useful contribution to stakeholders to undertake certain steps toward implementation of effective policies for design of exchanges dedicated to financing of small and medium enterprises.
P34|Behavioural, Financial, and Health & Medical Economics: A Connection|This Opinion article briefly reviews some of the literature in behavioural and financial economics that are related to health & medical economics. We then discuss some of the research on behavioural and financial economics that could be extended to health & medical economics beyond the existing areas in theory, statistics and econometrics.
P34|Informatics, Data Mining, Econometrics and Financial Economics: A Connection|This short communication reviews some of the literature in econometrics and financial economics that is related to informatics and data mining. We then discuss some of the research on econometrics and financial economics that could be extended to informatics and data mining beyond the existing areas in econometrics and financial economics.
P34|Bank ownership and cost efficiency in Russia, revisited|This paper considers the comparative efficiency of public, private, and foreign banks in Rus-sia, a transition economy with several unusual features. We perform stochastic frontier anal-ysis (SFA) of Russian bank-level quarterly data over the period 2005–2013. The method of computation of comparative cost efficiency is amended to control for the effect of revalua-tion of foreign currency items in bank balance sheets. Public banks are split into core and other state-controlled banks. Employing the generalized method of moments, we estimate a set of distance functions that measure the observed differences in SFA scores of banks and bank clusters (heterogeneity in risk preference and asset structure) to explain changes in bank efficiency rankings. Our results for comparative Russian bank efficiency show higher efficiency scores, less volatility, and narrower spreads between the scores of different bank types than in previous studies. Foreign banks appear to be the least cost-efficient market participants, while core state banks on average are nearly as efficient as private domestic banks. We suggest that foreign banks gain cost-efficiency when they increase their loans-to-assets ratios above the sample median level. Core state banks, conversely, lead in terms of cost efficiency when their loans-to-assets ratio falls below the sample median level. The presented approach is potentially applicable to analysis of bank efficiency in other dollarized emerging markets.
P34|世界金融危機下ロシアの企業所有構造と経営監督体制－－工業企業のパネルデータ分析－－|本稿は，ロシア連邦全域で実施した独自聞き取り調査に基礎付けられた工業企業のパネルデータを用いて，世界金融危機を挟む2005～09 年の期間における企業統治システムの構造変化とその影響因子の実証分析を試みた。その結果，ロシアでは，当該期間を通じて，経営監督体制の質的な改善が進んだことが確認された。更に本稿の実証結果は，外部株主所有比率と取締役会構成との間の相関関係及び取締役会社外役員比率の監査体制への影響に関する仮説を強く支持した。その一方，世界金融危機は，取締役会の独立性を向上する一方，監査体制のそれを劣化させたという意味で，非対称的な構造変動をもたらした可能性が高く，世界金融危機の企業統治規律効果に関する理論的な予測を一部否定する実証結果も同時に提示された。
P34|移行経済における中央銀行の独立性とインフレーション抑制効果－－メタ分析－－|本稿の目的は，中央銀行独立性のインフレーション抑制効果を実証的に検証した移行経済研究とその他先進・開発途上経済研究のメタ分析による比較を通じて，中東欧・旧ソ連諸国における中央銀行改革の成果を問うことにある。先行研究から抽出した合計282の推定結果を用いたメタ統合の結果から，筆者らは，移行経済研究及び比較対象研究のいずれも，研究分野全体として，中央銀行独立性のインフレーション抑制効果の検出に成功していることを確認した。更に，研究間の様々な異質性を考慮したメタ回帰分析の推定結果から，推定量，物価変数タイプ，自由度，並びに研究水準は，移行経済に関する実証結果を大きく左右する要因であることも判明した。また，移行経済研究と比較対象研究の抽出推定結果をプールしたメタ回帰分析は，自由度と研究水準を制御した上では，効果サイズと統計的有意性の双方について，両研究間に統計的に有意な差は存在しないことを示した。この意味で，中東欧・旧ソ連諸国の中央銀行改革は，その他の国々に比肩する程の実質を伴うものであったとの示唆が得られた。
P34|Global Financial Crisis, Ownership Change, and Corporate Governance Evolution Firm-Level Evidence from Russia|In this paper, using panel data of industrial firms obtained from unique questionnaire surveys conducted all over the Russian Federation in 2005 and 2009, we trace structural change in corporate governance systems before and after the global financial crisis and empirically examine their determinants. We found that, during this period, Russian firms improved the quality of corporate governance across the entire industrial sector. Furthermore, our empirical evidence strongly supports a hypothesis regarding the relationship between outside ownership and board composition as well as that concerning the impact of outside directorship on the audit system. Meanwhile, our estimation results also indicate the possibility that the global financial crisis has brought about asymmetric changes, in the sense that it enhanced the independence of corporate boards, while it deteriorated the independence of the audit system, thus, partially rejecting our prediction with respect to the disciplinary effect of the crisis on the corporate governance system.
P34|Central Bank Independence and Inflation in Transition Economies: A Comparative Meta-Analysis with Developed and Developing Economies| This article empirically examines the effect of central bank independence (CBI) on inflation by means of a comparative meta-analysis of studies of transition economies and of other developed and developing economies. The results of a meta-synthesis indicate that both transition and nontransition studies have successfully identified a negative relationship between CBI and inflation. Moreover, the present meta-regression analysis suggests that a series of study conditions strongly affected the empirical results concerning transition economies. The article also finds that no significant difference exists between the two types of studies in terms of either effect size or statistical significance.
P34|Analyzing the impact of global financial crisis on the interconnectedness of Asian stock markets using network science|As importance of Asian Stock Markets (ASM) has increased after the globalization, it is become significant to know how this network of ASM behaves on the onset of financial crises. For this study, the Global Financial Crisis is considered whose origin was in the developed country, US, unlike the Asian crisis of 1997. To evaluate the impact of financial crisis on the ASM, network theory is used as a tool here. Network modeling of stock markets is useful as it can help to avert the spillover of crises by preventing the stock markets which are highly connected in the network. In this empirical work, weekly indices data from 2000-2013 for fifteen stock markets is used, which is further partitioned into three periods: pre, during and post crisis. This study shows how 13 important stock markets in Asia namely, India, Bangladesh, Philippines, China, Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Pakistan, South Korea and Thailand are connected to each other and how India, Japan, Hong Kong and Korea stock market appeared as the systemically important stock markets from them. Introduction of the US stock market into this network gives insight how the US stock market might had connected to systemically important markets which resulted into spread of crisis in the Asian region. Furthermore, using Kruskal algorithm spread of contagion is explained like how it first hit the Hong Kong stock market and from there it proceeds to the other systemic important stock markets like a virus. Addition to that, we quantified the network behavior in the form of metrics such as adjacency matrix, clustering coefficient, degree of nodes and Minimum Spanning Tree (MST), and on the basis of these some of the important questions like which stock markets are highly connected in Asia which if affected can induce the crises in the other stock markets of region are answered. This study can be used for the portfolio optimization as well as for policy making for which network analysis should be conducted on a regular basis.
P34|Cyclicality of bank capital buffers in South-Eastern Europe: endogenous and exogenous aspects|The interdependence between the regulatory capital ratio and macroeconomic indicators, with reference to the phenomena cyclicality and pro-cyclicality is a widely emphasized disadvantage of the capital adequacy concept. Redesign of the aforementioned concept towards the countercyclical capital requirements is a kind of recognition of the creators of the Basel standards of the previous oversights in its development. This paper aims to explore empirically the direction, intensity and significance of endogenous and exogenous determinants of the changes in banksâ€™ capital buffers by taking into consideration both the impact of the macroeconomic properties and the bank-specific characteristics of South-Eastern Europe. More than 80 commercial banks in the period from 2000-2010 have been encompassed by the research. Use of a dynamic panel analysis led to the conclusion that the bank capital buffers decreased during the observed period, with the exception of certain years during the economic expansion, which confirms the appropriateness of regulatory requirements considering the countercyclical capital buffers. Nevertheless, it might be that capital building and spending in the future will not follow the pattern from the last decade due to the specificities of the observed period, as well as the banking sector ownership transformations, economic and credit growth as well as asset prices growth in the post-transitional period, and finally, the real crisis which spilled over onto the financial sectors.
P34|Global Financial Crisis, Ownership Change, and Corporate Governance Evolution: Firm-Level Evidence from Russia|In this paper, using panel data of industrial firms obtained from unique questionnaire surveys conducted all over the Russian Federation in 2005 and 2009, we trace structural change in corporate governance systems before and after the global financial crisis and empirically examine their determinants. We found that, during this period, Russian firms improved the quality of corporate governance across the entire industrial sector. Furthermore, our empirical evidence strongly supports a hypothesis regarding the relationship between outside ownership and board composition as well as that concerning the impact of outside directorship on the audit system. Meanwhile, our estimation results also indicate the possibility that the global financial crisis has brought about asymmetric changes, in the sense that it enhanced the independence of corporate boards, while it deteriorated the independence of the audit system, thus, partially rejecting our prediction with respect to the disciplinary effect of the crisis on the corporate governance system.
P34|How do bankruptcy systems perform in Eastern Europe?|For post-socialist countries that have undertaken long phases of economic and judicial transitions, an important aspect of attractiveness is based on the performances of their bankruptcy systems. Those performances are all the more essential in a context of non-mature capital markets. Precisely, bankruptcy procedures should, first generate substantial recoveries for the whole set of investors, and second share those recoveries in an adequate way – e.g. in a way that improves the investors’ individual incentives (in terms of monitoring, control, support, etc.). This article uses an original hand-collected database of 554 closed bankruptcy cases in three Eastern European countries (Hungary, Poland, and Romania) to evaluate the determinants of bankruptcy systems’ performances during the post-transition era (from year 2003 to 2010/11). In particular, we investigate whether the specificities of these local bankruptcy environments are significant enough to influence the creditors’ total recoveries. We also wonder whether those recoveries are impacted by the presence of private/public creditors and/or the concentration of their claims. This paper goes beyond a mere analysis of the creditors’ overall repayment, by focusing on the competition effects between them. Implementing competition is actually a core issue for post-transition economies, which have to mimic rivalry effects that usually prevail in more mature market economies. Precisely, we measure the priority order of repayment among competing classes of creditors (public, social, and private claims) and investigate the nature of competition (rivalry vs. ripple effects) among these classes. (1) We first confirm that the design of bankruptcy law “matters”: the creditors’ repayment is not independent from the type of bankruptcy procedure, and depends on the national environment in which such procedure is engaged. (2) On all three countries, the total recoveries do not benefit from the presence of public claimholders, even when those are in position of being residual claimants. Following Satjer (2010), this result suggests some passivity from the state, which has lost bargaining power under bankruptcy. On the contrary, the private claimholders exert a contrasting influence on total recoveries: positive for the junior ones (more involved under bankruptcy, to compensate their lack of protection), and negative for the secured ones (confirming the “lazy argument” attached to collaterals). (3) We also find that repayments are lower when the claims are concentrated: despite easier coordination, concentration may generate excessive influence from the largest creditors, willing to run bankruptcy adjudicat ion in their sole interests. (4) We show that the Eastern European bankruptcy systems provide stronger protection for private secured claims than for public claims. From that angle, the post-socialist economies mimic the prioritization of secured creditors that characterizes most Western European bankruptcy systems. (5) Last, we confirm that Eastern European bankruptcy systems have successfully implemented competition among the classes of creditors, which we interpret as a sign of maturity.
P34|The Real Value of China's Stock Market|China is the world’s largest investor and greatest contributor to global economic growth by wide margins, and will remain so for many years. The efficiency of its financial system in allocating capital to investment will be important to sustain this growth. This paper shows that China’s stock market has a crucial role to play. Since the reforms of the last decade, China’s stock market has become as informative about future corporate profits as in the US. Moreover, though it is a segmented market, Chinese investors price risk and other stock characteristics remarkably like investors in other large economies. They pay up for large stocks, growth stocks, and long shots, and they discount for illiquidity and market risk. China’s stock market no longer deserves its reputation as a casino. In addition, the trend of stock price informativeness over the last two decades is highly correlated with that of corporate investment efficiency. China’s stock market appears to be aggregating diffuse information and generating useful signals for managers. On the buy side, because of its low correlation with other stock markets and high average returns, China’s stock market offers high alpha to diversified global investors who can access it. Yet this high alpha amounts to an inflated cost of equity capital, constraining the investment of China’s smaller, more profitable enterprises. Further reforms that open this market to global investors and improve stock price informativeness will be important to increase China’s investment efficiency and fuel its continued economic growth. Finally, we interpret the stock market’s recent gyrations through the lens of this research, arguing that its post-crisis lag was a rational downward adjustment to competition from the rapidly expanding shadow banking sector, and its enormous rally last year is a cheer for the roll out of deposit insurance and other Third Plenum reforms. More than ever, China’s stock market is a crucial counterpart to its extraordinary, relationship-driven, but opaque banking sector. China’s stock market may now be the world’s most important crystal ball.
P34|Ukraine: struggling banking sector amid substantial uncertainty|No abstract is available for this item.
P34|The Russian banking sector – heightened risks in a difficult environment|No abstract is available for this item.
P34|The endowment effect in games|In a laboratory experiment we study whether the endowment effect exists in a social and strategic context. We employ a within-subjects design whereby participants are asked for their Willingness-to-Accept (WTA) or Willingness-to-Pay (WTP) to play a series of 2 × 2 games. In the second part of the experiment, we study the endowment effect in lotteries with the same payoffs as the games in the first part. Our findings provide robust evidence for the endowment effect both in games and in lotteries, with the size of the effect actually being larger in games than in lotteries. We also find that the endowment effect can partly be attributed to optimism.
P34|Behavioural, Financial, and Health & Medical Economics: A Connection|This Opinion article briefly reviews some of the literature in behavioural and financial economics that are related to health & medical economics. We then discuss some of the research on behavioural and financial economics that could be extended to health & medical economics beyond the existing areas in theory, statistics and econometrics.
P34|Did Foreign Banks “Cut and Run” or Stay Committed to Emerging Europe During the Crises?|Our objective is to examine empirically the behavior of foreign banks regarding real loan growth during a financial crisis for a set of countries in which these banks dominate the banking sectors due primarily to having taken over large existing former state-owned banks. The eight countries are among the most developed in Emerging Europe, their banking sectors having been modernized by the beginning of the time period. We consider a data period that includes an initial credit boom (2004 – 2007) followed by the global financial crisis (2008 & 2009) and the onset of the Eurozone crisis (2010). Our main innovations with respect to the existing literature on banking during the financial crisis are to include explicit consideration of exchange rate dynamics and to separate foreign banks into two categories, namely, subsidiaries of the Big 6 European MNBs and all other foreign-controlled banks. Our results show that bank lending was impacted adversely by the crisis but that the two types of foreign banks behaved differently. The Big 6 banks remained committed to the region in that their lending behavior was not different from that of domestic banks corroborating the notion that these countries are a “second home market” for these banks. Contrariwise, the other foreign banks were primarily responsible for fueling the credit boom prior to the crisis but then “cut and ran” by decreasing their lending appreciably during the crisis. Our results also indicate different bank behavior in countries with flexible exchange rate regimes from those in the Eurozone. Hence, we conclude that both innovations matter in empirical work on bank behavior during a crisis in the region and may, by extension, be relevant to other small countries in which banking sectors are dominated by foreign financial institutions.
P34|Cointegration of Capital Markets in ASEAN-5 Countries|Economic integration has become a worldwide phenomenon. In 2015, the integration of the ASEAN community will officially be implemented. This integration is the third degree of the economic integration which is so-called common market.It will allow free mobilization of supplies, product, services and labour within the member countries. According to optimum currency area, the participant countries sharing a single currency need to posses synchronicity of the economic variables. This article explores the synchronicity of capital variables in ASEAN countries using data from securities price index of 5 ASEAN member countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand from January 4, 2010 to October 31, 2013. Moreover, the conintegration as well as the impulse response function were also calculated and analyzed. The findings reveal that the securities price index of the 5 ASEAN member countries are cointegrated. Furthermore, the analysis of the impulse response function also turns out to be synchronous. This study supports the possibility of setting up the ASEAN securities market to raise funding for business sectors in the ASEAN countries and to upgrade the stock market of the ASEAN countries to be internationally competitive.
P34|Privatization And Survival – Evidence From A Russian Firm Survey|This study is dedicated to an important aspect of the long-run performance of firms, namely their survival under rapidly changing conditions in a transition economy. The analysis is focused on the question of whether privatization and ownership structure have affected the likelihood of liquidation and bankruptcy of firms in Russia. We use a sample of 497 privatized and non-privatized firms that were surveyed in 1999-2000, and for which information was collected about their survival status and reasons for exit, such as bankruptcy, mergers and court decisions. More than 38% of the sample firms were liquidated over the period 1999 to 2013. We find that privatization and the choice of privatization option have no effect on the long-term survival of firms in Russia, but that managerial ownership lowers the likelihood of both liquidation and bankruptcy. Other transition-specific predictors of bankruptcy, such as the extent of price controls and the amount of wage arrears, affect firm exit in a significant way.
P34|Experiences of Transition and Integration in the Financial System: Implications for North Korea (in Korean)|This study reviews the experiences of transition and integration in the financial sector in the three East European countries, that is, Hungary, Czech Republic, and East Germany. In more detail, it analyzes the following experiences: the establishment of two-tier banking system, privatization of commercial banks and the management of non-performing loans, and the reform of exchange rate regime. The implications for North Korean transition and integration are drawn as follows. North Korea should replace a mono-banking system with a two-tier one by dividing the Chosun Central Bank into two parts: the function of a central bank and that of a commercial bank. Following this division, the part of commercial bank should be privatized using the method of sale to outsiders. The problem of non-performing loans needs to be addressed properly with a sufficient amount of financial resources. It is advised to establish an exchange rate regime that provides a long-term economic stability and competitiveness. For this purpose, a fixed exchange rate regime followed by a floating one should be considered as a default option.
P34|Matrioskas económicas. La convertibilidad argentina, sus ciclos y crisis. Dinámica interna, sistema bancario, déficit fiscal y endeudamiento|En el trabajo se analiza el ciclo de diez años del sistema de convertibilidad en Argentina (1991- 2001) y se aborda las dos crisis sufridas por el mismo (1995 y 2001), tratando de entender por qué una crisis pudo ser sorteada airosamente mientras que la otra no. Para esto, se hace un análisis de lo ocurrido con las principales variables económicas durante esos diez años y se discute tanto con las interpretaciones que responsabilizan a la situación del sistema bancario como las que culpan al déficit fiscal como causantes de la crisis 2001. Así, se arriba a la conclusión de que los problemas internos de la convertibilidad sólo pudieron compensarse con un sistemático endeudamiento, inconsistente en el largo plazo.
P34|Bank valuation in new EU member countries|This paper studies the role of institutional reforms in affecting bank valuation in new European Union (EU) member countries. It takes advantage of the dynamic nature of institutional reforms in transition economies and explores the causal effects of those reforms on banks’ Tobin's Q over the period of 1997–2008. Using a difference-in-difference approach, the paper shows that Tobin's Q increases substantially after these countries reform their legal institutions and liberalize banking. However, it decreases after stock market reforms. After further examination of the interactive relationships between different reforms and bank valuation, it is observed that when the banking reform is well implemented, legal reform can have a stronger impact on banks’ Tobin's Q. On the other hand, banking reform and security market reform has a substitutive relationship. The analysis also suggests that foreign ownership, market power, and asset diversification significantly affect Tobin's Q. These results are robust even after simultaneously controlling for equity risk.
P34|Effects of regulator's announcements, information asymmetry and ownership changes on private equity placements: Evidence from China|In response to the China Securities Regulatory Commission's regulation of private equity placements (PEP) in 2006, this study investigates the impact of the announcements of PEP applications, withdrawals, rejections, approvals, and completions on the returns of the firms that issue private equity (PE) and the factors that influence market reactions to these announcements. The results show that issuing firms experience stock price responses only to the announcements of PE applications, approvals, and completions. The announcement effect is positively related to the market discount, proceeds from private placements, and private institutional buying and ownership changes; and negatively related to government or government institutional buying and changes in the ownership of management buyers.
P34|Institutional development and bank stability: Evidence from transition countries|This paper takes advantage of the dynamic nature of institutional reforms in transition economies and explores the causal effects of those reforms on bank risk. Using a difference-in-difference approach, we show that banks’ financial stability increases substantially after these countries reform their legal institutions, liberalize banking, and restructure corporate governance. We also find that the effects of legal and governance reforms on bank risk may critically depend on the progress of banking reforms. A further examination of alternative risk measures reveals that the increases in financial stability among banks mainly come from the reduction of asset risk. Banks tend to have lower ROA volatility and fewer nonperforming loans after reforming the institutional environment. Finally, we split our sample into foreign and domestic banks and find that the enhancement of financial stability is more pronounced for domestic banks.
P34|Global financial crisis, corporate governance, and firm survival:|Using a unique dataset obtained from large-scale panel enterprise surveys conducted in 2005 and 2009, we clarify the survival status of Russian industrial firms before and after the global financial crisis and empirically examine the determinants of firm survival. The estimation of the Cox proportional hazard model provided evidence that the independence of company’s governance bodies, their human resource abundance, and influence over corporate management are statistically significant factors affecting the survival probability of the surveyed firms. In particular, the board of directors and the audit committee are likely to play a vital role in reducing the potential exit risk. We also found that there is a significant difference in the viewpoints of economic logic for firm survival held by independent firms and group companies.
P34|Do more competitive banks have less market power? The evidence from Central and Eastern Europe|Studies that have explored the competitive behaviour of banks frequently arrive at divergent conclusions because they use different measures of competition. This study first discusses these various measures of competition and their divergence from a theoretical perspective and then employs them to measure the competitiveness of Central and Eastern European banks and to investigate whether more competitive banks really have less market power. We find that these banks increase their market power when there is low banking concentration and do not necessarily become less competitive. Moreover, a more concentrated banking market does not enhance the market power of banks and does not make them less competitive, and more competitive banks do not necessarily have less market power. This latter outcome ensues because revenue and production reactions to cost evolution are either positively related – or completely unrelated – to the competitive behaviour of banks.
P34|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. One of the major aim of financial systems is to make stability over the financial companies. Well known financial companies are Banks. If Banks make more profitable works, it can provide better effect to sector as an efficiency. The profitability of banks are more important for financial systems. Because of a lot of factors may affect to the banks as a widely way. Some researchers may emphasize banks earnings how it can improve which internal and external forces. Main studies are focused on banks financial statements. Therefore it is important how can we analyse their financial statements for evaluating profitability. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bank’s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. Therefore banking sector profitability are substantial for Turkey which to understand the determinants of all types of banks. On the other hand, financial atmosphere give priority to above changes for evaluating their performances. Therefore many studies were analysed profitability with various methods like ratio analyses, predicting regression model, simulation methods and etc. Some learning from expert’s experiences are rely on use of panel comparison with others about same historical infrastructure. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan/Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P34|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. A profitable banking sector is better able effect to stability of the financial system. The profitability of a financial institution is affected by a lot of factors. These factors include elements internal to each financial institution and several important external forces shaping earnings performance. In this study we analyses effects from financial statements to their profitability of each types of banks. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bankâ€™s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. It is therefore important to understand the determinants of banking sector profitability in Turkey between all types of banks. This is essentially important in the light of the above notable changes that have occurred in the operating environment of banks in Turkey. An overview of previous studies indicates various ways that profitability was examined. Some studies were country specific and few of them considered panel of countries reviewing the determinants of profitability. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan / Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P34|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. One of the major aim of financial systems is to make stability over the financial companies. Well known financial companies are Banks. If Banks make more profitable works, it can provide better effect to sector as an efficiency. The profitability of banks are more important for financial systems. Because of a lot of factors may affect to the banks as a widely way. Some researchers may emphasize banks earnings how it can improve which internal and external forces. Main studies are focused on banks financial statements. Therefore it is important how can we analyse their financial statements for evaluating profitability. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bank’s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. Therefore banking sector profitability are substantial for Turkey which to understand the determinants of all types of banks. On the other hand, financial atmosphere give priority to above changes for evaluating their performances. Therefore many studies were analysed profitability with various methods like ratio analyses, predicting regression model, simulation methods and etc. Some learning from expert’s experiences are rely on use of panel comparison with others about same historical infrastructure. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan/Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P34|Determinants of Bank Profitability in Turkey: An Empirical Analysis on Types of Banking from 2002 to 2012|In this study, we investigate the determinants of banking profitability related to their financial statements. One of the major aim of financial systems is to make stability over the financial companies. Well known financial companies are Banks. If Banks make more profitable works, it can provide better effect to sector as an efficiency. The profitability of banks are more important for financial systems. Because of a lot of factors may affect to the banks as a widely way. Some researchers may emphasize banks earnings how it can improve which internal and external forces. Main studies are focused on banks financial statements. Therefore it is important how can we analyse their financial statements for evaluating profitability. With this current emphasis on financial statements are very important to both managing future and making new decision to guide. In Turkey, during from 2002 to 2012 period, bank’s profitability approaches has been changed to new phenomenon. Because of regulative decisions and competitive market has to change profitability of banking sectors. Therefore banking sector profitability are substantial for Turkey which to understand the determinants of all types of banks. On the other hand, financial atmosphere give priority to above changes for evaluating their performances. Therefore many studies were analysed profitability with various methods like ratio analyses, predicting regression model, simulation methods and etc. Some learning from expert’s experiences are rely on use of panel comparison with others about same historical infrastructure. In this study we examines types of banks as follows: 3 banks in state-owned banks, 12 banks in Private banks, 6 banks in foreign banks which has a branches in Turkey. In total 21 banks and 3 types analyses with cross-sectional panel data method during the from 2002 to 2012 period. In this study, we obtained data from Income Statements and Balance Sheets. As a result of panel data regression are statistically significant which Interest Income / Total Income and Consumer Loan/Total Loan are highly important to estimate ROE than estimating ROA.
P34|Bankers on boards as corporate governance mechanism: evidence from Poland|This paper examines whether a bank exercises a monitoring role when a banker is represented on a firm’s board. Bank monitoring reduces information asymmetries, and hence lessens firm’s financial constraints—phenomenon frequently measured by investment-cash flow sensitivity in the sample of all non-financial companies listed during 1999–2002 on the Polish stock exchange. I find that firms with a banker on the board rely more heavily on bank loans than on internal capital in their investment activities. In contrast, firms with no banker on the board finance to a larger extent their investment with internal capital than with credit. However, firms with the bank-lender representation on the board are almost as much financially constrained as firms without a bank-lender representative on the board. Hence, the presence of bankers on boards is not associated with bank monitoring. They rather promote their employer’s business. The findings show that investment of firms with a banker on the board is less sensitive to cash flow than investment of firms without bank representatives on the board. This result suggests that bankers on the board provide financial expertise that help those firm to reduce financial constraints. Copyright The Author(s) 2014
P34|A skew test on financial returns in the Colombian market|The characterization of financial returns depends heavily on probabilistic behavior, which can be ill-fitted, thus leading to inappropriate economic decisions concerning asset pricing, portfolio allocation and/or the measurement of market risk. In this paper, we propose a test to determine the adjustment of the returns of the General Index of the Colombian Stock Exchange (IGBC) to the following distributions: Normal, Skew Normal, and Skew T. In addition, we measure the level of bias and compare our test’s performance with an alternative test used only for detecting asymmetry. We find that the proposed test allows for characterizing returns in the Colombian stock market with one of the probability distributions, unlike the other test, which only provides a warning about the existence of bias and does not ascertain the distribution representing its behavior.
P34|Macrofinancial Developments and Systemic Change in CIS Central Asia from 2009 to 2014|CIS Central Asia’s structural heterogeneity may have deepened since the global crisis of 2008–09. Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan are relatively rich oil and gas exporters, the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan are poor energy importers, and Uzbekistan is a more diversified but still rather poor economy. The rich hydrocarbon exporters typically achieve “twin surpluses” (current account and budget), while the hydrocarbon importers are often saddled with “twin deficits,” but benefit from remittance inflows. In contrast to the poorer countries, the energy exporters tend to attract large amounts of FDI and have carried out generous infrastructure modernization programs. Per capita income growth of the rich and the poor countries has diverged in recent years. No recession had occurred in Central Asia in 2009 and mostly robust GDP growth has ensued since. Growth drivers have been: recovering energy and other resource prices and/or export volumes, generous private and public investment expenditures, and substantial remittances. Fixed exchange rates (to the U.S. dollar) tend to be opted for by the oil and gas countries, floating currencies are preferred by the others. While price stability policies vary and inflation rates have on average come down to below double digits, price levels remain strongly exposed to volatile international food and staples markets. Banking sectors are fragile across the region; they are either recovering from a legacy of collapsed credit booms or suffering from high nonperforming loans as a result of connected lending or they require periodic subsidies for performing quasi-fiscal activities.
P34|Macrofinancial Developments in Ukraine, Russia and Turkey from an Austrian Financial Stability Perspective|No abstract is available for this item.
P34|Austrian Subsidiaries’ Profitability in the Czech Republic and Slovakia – CESEE Margins with an Austrian Risk Profile|The Czech Republic and Slovakia belong to the small and increasingly concentrated group of countries in Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe (CESEE) whose banking markets have continued to generate substantial profits for Austrian banks also after the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008. This short study sheds light on why Austrian subsidiaries have been able to maintain their profitability in these two countries especially when compared to those in other CESEE countries. We find that the strong quality of their asset portfolios is the main contributing factor; also, the Czech and Slovak markets now offer net interest margins well above Austrian levels, while the credit risk level is close to that in Austria. By contrast, several other CESEE markets have recorded worsening credit quality and, consequently, dwindling returns. Despite some downside risks related to the low interest rate environment, the openness of the Czech and Slovak economies and a potential intensification in competition, it seems that, from a current perspective, Czech and Slovak subsidiaries can be considered the most stable earnings generators in Austrian banks’ international portfolio.
P34|Сравнение Институциональной Структуры Банковских Систем России И Китая<BR>[Comparing the institutional structure of Russian and Chinese banking systems]|We use statistical data for the period 2000-2013 to compare the macro-level architecture and institutional features of the banking systems in China and Russia. Both countries have a hierarchical multi-tier banking system headed by a few core state-controlled banks that combine commercial activities with the activity of a development institution. We highlight selected aspects of the Chinese experience such as: conservatism in approving new banking licences; parallel evolution of various types of banking institutions operating in different market niches; care about systemically important institutions; enhancement of competition without a free market access for foreign banks; relevance of commercial bank loans for the fixed assets investment performed by non-financial companies.
P34|Tax Rate and its Determinations: An Opinion from Ibn Khaldun|Tax is an alternative method for a country to obtain revenue for spending. But the issue arises when there are differences of opinion on the tax rate. Economists argue that to obtain higher tax revenue, it is necessary to lower the tax rate. In this paper, an analysis of tax rates is conducted by looking at the findings of Ibn Khaldun in his book Muqaddimah. This study also examines other hypotheses related to taxation. The findings show that the optimal rate of taxation can be determined.
P34|China and Russia: Institutional Coherence between the Banking Systems|We use statistical data from 2000 to 2013 to compare the macro-level structure and the core institutions of the banking systems in China and Russia. Our main hypothesis is that, differences in the absolute size and socio-cultural features notwithstanding, these two systems are typologically similar. We consider the institutional structure, the market structure and concentration, the industrial policy of the government, and the banksâ€™ involvement in the financing of the non-financial economy. We find both similarities and differences, however in dynamics the trend towards convergence prevails. In both countries, we see a hierarchical multi-tier banking system headed by a few core state-controlled banks. These combine commercial activities with the activity of a development institution. Regardless of the nominal form of bank ownership, the government exerts influence on the lending decisions and market behavior of banks. We argue that the case of banking in China and Russia provides empirical proof to the macrosociological theory of institutional matrices. We refer in particular to the needed proportion between the dominant and complementary institutions. Whereas China has been carefully seeking a sustainable balance, Russia in the 1990s grossly overshot with liberalization and now reverts to the underlying long-term trend. China has currently become Russia's donor for institutional innovations in the credit system design.
P34|Financial Structure, Income Inequality and Privatization of Risk in the EU|The global financial crisis of 2007/2008 was the painful peak of a decade of “financial euphoria” and inadequate financial re-regulation in the advanced economies. However, during that period of “financial euphoria”, the structure of the developed financial systems in the EU varied significantly, considering the importance of the banking market or that of the capital market in the system as a whole. Thus, an area for political economy research emerges, considering the institutions and the structural elements of an economy that could have contributed to this kind of differentiation. In this paper, the analysis is focused on the financial system’s funding from individuals and households as one of the three basic fields of the financial intermediation process. Particularly, we discuss and examine the relationshipbetween “privatization of risk” and income inequality -as characteristics of the households’ investment orientation- with the development of structurally varied financial systems in the EU. The descriptive and statistical results suggest that households’ investment orientation is related with the differentiation in the characteristics of the EU financial systems. However, this nexus can partially interpret -in terms of political economy- the varied financial systems in the EU, as the analysis must take into account the remaining fields of the financial intermediation process: the funding from international and interbank markets and the financial system’s funding to the economy.
P34|Bubbles and Trading Frenzies : Evidence from the Art Market|The art market is subject to frequent booms and busts in both prices and volume, which are difficult to reconcile with models where agents are rational and hold homogenous beliefs. This paper shows that (i) volume is mainly driven by speculative transactions; (ii) positive price-volume correlation is pervasive across art movements, and is larger for the most volatile segments of the art market; (iii) volume predicts negative long-term returns, a relation that is statistically and economically large. Overall, our evidence supports the bubble model of Scheinkman and Xiong (2003), which predicts that speculative trading can generate significant price bubbles, even if trading costs are huge and leverage is impossible.
P34|Bubbles and Trading Frenzies : Evidence from the Art Market|The art market is subject to frequent booms and busts in both prices and volume, which are difficult to reconcile with models where agents are rational and hold homogenous beliefs. This paper shows that (i) volume is mainly driven by speculative transactions; (ii) positive price-volume correlation is pervasive across art movements, and is larger for the most volatile segments of the art market; (iii) volume predicts negative long-term returns, a relation that is statistically and economically large. Overall, our evidence supports the bubble model of Scheinkman and Xiong (2003), which predicts that speculative trading can generate significant price bubbles, even if trading costs are huge and leverage is impossible.
P34|Credit Booms and Busts in Emerging Markets: The Role of Bank Governance and Risk Managment|This paper investigates to what extent risk management and corporate governance mitigate the involvement of banks in credit boom and bust cycles. Using a unique, handcollected dataset on 156 banks from Central and Eastern Europe during 2005-2012, we assess whether banks with stronger risk management and corporate governance display more moderate credit growth in the pre-crisis credit boom as well as a smaller credit contraction and fewer credit losses in the crisis period. With respect to bank governance we document that a higher share of financial experts on the supervisory board is associated with more rapid credit growth in the pre-crisis period and a larger contraction of credit in the crisis period, but not with larger credit losses. With respect to risk management we document that a strong risk committee is associated with more moderate pre-crisis credit growth but not with fewer credit losses in the crisis. We find no evidence of an organizational learning process among crisishit banks: those banks with the largest credit losses during the crisis are least likely to improve their risk management in the aftermath of the crisis
P34|The Balkan and Baltic experience of financial services privatization|The financial services sectors of Romania and Estonia moved towards privatization in sharply contrasting manners. For a long time Romania's enthusiasm for its 1998 promise to the IMF to privatize its leading banks was only a commitment on paper; few steps were made towards its fulfillment. By contrast, Estonia's experience of privatization was generally a positive one, based on norms and structures often comparable to those in advanced industrial economies.
P34|Testing the Efficient Markets Hypothesis on the Romanian Capital Market|Informational efficiency of capital markets has been the subject of numerous empirical studies. Intensive research of the field is justified by the important implications of the knowledge of the of informational efficiency level in the financial practice. Empirical studies that have tested the efficient markets hypothesis on the Romanian capital market revealed mostly that this market is not characterised by the weak form of the efficient markets hypothesis. However, recent empirical studies have obtained results for the weak form of the efficient markets hypothesis. The present decline period of the Romanian capital market, recorded on the background of adverse economic developments internally and externally, will be an important test for the continuation of recent positive developments, manifested the level of informational efficiency too.
P34|Venture capital and private equity industry in Hungary|Hungary represents the second most developed venture capital and private equity (VC&PE) market in Central and Eastern Europe. This article is based on a detailed survey of the entire VC industry between 1989–2010. It demonstrates that while there was a relatively strong correlation between the allocation of capital to VC&PE funds and the capital flow into the Budapest Stock Exchange, the changes in investment activities were closely related to election years. Investments had been hampered primarily not by the shortage of capital, but by a lack of demand and attractive business plans. The article illustrates the different roles and approaches of global, regional and country VC&PE funds in Hungary. It points out that VC investments hardly satisfied their principal function or mission, namely to support innovative start-up and small businesses. Government interventions in the VC market proved to be ineffective as well. Similarly to the whole region, the Hungarian market profited from a transitory situation in the case of high-value PE transactions between 2007 and 2008, at the beginning of the crisis, when the investment problems in Western Europe had yet not extended to the CEE region. From 2009 onward, however, the crisis has resulted in a drop in investments despite the significant amount of uninvested capital accumulated in recent years. As to the prospects for 2013, the early-stage VC segment in Hungary is expected to flourish owing to the Jeremie funds, while the high-value buyout segment of the market will suffer from both the euro zone debt crisis and the loss of transparency in economic policy.
P34|Portofolio Managament Approach in Trade Credit Decision Making|The basic financial purpose of an enterprise is maximization of its value. Trade credit management should also contribute to realization of this fundamental aim. Many of the current asset management models that are found in financial management literature assume book profit maximization as the basic financial purpose. These book profit-based models could be lacking in what relates to another aim (i.e., maximization of enterprise value). The enterprise value maximization strategy is executed with a focus on risk and uncertainty. This article presents the consequences that can result from operating risk that is related to purchasers using payment postponement for goods and/or services. The present article offers a method that uses portfolio management theory to determine the level of accounts receivable in a firm. An increase in the level of accounts receivables in a firm increases both net working capital and the costs of holding and managing accounts receivables. Both of these decrease the value of the firm, but a liberal policy in accounts receivable coupled with the portfolio management approach could increase the value. Efforts to assign ways to manage these risks were also undertaken; among them, special attention was paid to adapting assumptions from portfolio theory as well as gauging the potential effect on the firm value.
P34|Value-Based Inventory Management|The basic financial purpose of a firm is to maximize its value. An inventory management system should also contribute to realization of this basic aim. Many current asset management models currently found in financial management literature were constructed with the assumption of book profit maximization as basic aim. However these models could lack what relates to another aim, i.e., maximization of enterprise value. This article presents a modified value-based inventory management model.
P34|Value-Based Inventory Management|The basic financial purpose of a firm is to maximize its value. An inventory management system should also contribute to realization of this basic aim. Many current asset management models currently found in financial management literature were constructed with the assumption of book profit maximization as basic aim. However these models could lack what relates to another aim, i.e., maximization of enterprise value. This article presents a modified value-based inventory management model.
P34|The Outcome of Directed Lending in Belarus: Mitigating Recession or Dampening Long-Run Growth?|This study analyzes the effects of directed lending upon total factor productivity and GDP growth in Belarus over the period of 2000–2012. In theory, directed lending can enhance physical capital accumulation and make the access to credit easier, but empirical studies often show that it leads to unproductive hoarding of capital and financing of lower-yielding projects. This study seeks to explore which of these effects has dominated in the Belarusian economy during a last decade. We find that expansion of directed lending has negatively affected TFP dynamics and thus negatively contributed to the rates of economic growth. . However, the detected negative impact of directed lending on total factor productivity was enfeebled by the expansion of market loans. In the future, this link between directed and market loans could cease to exit due to liquidity constrained commercial banks face. If continued, directed lending may cause a more severe negative impact on TFP, and consequently undermine long-run economic growth.
P34|Does competition influence bank failures?|There has been a notable debate in the banking literature on the impact of bank competition on financial stability. While the dominant view sees a detrimental impact of competition on the stability of banks, this view has recently been challenged by Boyd and De Nicolo (2005) who see the reverse effect. The aim of this paper is to contribute to this literature by providing the first empirical investigation of the role of bank competition on the occurrence of bank failures. We analyze this issue based on a large sample of Russian banks over the period 2001-2007 and in line with the previous literature we employ the Lerner index as the metric of bank competition. Our findings clearly support the view that tighter bank competition enhances the occurrence of bank failures. The normative implication of our findings is therefore that measures that increase bank competition could undermine financial stability.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P34|Soviet foreign trade and the money supply|This study uses newly available data in a quantitative examination of the relationship between Soviet special foreign trade earnings (SFEs) and changes in the money supply. During the Soviet era, SFEs were effectively taxes on imports and exports. They generated as much as 7-15% of state budget revenues in the 1970s and 1980s. The results show that changes in net foreign assets and the money supply accounted for around 10% of SFEs. The remaining 90% of SFEs involve redistribution of existing domestic funds within a constellation of government agencies and state-owned enterprises. The lack of data precluded further exploration of this redistribution. JEL Classification: E66, N14, P33, P34 Keywords: Soviet, foreign trade, money, state budget, flow of funds
P34|Prueba de sesgo sobre rendimientos financieros en el mercado colombiano|RESUMEN: La caracterización de los rendimientos financieros depende, en gran medida, de su comportamiento probabilístico, el cual puede ser mal ajustado, conduciendo así a malas decisiones económicas relacionadas con valoración de activos, asignación de cartera y/o medición del riesgo de mercado. En este trabajo se propone una prueba que permita determinar el ajuste de los rendimientos del Índice General de la Bolsa de Valores de Colombia (IGBC) a las siguientes distribuciones: Normal, Normal Sesgada y T Sesgada. Además, se mide el nivel de sesgo y se compara el desempeño de la prueba propuesta con otra prueba existente, usada únicamente para la detección de asimetría. Se encuentra que la prueba propuesta permite caracterizar los rendimientos del mercado de valores colombiano con una de las distribuciones de probabilidad, a diferencia de la otra prueba, que sólo advierte sobre la existencia de sesgo y no establece la distribución que representa su comportamiento.
P34|Which Households Use Banks? Evidence from the Transition Economies|This paper uses survey data for 29,000 households from 29 transition economies to explore how the use of banking services is related to household characteristics, bank ownership structure and the development of the financial infrastructure. At the household level we find that the holding of a bank account or bank card increases with income, wealth and education in most countries and also find evidence for an urban-rural gap, as well as for a role of religion and social integration. Our results show that foreign bank ownership is associated with more bank accounts among high-wealth, high-income, and educated households. State ownership, on the other hand, does not induce financial inclusion of rural and poorer households. We find that higher deposit insurance coverage, better payment systems and creditor protection encourage the holding of bank accounts in particular by highincome and high-wealth households. All in all, our findings shed doubt on the ability of policy levers to broaden the financial system to disadvantaged groups.
P34|The effects of foreign and government ownership on bank lending behavior during a crisis in Central and Eastern Europe|We examine whether foreign-owned and government-owned banks in Central and Eastern Europe reacted differently during a domestic systematic banking crisis and the global financial crisis of 2008. Our panel dataset comprises data on more than 400 banks for the period 1994- 2010. Our analysis shows that foreign banks provided credit during domestic banking crises in host countries, while government-owned banks contracted. In contrast, foreign-owned banks reduced their credit base during the global financial crisis, while government-owned banks expanded. Consequently, our results show that foreign-owned banks may contribute to financial stability during domestic crisis episodes, but also increase the risk of importing instability from abroad during a crisis in their home markets. However, government-owned banks may substitute for foreign-owned banks and hinder the transmission of international shocks. Thus, our results indicate that a mixed banking sector consisting of foreign-owned and government-owned banks is most advisable.
P34|Choice of corporate debt in China: The role of state ownership|We analyze the factors affecting the decisions of Chinese firms to take on debt in the form of either bonds or syndicated loans over the period of 2006–2010. The study reveals the extent to which corporate debt choices are politically or economically driven. We test if central government ownership, flotation costs, asymmetries of information, and renegotiation and liquidation costs influence the choice of debt. We find evidence in favor of the influence of central government ownership on the financing choices of firms because Central State owned firms are more likely to issue bonds and to borrow uniquely on the bond market, rather than tapping both debt markets. Overall, our findings show that financial factors play a much more minor role in corporate debt choices compared to other countries, whereas central government ownership is a key determinant of preference for the bond market.
P34|The influence of bank ownership on credit supply: Evidence from the recent financial crisis|This study examines how bank ownership influenced the credit supply during the recent financial crisis in Russia, where the banking sector consists of a mix of state-controlled banks, foreign-owned banks, and domestic private banks. To estimate credit supply changes, we apply an original approach based on stochastic frontier analysis. We use quarterly data for Russian banks covering the period from the beginning of 2007 to the end of 2009. Our findings suggest that bank ownership affected credit supply during the financial crisis and that the crisis led to an overall decrease in the credit supply. Relative to domestic private banks foreign-owned banks reduced their credit supply more and state-controlled banks less. This supports the hypothesis that foreign banks have a “lack of loyalty” to domestic actors during a crisis, as well as the view that an objective function of state-controlled banks leads them to support the economy during economic downturns.
P34|Corporate evolution following initial public offerings in China: A life-course approach|We study the determinants of firms’ post-IPO trajectory in terms of three outcomes: delisting; acquisition with change of corporate control; and acquisition without such change. Our risk assessment models examine some historical and some current information. Variables cover the perspectives of the issue itself, the issuer, investors, the industry and corporate control, the last being of particular interest in a mixed economy such as China. We find that delisting is predominantly influenced by issue-specific information, by the issuer's financial status leading up to the eventual outcome, and by corporate ownership and governance structure. Acquisition with and without change of control differs most significantly according to industry features, ultimate state ownership, divergence of cash flow rights and control rights, and the extent of board independence. Centrally we find that the trajectory is shaped by corporate control considerations. We conclude that the after-market outcomes are mixed consequences of market selection and government control.
P34|Do broker/analyst conflicts matter? Detecting evidence from internet trading platforms|We analyze the potential conflict of interest between analysts and brokers associated with each other. In contrast to the existing literature, we do not analyze prediction accuracy and/or biases in analyst recommendations. Instead, we focus our analysis on brokers and examine whether their behavior systematically differs before and after investment recommendations are released. The evolution and dynamics of brokers' quotes and trades are used to test for systematic trading patterns around the release of one's own investment recommendation. In the model we control for brokers' responses to other investment advices and employ a SUR estimation framework. Data from the Prague Stock Exchange are used to demonstrate our methodology. Finding significant and systematic differences in brokers' behavior, we conclude that misuse of investment recommendations is widespread.
P34|Why do people save in cash? Distrust, memories of banking crises, weak institutions and dollarization|The paper analyzes why households hold sizeable shares of their assets in cash at home rather than at banks – a phenomenon that is widespread in many economies but for which information is scarce. Using survey data from ten Central, Eastern and Southeastern European countries, I document the relevance of this behavior and show that cash preferences cannot be fully explained by whether people are banked or unbanked. The analysis reveals that a lack of trust in banks, memories of past banking crises and weak tax enforcement are important factors. Moreover, cash preferences are stronger in dollarized economies where a “safe” foreign currency serves as a store of value.
P34|Does CEO turnover matter in China? Evidence from the stock market|We study the consequences of CEO turnover announcements on the stock prices of firms in China, where most listed firms remain majority-owned by the state. Our proposition is that state ownership may affect stock market reaction to CEO replacement because state-owned firms often pursue multiple, potentially contradictory, objectives, i.e. economic performance and social objectives. Applying standard event study methodology to a sample of 1155 announcements from 2002 to 2010, we find that CEO turnover typically produces a positive stock market reaction. The reaction is significantly positive, however, only for enterprises owned by the central government, and not significant for enterprises owned by local governments or privately owned enterprises. These results suggest that a CEO turnover in a central state-owned enterprise signals a renewed commitment to the economic performance objective by state officials. The small size of CEO labor market suggests that other shareholders have a relatively small pool of CEO talent to proceed to managerial improvement when a CEO turnover takes place.
P34|Implications of banking marketization for the lending channel of monetary policy transmission: Evidence from China|This paper examines how banking marketization affects the transmission of monetary policy through the bank lending channel, and tests whether the relationship between banking marketization and the transmission of monetary policy changes across heterogeneous banks. Our results suggest that as the degree of banking marketization increases, China’s monetary policy transmission through the bank lending channel weakens, and this works particularly for large, high profitability, and high capitalization banks. To improve the effectiveness of the monetary policy, authorities need to consider reducing dependency on the lending channel of monetary policy transmission and diversifying the monetary policy instruments.
P34|The Outcome of Directed Lending in Belarus: Mitigating Recession or Dampening Long-Run Growth?|This study analyzes the effects of directed lending upon total factor productivity and GDP growth in Belarus over the period of 2000-2012. In theory, directed lending can enhance physical capital accumulation and make the access to credit easier, but empirical studies often show that it leads to unproductive hoarding of capital and financing of lower-yielding projects. This study seeks to explore which of these effects has dominated in the Belarusian economy during a last decade. We find that expansion of directed lending has negatively affected TFP dynamics and thus negatively contributed to the rates of economic growth. However, the detected negative impact of directed lending on total factor productivity was enfeebled by the expansion of market loans. In the future, this link between directed and market loans could cease to exit due to liquidity constraint commercial banks face. If continued, directed lending may cause a more severe negative impact on TFP, and consequently undermine long-run economic growth.
P34|Impact of Political Regime Shift on Stock Returns of Oligarch Firms|We study the evolution of the stock prices of 17 politically connected firms around the time of the Orange revolution and two other crucial political events (2010 Presidential elections and the arrest of Yuliya Tymoshenko) in Ukraine. Using an event-study approach we find that political connections do matter in Ukraine. Companies that are strongly linked with the two major Ukrainian parties (Orange coalition and Party of Regions) are sensitive to shifts of the political regime.
P34|Financial Management in SMEs|The principal goal of this paper is to review recent studies on small and medium sized companies in order to concentrate on the main critical issues of SMEs financial management. There are three core elements of financial management: (1) the question of liquidity management and cash flow management. Cash is companyâ€™s most precious nonhuman asset. (2) The question of long term asset acquisition â€“ which directs the long term course of business. (3) Questions of funding, capital structure and cost of funding. The most imminent question is the liquidity management. A business will never see the long term if it cannot plan an appropriate policy to effectively manage its working capital. Generally, the poor financial management of owner-managers is the main cause underlying the problems of SMEs.
P34|Bank stress tests as an information device for emerging markets : The case of Russia|The recent financial crisis emphasised the need for effective financial stability analyses and tools for detecting systemic risk. This paper looks at assessment of banking sector resilience through stress testing. We argue such analyses are valuable even in emerging economies that suffer from limited data availability, short time series and structural breaks. We propose a top-down stress test methodology that employs relatively limited information to overcome this data problem. Moreover, as credit growth in emerging economies tends to be rather volatile, we rely on dynamic approach projecting key balance sheet items. Application of our proposed stress test framework to the Russian banking sector reveals a high sensitivity of the capital adequacy ratio to the economic cycle that shows up in both of the two-year macroeconomic scenarios considered: a baseline and an adverse one. Both scenarios indicate the need for capital increase in the Russian banking sector. Furthermore, given that Russia's banking sector is small and fragmented relative to advanced economies, the loss of external financing can cause profound economic stress, especially for medium-sized and small enterprises. The Russian state has a low public debt-to-GDP ratio and plays decisive role in the banking sector. These factors allow sufficient fiscal space for recapitalisation of problematic banks under both of our proposed baseline and adverse scenarios. Keywords: stress testing, bank, Russia JEL Classification: G28, P34, G21
P34|Executive Board: The Russian Experience|In this paper, using a unique dataset of joint-stock companies, we empirically examine the determinants of the choice and size of the collective executive board, a core element of the multi-tier board system of Russian firms. Our empirical evidence strongly suggests that the need of company executives for a collective management system is a key driver for the formation of a collective executive board, while outside investors are generally indifferent toward its adoption as a means to strengthening the monitoring and control functions over top management. We also found that Russian firms in the pursuit of the internationalization of their business activities tend to avoid the establishment of a collective executive board, which is a diverse corporate organ from the viewpoint of the international standard of corporate governance systems.
P34|Firm-Level Determinants of Board System Choice: Evidence from Russia|In this paper, using a unique data set of joint-stock companies, we empirically examine the determinants of the choice and size of the collective executive board, a core element of the multi-tier board system of Russian firms. Our empirical evidence strongly suggests that the need of company executives for a collective management system is a key driver for the formation of a collective executive board, while outside investors are generally indifferent toward its adoption as a means to strengthening the monitoring and control functions over top management. We also found that Russian firms in the pursuit of the internationalization of their business activities tend to avoid the establishment of a collective executive board, which is an unorthodox corporate organ from the viewpoint of the international standard of corporate governance systems.
P34|Global Financial Crisis, Corporate Governance, and Firm Survival: The Case of Russia|Using a unique dataset obtained from large-scale panel enterprise surveys conducted in 2005 and 2009, we clarify the survival status of Russian industrial firms before and after the global financial crisis and empirically examine the determinants of firm survival. The estimation of the Cox proportional hazard model provided evidence that the independence of company’s governance bodies, their human resource abundance, and assertiveness in corporate management are statistically significant factors affecting the survival probability of the surveyed firms. In particular, the board of directors and the board of auditors are likely to play a vital role in reducing the potential exit risk. We also found that there is a significant difference in the viewpoints of economic logic for firm survival held by independent firms and group companies
P34|Global Financial Crisis, Corporate Governance, and Firm Survival: The Russian Experience|Using a unique dataset obtained from large-scale panel enterprise surveys conducted in 2005 and 2009, we clarify the survival status of Russian industrial firms before and after the global financial crisis and empirically examine the determinants of firm survival. The estimation of the Cox proportional hazard model provided evidence that the independence of company’s governance bodies, their human resource abundance, and influence over corporate management are statistically significant factors affecting the survival probability of the surveyed firms. In particular, the board of directors and the audit committee are likely to play a vital role in reducing the potential exit risk. We also found that there is a significant difference in the viewpoints of economic logic for firm survival held by independent firms and group companies.
P34|Do Investors See Through Accounting Profitability and Recognize Efficiency? Evidence from Chinese Listed Companies|This paper studies the accounting performance measure, profit efficiency and investor valuation of 1,262 Chinese firms listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges from 2001 to 2010. Profit efficiency is defined as the ratio of actual profit realized to the optimal profit described by stochastic frontier approach. An estimation of robust ordinary least square model for accounting performance measures (ROA) controlling for industry effect results in negative skewness of the residuals, indicating the existence of profit inefficiency. A year-by-year cross-section stochastic frontier analysis documents a declining pattern of accounting performance and a contrastive increasing tendency of profit efficiency. Linking the market valuation ratios to profit efficiency illustrates a significant empirical relationship that Chinese investors reward firms of higher efficiency with higher market valuation. The over-time improvement of efficiency is also associated with increased market valuation.
P34|Un modèle social-démocrate pour la Chine ? Remarques critiques sur la voie chinoise : capitalisme et empire de Michel Aglietta et Guo Bai|This article was written for a collective book published by Delga Publ., gathering together contributions on contemporary China, in particular those presented during a conference organized at the French National Assembly in March 2013. It proposes critical comments on La Voie chinoise written by Michel Aglietta and Guo Bai. After having presented the interpretation of the Chinese “sui generis capitalism” given by the authors, then our own interpretation, we discuss some of the themes examined in this book, among others: the analysis of the imbalances of the Chinese economy, the issues of the allocation of factors and their prices, those of the management of natural resources and of access to land, the rules to be applied to the bond and stock markets, the internationalization of the currency and monetary sovereignty, the specificities of the state-owned enterprises, the conception of the public services, strategic planning, the question of power and “Chinese-type socialism”
P34|Credit Boom in Russia despite Global Woes – Driving Forces and Risks|No abstract is available for this item.
P34|The Effects of Foreign and Government Ownership on Bank Lending Behavior during a Crisis in Central and Eastern Europe|We examine whether foreign-owned and government-owned banks in Central and Eastern Europe reacted differently during a domestic systematic banking crisis and the global financial crisis of 2008. Our panel dataset comprises data on more than 400 banks for the period 1994- 2010. Our analysis shows that foreign banks provided credit during domestic banking crises in host countries, while government-owned banks contracted. In contrast, foreign-owned banks reduced their credit base during the global financial crisis, while government-owned banks expanded. Consequently, our results show that foreign-owned banks may contribute to financial stability during domestic crisis episodes, but also increase the risk of importing instability from abroad during a crisis in their home markets. However, government-owned banks may substitute for foreign-owned banks and hinder the transmission of international shocks. Thus, our results indicate that a mixed banking sector consisting of foreign-owned and government-owned banks is most advisable.
P34|Factors Influencing Portfolio Yield of Microfinance Institutions in Central Asia|We analyze the determinants of portfolio yield of microfinance institutions in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Mongolia, Afghanistan, and China over the period 1998-2011. We confirm that targeting women borrowers improves the financial results of microfinance institutions whereas the effectiveness of group lending or advantages of rural lending, in contrast to the initial expectations, were not confirmed. We also consider the contributions of different governance forms of microfinance institutions and the macroeconomic factors potentially influencing the financial performance of microfinance institutions. As a part of this paper we also provide a self contained introduction to microfinance theory for a reader not familiar with microfinance
P34|Econometric Analysis of Profitability of Microfinance Institutions in Selected Asian Countries|This paper evaluates the effectiveness of some of the microfinance lending methodologies using the approach comparing these institutions among themselves in terms of how different lending methodologies influence their performance indicators. The results of this study with respect to different tested hypotheses are somewhat mixed but the general outcome is that rural lending and targeting women borrowers seem to have accomplished the goal whereas the effectiveness of group lending, in contrast to the initial expectation, was not confirmed.
P34|Bank Depositor behavior in Russia in the Aftermath of Financial Crisis|An international team of economists examines the factors influencing the behavior of Russian depositors in the immediate aftermath of that country's 1998 financial crisis, drawing upon two largely unutilized data sources—data from the Russian state savings bank Sberbank and a November 1998 household survey. After first reviewing the evolution of the household deposit market during the 1990s, they explore regional variations in net withdrawals from Sberbank branches during the period August-October 1998 as well as identify characteristics of individual/household depositors making (or attempting to make) such withdrawals. More severe runs on Sberbank outlets are found to be associated with more affluent and entrepreneurial regions, regions of more youthful and less educated population closer to Moscow, and areas with greater media freedom. Subsequent public opinion survey analysis of the socioeconomic correlates of runs on all Russian banks during the 1998 crisis reveals some interesting differences (in the effects of education in particular) on the propensity to successfully withdraw deposits.
P34|Monitoring the Systematic and Unsystematic Risk in Dubai General Index|Since stocksâ€™ systematic and unsystematic risks are considered the basic requirements to form an investment risk profile, this article develops a discriminant model to monitor the systematic and unsystematic risk in the Dubai Financial Market (DFM) general index. Three sectors are addressed: banks, insurance firms and non-financial firms. In addition, a discriminant model is developed for the whole index. The results show that (a) the financial factors that affect systematic risk are profitability, liquidity, dividend policy and operating income, (b) the financial factors that affect unsystematic risk are operating income, dividend policy and liabilities. In general, the four discriminant models are characterised by high discriminatory power that ranges between 80 per cent and 90 per cent. This shows that the four discriminant models with their funda-mental financial contents can be fairly used for monitoring systematic and unsystematic risk in the DFM general index. Therefore, the answer is â€˜yesâ€™ to the question posed in the title of the article.
P34|Empirical Evidence on Relationships between Ex Ante Innovation Pursuit and Post-M&A Performance in the Vietnamese M&A Industry, 2005-2012|This research aims to communicate new results of empirical investigations to learn about the relationship between determination of controlling an acquired firm’s capital, assets and brand versus its capability of innovation and ex post performance of the rising Vietnamese M&A industry in the 2005-2012 period. The analysis employs a categorical data sample, consisting of 212 M&A cases reported by various information sources, and performs a number of logistic regressions with significant results as follows. Firstly, the overall relationship between pre-M&A pursuit’s determination on acquiring resources and performance of the post-M&A performance is found significant. There exist profound effects of a ‘size matters’ strategy in M&A ex post performance. When there is an overwhelming ‘resources acquiring’ strategy, the innovation factor’s explanatory power becomes negligible. Secondly, for negative performance of post-M&A operations, the emphasis on both capital base and asset size, and the brand value at the time of the M&A pursuit is the major explanation in the post-M&A period. So does the absence of innovation as a goal in the pre-M&A period. These two insights together are useful in careful M&A planning. Lastly, expensive pre-M&A expenditures tend to adversely affect the post-M&A performance. As a general conclusion, this study shows that innovation can be an important factor to pursue in M&A transitions, together with the need to emphasize and find capable and willing human capital, rather than a capital base (equity or debt) and existing values of the acquired brands.
P34|Are we there yet? On the convergence of financial reforms|Since the 1970s, there have been substantial financial reforms across the world, however little research has been devoted to studying the convergence path of these reforms. While Abiad and Mody (Am Econ Rev 95:66–88, 2005 ) find that there is movement towards a global ‘norm’ of financial reform, their findings are based upon a cross-sectional approach that has been widely criticized in the literature. In this paper we offer new time-series evidence on the convergence of financial reforms both across and within regions, which can also act as a metric to measure the degree of globalization among countries’ financial systems. We find that some regions of the world have fully converged, but the advanced economies and Sub-Saharan Africa are not converging. In addition, while most countries have fully converged within their own region, notable exceptions are also identified. These results suggest that while financial reforms have largely become homogenized, important distinctions still remain. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
P34|Frank Crean: A long wait for a turbulent tenture|The twenty-fourth addition in a series of biographies of Australia’s Federal Treasurers.
P34|Microfinance Banks and Household Access to Finance|We examine how the expansion of the branch network of a microfinance bank between 2006 and 2010 in South-East Europe has affected the use of bank accounts by households in the region. Our analysis is based on survey data reporting the use of bank accounts, socioeconomic characteristics and geographic location of 8,000 households in four countries. We geocode the location of each household and match this data with branch location information for the major microfinance bank in the region, ProCredit Bank, as well as for a large retail bank in each country. We report three key results: First, in locations where ProCredit opened a new branch between 2006 and 2010 the share of households with a bank account increased more than in locations where it did not open a new branch. Second, a new ProCredit branch leads to a stronger increase in the use of bank accounts among low- and middle-income households than among high-income households. Third, we find that ProCredit not only opens branches in areas with high economic activity, but also in areas where average household incomes are low. Overall our results suggest that microfinance banks do expand the frontier of finance as compared to ordinary retail banks.
P34|Banking in transition countries|Modern banking institutions were virtually non-existent in the planned economies of cen-tral Europe and the former Soviet Union. In the early transition period, banking sectors began to develop during several years of macroeconomic decline and turbulence accompa-nied by repeated bank crises. However, governments in many transition countries learned from these tumultuous experiences and eventually dealt successfully with the accumulated bad loans and lack of strong bank regulation. In addition, rapid progress in bank privatiza-tion and consolidation took place in the late 1990s and early 2000s, usually with the partic-ipation of foreign banks. By 2005, the banking sectors in many transition countries had developed sufficiently to provide a wide range of services with solid bank performance. Recently, banks have switched their focus from lending to enterprises in a somewhat un-derdeveloped institutional environment to new collateralized lending to households, which accounts for much of the recent growth of credit in many transition countries. Keywords: transition banking, bank privatization, foreign banks, bank regulation, credit growth. JEL codes: G21, P30, P34, P52
P34|The effect of Bank Concentration on Entrepreneurship in Central and Eastern European Transition Countries_x0003_|Using data from 2000 to 2007, we investigate the effect of bank concentration on the entrepreneurial initiative in the Central and Eastern European transition countries for eight industrial sectors. We set up a simple structural model by which we test the relationship between banking market structure and firm creation. First, we estimate the model on the whole sample, to test the general effect; then, we restrict the analysis to the high-technology-intensive sectors to verify the specific impact of banking market structure on industries which are, usually, more in need of external finance. Our results provide evidence of a non monotonic relationship: bank concentration promotes entrepreneurship; however, an excessive level of concentration becomes harmful. Moreover, the positive effect of concentration decreases for high-technology-intensive sectors. Entrepreneurship is also favoured by well-developed financial markets, perceived quality of the institutional environment, policies to prevent corruption and effective property rights protection.
P34|Impact of climate variation on agricultural productivity and food security in rural India|This research paper analyzes the impact of climate change on agricultural productivity in quantity terms, value of production in monetary terms and food security in India. The study undertook state wise analysis based on secondary data for the duration of 1980 to 2009. Climate variation affects food grain and non-food grain productivity and both these factors along with other socioeconomic and government policy variables affect food security. Food security and poverty are interlinked with each other as cause and effect and vice versa, particularly, for a largely agrarian economy of India. Regression results for models proposed in this study show that for most of the food grain crops, non-food grain crops in quantity produced per unit of land and in terms of value of production climate variation cause negative impact. The adverse impact of climate change on the value of agricultural production and food grains indicates food security threat to small and marginal farming households. The state wise food security index was also generated in this study; and econometric model estimation reveals that the food security index itself also gets adversely affected due to climatic fluctuations.
P34|The ethics of financial speculation in futures markets|"This article sketches an ethics of (financial) speculation in futures markets. (1) It identifies an intentionalistic fallacy prevalent in moral criticisms of speculation in general and of financial speculation in particular. (2) It scrutinizes the degree to which the recent debate on financial speculation with agricultural commodities follows the general pattern of moral criticism and its intentionalistic fallacy. (3) It then provides a theoretical and empirical in-depth analysis of long-only index funds engagement in futures markets and concludes that moral criticisms which put them in the pillory as ""hungermakers"" are unjust(ified). This proves that ethics, understood as a theory of morality, can criticize moral criticisms of financial speculation on moral grounds. (4) Finally, this article discusses the option of interdisciplinary cooperation between ethics and economics."
P34|Foreign Banks and the Vienna Initiative; Turning Sinners Into Saints?|We use data on 1,294 banks in Central and Eastern Europe to analyze how bank ownership and creditor coordination in the form of the Vienna Initiative affected credit growth during the 2008–09 crisis. As part of the Vienna Initiative western European banks signed country-specific commitment letters in which they pledged to maintain exposures and to support their subsidiaries in Central and Eastern Europe. We show that both domestic and foreign banks sharply curtailed credit during the crisis, but that foreign banks that participated in the Vienna Initiative were relatively stable lenders. We find no evidence of negative spillovers from countries where banks signed commitment letters to countries where they did not.
P34|The e§ect of Bank Concentration on Entrepreneurship in Central and Eastern European Transition Countries|Using data from 2000 to 2007, we investigate the e§ect of bank concentration on the entrepreneurial initiative in the Central and Eastern European transition countries for eight industrial sectors. We set up a simple structural model by which we test the relationship between banking market structure and Örm cre- ation. First, we estimate the model on the whole sample, to test the general e§ect; then, we restrict the analysis to the high-technology-intensive sectors to verify the speciÖc impact of banking market structure on industries which are, usually, more in need of external Önance. Our results provide evidence of a non monotonic relationship: bank concentration promotes entrepreneurship; however, an excessive level of concentration becomes harmful. Moreover, the positive effect of concentration decreases for high-technology-intensive sectors. Entrepreneur- ship is also favoured by well-developed Önancial markets, perceived quality of the institutional environment, policies to prevent corruption and e§ective property rights protection.
P34|Bank Stress Tests as an Information Device for Emerging Markets: The Case of Russia|The recent financial crisis emphasized the need for effective financial stability analyses and tools for detecting systemic risk. This paper looks at the assessment of banking sector resilience through stress testing. We argue such analyses are valuable even in emerging economies, which suffer from limited data availability, short time series, and structural breaks. We propose a top-down stress test methodology that employs relatively limited information to overcome this data problem. Moreover, as credit growth in emerging economies tends to be rather volatile, we rely on a dynamic approach projecting key balance sheet items. The application of our proposed stress test framework to the Russian banking sector reveals high sensitivity of the capital adequacy ratio to the economic cycle. This shows up in both of the two-year macroeconomic scenarios considered: a baseline and an adverse one. Both scenarios indicate a need to increase the capital of the Russian banking sector. Furthermore, given that Russia’s banking sector is small and fragmented by comparison with advanced economies, a loss of external financing could cause profound economic stress, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Russian state has a low public debt-to-GDP ratio and plays a decisive role in the banking sector. These factors allow sufficient fiscal space for recapitalization of problematic banks under our proposed baseline and adverse scenarios.
P34|Animal Spirits in the Euro Area Sovereign CDS Market|We study the determinants for the sovereign credit default swap (CDS) spreads of five Euro-area countries (Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain) in the post-Lehman-Brothers period. We find that there are regime switches in the process of sovereign CDS spread changes. We consider three alternative empirical hypotheses associated with regime switches. Under the first hypothesis, there are rational sunspot equilibria. Under the second hypothesis, there is a unique fundamental equilibrium and the regime switching is caused by changes in policy makers' preferences. The third hypothesis relaxes the rational expectations assumption. Under this hypothesis, indicators of the market fundamentals are not always precise. They are better indicators if cognitive biases are small and the rational expectations economy is a good approximation for reality. However, if market uncertainties enlarge the cognitive biases, the market-based indicators of fundamentals are no longer precise. In this case, they are not useful for CDS pricing. We find that the first two hypotheses are difficult to fit the data and the third hypothesis provides a good explanation for the sovereign CDS spread dynamics in our sample.
P34|Foreign bank lending and information asymmetries in China: Empirical evidence from the syndicated loan market|This paper considers whether information asymmetries affect the willingness of foreign banks to participate in syndicated loans to corporate borrowers in China. We analyze how ownership concentration, which influences information asymmetries in the relationship between the borrower and the lender, exerts an impact on the participation of foreign banks in syndicated loans granted to Chinese borrowers in the period 2004–2009. We observe that greater ownership concentration of the borrowing firm does not positively influence participation of foreign banks in the loan syndicate. We conclude that information asymmetries are not exacerbated for foreign banks relative to local banks in China.
P34|Macroeconomic uncertainty and bank lending: The case of Ukraine|This study investigates the link between bank lending behavior and country-level instability. Our dynamic model of bank's profit maximization predicts a non-monotonic relationship between bank lending and macroeconomic uncertainty. We test this proposition using a panel of Ukrainian banks over the 2003Q2–2008Q2 period. The estimates indicate that banks decrease their lending ratio in times of substantial economic volatility, which could be explained by higher risk aversion of bank managers. Additionally, small and least profitable banks are less likely to be affected by changes in the macroeconomic environment compared to their large and most profitable peers. This outcome is robust with respect to the different measurements of macroeconomic uncertainty.
P34|The determinants and consequences of IPOs in a regulated economy: Evidence from China|Using a sample of 156 monthly returns over the period of 1996–2008, we find a positive relation between the monthly issuing size and prior market returns, suggesting that the government decides the timing and the size of issuances based on prior market conditions. Different from previous findings, our study finds no evidence of decline in subsequent market returns after initial public offerings (IPOs). However, IPO issuance has a significantly negative impact on the return momentum effect, whereas the degree of impact is indifferent to the issuing size. We conclude that the overall mild impact on the subsequent market results from the government's regulation of the IPO market.
P34|Short-sale constraints: Reductions in costs of capital or overvaluation? Evidence from Hong Kong|We examine the effects of short-sale constraints in Hong Kong where stocks can be shorted only if they are included on an official short-sale list. Using revisions to the list, we test two hypotheses — 1) that short-sale constraints lead to overvaluation and 2) that they lead to lower costs of capital. We find weak support for the Diamond and Verrecchia (1987) version of the overvaluation hypothesis, but more compelling evidence supporting the Xu (2007) version of the overvaluation hypothesis and the cost of capital hypothesis. We argue that in the context of our tests the Xu overvaluation hypothesis is actually a reformulation of the cost of capital hypothesis and that the bulk of our evidence, therefore, supports the notion that short-sale constraints reduce capital costs.
P34|Development of the Hungarian Venture Capital and Private Equity Industry over the Past Two Decades|In Hungary, the previously non-existing venture capital and private equity industry has strengthened over the past two decades, and it has become one of the leaders of the CEE region. Approximately 90% of the capital allocated to investments overall were raised from private sector investors. The volume of VC & PE fluctuated cyclically following international capital market cycles and the changes of domestic economic policy. The Hungarian market became a preferred area for foreign capital investors in the last third of the 1990s. Later on its position became even more favourable due to Hungary's accession to the EU. Between 2007 and 2008 the Hungarian market, similarly to the whole region, earned also profit from a transitory situation at the beginning of the crisis when the investment problems in Western Europe did not extend to the CEE region for some time. From 2009 on, however, the crisis in CEE also resulted in a very serious drop in investments, in spite of the significant amount of uninvested capital accumulated in recent years. In addition, the crisis affected the already weakened Hungarian economy more seriously than the other parts of the region, which was reflected by the drop in investments in 2010.
P34|企業統治と組織淘汰－－世界金融危機とロシア企業－－|本稿は，2005年及び2009年にロシア全土で実施した独自企業調査に基づいて，世界金融危機を挟む約5年の期間におけるロシア工業企業の生存状況を明らかにすると共に，その決定要因を実証的に分析した。Cox比例ハザードモデルを採用した生存時間解析の結果，会社機関の独立性，人的資本の豊かさ及び企業経営に対する発言力の強さは，観測期間におけるロシア企業の生存確率に大きな影響を及ぼす要因であることが実証された。なかでも取締役会と監査役会は，将来の経営破綻リスクを軽減する上で，極めて重要な役割を果たしている可能性が強く示唆された。また，本稿の実証結果は，企業存続の経済論理という観点から，独立系企業とグループ企業の間には，著しい差異が生じている事実も明らかにした。
P34|Foreign Banks and the Vienna Initiative: Turning Sinners into Saints?|We use data on 1,294 banks in Emerging Europe to analyze how bank ownership and the so-called Vienna Initiative impacted credit growth during the 2008-09 crisis. As part of the Vienna Initiative western European banks signed country-specific commitment letters in which they pledged to maintain exposures and to support their subsidiaries in Emerging Europe. We show that in general both domestic and foreign banks sharply curtailed credit during the crisis, but that foreign banks that participated in the Vienna Initiative were relatively stable lenders. We find no evidence of negative spillovers from countries where banks signed commitment letters to countries where they did not.
P34|El papel del sistema financiero en el crecimiento económico en México|En este trabajo se muestran los resultados de una investigación que concierne a la relación entre el sistema financiero y el crecimiento económico en México. Específicamente se evalúa la hipótesis de que los agentes en los mercados financieros promueven la actividad productiva, la existencia de una causalidad entre la oferta y demanda del sistema financiero y el crecimiento económico. Se muestra evidencia de que los indicadores de desarrollo financiero considerados no están asociados a mayores tasas de crecimiento económico, ya que los intermediarios financieros no logran eliminar los costos de información y transacción asociados al proceso de intermediación, si no que por el contrario, sea el crecimiento económico el que impulse al sistema financiero, lo que da indicio a predecir que las variables de tipo institucional son determinantes como factor del desarrollo financiero./ This paper presents the results of an investigation concerning the relationship between the financial system and economic growth in Mexico. Specifically we evaluate the hypothesis that agents in financial markets promote productive activity, the existence of causality between supply and demand of the financial system and economic growth. Shown evidence that financial development indicators considered are not associated with higher rates of economic growth, since financial intermediaries fail to remove the information and transaction costs associated with the mediation process, if not to the contrary, be economic growth to boost the financial system. It can be said that institutional type variables are determinants of financial development as a factor
P34|Profit efficiency in the European Union banking industry: a directional technology distance function approach|No abstract is available for this item.
P34|Managing Systemic Risk|Today, world faces ever-greater concerns regarding global financial risks, the prospect of rapid contagion through increasingly connected financial systems and the threat of disastrous financial impacts. One of the most important forms of financial risks is the systemic risk which we are confronted more and more. Systemic risk is a relatively new term that has its origin in policy discussions more than in the professional economics and finance literature. Systemic risk is the risk of collapse of an entire financial system or entire market and refers to the risks imposed by inter-linkages and interdependencies in a system or market where the failure of a single entity or cluster of entities can cause a cascading failure which could potentially bankrupt or bring down the entire system or market. Taking into consideration the above mentioned facts it is compulsory to drawn up a new regulation in order to mitigate systemic risk and its consequences.
P34|What Did the Study of Transition Economies Contribute to Mainstream Economics?|Basing on examples this paper shows that the experience of the post-communist transition, and the policy-related and academic discussion about it, have made a useful contribution to mainstream economics. In particular, such issues as the role of the state and social policy, institutions and banking system in economic development were reconsidered. The new perspectives on the issue of the efficiency of privatization, path dependence, and the role of political elites in institutional reforms were developed. The author shows which of the recommendations provided by international organizations proved to be inadequate and why.
P34|Ukrainian Banks Face Heightened Uncertainty and Challenges|Following a sharp recession in 2009, the Ukrainian economy recovered in 2010 and 2011. In particular in 2011, domestic demand-led growth was accompanied by widening external imbalances. The economy’s external vulnerabilities – related to the current account deficit (2011: 5.6% of GDP) and the elevated foreign debt stock (77% of GDP) – entail risks for the banking sector, as exchange rate pressures against the hryvnia’s U.S. dollar peg have been recurrent and foreign exchange reserves declined in the second half of 2011. While the share of foreign currency loans in total loans has been steadily declining (thanks to a ban on extending new foreign currency loans to unhedged borrowers imposed by the National Bank of Ukraine in the fall of 2008), it remains sizeable (end-2011: 41%). Many of these loans are unhedged. The stabilization of nonperforming loans at a high level could be interrupted by a further deterioration of the economic situation or by a new bout of hryvnia depreciation. Moreover, the population’s confidence in the Ukrainian currency is prone to volatile swings. As deposit inflows have picked up and loan growth has remained subdued, the loan-to-deposit ratio has receded, but is still relatively high (end-2011: 163%). With the funding structure shifting to domestic deposits, the banking sector’s external position has improved (net external liabilities have fallen to 8% of total liabilities). In 2011, loan growth became positive in real terms again. Recapitalization efforts contributed to upholding capital adequacy. The banking sector’s profitability improved, but nevertheless stayed in negative territory.
P34|Non-standardized form of CAPM and stock returns|Emerging markets like Pakistan confront with the problem to validate the CAPM in its original form. Since standard form of this model has unrealistic assumptions, different non-standardized forms have been introduced by different researchers. This paper also introduces a non-standardized form of CAPM to validate whether it is applicable in Pakistan. The data of 20 companies of different sectors, covering the period of 2007 to 2008 were collected. One year KIBOR is taken in replacement of T-bill rates. Beta 3 is calculated using an equation to show the negative relationship between interest rate and market returns. The results of regression analysis reveal mixed results. For instance, mean return of companies in cement and chemical sector is linearly related to its beta risk while other sectors have volatile results.
P34|A Decomposition Analysis of Capital Structure: Evidence from Pakistan’s Manufacturing Sector|This study investigates the determinants of the various components of debt—short- and long-term debt and their categories—in the case of nonfinancial listed firms in Pakistan for the period 2008–10. We make a significant distinction between these determinants depending on the components of debt issued: long-term or short-term forms of debt. Our results show that large firms are more likely to have access to long-term debt borrowing than small firms and that, due to supply constraints, small firms resort to short-term forms of debt. Firms with higher potential for growth prefer using less long-term debt as well as debt with fewer restrictive arrangements in order to become more financially flexible. Firms with sufficient fixed assets can generate external finance more easily and at lower cost by using these assets as collateral, which supports the tradeoff theory. Firms generating high levels of profit, however, may choose to finance their investments using internal resources rather than by raising debt finance, which conforms to the pecking order theory. Our results also confirm the presence of the inertia effect and industry-specific effects, and are robust to alternative estimation techniques.
P34|State - owned banks from Romania|: In Romania, as in many Central and Eastern Europe countries, during the communist regime all the banks were owned by the state and their activities were circumscribed by rigid norms. After the communist regime had fallen, the state owned banks had to adapt to a competitive environment. The management inefficiency, the political interests and the corruption led some of these banks to critical situations. Such circumstances convinced Romanian authorities to privatize the banks owned by state. From the seven state-owned banks that activated in the 1990s in Romania, one had to be closed, four were privatized and two are still in the state propriety. In this paper we approach some turning points in the evolutions of these banks. We also try to configure the future of the remained state-owned banks.
P34|How do banks screen innovative firms? Evidence from start-up panel data|Start-up firms often face difficulties in raising external funds. Employing a unique panel dataset covering 9,715 start-up firms over the period 2007-2009, we find that high-tech startups are less likely to use bank finance and face more difficulties in raising bank finance than low-tech start-ups. We find that external credit scores do affect the availability of credit for start-up firms, but that banks rely less on external rating information in their decision making for high-tech start-ups than low-tech start-ups. Start-ups that have their main relation with a small bank use more bank finance and report less difficulties in getting credit. By contrast, a greater expertise of the bank in the firm's industry is not associated with fewer difficulties to get bank loans. There are no differences between high-tech and low-tech start-ups regarding the impact of bank size.
P34|How Sovereign Is Sovereign Credit Risk?|We study the nature of sovereign credit risk using an extensive set of sovereign CDS data. We find that the majority of sovereign credit risk can be linked to global factors. A single principal component accounts for 64 percent of the variation in sovereign credit spreads. Furthermore, sovereign credit spreads are more related to the US stock and high-yield markets than they are to local economic measures. We decompose credit spreads into their risk premium and default risk components. On average, the risk premium represents about a third of the credit spread. (JEL F34, G15, O16, O19, P34)
P34|Financial inclusion - G20 initiatives and the role of the Bank of Italy|Financial exclusion concerns 2.5 billion individuals and more than 450 million enterprises. The G20 countries are committed to the reduction of this phenomenon. The Bank of Italy has a fundamental role in the field of financial inclusion, both on a national and an international scale through financial education, banking, markets and payment system supervision, and technical cooperation with other central banks. The Bank has been one of the first institutions to draw public attention to the importance of economic and financial literacy in order to enable consumers to take informed decisions. It has helped the institutions of developing countries to facilitate the financial inclusion of disadvantaged individuals through the development of small intermediaries. Innovative payment instruments can improve financial inclusion. Thanks to a recently introduced reform, the Italian retail payments market can now be accessed by intermediaries combining the provision of payment services and business activities. Mobile-phone operators can now access widely used payment systems by telephone to break into the micro-payment sector which is today dominated by cash transactions. A key role is also played by pre-paid cards.
P34|Like China, the Chinese banking sector is in a class of its own|This paper provides an overview of the Chinese banking sector, which has expanded tremendously over the past two decades. We first describe aggregate developments of the sector and compare them to the situation in other countries. Also, various financial institutions that operate in China are analyzed. Our results confirm that the Chinese banking sector is truly in a class of its own, especially given the level of China's economic development. Despite significant reforms, the state and various public organizations still own controlling shares in the largest commercial banks. The state is also present on the borrowers' side; it is estimated that about half of state-owned commercial bank lending still goes to state-controlled companies. In this way, the banking system can serve as an important policy tool. Another distinctive feature of the Chinese banking sector is the variety of its banking institutions. New types of banking institutions, especially those serving rural areas, are emerging all the time. While equity and debt markets are still tiny relative to the banking sector and their importance as sources of financing of investment remain minor, they have evolved rapidly in recent years. JEL: G28, P34, G21 Keywords: China, banking sector, state banks
P34|Bank efficiency in transition economies : recent evidence from South-Eastern Europe|This study examines the cost and profit efficiency of banking sectors in six transition countries of South-Eastern Europe over the period 1998 2008. Using the stochastic frontier approach, our analysis reveals that the average cost efficiency of SEE banks is 68.59% and the average profit efficiency is 53.87%. The second-stage regressions on the determinants of bank efficiency further show that foreign banks are associated with higher profit efficiency but moderately lower cost efficiency. Government banks are associated with lower profit efficiency. The efficiency gap between foreign banks, domestic private banks and government banks, however, has narrowed over time. We also find that the degree of individual banks competitiveness has a positive association with both cost and profit efficiency. Finally, institutional development, proxied by progress in banking reforms, privatization and corporate governance restructuring, also has a positive impact on bank efficiency.
P34|Market reforms, legal changes and bank risk-taking : evidence from transition economies|The policy changes and structural reforms in transition economies over the past two decades have created exogenous variations in institutional development, which offers us an ideal natural experiment to analyse the causal effects of institutions on bank risk-taking behaviour. This paper examines a wide array of institutional reforms in respect of law and legal institutions, banking liberalization, and enterprise restructuring in privatization and corporate governance. Using a difference-in-difference approach, we find that banks financial stability has increased substantially subsequent to the institutional reforms. Further analysis suggests that the enhancement of financial stability mostly comes from the reduction of asset risk. Moreover, the effects of institutional reforms on bank risk are more pronounced for domestic banks than foreign banks. From the policy consideration, our study sheds light on the risk implications of different institutional reforms that have been characterizing transition countries.
P34|Système bancaire chinois : entre contrôle de l'État et adaptation aux normes internationales|Today’s China and its economic governance are facing a lot of questions. Understanding Chinese’s banking system, its structure and its regulatory framework give us the chance to better apprehend the country’s economic system. This system has undergone and is still undergoing major reforms. It was entirely dependent on the policy under the communist regime, and since the opening, the country has gradually adapted to international standards. Its structure has evolved and banking laws are modelled gradually to global agreements. However, the Chinese banking system is still under the domination of the government at all levels. Is the banking system really being adapted to international norms or is it just an illusion? What is the scope of the government to continue its reforms? Classification JEL: G21, O53, P34.
P34|Les risques du système bancaire chinois après le plan de relance de 2008-2010 et le boom de l’immobilier|[eng] China’s Banking System Risks after the 2008-10 Stimulus Package and the Housing Boom.. China’s banking system has performed extremely well during the last few years both compared with its peers in the West but also with its own situation only a few years ago. The improvement in terms [fre] Le système bancaire chinois a réalisé de très bonnes performances ces dernières années, en comparaison de ses homologues de l’Ouest mais aussi de sa propre situation dans un récent passé. Les améliorations en termes de taille et de rentabilité sont la conséquence de sa restructuration par l’État, grâce à la recapitalisation gouvernementale et à l’épuration des créances douteuses. De plus, l’important plan de relance lancé par la Chine pendant la crise financière mondiale a permis aux banques de se développer en augmentant considérablement leurs volumes de prêts. Nombre de ces prêts se sont concentrés sur les structures de financement des gouvernements provinciaux, dont les revenus dépendent directement des prix de la terre et de l’immobilier en général. Étant donnée l’explosion des prix de l’immobilier en Chine, les autorités sont amenées à prendre des mesures strictes pour réduire le volume de crédits accordés (spécialement aux gouvernements provinciaux) et faire baisser les prix de la terre et de l’immobilier. Ces mesures pourraient remettre en question la solvabilité future des structures de financement des gouvernements provinciaux, avec toutes les conséquences négatives que cela pourrait entraîner pour le système bancaire chinois. . Classification JEL : G21, 053, P25, P34.
P34|Les risques du système bancaire chinois après le plan de relance de 2008-2010 et le boom de l'immobilier|China?s banking system has performed extremely well during the last few years both compared with its peers in the West but also with its own situation only a few years ago. The improvement in terms of size and profitability comes as a consequence of government restructuring of the banking system based on governmental capitalization and clean-up of bad loans. In addition, the massive fiscal package introduced by China during the global crisis has allowed banks to grow by increasing their lending massively. Such lending has concentrated on local governments? financing vehicles, whose revenues are very dependent on the prices of land and housing in general. Given China?s overheating and too fast increase in housing prices, the authorities are taking strict measures to reduce the supply of credit (especially to local governments) and also housing and land prices. Both measures may put the future solvency of local government financing companies at risk, with the negative consequences which this may have on the Chinese banking system. Classification JEL: G21, 053, P25, P34.
P34|Le poids des banques chinoises sur les marchés internationaux|The rise of Chinese banks in the ranking of world banks raises expectations and questions, but what does actually reflect the presence of these big banks among the international leaders? Initially, the transformation of Chinese banks has gone through the consolidation of assets, the contribution of capital from the state and strategic investors and the entry of several of these banks on the stock market. The establishment of the CBRC has confirmed plans to build a controlled banking system and promoting the adoption of internationals principles and standards. Chinese banks appear in the rankings of major global banks and win ranks each year. But their presence in these rankings is more a consequence of the size and internal growth of China than a real internationalization already established. Indeed, the current strategic model of Chinese banks is turned to the growth of China and to a key role in financing the economy. However, relatively less unaffected by the recent crisis, Chinese companies and banks are now tempted by a greater internationalization. Chinese investment abroad growing, Chinese banks must also focus on creating a global network able to support the internationalization of Chinese multinationals companies. Moreover, a Chinese financial strategy is being implemented to give an international dimension to its currency, develop its financial market and boost its banking system. These areas of development will be vectors of the internationalization of Chinese banks in the coming years. Classification JEL: G21, 053, P33, P34.
P34|Le marché obligataire chinois|The surge of the Chinese bond market is recent. The Chinese State only started to issue debts in 1979. Limited volume of bonds were issued till 1987 and sold by administrative allocation. Secondary market experiences took place in 1987. After 1991, the Finance Ministry selected primary dealers for bond issuing. It is only after the creation of a centralised depository and clearing company, CDC, in 1996, and the opening of an inter-bank bond market in 1997 that the market gathered momentum. Presently it covers all segments of the yield curve and has become the second largest source of funding for the Chinese companies. The development of the Chinese Bond market follows the logic of Asian Bond Market Initiative. New offshore RMB bonds in Hong Kong is part of a move toward the internationalisation of the Chinese currency, which is being prepared by reforms and opening of the Chinese capital markets. Classification JEL: G10, G24, O53, P33, P34.
P34|La finance coopérative rurale en Chine : histoire, développement et perspectives|Rural cooperative finance, targeting small farmers, is one of the three pillars of rural finance in China. Historically, its development has taken three forms of organization: rural credit union, rural cooperative fund and mutual fund. Because of changes in market and policies? environment, but especially of the abandonment of cooperative principles, the credit union has become a commercial financial institution and cooperative fund disappeared. The current practices of mutual aid funds are paving the way for the future development of the rural cooperative finance relying on the integration of financial and economic cooperatives. Classification JEL: G2, N25, P32, P34, R51.
P34|Le private equity en Chine|In China, private equity began to rise in 2004-2005. Despite the crisis, the industry reached new highs in 2010. Nevertheless, the two last years have seen important fundraisings on the domestic market coupled with significant investments in mainland China. But the industry still lacks maturity and faces two main challenges: the need of a secondary market as an alternative to IPOs and an improved link with the credit market, mainly for for M&A and build-up operations that increase the allocation of capital in the economy. Classification JEL: G1, G23, G32, P34.
P34|Les investissements internationaux de la Chine : stratégie ou pragmatisme ?|The importance of Chinese financial foreign investments is raising the following question: do these operations underlie a strategy to conquer the world or are they just responses to the various constraints facing the Chinese authorities and companies? Our opinion is that a deliberate strategy to conquer the world cannot be inferred from Chinese financial activity, especially as it makes the country dependent on its international environment. Chinese foreign investments seem rather to be determined both by China?s economic policies and by the strategy of Chinese companies reacting to the opportunities of the international environment in which they operate. Classification JEL: F21, F59, O53, P34.
P34|La gestion du renminbi depuis 2005|[fre] Selon une opinion généralement admise, depuis la mi-2005, le cours de change du renminbi témoignerait, peu ou prou, d’un ancrage (avec glissement) de la monnaie chinoise au dollar américain. Les auteurs de l’article estiment, au contraire, que les autorités chinoises ont opéré une transition pour s’éloigner d’un glissement – ou d’une stagnation – par rapport au dollar, qu’elles ont, à tout le moins, tenté une expérience prolongée de gestion par rapport à un panier de monnaies au cours de la période 2006-2008. Le taux de change bilatéral du dollar n’est pas représentatif de la gestion du renminbi depuis 2005, celui du DTS l’est davantage, l’indice effectif calculé par la BRI étant le plus représentatif. Le cours euro/ renminbi, quant à lui, rend compte des variations sur une plus longue période, allant de juin 2005 à décembre 2010. Deplus, le cours nominal ne résume pas, à lui seul, la politique de change de la Chine. Les prix ayant augmenté plus rapidement en Chine que chez ses partenaires commerciaux, l’appréciation du renminbi entre juin 2005 et décembre 2010 a été quelque 10 % plus forte en termes réels qu’en termes nominaux. Et d’ailleurs, la hausse réelle de la monnaie chinoise par rapport à l’euro était représentative des fluctuations plus larges du renminbi. . Classification JEL : F31, O53, P33, P34. [eng] Managing the Renminbi since 2005.. Conventional wisdom is that the renminbi exchange rate since mid 2005 has been no more than a simple (crawling) dollar peg. We instead interpret the Chinese authorities as having made the transition away from a crawl or stall against the US dollar or having at least conducted a sustained experiment in a basket management in the period of 2006-2008. The Chinese bilateral dollar exchange rate is not representative of the renminbi management since 2005, the SDR is more representative, while the BIS effective index is the most representative of the three. As it happens, the euro/ renminbi rate was representative of the renminbi’s broader movements between June 2005 and December 2010. Moreover, the nominal exchange rate is not the full story of the Chinese exchange rate policy. Since prices have risen faster in China than in its trading partners, the real rise of the renminbi over the period June 2005 to December 2010 has been about 10 % larger than its nominal rise. As it happens, the real rise against the euro was also representative of the renminbi’s broader movements. . Classification JEL : F31, O53, P33, P34.
P34|La gestion du renminbi depuis 2005|Conventional wisdom is that the renminbi exchange rate since mid 2005 has been no more than a simple (crawling) dollar peg. We instead interpret the Chinese authorities as having made the transition away from a crawl or stall against the US dollar or having at least conducted a sustained experiment in a basket management in the period of 2006-2008. The Chinese bilateral dollar exchange rate is not representative of the renminbi management since 2005, the SDR is more representative, while the BIS effective index is the most representative of the three. As it happens, the euro/renminbi rate was representative of the renminbi’s broader movements between June 2005 and December 2010. Moreover, the nominal exchange rate is not the full story of the Chinese exchange rate policy. Since prices have risen faster in China than in its trading partners, the real rise of the renminbi over the period June 2005 to December 2010 has been about 10% larger than its nominal rise. As it happens, the real rise against the euro was also representative of the renminbi’s broader movements. Classification JEL: F31, O53, P33, P34.
P34|Quelle est la vraie stratégie du panier de monnaies du renminbi ?|The People?s Bank of China has adopted twice (July 2005-summer 2008 and June 2010-today) currency basket as exchange regime. No information related to composition or functioning of the basket is known. In this paper, we try to estimate in a dynamic approach its composition. The results show in each period, the exchange regime resembles rather a crawling peg vis-?-vis US dollar. The crawling peg permits gradual appreciation of the RMB and its flexibilization. It seems also that the pace of RMB?s appreciation would be regulated so in order to absorb pass-through effect of international commodity price on domestic inflation. Finally, because of the opacity on basket?s functioning, the currency basket is only a form allowing flexibility within the meaning of room of manoeuvre of the Central Bank; it is also a transition regime toward free floating. Classification JEL: F31, F41, O53, P34.
P34|La place de la Chine dans l'intégration monétaire et financière asiatique|China plays a key role in Asian regional integration, serving as an export platform for the region towards the rest of the world. In this respect, China has been instrumental in the development of intraregional trade. Since 2010, the use of the Chinese currency for trade settlement and the implementation of the China-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement further cement China?s leading role in the region. In the monetary and financial realm, China has participated in different regional initiatives including the Chiang Mai Initiative and the Asian Bond Funds. However, China?s contributions to both remain low compared to its huge foreign exchange reserves. Its support of regional integration in Asia remains thus symbolic. Overall, China remains more interdependent with Hong Kong than with the rest of the region. Its increasing trade and financial links with Hong Kong serve as a stepping stone towards its regional integration and in the end towards its world integration. Classification JEL: F36, F42, O53, P34.
P34|Le renminbi peut-il être la devise-pivot de la région ?|The following write-up picks up from the recent decisions taken by the Chinese monetary authorities during the second half of 2010. They led to a first step in the internationalization of the Chinese currency, at least to its regionalization. This move is analyzed in a comparison with what had been done previously in other countries of the region, Japan in particular, based on different rationale and especialy very different consequences. Those were mostly negative. This decision is also put into perspective against analyses written since quite a number of years in China and in reviews released in Hong Kong as well, in order to understand that the decision initiated in July 2010 is also a top-down, “sui generis” decision” and has to be understood so. It has to be placed on the background of a plan which takes into account several parameters: the request for greater involvement by China into the monetary system and a potential deterioration of the state of the financial and monetary order. In both cases, the various steps taken during the last year can truly make the renminbi play a role as a “pivot-currency” in the region and this can happen either if this region becomes more integrated within the global monetary and financial system or if the currency “de-synchronizes”, in the hypothesis of regional financial block being built up. Classification JEL: F31, F36, F42, 053, P34.
P34|Le renminbi est-il une arme dans la « guerre des devises » asiatiques ? Une analyse comparative de la structure des exportations chinoises|Much has been said and written on the consequences of the Chinese exchange rate policy for final importers of Chinese goods, such as the US and Europe. In this paper, we tackle a different question: whether managing Chinese Renminbi is an effective trade policy tool to gain a competitive advantage with respect to other Asian exporters. If Chinese export structure resembles more and more to those of other Asian exporters managing the CNY exchange rate against their currencies can create competitive advantage to Chinese goods. Notwithstanding similarity between Chinese and other Asian countries export structure is growing at the industry level, more refined, product-by-product data fail to show the same trend, implying a fall in similarities. This is a surprising result, especially concerning Korea and Japan: the more technologically advanced exports of these two countries might feel more and more the competition of Chinese producers ?going up the ladder?. As such, the renminbi exchange policy does not seem to alter significantly the trade competition among Chinese countries. Classification JEL: F13, F14, F31, F41, P34.
P34|Use of Banking Services in Emerging Markets--Household-Level Evidence|This paper uses survey data for 60,000 households from 29 transition economies in 2006 and 2010 to explore how the use of banking services is related to household characteristics, as well as to bank ownership, deposit insurance and creditor protection. At the household level we find that the holding of a bank account, a bank card, or a mortgage increases with income and education in most countries and find evidence for an urban-rural gap. The use of banking services is also related to the religion and social integration of a household as well as the gender of the household head. Using the within-country variation between 2006 and 2010, we find that the privatization of state-owned banks and an increase in market share of foreign banks are associated with a stronger use of banking services. Foreign bank ownership is also associated with a higher use of bank services among highincome households and households with formal employment. State ownership, by contrast is hardly associated with more outreach to poorer households. More generous deposit insurance and stronger creditor rights also foster the use of banking services among the urban, rich, better educated and formally employed.
P34|Financial Development and Economic Growth in Transition Economies: Empirical Evidence from the CEE and CIS Countries|We examine the role of financial development in economic growth in the former Communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States during the first two decades since the beginning of transition. These countries, which had undeveloped financial systems under Communism, provide an interesting test of the relationship between financial development and growth. We show that credit to the private sector had a positive effect on growth in these countries; however, high levels of inflation can render the positive effect of private credit insignificant. High interest rate spreads and reduced banking competition hampered economic growth.
P34|Determinants of bank interest margins in Russia: Does bank ownership matter?|This paper analyzes interest margin determinants in the Russian banking sector with a particular emphasis on the bank ownership structure. Using unique bank-level data covering Russia's entire banking sector for the 1999–2007 period, we find that the impact of a number of commonly used determinants such as market structure, credit risk, liquidity risk and size of operations differs across state-controlled, domestic-private and foreign-owned banks. At the same time, the influence of operational costs and risk aversion is homogeneous across ownership groups. The results overall suggest that the form of bank ownership needs to be considered when analyzing interest margin determinants.
P34|Detecting Information-Driven Trading in a Dealers Market|We focus on the extent of information-driven trading originating from order flows to capture the behavior of the market makers on an emerging market. We modified the classical Easley et al. (1996) model for the probability of informed trading using a jackknife approach in which trades of one particular market maker at a time are left out from the sum of all buys and sells. Using the estimates from the jackknife approach, for each market maker we test whether the order flows associated with the particular market maker behaved significantly differently from the others. Data from the Prague Stock Exchange SPAD trading platform are used to demonstrate our methodology. Finding significant differences in the probability of informed trading computed from order flows, we conclude that order flows could reveal the extent of information-driven trading and could potentially be used by regulatory authorities to identify suspicious behavior by market participants.
P34|Vietnam's SCIC: a gradualist approach to sovereign wealth funds| Vietnam's State Capital Investment Corporation (SCIC) was established in 2005, with the primary goal of helping the authorities to make, under market conditions, the most of state capital investments in business enterprises. To date, SCIC has had to grapple mainly with facilitating the ‘equitization’ (that is privatization) of large numbers of state-owned enterprises. As yet it is still too early to make a firm assessment of SCIC's performance with regard to either of the above objectives. Nevertheless, a discernable picture has begun to emerge, in which SCIC appears to have been a typical example of Vietnam's gradualist approach in transitioning to a more market-oriented economic system: the pace of change may have been slow and uneven, but there are clear indications of movements toward the end goal.
P34|Monetary and Fiscal Stimuli, Ownership Structure, and China's Housing Market|In the recent financial crisis, macroeconomic stimuli produced mixed results across developed economies. In contrast, China's stimulus boosted real GDP growth from an annualized 6.2% in the first quarter of 2009 trough to 11.9% in the first quarter of 2010. Amidst this phenomenal response, land auction and house prices in major cities soared. We argue that the speed and efficacy of China's stimulus derives from state control over its banking system and corporate sector. Beijing ordered state-owned banks to lend, and they lent. Beijing ordered centrally-controlled state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to invest, and they invested. However, our data show that much of this investment was highly leveraged purchases of real estate. Residential land auction prices in eight major cities rose about 100% in 2009, controlling for quality variation. Moreover, higher price rises occur these SOEs are more active buyers. We argue that these centrally-controlled SOEs overbid substantially, fueling a real estate bubble; and that China's seemingly highly effective macroeconomic stimulus package may well have induced costly resource misallocation.
P34|Macro-financial Linkage and Financial Deepening in China after the Global Financial Crisis|As China's economic integration with the global economy deepens, the amount of capital flow to/from China has been increasing significantly, especially since it joined the WTO. In spite of such environment, the recent global financial crisis has not severely affected the Chinese financial markets because of China's relatively strict control of cross-border capital transactions and its strong economic and financial fundamentals. The government's stimulus policies worked effectively to realize a quick recovery of the country's economic growth. However, on the horizon, the factors that protected the Chinese economy during the crisis also seem to carry with them substantial risks and challenges to its sustainable growth. This paper reviews the factors that have kept the Chinese economy and financial markets relatively stable and analyzes the recent changes in China's macro financial linkage overseas, and highlights the challenges that China faces in realizing a sustainable and efficient economic development.
P34|The Challenges Confronting the Banking System Reform in China: An Analysis in Light of Japan's Experience of Financial Liberalization|China's banking system reform has made notable progress since 2002. After restoring their balance sheets, Chinese banks have aggressively increased lending and contributed to supporting the country' s economy given the global financial crisis. Thus far, the regulated deposit and lending interest rates, undeveloped capital markets, and restrictions in cross-border capital transactions have given banks an advantage in gaining profits. However, along with the full-blown reform of the economic system toward a market-oriented economy, the conditions protecting banks' profits will change in the future. The experiences of Japanese banks under the financial liberalization that occurred during the 1970s and 1980s indicate how important it is for commercial banks to change their business models in accordance with the fundamental changes in the economy. These experiences may be useful for considering the subsequent reform process of the financial system in China.
P34|The interdependence of Coffee spot and futures markets| Coffee is both an important source of export revenue for developing countries and the underlying asset for the largest futures markets in soft commodities. This paper examines the interdependence of these spot and futures markets, with particular emphasis on the effect futures trading activity, especially speculative behaviour,Â has on the price risk in spot markets. We identify change points associated with particularly poor harvests and modifications made to the underlying futures contract on one exchange.Â Findings indicate that spot and futures markets for coffee are indeed interdependent. However, futures markets for coffee appear to be increasingly driven by risks associated with the underlying spot markets.
P34|Investing in the turn-of-the-year effect|No abstract is available for this item.
P34|Foreign bank lending and information asymmetries in China|This paper considers whether information asymmetries affect the willingness of foreign banks to participate in syndicated loans to corporate borrowers in China. In line with theoretical literature, ownership concentration of the borrowing firm is assumed to influence information asymmetries in the relationship between the borrower and the lender. We analyze how ownership concentration influences the participation of foreign banks in a loan syndicate using a sample of syndicated loans granted to Chinese borrowers in the period 2004-2009 for which we have information on ownership concentration. We observe that greater ownership concentration of the borrowing firm does not positively influence participation of foreign banks in the loan syndicate. Additional estimations using alternative specifications provide similar results. As foreign banks do not react positively to ownership concentration, we conclude that information asymmetries are not exacerbated for foreign banks relative to local banks in China. Moreover, it appears that increased financial leverage discourages foreign bank participation, suggesting that domestic banks are less cautious in their risk management.
P34|Monetary and Fiscal Stimuli, Ownership Structure, and China's Housing Market|In the recent financial crisis, macroeconomic stimuli produced mixed results across developed economies. In contrast, China's stimulus boosted real GDP growth from an annualized 6.2% in the first quarter of 2009 trough to 11.9% in the first quarter of 2010. Amidst this phenomenal response, land auction and house prices in major cities soared. We argue that the speed and efficacy of China's stimulus derives from state control over its banking system and corporate sector. Beijing ordered state-owned banks to lend, and they lent. Beijing ordered centrally-controlled state-owned enterprises (SOEs) to invest, and they invested. However, our data show that much of this investment was highly leveraged purchases of real estate. Residential land auction prices in eight major cities rose about 100% in 2009, controlling for quality variation. Moreover, higher price rises occur these SOEs are more active buyers. We argue that these centrally-controlled SOEs overbid substantially, fueling a real estate bubble; and that China's seemingly highly effective macroeconomic stimulus package may well have induced costly resource misallocation.
