P35|Policy in the Pipeline: Identifying Regional Public Investment Priorities Using a Natural Experiment|We identify regional public investment priorities by studying the development of the water pipe system in the largest district in Poland. For this purpose, we take advantage of a major administrative re-form, implemented on 1 January 1999, which substantially changed the structure of Polish local government and reduced the number of top-tier administrative regions from 49 to 16. We treat the reform as a natural experiment, and apply the difference-in-differences approach to study developments along the boundary of the new Mazovian voivodeship. We find strong and positive implications for the development of the water pipe system in municipalities within the Mazovian voivodeship compared with those just outside its boundaries. The overall post-reform difference in the length of the total water pipe network is 25% and the difference in the per-capita length of the network is 30%. Local public investment priorities at the voivodeship level, potentially related to effective use of EU funds, are the most likely determinants of these differences.
P35|Modification of the Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) on Indonesia's trade, investment, and industrial incentive policies|This paper modifies the Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) method and applies it on Indonesia's trade, investment, and industrial incentive policies. First, it analyses the Indonesian Bilateral Trade Agreements (BTAs) utilizing trade and investment agreement. Indonesia currently has two BTAs in force. One, Indonesia – Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (IJEPA) and two, Indonesia – Pakistan Preferential Trade Agreement (IP-PTA). This paper found that the outcome expectation for trading partner depends on its GNI per capita. If the trading partner has GNI per capita higher than Indonesia’s then the highest expected outcome would be on the increasing FDI inflows from the trading partner. If its GNI per capita is lower than Indonesia's, then the highest foreseeable result would be on the rising net trade balance of Indonesia. Second, industrial sector incentive analysis by comparing RIA scores on all possible incentive policies. In this paper, the modified RIA found that firms prefer supply-side incentives such as government support on the Research and Development, patent and copyright protection than fiscal incentives such as the import duty-free or tariff rate protection.
P35|Why is the relative preference for government jobs on the rise in Bangladesh? Evidence from labour force surveys|This article examines the underlying factors contributing to the changing scenario concerning relative attractiveness of public sector jobs in Bangladesh vis-à-vis private sector jobs. The article quantifies wage differentials between the public and the private sector, and examines the changes as regards earnings inequalities between group (public versus private) and within group (within private sector employees), in response to the new pay scale introduced for public sector employees in Bangladesh. The analysis reveals that following salary scale revision of particularly 2015, public sector jobs in the country have become more attractive for job seekers looking for salaried employment. Whilst there has been a shift favouring the entire range of wage distribution curve, it is more evident for jobs at the entry level. Although the higher-paid private sector employees appear to have been able to adjust their salaries in response to government pay scale revision, the relatively low-paid ones in the private sector have not been able to. Additionally, public sector jobs have the added advantage of non-wage benefits of larger coverage compared to the private sector. All these factors have combined to bring a shift in preference in favour of public sector jobs in Bangladesh. The article has argued that the recent ‘quota movement’ in Bangladesh, with the demand to revise the existing quota system in the country, reflects this shifting preference on the part of those entering the job market in recent times.
P35|An Enduring Platform For Public And Cooperative Economics Research: A Centennial Perspective|In this short introduction, after briefly remembering the exemplary role played by Edgard Milhaud for the birth and development of Annals, we describe the content of the current special issue devoted to the 110 years of the journal.
P35|Communism as the Unhappy Coming|We show that Eastern Orthodox believers are less happy compared to those of Catholic and Protestant faith using data covering more than 100 countries around the world. Consistent with the happiness results, we also find that relative to Catholics, Protestants and non-believers, those of Eastern Orthodox religion have less social capital and prefer old ideas and safe jobs. In addition, Orthodoxy is associated with left-leaning political preferences and stronger support for government involvement in the economy. Compared to non-believers and Orthodox adherents, Catholics and Protestants are less likely to agree that government ownership is a good thing, and Protestants are less likely to agree that getting rich can only happen at the expense of others. These differences in life satisfaction and other attitudes and values persisted despite the fact that communist elites sought to eradicate church-going in Eastern Europe, since communists maintained many aspects of Orthodox theology which were useful for the advancement of the communist doctrine. The findings are consistent with Berdyaev's (1933, 1937) hypothesis of communism as a successor of Orthodoxy.
P35|Saving Soviet Science: The Impact of Grants When Government R&D Funding Disappears|I estimate the impact of a historic grant program, funded by George Soros, that provided grants to over 28,000 Soviet scientists shortly after the end of the USSR. Exploiting a discontinuity in the grant eligibility formula, I show that the grants more than doubled publications on the margin, significantly induced scientists to remain in the science sector, and had long-lasting impacts. While existing evidence shows negligible impacts of scientific grants, I show that funding for science can have high marginal returns when funding levels are low relative to the stock of human capital.
P35|Mind the Gap: Analyzing the Impact of Data Gap in Millennium Development Goals’ (MDGs) Indicators on the Progress toward MDGs|This paper analyzes the impact of data gap in Millennium Development Goals’ (MDGs) performance indicators on actual performance success of MDGs. Performance success, within the MDG framework, is quantified using six different ways proposed in the existing literature, including both absolute and relative performance and deviation from historical transition paths of MDG indicators. The empirical analysis clearly shows that the data gap in performance measurement is a significant predictor of poor MDG performance in terms of any of the six progress measures. Larger the data gap or weaker the performance measurement system, lesser is the probability of MDG performance success. The empirical methodology used in the paper combines a Heckman correction and instrumental variable estimation strategies to simultaneously account for potential endogeneity of the key data gap variable and bias due to sample selection. This result holds true even after controlling for overall national statistical capacity and a variety of socioeconomic factors. The paper underlines the need to strengthen the performance measurement system attached to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the associated Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This paper is the first attempt at empirically evaluating the value of data in the context of international development goals and gives empirical evidence for the need to harness the “data revolution” for sustainable development.
P35|The Analysis of Community Empowerment Process through Poor Community Group (The Comparative Study of Pilot and Replication Areas)|"""Objective – The objectives of this study are to find out how to empower the poor through community groups (Pokmaskin) at Wukirsari village. The second objective is to create a model for community empowerment with the basic of comparative for pilot and replication area. Methodology/Technique – The first method is Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) to analyse the factors that affect the community empowerment through poor society in the pilot areas and the area will be used replication analysis. The second method will use qualitative method with Focus Group Discussion and in-depth interview to answer how the empowerment model that is right for the poor in urban and rural areas. FGD involve various stakeholders in the area of both the elements of society, leaders, NGOs and government. Findings – The result showed that the factors which is the most influenced on the community development as perceived by members of community groups in the pilot and replication areas are, internal factors, institutional factor and external factor. Increasing the internal factor with increased motivation main target group members in the community empowerment; increasing institutional support in the form of legality, the role of local government, support from community leaders, encourages community motivation, formed to develop the organization; and empower all stakeholders, especially the private sector to provide support in training, financial, increase production and marketing. Novelty – The study uses Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) and Focus Group Discussion to reach the results."""
P35|Economie politique de la croissance au Burkina Faso: Institutions, gouvernance et développement|(english) This paper assesses the relevance of the North, Wallis and Weingast (2009) framework to explain the performances of Burkina in terms of economic growth and development. The political history of Burkina has been very unstable until president Compaoré took power in 1987. Since then, stability has been based on low intensity violence, with bursts of open violence like those of the mutinies of 2011 or the final upheaval of 2014. This “stability” is based on the balance of power between two main “elite” groups, the Army and the traditional chiefs. Trade unions, the Catholic Church and donors also play a role, especially in case of trouble. The political class in power and its cronies are extracting rents by creating de facto monopolies, which enables them to tame violence, to a certain extent. The paradox is that the Burkinabe economy is growing steadily (GDP per capital grew at an average 1.5 per cent rate since independence), rather smoothly in the medium run – one of the best records in West-Africa. Because of high inequality, this impressive growth is far from inclusive. _________________________________ (français) L’approche de North, Wallis et Weingast (2009) est utilisée pour expliquer les performances économiques et sociales du Burkina Faso (croissance par tête de 1,5 % par an depuis 1960, inégalement répartie, sans transformation structurelle du système productif). La difficulté est que la croissance est assez faible, mais plus rapide que dans les pays voisins. Nous montrons que ces deux aspects peuvent s’expliquer par le type d’élites dominantes (l’armée et les chefs traditionnels), qui gèrent la violence par la création de rentes dans un contexte contraint par les autres élites internes (église catholique, syndicats et société civile) et par le cadre institutionnel international qui limite l’utilisation de la violence. Ceci confère une certaine « stabilité » à l’ordre social sans toutefois lui insuffler la dynamique qui lui permettrait d’atteindre une croissance rapide.
P35|Economic Vitality of Communities for Urban Development: the Case of the Cities from Country of Small Economy|Economic vitality of community is one of the main factors and conditions for successful urban development. The article present the theoretical and empirical analysis of the concept of economic vitality of urban community in the country of small economy. The objective of the paper is to identify the challenges and factors of improving the economic vitality of community in cities of a country with a small economy and to develop the strategic recommendations and measures for strengthening the economic vitality of the community. Methods used: literature studies, document analysis, statistical data analysis, expert interview, survey, case analysis, Space Syntax analysis. The research showed that the communities in the country of small economy are still not entrepreneur and economically vital; there’s a lack of cooperation cultural and experience among of communities and businesses; there are favorable conditions to promote community (economic) vitality. Strategies to encourage and facilitate business and community cooperation at the local government level are necessary. Communities and companies are ready to cooperate together, but the cooperation based on shared value is not grown up yet. The article concludes with recommendations for promotion the vitality of communities and cooperation with business.
P35|Perfect Public Offering: A Process to Provide Perfect Ownership of Businesses to the Entire Public|A process to provide perfect ownership and direction of businesses to the entire public, via non-profit universities. The process enables a nonprofit university to acquire and administer businesses and other important infrastructures within society in a manner where faculty and students of the university can more efficiently and effectively administer their infrastructures to produce and allocate their goods and services to society in a socially and economically competitive manner which provides the greater public education system the leverage to acquire and administer the entire for-profit sector, as well as other important infrastructures within society. The mechanism relies on an iterated prisoner’s dilemma (game theory scenario) established amongst all businesses, created by global externalities produced from the localized interactions of a group of purely reasonable and competitive businesses acquired and administered by a nonprofit university, and those which are undergoing their acquisition process, via the nonprofit university. The results more efficiently and effectively produce and allocate the goods, services, amenities, knowledge, resources and opportunities of society to the public in a manner which reduces and eliminates the operating costs of society and the regular living expenses of the public, while maintaining and nurturing the social and economic order of society via the natural infrastructures and routines of nonprofit universities.
P35|Perfect Public Offering: A Process to Provide Complete Ownership & Direction of Businesses to the Entire Public|A process for a business to exclusively and completely sell its shares to a 501(c)3 charity to transfer full ownership & direction of the business to the entire public. Nonprofit universities are charities well positioned to completely own & operate businesses: to produce and allocate their goods and services to society efficiently, effectively and in harmony with the best interests of the entire public, especially when employees of acquired businesses become faculty of the university; When work becomes education in motion; When operating costs of the university and the acquired businesses are subsidized by the goods, services, amenities, and processes of the university and the businesses it acquires; And when socioeconomic order is naturally regulated via the infrastructures of universities. The social and economic efficiency and effectiveness of businesses completely owned and operated by nonprofit universities induce logic and peer-pressures which encourage global assimilation. The mechanism relies on an iterated prisoner’s dilemma scenario established amongst all businesses, created by global externalities produced from the localized interactions of an initial group of businesses being completely acquired by a nonprofit university, which uses an internet platform to localize their social and economic information and activities to help concentrate public understanding, trust and support to itself and the businesses, which initially join to benefit being first within their industry to be acquired. [1] The result, efficiently and effectively produces and allocates goods, services, knowledge, resources, jobs, and opportunities amongst society; Establishes Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs; And naturally resolves many socioeconomic issues.
P35|Polarization and the Middle Class in China: a Non-Parametric Evaluation Using CHNS and CHIP Data|The record economic growth of PRC since the 1990s has been accompanied by an increase in both income inequalities and polarization. We employ Relative Distribution tools (Handcock and Morris, 1998) on different datasets in order to provide a detailed analysis of Chinese income distribution during the last decade. The main result shows a hollowing out of the mid-range deciles with a corresponding fattening of the highest ones. Thus the analysis confirms the hollowing out---or perhaps even a prevention of the rise---of the middle class in PRC. Analyzing further the “pure distribution” effect (i.e., depurated by the growth one), we find that this typical polarization profile emerged mainly in the last decade. This findings can be explained by noting that the (negative) “pure distributional” effect has been, to some extent, mitigated by the impressive GDP growth. In other words, the growth effect considered without noticing the changes in the shape of distribution effect---i.e.---the shape effect--- hides distributive changes that materially occurred in the 1990s and in the 21st century so far. We need to take both growth effects and shape effects over time into consideration for a proper political economic assessment of Chinese economic performance. As growth slows, unless countervailing policies are undertaken, polarization will reveal itself more sharply. Given the existing inequalities, increasing polarization would seem to imply that distributional and related conflicts are likely in PRC. Policies to counteract these tendencies must be anti-polarization policies along with those of relatively more egalitarian growth.
P35|The Fiscal Policy in the EU States from Central and Eastern Europe|The fiscal reforms in most of the Member States are different, oscillating between the implementation of their own fiscal policies, by increasing or reducing fiscal tasks and the process of implementing the fiscal European policy according to the EU taxations or recommendations both on the level of the tax payers but also on the level of the public decisive actors. In this article we identified a wide variety of fiscal strategies in countries which generated the crisis: some of them increased the consumption taxes while others introduced an increase in the tax on profit but also new solutions. In this article we carried out a comparative analysis of the evolution of the types of taxes in the ECC countries but also their efficiency.
P35|Determinants of corruption: Can we put all countries in the same basket?|This paper aims to study the determinants of corruption by examining specificities relating to the region and the level of economic development. Starting from a cross-sectional study on 130 countries, we rely on the Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) approach to address the issue of model uncertainty and identify the key determinants of corruption according to the level of development and the region.Our results highlight the need for specific remedies in the fight against corruption given the regional, sociocultural, economic and institutional specificities. Indeed, the key determinants of corruption in sub-Saharan Africa are not the most relevant in the East Asia and Pacific region. Similarly, the most important determinants in developed countries are not the most worrying in developing countries.
P35|Assessment of State Services Quality and Availability in the Socio-cultural Sphere|The relevance of the presented research is caused by distribution of independent tools to assess public administration of the socio-cultural sphere by public nongovernmental organizations and scientific institutes. The objective of the paper is to develop a technique to assess quality and availability of state services in the socio-cultural sphere as components of public administration. An institutional approach has become a leading one; it allows to consider state services quality and availability assessment in the socio-cultural sphere as a complex indicator of the content quality of a resulting effect and quality of services obtained; it is also connected with the comfort of service rendering and their availability for consumers. The elaborated technique of state services quality and availability assessment in the socio-cultural sphere includes the following criteria: The level of state services quality; the level of state services availability; the level of trust that consumers have in service providers. The technique is directed to identify effective measures to provide consumers with available and high-quality state services in the socio-cultural sphere rendered by state bodies and their departments according to the results of a calendar year.
P35|The Model of Self-realization Readiness Formation of Research Universities Students in the Process of Civic Education|The relevance of the study is reasoned by the demand for professionals who are not only competitive in the labor market, but also possess civil position, ready for self-realization and construction of their own life in the flow of social transformation. The purpose of the article is to develop a knowledgeactivities-model of readiness formation to self-realization of research universities students in the process of civic education. The leading method is the method of modeling, allowing consider the problem of research as a purposeful process of students’ focus formation to choose the social role and civic position in the social and economic relations on the basis of understanding of their goals in life. The structure of the developed model includes a target (goal, objectives), methodological (the principles of integration, a participatory, continuity, multiculturalism), content (cognitive-oriented, project-case, civil-activities methods), organizational and procedural (including in educational content of educational material on the theory and practice of civil society; formation of information-event-learning environment; the development of teachers’ methodological culture) and result (search activity, commitment and perseverance in achieving objectives, industriousness, readiness for independent decisions in a situation of choice, the responsibility for the choice of means to achieve the goal, awareness of their rights and obligations, duty and civic reliability) components. The model suggests the development of students’ moral, legal and political focus based on personal-significant actions and it is also of practical value for teachers of research universities.
P35|Dynamics of Political Budget Cycle|Abstract The strategic manipulation of fiscal policy in the context of winning elections is a hotly debated issue in economics and political economy. This paper is a theoretical analysis of the manipulation of fiscal policy by an electorally motivated incumbent politician who derives utility from voting support and dis-utility from primary deficit. The incumbent could be one of the following two types: opportunistic or partisan. Using the method of optimal control, the paper derives the equilibrium time paths of both voting support and primary deficit by the incumbent in a dynamic model of finite time horizon under complete information. The level of voting support obtained in case of both types of incumbents is found to be positive and rising over time. Thus, the opportunistic and partisan budgetary cycles follow a similar time pattern, although the cyclicality in case of former is more pronounced than in case of latter in the period closer to the election year. Besides, an opportunistic incumbent is more likely to face rejection when there is sufficiently strong anti-incumbency. Thus, in case of anti-incumbency with opportunism, primary deficit and voting support fall over time. An opportunistic incumbent is also likely to find it costlier to run a primary deficit higher than a specified threshold level than a partisan one. This implies that per unit votes garnered by raising the primary deficit in excess of the threshold level are lower when the incumbent is opportunistic than when she/he is partisan. Numerical simulations corroborate these analytical results.
P35|Output effects of fiscal stimulus in Central and Eastern European countries| In spite of the rapidly growing research on fiscal multipliers over recent years, little evidence has been so far accumulated in developing and emerging economies. This paper investigates the nature and the size of fiscal multipliers in Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries. Unlike most of the existing literature, we draw upon a panel vector error correction model, which appropriately captures the common long-term path of CEE countries, while allowing for different short-run dynamics, in an integrated setup. Our main results show that the spending multiplier is positive, but low on average. Moreover, its sign, significance and magnitude vary across CEE. Finally, both impulse and cumulative fiscal multipliers are sensitive to a wide range of CEE characteristics, including the exchange rate regime, the level of economic development, the fiscal stance and the openness degree.
P35|Leader Networks and Transaction Costs: A Chinese Experiment in Interjurisdictional Contracting|Do leader networks promote efficient intergovernmental contracts? We examine a groundbreaking policy in China where subprovincial governments freely traded land conversion quotas, and investigate the role of leader networks on the boundary between jurisdictions that embrace trade versus autarky. Consistent with the presence of Williamsonian transaction costs featuring uncertainty, incomplete contracting, and asset specificity, we find that leader career networks facilitate trade, controlling for institutional similarity and prior trade relations. However, trade gains can be limited if leader networks offer selective coverage. Using data from the Chinese experiment, we find evidence consistent with trade match distortions induced by leader networks.
P35|The unsustainable welfare state: the Spanish case|The debate on social policy and the welfare state is gaining strength from very different fields. The economic crisis has brought a deep economic recession, public deficit and high unemployment rates that has called into question the viability of the euro zone. The Welfare State has grown to become a concern for the overall economy. A new challenge is presented to the economy at the dawn of the twenty-first century: the ability to collaborate with the implementation of state enabler in Europe while being able to produce work from welfare services in an efficient and sustainable way. To ensure the sustainability of welfare services is necessary to apply the criteria of the market management model. Because of that, the third sector organizations such as non-profit entities, cooperatives, foundations, etc., should take the lead.
P35|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P35|Economic Transition in Algeria: A Review in Wake of the Recent Oil Crisis|The sudden and sharp fall in oil prices, in the summer of 2014, triggered a new debate about the ?bleak future? that awaits Algeria. Many asked whether the country would experience another economic and political crisis similar to that of the 1980s. In the ongoing debate, some blame the failure of the state for not having a clear and conscience economic policy to deal with this multidimensional crisis, while others refer to the inadequacies of the reforms put in place for the country?s transition from socialism to a market economy as the cause of the crisis. Proponents of the economic argument, see the recent crisis in Algeria as a manifestation of the contradiction between the accumulated wealth and the dire economic situation that the country periodically finds itself in because of the instability of oil prices. Political views, on the other hand, differ according to political affiliations, however most political parties call for a ?smooth transition? in order to enhance the existing democratic practices and put the country?s economy on the ?right truck.?This paper will not try to foresee Algeria?s near future, but rather to look back at the experience of the country in terms of (1) the economic and political conditions under which the country made its transition from ?socialism? to ?market socialism?, then its struggle to make the transition from ?market socialism? to a ?market economy?, (2) the reform programs that were deemed necessary to make these transitions, and (3) the economic and political dynamics behind the failure of these reforms that many hoped they would help Algeria to become industrialized nation in the 1980s and an emergent country in the first decade of this century.
P35|Networked Leaders in the Shadow of the Market – A Chinese Experiment in Allocating Land Conversion Rights| Concerns over the loss of cultivated land in China have motivated a system of centrally mandated annual land use quotas effective from provincial down to township levels. To facilitate efficient land allocation, a ground-breaking policy in the Zhejiang Province permitted sub-provincial units to trade land conversion quotas. We theoretically model and empirically estimate the drivers of local government participation in this program to shed light more broadly on the drivers of local government decision-making. We find robust support for three sets of factors at the sub-provincial level: market forces, administrative autonomy, and prior network connections of local government leaders.
P35|Balancing act: Economic incentives, administrative restrictions, and urban land expansion in China|We examine how the system of “federalism, Chinese style” functions in the context of land allocation. China's land laws give provision of land a central role in local officials' growth promotion strategies. Requisitions of farmland by local authorities have engendered significant rural unrest. In response, the central government has attempted to re-establish control over the pace of urban land expansion by enacting regulations limiting conversion of rural land to urban uses. We derive theoretically the conditions under which non-compliance with such regulations is optimal. An econometric investigation shows that legal restrictions on farmland conversion had little or no effect on rates of farmland loss but did limit urban spatial growth. Our econometric evidence is consistent with limited enforcement of those legal limits on farmland conversion.
P35|Rail access and subjective well-being: Evidence from quality of life surveys|The development of rail transit infrastructure is a key policy focus—particularly in countries like China, which have experienced fast urbanisation over the past decade. This paper uses unique data and innovative methods to explore the perceived satisfaction impacts of transport improvements at a very detailed geographical scale. The results quantify new evidence on the links between rail access and perceived satisfaction measures with respect to different dimensions of living environment. The empirical evidence suggests that rail access is significantly valued by households and that these subjective valuations are not distributed evenly across space or social groups. The results also reinforce the impression that changes in perceived satisfaction measures might be reflected in changes in housing demand so in some way may be capitalized into local real estate markets.
P35|The Effect of Public Pension Wealth on Saving and Expenditure|This paper examines the degree of substitution between public pension wealth and private saving by studying Poland's 1999 pension reform. The analysis identifies the effect of pension wealth on private saving using cohort-by-time variation in pension wealth induced by the reform. The estimates, which are based on the 1997-2003 Polish Household Budget Surveys, show that 1 Polish zloty (PLN) less of pension wealth increases household saving by 0.3 PLN. Among highly educated households, pension wealth and private saving appear to be close substitutes.
P35|Global economic crisis and corruption|We study the effects of the 2008–2009 global economic crisis on the household experience of bribing public officials. The data come from the Life in Transition-2 survey, conducted in 2010 in 30 post-socialist economies of Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia. We find that households hit by crisis are more likely to bribe and, among people who bribe, crisis victims bribe a wider range of public officials than non-victims. The crisis victims are also more likely to pay bribes because public officials ask them to do so and less likely because of gratitude. The link between crisis and bribery is stronger in the poorest countries of the region. Our findings support the conjecture that public officials misuse sensitive information about crisis victims to inform bribe extortion decisions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P35|Technology and Governance: Enabling Participatory Democracy|Several factors and dimensions are taken into consideration which influences the definition and scope of e-governance. Here ‘e’ implies technology driven governance. By application of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) for the delivery of government services, exchange of information and services becomes efficient. Here exchange and flow of information takes place at three levels- 1) Government to consumer (G2C) 2) Government to business (G2B), and 3) Government to government (G2G) The perspective of e-governance is the “use of technologies that both help governing and have to be governed”. In order to understand debate and analyze the concept of e-governance and how its contours have changed, we first need to recognize e-democracy. It is a process and structures that encompass all forms of electronic interaction between the elected government and the citizenry. E-democracy as a concept and practice precedes participatory democracy which has been defined (Kramer, 1972) as that process that emphasizes broader participation in governance operation. Thus e-governance is conditioned on the fact that there exists a democratic political system and it involves a participatory framework of governance. This paper will look at the changing paradigm of e-governance through three broad questions- 1) Has ICT enabled civic engagement and initiated public opinion in this developing economy 2) Has it succeeded in reversing apparent defects in the electoral system 3) Has ICT lead to the spread of information from the state to the society
P35|Institutional Change and Economic Growth in Pakistan|This study attempts to isolate causes of institutional change and investigates the role it plays in achieving economic development. Institutional change is vital for sustainable economic growth but literature shows that related empirical evidence is limited. In this paper Multiple Indicators and Multiple Causes Model is employed. The results reveal that in case of Pakistan control of corruption, rule of law, privatization, liberalization, and voice accountability are the most important causes of institutional change. In addition to this export orientation also have a positive effect on institutional change whereas macroeconomic instability has a negative impact. Furthermore, there exists a significant positive relation between institutional change and economic development in Pakistan. The first section of the study provides an introduction, and section two provides relevant literature review. In section three methodology employed by the study is discussed. Section four presents results and discussion. Section five chalks out policy implications and concludes the study.
P35|Fiscal Decentralization and Inflation in Central and Eastern Europe|Theoretical conceptions offer ambiguous suggestions about the precise sign of the association between decentralization and inflation (positive or negative). Given the different channels in which decentralization affects macroeconomic stability, this relationship becomes a matter of empirical research. This paper provides empirical evidence on the association between decentralization and inflation on a panel of 11 former transition economies from Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) over the 1991-2011 period. The main findings from our empirical study suggest that decentralizing government activities in CEE countries is conducive with lower inflation rates. Also, we show that not only the extent of fiscal decentralization, but the composition of local revenue, too, matters for macroeconomic stability. Finally, we show that the relationship between fiscal decentralization and inflation is non-linear, i.e. initially, decentralization has favourable effects on macroeconomic stability, but above some threshold, these effects disappear. In these regards, the result from our study are consistent with several theoretical explanations: the commitment theory, the theory of continuity, and the theory of collective action.
P35|Tax shifts|Shifting taxes away from labour to tax bases which are considered least detrimental to growth remains a common policy recommendation from the European Commission and other international institutions. This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on the growth effects of tax shifts. It then takes stock of tax shifts in the EU Member States over the last years, giving a few examples of their implementation and of the hurdles Member tates have faced. Finally, it concludes on recent developments that may impact on the nature of future tax shifts
P35|Approaches Regarding the Public Administration Services, Part of the Tertiary Sector|The matter of services can be found more in the specialised literature and more frequently, particularly during the last half of the century- taking into account, on the one hand, the significant structural mutations that have been taking place in the economic activity, mutations which have led to a so-called tertiarization of the economy; and, on the other hand, the description of nowadays society as a society of services, after which followed the autonomization of its quaternary sector, with direct references to the scientific research74. The importance of public services is even bigger to society as long as the state and its administrative-territorial constituents appear as indispensable tools, meant to assure the life standards its citizens are not able to find in any other way. Thereby, when the state proposes itself to satisfy a need of society by means of its authorities, it ascertains the institution that is to satisfy this need, determines its competences and offers it the material, financial and human means that are needed to fulfill the ascertained goal.
P35|Financial Autonomy Of Local Government And Its Survival In Modern Constitutional System|"In modern political systems, in which increasingly speaks of the alienation of power from the people, ""local government undoubtedly plays a major role in the participation of citizens in public affairs, thus making an important corrective to direct democracy and factual inability of citizens to directly participate in making important decisions of general interest. The importance of local self-government evidenced by the fact that she's in almost all the states a constitutional category, as well as the laws in detail, and the Constitution in general, guaranteed its financial autonomy, in the broadest sense. But it is necessary to analyze how the financial autonomy of reality and realize how the sufficiency or insufficiency of the received income from autonomous and guaranteed sources affect the position and the survival of local government."
P35|The effectiveness of simple homogeneous commodity procurement under rigid govermental regulation: the case of granulated sugar procurement in Russia|In the 2000s the Russian government considered electronic auctions (e-auctions) as the best way to procure goods for public needs. In this paper we confirm this proposition using an empirical dataset of contracts for the procurement of granulated sugar in Russia in 2011. Our data shows that unit prices are higher in the case of long-term contracts. This result can be explained by the rigidity of public procurement regulations as Russian legislation allows only fixed price contracts. Under these conditions suppliers can participate in public procurement tenders for long-term contracts only if their price includes a “risk premium” covering additional expenses of the supplier in case of an unfavorable turn in the market. Our analysis shows that sugar prices in Russian public procurement are lower for contracts with higher volume. These results are in the line with conclusions of previous studies of public procurement in other countries. The influence of competition measured by the number of suppliers participating in the procurement procedure has a quadratic form. It means that the effect of a new participant is lower when number of competitors is higher and vice versa. Our analysis also shows that there are essential distinctions in the influence of the same factors on contract prices for competitive procedures and void auctions
P35|Does Participatory Budgeting Improve Decentralized Public Service Delivery?|This paper provides the first experimental evaluation of the participatory budgeting model showing that it increased public participation in the process of public decision making, increased local tax revenues collection, channeled larger fractions of public budgets to services stated as top priorities by citizens, and increased satisfaction levels with public services. These effects, however, were found only when the model was implemented in already-mature administratively and politically decentralized local governments. The findings highlight the importance of initial conditions with respect to the decentralization context for the success of participatory governance.
P35|Wealth transfer taxation: an empirical investigation|We present an empirical model of wealth transfer taxation in the revenue systems of the G7 countries—Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK, and the US—over the period from 1965 to 2009. Our model emphasizes the influences of population aging and of the stock of household wealth in an explanation of the past and likely future of this tax source. Simulations with the model using U.N. demographic projections and projections of household wealth suggest that even in France and Germany where reliance on wealth transfer taxation has been increasing for part of the period studied, wealth transfer taxes can be expected to wither away as population aging deepens over the next two decades. Our results indicate that recent tax designs that rely upon the taxation of wealth transfers to preserve equity in the face of declining taxation of capital incomes may be, in this respect, politically infeasible for the foreseeable future. We conclude by using the case of wealth transfer taxation to raise the general question of the extent to which the consistency of a proposed reform with expected political equilibria ought to play a role in the design of a normative policy blueprint. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
P35|Tax Reforms in the EU Member States Since the Turn of the New Century: Selected Observations|The aim of this paper is to discuss certain critical aspects of the tax reform process that has been taking place in the EU MS since the beginning of the new century. Two separate periods may be identified here. The first -from 2000 to 2011- witnessed very few tax reforms: according to the EU Commission itself, tax reforms were episodic, sparse and generally of a limited nature, To check this hypothesis, the present paper analyzes tax trends during the period 2000-2011, both at aggregate EU level and by disaggregating such trends into those pertaining to each EU MS. In the wake of the great economic crisis, there has been a broader process of tax reform in almost all EU Member Countries, albeit characterized by a reluctance to accept the tax reforms that the European Commission has been recommending to certain specific countries for a number of years now. The final, concluding issue dealt with briefly in this paper, is that of the various obstacles to tax reforms, starting from a recent OECD study of the matter.
P35|Mapping and Understanding Ethnic Disparities in Length of Schooling: The Case of Ningxia Autonomous Region, China|Disparities in length of schooling between the largest Muslim minority in China, the Hui, and the Han majority are investigated. We use household data collected in Ningxia autonomous region in 2007. It is found that compared with Han persons of the same age and gender, Hui persons have shorter educations with the exception of young and middle-aged urban males who have twelve years of schooling, on average. Particularly noteworthy is that as many as 45 percent of adult rural Hui females are not literate. Possible reasons for the shorter educations of Hui in many segments of the population are numerous. We show that the incentive to invest in length of schooling is smaller among Hui than Han as the association between education and income is weaker. We also report that Hui parents spend fewer resources on education than Han parents and that fewer years of schooling for Hui in the first generation helps to explain why Hui persons in the second generation have shorter educations.
P35|"From Theory to Practice of Economic Regulation: Ten Theses on the Draft ""Law on Culture"""|"Ohe paper proposes the concept of economic regulation in the sphere of culture, representing combination of four main institutions: institution of differentiated budget performance standards, that characterize the minimum share of spending on culture in the budgets of all levels that enforce to ensure compliance with state obligations to consumers of cultural goods and cultural workers; institution of individual budget allocations (""percentage philanthropy""), which provides a direct participation of citizens in budget allocation, choosing areas of spending of a small part of the state income tax; institution of marked taxes, providing a direct referral into the cultural sphere of revenues from specific taxes and fees; institute of endowment funds, allowing to accumulate revenues from marked taxes and individual budget allocations, in order to derive an increasing current income from the endowment going to support cultural activities in the form of competitive grant funding. The proposed system of economic regulation of cultural activities can be seen as a model for all kinds of patronized goods. With a certain adaptation to the specific conditions of the functioning of science, education and health care, it can be the basis for appropriate institutional reforms."
P35|Introductory Note|"This paper describes the situation, which resulted from reforms in those sectors, which produce, distribute, store and consume the patronized goods - scientific products, education, culture and health care - undoubtedly requiring budget funding. In this regard, the paper highlights the key challenges facing economic science, experiencing in the ""year of culture"" influx of different and not always well-founded recommendations."
P35|“The New Season of Chinese Economic Miracle” and its Challenges|The investment and export-driven economic model followed by Chinese governments after 1978 served very well their catching-up vision, but China’s unprecedented race to the top had its flaws and drawbacks, leading to negative externalities and multiple structural imbalances. The global economic crisis and the interventionist package implemented to countervail its impact triggered a host of unwanted, negative outcomes which further aggravated the imbalances of the Chinese economy and created some new ones. It therefore became more obvious than ever that the old economic model had reached its limits and it needed to be changed. This task rests with the new cabinet led by premier Li Keqiang who launched a blueprint of bold reforms, but their implementation will presumably meet the strong opposition of powerful vested interests. The paper looks at the structural imbalances of the Chinese economy, highlighting the needed rebalancing processes. It also looks at the reform blueprint designed by the new leadership, disclosing and discussing some of its main implementation challenges.
P35|Communication, Public Relations’ Pillar|This would affect the proper functioning of institutions, both parties feeling the need to succeed, to have recognition, inclusion, control, harmony. Communication maintains mutual cooperation and properly manages the various problems that may rise and create a proper climate conduct of the business.
P35|The impact of China's hukou restrictions on the aggregate national saving|This paper presents a model accounting for the impact of the Chinese rural-urban migration on the stock of aggregate saving and the skill composition of the urban labor force. The novel mechanism through which immigration affects labor-market outcomes is the availability of new loanable funds for investment, which also results in endogenous skill upgrading. Given their rural hukou, which determines their higher training costs in the city, migrants skip the financial costs of human capital or residential investment. As a result, they self select as net lenders, which reduces the equilibrium local interest rates and facilitates the investment mostly of new generations of urbanites. Consequently, the aggregate labor income of people with urban hukou increases with immigration.
P35|A Comparing Analysis of Gender Equality in Scandinavian States and Turkey|This paper examines the gender equality in four Scandinavian social democratic welfare states (Norway, Finland, Denmark, and Sweden) and Turkey by using a brief literature survey. Comparing gender equality between Scandinavian countries and Turkey is chosen because of distinct feature of gender egalitarian policies of former countries. There are a number of studies about gender equality in the literature, however the literature comparing of Turkey and Scandinavian has not been encountered, and therefore this paper aims to fill a gap in this area. For this aim, we compare Turkey with these countries in order to indicate Turkish case about gender equality. This paper is constituted from three main parts. The first one is about gender and welfare state theories, the second one is about the policies of Scandinavian countries and the third one is about Turkey.
P35|25 Jahre nach dem Mauerfall: Bilanz und Herausforderungen|Der Aufbau Ost scheint weitgehend abgeschlossen. Der IW-Einheitsindex, der sieben Indikatoren zur Ost-West-Angleichung umfasst, dokumentiert anhaltende, aber langsame Fortschritte. Die Infrastruktur der neuen Bundesländer ist gut ausgebaut, die Arbeitslosenquote ist im einstelligen Bereich angelangt und sinkt weiter. Die Wirtschaftsstruktur hat sich weiter an den westdeutschen Stand angenähert. Die Industrie trägt inzwischen über 17 Prozent zur Bruttowertschöpfung bei. Aber die Produktivität des eingesetzten Kapitals und der Arbeitskräfte bleibt hartnäckig hinter dem westdeutschen Wert zurück, obwohl die Investitionsbeihilfen die Wirtschaftsleistung befördert haben. Die Wirtschaftsleistung je Einwohner bleibt unter 70 Prozent des westdeutschen Niveaus und die Konvergenz stockt. Es fehlen Großunternehmen, Firmenzentralen und wirtschaftsstarke Ballungsräume.
P35|Religious Identity, Public Goods and Centralization: Evidence from Russian and Israeli Cities|In this paper, we analyze the effects of religious identity - defined both as personal identification with a religious tradition and institutional ideas on the provision of public goods - on attitudes toward central government. We explore whether citizens belonging to collectivist rather than individualist religious denominations are more likely to evaluate their central government positively. Moreover, we explore whether adherence to collectivist norms of economic and political organization leads to a positive evaluation of central government. Surveys were conducted in Russia and Israel as these countries provide a mosaic of three major world religions - Judaism, Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The information gathered also allows us to study whether attitudes towards religious institutions such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf, and the Greek-Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Israel are able to predict positive attitudes toward centralized forms of governance. We find strong support for the proposition that collectivist norms and an institutional religious identity enhance positive attitudes towards central government.
P35|Concentration of goods traffic in Spanish ports during the period 2000-2009|This paper has as object analyze the concentration of the big groups of goods dealt in the different Spanish ports during the period 2000 2009, indicating the most relevant economic aspects that have provoked that certain ports have increased or diminished the above mentioned concentration. The vulnerability that great number of ports present before the crisis, is intimately related to the lack of specialization in his facilities, for what a determinant factor to observing in order an improvement of the maritime and port traffic, is the need of specialization of the systems of maritime transport.
P35|Fiscal impact of privatization revisited: The role of tax revenues in transition economies|In contrast to earlier literature, this paper finds empirical evidence that privatization has deteriorated fiscal balances in transition economies. The investigation focuses on the role of tax revenues in explaining the fiscal impact of privatization, as it appears that tax revenue in many transition countries remained lackluster even after the adoption of several tax reforms in the last two decades, and no formal econometric assessment has been conducted of the extent to which privatization has affected tax revenues. Using panel data for 29 Eastern European and former Soviet Union countries, the analysis finds robust signs of a strong negative impact of privatization on different tax revenue sources. The paper also provides some empirical evidence favoring the early adoption of value-added taxes that appear to have contributed to government revenue recovery.
P35|Does democracy affect taxation and government spending? Evidence from developing countries|Focusing on developing countries in three geographical areas (South-East Asia, Latin America and European Union), we explore the relation between political variables and tax revenue, public spending and their structure. We build a new dataset for the 1990–2005 period with fiscal, political and socio-economic variables. Since democracy is a complex and multidimensional concept, we measure it using two variables, the political strength of democratic institutions, and the protection of civil liberties. We perform three sets of estimates: (i) cross-country pooled OLS regressions with region fixed effects, (ii) country fixed effects regressions and (iii) region specific regressions with country fixed effects. While the first model delivers some significant correlations between political variables and tax items, when controlling for country fixed effects we find that tax revenue and tax composition are in general not significantly correlated with the strength of democratic institutions and the protection of civil liberties. The only exceptions are indirect, trade and property taxes. A similar result applies to public spending, with the exception of defense expenditure. Overall, our findings cast some doubt on the exact public policy channels through which political institutions affect economic development.
P35|Social Fragmentation, Public Goods and Elections: Evidence from China|This study examines how the economic effects of elections in rural China depend on voter heterogeneity, for which we proxy with religious fractionalization. We first document religious composition and the introduction of village-level elections for a nearly nationally representative sample of over two hundred villages. Then, we examine the interaction effect of heterogeneity and the introduction of elections on village-government provision of public goods. The interaction effect is negative. We interpret this as evidence that voter heterogeneity constrains the potential benefits of elections for public goods provision.
P35|Will The Present Economic-Financial Crisis Cause The Expansion Of The Underground Economy?|This paper highlights the main features of the underground economy at the European level, laying the stress on Romania. The underground economy seems to have a major significance because important resources of the budget are “missed” by the state, with consequences for a decent standard of living and social peace. The data on such phenomena are recent and reveal Romania’s features in relation to the other EU member states. The presenteconomic context, determined by the economic-financial crisis, worsens these phenomena, which, in turn, worsens the crisis
P35|A History of the Swedish Pension System|This report provides an extensive overview of the history of the Swedish pension system. Starting with the implementation of the world's first universal public pension system in 1913, the report discusses the political as well as the economic background to each major public pension reform up until today. It presents the rules and the institutional details of these reforms and discuss their implications for retirement behavior, the general state of the economy and the political environment. Parallel to the development of the public pension system, a comprehensive and quite complex occupational pension system has emerged. This report describes the historical background and the institutional details of the four largest agreement-based occupational pension schemes in Sweden.
P35|Intergovernmental Fiscal Relationships in China: A Simple Model Based on the Nonsymmetric Nash Solution|We propose a new empirical approach to analyzing fiscal decentralization and apply it to Chinese intergovernmental fiscal relationships between the central government and provincial governments. In calculating budgetary revenue and expenditure shares, we include extra budgetary revenue and expenditure. We find that although an increase in either income inequality or real per capita GDP lowers local governments f bargaining power within the budgetary system, local governments can offset this by obtaining more bargaining power over extra budgetary expenditures. Another finding is that although urbanization increases provincial governments f budgetary revenues, it also restricts the scope for further budgetary expenditure.
P35|Институциональные Факторы Государственной Регуляторной Эффективности<BR>[Institutional factors of state regulatory efficiency]|Corruption as an institutional factor of the state regulatory efficiency is seen in disfunction of distributed decision-making system at the national level. The effectiveness of state power is determined by the development of non-discretionary decision-making mechanisms and institutional frameworks that limit officials' voluntarism by establishing clear criteria for evaluating their performance. Thus, there are two polar set of institutional factors of state regulatory efficiency: negative (corruption) and positive (institutions of social responsibility and social control).
P35|Religious identity, public goods and centralization: Evidence from Russian and Israeli cities|In this paper, we analyze the effects of religious identity - defined both as personal identification with a religious tradition and institutional ideas on the provision of public goods - on attitudes toward central government. We explore whether citizens belonging to collectivist rather than individualist religious denominations are more likely to evaluate their central government positively. Moreover, we explore whether adherence to collectivist norms of economic and political organization leads to a positive evaluation of central government. Surveys were conducted in Russia and Israel as these countries provide a mosaic of three major world religions - Judaism, Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The information gathered also allows us to study whether attitudes towards religious institutions such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf, and the Greek-Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Israel are able to predict positive attitudes toward centralized forms of governance. We find strong support for the proposition that collectivist norms and an institutional religious identity enhance positive attitudes towards central government.
P35|China's Unfinished State-owned Enterprise Reforms|This article discusses China’s incremental approach to SOE reform, the difficulties of continuing this approach as the need to make efficiency gains across all sectors of the economy becomes more acute, and future reform options and the challenges in carrying them out.
P35|Religious Identity, Public Goods and Centralization: Evidence from Russian and Israeli Cities|In this paper, we analyze the effects of religious identity – defined both as personal identification with a religious tradition and institutional ideas on the provision of public goods – on attitudes toward central government. We explore whether citizens belonging to collectivist rather than individualist religious denominations are more likely to evaluate their central government positively. Moreover, we explore whether adherence to collectivist norms of economic and political organization leads to a positive evaluation of central government. Surveys were conducted in Russia and Israel as these countries provide a mosaic of three major world religions – Judaism, Eastern Orthodoxy and Sunni Islam. The information gathered also allows us to study whether attitudes towards religious institutions such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem, the Jerusalem Islamic Waqf, and the Greek-Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem in Israel are able to predict positive attitudes toward centralized forms of governance. We find strong support for the proposition that collectivist norms and an institutional religious identity enhance positive attitudes towards central government.
P35|Does an Elected Leader Have Incentives to Provide Public Goods with Future Returns? –Evidence from China| This paper examines changes in the allocation of public funds between production related public goods (PRPGs) and labour augmenting public goods (LAPGs) once elected village leaders replaced an appointment system. We derive a two-period theoretical model in which the interest of appointed leaders in short economic development leads to allocate all public resources into PRPGs in the first period. In contrast, elected leaders have greater incentives to reflect the interest of electorates by allocating public resources to maximize their two-period revenues. The model predicts that elections lead to an increase in the provision level of LAPGs and a decrease in PRPGs in the first period, if the first-period allocation equilibrium of appointed leaders is away from the allocation mix in maximization of the two-period revenues. A panel dataset of 71 villages for the period of 1993-2000 is used to examine these two predictions. The results show that the elections increased the provision level of public health (LAPGs), but had no effects on irrigation facilities and paved roads (PRPGs).
P35|Subnational Taxation in Large Emerging Countries: BRIC Plus One|This paper reviews the evolution and current state of subnational taxation in five large emerging countries: Brazil, Russia, India, China, and Nigeria—BRIC plus one. As these case studies show, intergovernmental fiscal relations in any country are inevitably both path-dependent and context-sensitive. In India and Brazil, for example, subnational governments already have a significant degree of fiscal autonomy in being able to set some key tax rates. In both countries, however, substantial attention still must be paid to improving the general consumption taxes that are the main source of regional government revenues as well as the property taxes on which local governments mainly depend. Although Nigeria, like India and Brazil, is a federation, its fiscal system depends so heavily on oil revenues that almost all political attention has been focused on securing a bigger share of these revenues. Both China and Russia have made important changes in the direction of centralizing rather than decentralizing effective control over subnational taxes. In both countries, the key issue is the extent to which fiscal decentralization is to be accompanied by significant political decentralization. At present, in neither China nor Russia is it clear that the central authorities are willing to permit subnational governments much autonomy in this respect.
P35|The Gorbachev Anti-Alcohol Campaign and Russia’s Mortality Crisis|Political and economic transition is often blamed for Russia's 40% surge in deaths between 1990 and 1994. Highlighting that increases in mortality occurred primarily among alcohol-related causes and among working-age men (the heaviest drinkers), this paper investigates an alternative explanation: the demise of the 1985-1988 Gorbachev Anti-Alcohol Campaign. Using archival sources to build a new oblast-year data set spanning 1978-2000, we find a variety of evidence suggesting that the campaign's end explains a large share of the mortality crisis - implying that Russia's transition to capitalism and democracy was not as lethal as commonly suggested.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P35|El impuesto predial en Colombia:evolución reciente, comportamiento de las tarifas y potencial de recuado|En este documento se realizó una evaluación del comportamiento del recaudo y las tarifas del impuesto predial en el período de 1999 a 2002, tomando como referencia una muestra de 309 municipios. Con base en los resultados del estudio se puede considerar que los municipios del país tienen un potencial tributario importante, cuyo aprovechamiento no necesariamente requiere la introducción de grandes ajustes legislativos sobre la base y las tarifas del impuesto. Los resultados del trabajo permiten concluir que existe una gran dispersión entre los municipios en los niveles de tributación per cápita. También se encontró que en la mayoría de los municipios estudiados existe una brecha entre las tarifas nominales ponderadas y las efectivas (recaudo / avalúo catastral), que en muchos casos es significativa, lo que indicaría que existen serios problemas de gestión y administración tributaria, evasión, corrupción y violencia. Adicionalmente, se observó que las tarifas nominales son relativamente bajas, dado el amplio margen que les concede la ley a los concejos para su fijación. Finalmente, se pudo constatar que en la mayoría de los municipios del país existe un rezago en la actualización de los avalúos catastrales, que excede los cinco años establecidos por la ley.
P35|El impuesto predial en Colombia: evolución reciente, comportamiento de las tarifas y potencial de recaudo|En este documento se realizó una evaluación del comportamiento del recaudo y las tarifas del impuesto predial en el período de 1999 a 2002, tomando como referencia una muestra de 309 municipios. Con base en los resultados del estudio se puede considerar que los municipios del país tienen un potencial tributario importante, cuyo aprovechamiento no necesariamente requiere la introducción de grandes ajustes legislativos sobre la base y las tarifas del impuesto. Los resultados del trabajo permiten concluir que existe una gran dispersión entre los municipios en los niveles de tributación per cápita. También se encontró que en la mayoría de los municipios estudiados existe una brecha entre las tarifas nominales ponderadas y las efectivas (recaudo / avalúo catastral), que en muchos casos es significativa, lo que indicaría que existen serios problemas de gestión y administración tributaria, evasión, corrupción y violencia. Adicionalmente, se observó que las tarifas nominales son relativamente bajas, dado el amplio margen que les concede la ley a los concejos para su fijación. Finalmente, se pudo constatar que en la mayoría de los municipios del país existe un rezago en la actualización de los avalúos catastrales, que excede los cinco años establecidos por la ley.
P35|The generation and distribution of central bank seigniorage in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland|We measure the amount of central bank seigniorage generated in three economies in transition and inquire to what extent seigniorage ultimately accrues to the government. We relate our findings to the institutional environment of the three countries. We find that, in parallel to the process of disinflation, seigniorage has declined substantially in the 1990s in all three countries under consideration pointing to more monetary discipline and a strengthening of central bank independence. Only in Hungary seigniorage benefited the government to a significant amount. We interpret this as being the consequence of past policies, rather than an obstacle to further disinflation.
P35|The generation and distribution of central bank seigniorage in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland|We measure the amount of central bank seigniorage generated in three economies in transition and inquire to what extent seigniorage ultimately accrues to the government. We relate our findings to the institutional environment of the three countries. We find that, in parallel to the process of disinflation, seigniorage has declined substantially in the 1990s in all three countries under consideration pointing to more monetary discipline and a strengthening of central bank independence. Only in Hungary seigniorage benefited the government to a significant amount. We interpret this as being the consequence of past policies, rather than an obstacle to further disinflation.
