P36|Crude Awakening: Oil Prices and Bond Returns|Oil price changes fail to predict asset returns because they are too noisy. We construct an oil trend factor that fi lters out noise and provide evidence that it predicts bond risk premiums well. This result holds in developed and emerging markets, both in sample and out of sample. Notably, the oil trend factor improves predictions based on current term structure predictors, such as the first three principal components of yields and the Cochrane and Piazzesi (2005) factor. A puzzle emerging from our results is that oil price increases, which are generally thought to precede economic recessions, are in fact associated with subsequent lower bond returns. To solve this puzzle, we demonstrate that not all oil price shocks are alike: Although oil demand and supply shocks have opposite implications for economic activity and bond risk premiums, the oil trend factor is mainly related to demand shocks. Therefore, increases in the oil trend tend to signal a strong economy and lower bond returns.
P36|Economía del desarrollo en Colombia. análisis de las coincidencias entre el paradigma propuesto por Rubén D. Utria y el enfoque de Amartya sen en las instituciones y libertades instrumentales|El desarrollo es un fenómeno complejo y dinámico que se refiere al proceso de transformación y evolución de las instituciones y los sistemas por medio de los cuales los individuos de un país se relacionan tanto con sus compatriotas como con las personas del resto del mundo. El enfoque económico predominante ha relegado a un segundo plano el análisis de variables importantes para el estudio del desarrollo, como lo son: el nivel de escolaridad media, la calidad del aire, el nivel de desigualdad, el nivel de confianza, el riesgo político de corrupción dentro de entidades gubernamentales, entre otros. El presente ensayo busca, apoyándose en los aportes teóricos de Amartya Sen y Ruben Darío Utria, analizar el desarrollo en Colombia desde una perspectiva más completa que la ofrecida por la teoría económica tradicional, la cual ha confundido el desarrollo con crecimiento y ha tratado de cuantificar el nivel de desarrollo de los países por medio del Producto Interno Bruto (PIB) per cápita. *** Development is a complex and dynamic phenomenon that refers to the process of transformation and evolution of institutions and systems through which individuals in a country relate both to their compatriots and people in the rest of the world. The dominant economic approach has relegated to the background the analysis of essential variables for the study of development, such as the average level of schooling, air quality, level of inequality, consumer confidence, the political risk of corruption within government entities, among others. The present essay seeks, based on the theoretical contributions of Amartya Sen and Ruben Darío Utria, aims to analyze development in Colombia from a more complete perspective than that offered by traditional economic theory, which has confused development with growth and has tried to quantify the level of development of countries through the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita.
P36|Transition from plan to market, height and well-being|Using newly available data, we re-evaluate the impact of transition from plan to market in former communist countries on objective and subjective well-being. We find clear evidence of the high social cost of early transition reforms: cohorts born around the start of transition are shorter than their older or younger peers. The difference in height suggests that the first years of reforms in post-communist countries were accompanied by major deprivation. We provide suggestive evidence on the importance of three mechanisms which partially explain these results: the decline of GDP per capita, the deterioration of healthcare systems, and food scarcity. On the bright side, we find that cohorts that experienced transition in their infancy are now better educated and more satisfied with their lives than their counterparts. Taken together, our results imply that the transition process has been a traumatic experience, but that its negative impact has largely been overcome.
P36|Understanding the average impact of microcredit expansions: a Bayesian hierarchical analysis of seven randomized experiments|Despite evidence from multiple randomized evaluations of micro- credit, questions about external validity have impeded consensus on the results. I jointly estimate the average effect and the heterogeneity in effects across seven studies using Bayesian hierarchical models. I find the impact on household business and consumption variables is unlikely to be transformative and may be negligible. I find reasonable external validity: true heterogeneity in effects is moderate, and approximately 60 percent of observed heterogeneity is sampling variation. Households with previous business experience have larger but more heterogeneous effects. Economic features of microcredit interventions predict variation in effects better than studies’ evaluation protocols.
P36|現代中国における男女賃金格差: メタ分析による接近|本稿は，現代中国における男女賃金格差の真相に迫るべく，先行研究75点から抽出した629推定結果のメタ分析を試みた。その分析結果は，体制転換期における中国の男女賃金格差は，統計的に有意かつ経済的にも意味のある水準に達しているものの，資本主義先進諸国と比較すれば，相対的に低い水準に止まっていたことを明らかにした。しかし，同時に，同国では，都市部や国有企業部門よりも，農村部及び民間企業部門における賃金性差がより激しいという意味での，地域間・企業部門間格差が生じていることも合わせて判明した。更に，賃金の性別格差は，近年急激に拡大しており，この意味で，賃金水準から見た男女格差問題は，もはや先進諸国に比肩する程度の深刻度に達している可能性が高いと判断される。女性の社会進出を促進するために，中国政府は，性差別の解消に向けて，急ぎ適切な政策を打ち出す必要に迫られている。
P36|Catching up with the West: Chinese Pathways to the Global Middle Class|We investigate whether Chinese household incomes have caught up to those of the middle class in the developed world. Using nationwide survey data for 2002 and 2013, we find considerable catch up. Defining the global middle class as being neither poor nor rich in the developed world, we estimate that China's global middle class grew rapidly after 2002, reaching 250 million in 2013. We describe the characteristics of this middle class, which is predominately urban, in the eastern region, and wage-earning. A distinct business middle class exists but is relatively small. Analysis of the chances of attaining the middle class reveals the importance of an individual's circumstances at birth. Parents' education and occupation matter. Being born with an urban hukou provides a large advantage. For those born with a rural hukou, the most effective pathways to the middle class are migration and, if possible, obtaining an urban hukou.
P36|Materialism and Economic Progress|Most empirical studies on the impact of materialism have focused on its effects at the micro-level, such as on individual wellbeing. This paper explores one of the macroeconomic impacts of materialism: its relationship with economic progress. A new conceptualization of materialism based on self-identity construction is offered and used to hypothesize that materialism drives economic progress by encouraging consumption and innovation. This analysis is tested using a survey item from the World Values Survey as an index for materialism. The empirical results, based on a short panel of data covering 74 nations and two periods, provide sufficient support to the conclusion that materialism can be a positive force for economic progress.
P36|Do Social Enterprises Walk the Talk? Assessing Microfinance Performances with Mission Statements|We study mission drift in social enterprises by examining whether these organizations stick to the actual mission enshrined in their mission statements. We use data from microfinance organizations (MFOs), a homogeneous group of social enterprises which have been scrutinized—and sometimes criticized—for mission drift. We focus on three publicly recognized and non-mutually-exclusive microfinance social missions identified by previous studies: poverty alleviation, women's empowerment, and rural financial inclusion. Based on hand-collected data from 199 MFOs worldwide, our results suggest strong coherence between social missions and actual practices. Hence, we argue that, with respect to MFOs’ own stated social missions, mission drift is no serious concern. The trustworthiness of social mission statements makes them suitable evaluation tools for social enterprises.
P36|Wealth inequality in Central and Eastern Europe: evidence from joined household survey and rich lists’ data|We study how the problem of the ‘missing rich’, the underrepresentation of the wealthiest in household surveys, affects wealth inequality estimates for the post-socialist countries of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE). The survey data from the second wave of the Household Finance and Consumption Survey (HFCS) are joined with the data from the national rich lists for Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Poland and Slovakia. Pareto distribution is fitted to the joined survey and rich lists’ data to impute the missing observations for the largest wealth values. We provide the first estimates of the top-corrected wealth inequality for the CEE region in 2013/2014. Despite a short period of wealth accumulation during the post-1989 market economy period, our adjustment procedure reveals that wealth inequality in the Baltic countries is comparable to that of Germany (one of the most wealth unequal countries in Europe), while in Poland and Hungary it has reached levels observed in France or Spain. We discuss possible explanations of these findings with reference to the speed and range of privatization processes, extent of income inequality, and the role of inheritances and wealth taxes in the region.
P36|The Inter-generational Fertility Effect of an Abortion Ban: Understanding the Role of Inherited Wealth and Preferences|This paper studies to what extent banning first-generation women from aborting affected the fertility of second-generation individuals who did not face such legal constraint. Using multiple censuses from Romania, I follow men and women born around the 1966 Romanian abortion ban to study the demand for children over their life cycle. The empirical approach combines elements of the regressions discontinuity design and the Heckman's selection model. Results indicate that second-generation individuals whose mothers were affected by the ban had a significantly lower demand for children. One-third of such decline is explained by inherited socio-economic status and two-thirds presumably by preferences.
P36|The Returns from Training in Colombia: Evidence from a Longitudinal Survey|In this paper we explore the wage returns from training in Colombia, using data from the “The Social Longitudinal Survey” between 2009 and 2010. Using the longitudinal component of the data, we control for time invariant individuals’ unobserved heterogeneity and, following Wooldridge (1995), we correct for sample selection in panel data. Our results suggest that there is a positive return from training. The magnitude of the estimates suggests an increase in wages between 7% and 9%. We find that OLS overestimate the effects of receiving training. This suggests that individuals who receive training are the ones with high unobserved skills. We also find that trainees increase their probability of being continuously employed, suggesting an improvement in individuals’ working conditions. **** RESUMEN: Este documento explora los retornos de la capacitación para el trabajo en Colombia usando los datos de la Encuesta Longitudinal de Fedesarrollo entre 2009 y 2010. Los datos panel nos permite controlar por la heterogeneidad no observada de los individuos, que no cambia en el tiempo. Para controlar por el sesgo de selección, utilizamos la metodología de corrección propuesta en Wooldridge (1995). Los resultados sugieren que los retornos a la capacitación para el trabajo son positivos y significativos, entre el 7% y 9%. Adicionalmente, los resultados indican que la mayor capacitación incrementa la probabilidad de continuar empleado, sugiriendo una mejora en las condiciones laborales de los individuos.
P36|Math, girls and socialism|This paper argues that the socialist episode in East Germany, which constituted a radical experiment in gender equality in the labor market and other instances, has left persistent tracks on gender norms. We focus on one of the most resilient and pervasive gender gaps in modern societies: mathematics. Using the German division as a natural experiment, we show that the underperformance of girls in math is sharply reduced in the regions of the former GDR, in contrast with those of the former FRG. We show that this East–West difference is due to girls’ attitudes, confidence and competitiveness in math, and not to other confounding factors, such as the difference in economic conditions or teaching styles across the former political border. We also provide illustrative evidence that the gender gap in math is smaller in European countries that used to be part of the Soviet bloc, as opposed to the rest of Europe. The lesson is twofold: (1) a large part of the pervasive gender gap in math is due to social stereotypes; (2) institutions can durably modify these stereotypes.
P36|From Communism to Capitalism: Private versus Public Property and Inequality in China and Russia|This paper combines national accounts, survey, wealth, and fiscal data (including recently released tax data on high-income taxpayers) in order to provide consistent series on the accumulation and distribution of income and wealth in China and Russia over the 1978–2015 period. We contrast the different privatization strategies implemented in the two countries and observe their impacts on the evolution of inequality.
P36|Applying Generalized Pareto Curves to Inequality Analysis|A generalized Pareto curve is defined as the curve of inverted Pareto coefficients b(p), where b(p) is the ratio between average income or wealth above rank p and the p-th quantile. We present this concept and show how it can be used to better estimate distributions, especially from tax tabulations. By providing a simple decomposition of top shares, we discuss how studying inverted Pareto coefficients can improve the understanding of inequality dynamics. We also show how it helps to better analyze wealth and income concentrations along the distribution, using data for France, Spain, the United States, and China.
P36|Does It Matter When Your Smartest Peers Leave Your Class? Evidence from Hungary|Elite schools in Hungary cherry pick high achieving students from general primary schools. The geographical coverage of elite schools has remained unchanged since 1999, when the establishment of new elite schools stopped. We exploit this geographical variation in the immobile Hungarian society and estimate the impact of high achieving peers leaving the class on student achievement, behaviour, and aspirations for higher education. Our estimates indicate moderate but heterogeneous effects on those left behind in general primary schools.
P36|Investment in human capital in post-Soviet countries: Why are firms not training more?|Using STEP employer surveys data in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Ukraine, this paper investigates how innovation, openness to international business contacts, use of computer at work and skills shortages affect employer-provided training in post-Soviet countries. It examines different types of training (less formal on-the-job training along with more formal in-house and external training) provided to white-collar or blue-collar workers. After controlling for a range of firm characteristics, we find a positive link between technological innovation and intensity of training of all types provided to white-collar workers that points to the technology-skills complementarity. Besides, the level of computer use at work is a significant determinant of the incidence and intensity of external training provided to white-collar and blue-collar workers.
P36|Wage Inequality and Structural Change|Abstract Income inequality in the context of large structural change has received a lot of attention in the literature, but most studies relied on household post-transfer inequality measures. This study utilizes a novel and fairly comprehensive collection of micro data sets from between 1980’s and 2010 for both advanced market economies and economies undergoing transition from central planning to market based system. We show that wage inequality was initially lower in transition economies and immediately upon the change of the economic system surpassed the levels observed in advanced economies. We find a very weak link between structural change and wages in both advanced and post-transition economies, despite the predictions from skill-biased technological change literature. The decomposition of changes in wage inequality into a part attributable to changes in characteristics (mainly education) and a part attributable to changes in rewards does not yield any leading factors.
P36|Math, girls and socialism|This paper argues that the socialist episode in East Germany, which constituted a radical experiment in gender equality in the labor market and other instances, has left persistent tracks on gender norms. We focus on one of the most resilient and pervasive gender gaps in modern societies: mathematics. Using the German division as a natural experiment, we show that the underperformance of girls in math is sharply reduced in the regions of the former GDR, in contrast with those of the former FRG. We show that this East-West difference is due to girls' attitudes, confidence and competitiveness in math, and not to other confounding factors, such as the difference in economic conditions or teaching styles across the former political border. We also provide illustrative evidence that the gender gap in math is smaller in European countries that used to be part of the Soviet bloc, as opposed to the rest of Europe. The lesson is twofold: (1) a large part of the pervasive gender gap in math is due to social stereotypes; (2) institutions can durably modify these stereotypes.
P36|Minimum wages and the wage distribution in Estonia| Abstract: This article studies how changes in the statutory minimum wage have affected the wage distribution in Estonia, a post-transition country with little collective bargaining and relatively large wage inequality. The analyses show that the minimum wage has had substantial spillover effects on wages in the lower tail of the distribution; the effects are most pronounced up to the twentieth percentile and then decline markedly. The minimum wage has contributed to lower wage inequality and this has particularly benefitted low-wage segments of the labour market such as women and the elderly. Interestingly, the importance of the minimum wage for the wage distribution was smaller during the global financial crisis than before or after the crisis.
P36|Analysis Of Weaknesses Of Coastal Community Economy Empowerment Program (Pemp) And National Program Of Community Empowerment Of Independent Marine And Fisheries (Pnpm-Mkp) On Traditional Fishermen In Indonesia|Indonesia has an abundant fisheries resource. The potential has not been well this is marked by the small contribution of marine and fishery sector to the national income of only 14.7% of the total gross domestic product (GDP), compared to other countries. The dramatic phenomenon between the potential and utilization of marine resources implies to the predominant level of coastal communities who mostly work as fishermen at sea. In order to go to sea with a simple technology also with low human resources make the living standard of traditional fishermen may be categorized as poor. When compared to other farming groups in the agricultural sector, traditional fishermen are among the poorest. With an already many government empowerment programs, yet it has not managed to raise the standard of living for the traditional fishermen. The research is aimed to describe the implementation and weakness of Coastal Community Economy Empowerment Program (PEMP) and National Program of Community Empowerment of Independent Marine and Fisheries (PNPM-MKP) on the traditional fishermen of Percut Village, Percut Sei Tuan in North Sumatra, Indonesia. Type of research is descriptive with 10 traditional fishermen, the fishermen group committee and the marine and fisheries department’s officials. Data were collected by observation, in-depth interview and focus group discussion (FGD). The result of the study of socio-economic condition of traditional fishermen of Percut Village is badly seen from the indicators of housing and sanitation that are not suitable for healthy living, limited fishing equipment and over fishing catching areas.
P36|The Impact of a Negative Labor Demand Shock On Fertility - Evidence From the Fall of the Berlin Wall|How does a negative labor demand shock impact fertility? I analyze this question in the context of the East German fertility decline after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. I exploit differential pressure for restructuring across East German industries which led to unexpected, exogenous, and permanent changes to labor demand. I find that throughout the 1990s, women more severely impacted by the demand shock had relatively more children than their less-severely-impacted counterparts. Thus, the demand shock did not only depress the aggregate fertility level but also changed the composition of mothers. My paper shows that these two effects do not necessarily operate in the same direction.
P36|"The Distortionary Effects of Incentives in Government: Evidence from China's ""Death Ceiling"" Program"|"We study a 2004 program designed to motivate Chinese bureaucrats to reduce accidental deaths. Each province received a set of ""death ceilings"" that, if exceeded, would impede government officials' promotions. For each category of accidental deaths, we observe a sharp discontinuity in reported deaths at the ceiling, suggestive of manipulation. Provinces with safety incentives for municipal officials experienced larger declines in accidental deaths, suggesting complementarities between incentives at different levels of government. While realized accidental deaths predict the following year's ceiling, we observe no evidence that provinces manipulate deaths upward to avoid ratchet effects in the setting of death ceilings."
P36|The Evolution of China's One-Child Policy and Its Effects on Family Outcomes|In 1979, China introduced its unprecedented one-child policy, under which households exceeding the birth quota were penalized. However, estimating the effect of this policy on family outcomes turns out to be complicated. China had already enacted an aggressive family planning policy in the early 1970s, and its fertility rates had already dropped sharply before the enactment of the one-child policy. The one-child policy was also enacted at almost the same time as China's market-oriented economic reforms, which triggered several decades of rapid growth, which would also tend to reduce fertility rates. During the same period, a number of other developing countries in East Asia and around the world have also experienced sharp declines in fertility. Overall, finding defensible ways to identify the effect of China's one-child policy on family outcomes is a tremendous challenge. I expound the main empirical approaches to the identification of the effects of the one-child policy, with an emphasis on their underlying assumptions and limitations. I then turn to empirical results in the literature. I discuss the evidence concerning the effects of the one-child policy on fertility and how it might affect human capital investment in children. Finally I offer some new exploratory and preliminary estimates of the effects of the one-child policy on divorce, labor supply, and rural-to-urban migration.
P36|International Migration, Return Migration, and their Effects: A Comprehensive Review on the Romanian Case|Romanian migration is today one of the biggest, complex, and dynamic migration to Western Europe. This paper is a comprehensive review of the existing literature that aims at providing a full picture of this dynamic migratory process and discusses its far-reaching consequences. It first presents and characterizes the Romanian migration through the different phases during and after state socialism. The second part of the paper is dedicated to unfolding the socio-economic effects of the Romanian migration addressing the remitting behavior and its development over the past years. The issue of return migration is also addressed stressing that return is not much developed, however it has significant impacts through the emergence of returnees' entrepreneurship. Finally we address some of the consequences of the medical doctors' migration which is today considered one of the main migration challenges the country is facing.
P36|Capital flows and growth dynamics in Central and Eastern Europe|This paper assesses the importance of capital flows as measured by the current account balance for the growth dynamics of the EU countries from Central and Eastern Europe. Economic growth in these countries was on average relatively high before the global financial crisis but markedly lower after the crisis. Panel data econometrics using annual data for 1997â€“2015 points to the contemporaneous current account balance having a sizeable negative effect on annual GDP growth. Estimations using many control variables and instrumental variables suggest that the negative effect is mainly demand driven. Counterfactual simulations show that growth rates in all CEE countries would have been lower in the absence of capital flows, and this applies particularly to the countries with the most disadvantageous starting points.
P36|Is there poverty convergence?|"Martin Ravallion (""Why Don't We See Poverty Convergence?"" American Economic Review, 102(1): 504-23; 2012) presents evidence against the existence of proportionate convergence in global poverty rates despite convergence in household mean income levels and the link between income growth and poverty reduction. We show that heterogeneity in this link affects the evidence of poverty convergence and that this result depends on the sample selected, especially on the inclusion of transition economies with poorly measured low poverty incidences. Motivating the poverty convergence equation with an arguably superior semi-elasticity specification, we find robust evidence of convergence in absolute poverty rates."
P36|Infrastructural Development and Poverty Alleviation in Indonesia (Municipal Panel Data 2002 – 2013)|"""Objective – This study attempts to provide comprehensive findings on the impact of several kinds of infrastructural developments and government budgets on specific purposes, as well as agricultural and non-agricultural productions, on poverty alleviation in Indonesia between 2002-2013. Methodology/Technique – This study uses macroeconomic data at a municipal level to provide more precise findings when comparing provincial and national level data. The study uses an adaptation of the theory of international development. Findings – This research shows that electricity and sanitation are more effective at eradicating poverty than water infrastructure. In addition, household access to infrastructure is more effective in combatting poverty than the government budget for infrastructure development. The study also performs correlation matrices, dividing the data into the western and eastern parts of Indonesia, to provide more robust findings. Agricultural production is more effective in the western part of Indonesia, yet non-agricultural production is more relevant towards poverty reduction in the eastern part of Indonesia. Novelty – This study yields some empirical results and conclusions for economic development in Indonesia, finding that the key problem lies in the effectiveness of budget arrangement within the framework of fiscal decentralization."""
P36|Global Inequality Dynamics: New Findings from WID.world|This paper presents new findings on global inequality dynamics from the World Wealth and Income Database (WID.world), with particular emphasis on the contrast between the trends observed in the United States, China, France, and the United Kingdom. We observe rising top income and wealth shares in nearly all countries in recent decades. But the magnitude of the increase varies substantially, thereby suggesting that different country-specific policies and institutions matter considerably. Long-run wealth inequality dynamics appear to be highly unstable. We stress the need for more democratic transparency on income and wealth dynamics and better access to administrative and financial data.
P36|Is high inequality an issue in Poland?|In recent years, growing economic inequality has become one of the most debated social and economic problems in the world. Over the last three decades, most OECD countries have recorded a pronounced rise in income inequality. A number of researchers, politicians and economic commentators have suggested that the level of inequality has passed the tipping point beyond which economic growth may be weakened, social mobility limited, the social divide exacerbated and political power permanently concentrated in the hands of the wealthy. This paper analyses the multiple dimensions of economic inequality in Poland. Subsequent parts of the paper focus on: wage dispersion, income inequality, the evolution of wage dispersion and income inequality in Poland since 1989, wealth inequality, inequality of opportunity, relative poverty.
P36|Does religiosity explain economic outcomes?|Most religions in transition economies were marginalized by their former communist regimes. Today, some of these countries are experiencing a revival of religiosity, while others are prone to secularization. Religious norms affect individual decision making with respect to human capital investment, economic reforms, marital stability, employment, and other contexts. This implies that the interests of both religious and non-religious communities may differ and must be taken into account when designing and implementing economic policies, which is a challenge for policymakers.
P36|Curriculum and Ideology|We study the causal effect of school curricula on students’ political attitudes, exploiting a major textbook reform in China between 2004 and 2010. The sharp, staggered introduction of the new curriculum across provinces allows us to identify its causal effects. We examine government documents articulating desired consequences of the reform and identify changes in textbooks reflecting these aims. A survey we conducted reveals that the reform was often successful in shaping attitudes, while evidence on behavior is mixed. Studying the new curriculum led to more positive views of China’s governance, changed views on democracy, and increased skepticism toward free markets.
P36|Multidimensional Comparative Analysis of the Competitiveness of the European Union Countries’ Economies|The basic question we ask is, whether it is possible to talk in today’s globalizing world about the uniform of the competitiveness of the economies. Posing such questions is particularly important in the case of such political and economic structures such as the European Union. The strategic developmental objectives of the EU include the aspiration to harmonious development of all of its members but it is very difficult task. The competitiveness of the economies is now one of the most frequently discussed topics. It is very difficult to precisely define the notion of competitiveness unambiguously, particularly in terms of international competitiveness of economies. The competitiveness of economies can be discussed both in the context of : a) international competitive capacity, b) international current competitiveness or c) international competitive standing of national economy. In this work, due to the context of the conducted research (international comparisons of the EU countries’ economies) the competitiveness of international economies will be considered in terms of international competitive capacity with regard to investment attractiveness of a country. In addition to the problems associated with defining this concept they are also important dilemmas associated with the measurement of the competitiveness. In the performed comparative analyses of European economies the research results presented within reports of „Global Competitiveness Index” will be used. The aim of the work is multidimensional comparative analysis of the competitiveness of the European Union countries’ economies. In the work to study the spatial differentiation of the EU countries’ economies in the context of their competitiveness, the taxonomic measure of development based on median vector Weber has been used. As a result the classification and the typological groups of the EU countries obtained by means of the taxonomic measure of development calculated on the basis of the characteristics of their competitiveness arises.
P36|Edukacja jako dobro publiczne - próba kwantyfikacji<BR>[Education as a public good – an attempt at quantification]|The analysis involved the construction of synthetic measures of quantity and quality of public goods in education and synthetic measures of economic and social development. The synthetic measures were built using the Hellwig method. Taxonomic analyses were performed with respect to the quantity, quality and effectiveness of public goods at the local level in Poland. An attempt was made to determine the education production function in the Polish context. Analysis techniques also included multivariate analysis of variance, regression models for quality and effectiveness of education and multilevel analysis of regression.Drawing conclusions based on the methodology adopted in this study is certainly burdened with error due to the considerable level of aggregation of measures used for illustrating the existing dependencies. However, it should be noted that the analysis covered all local government units (poviats) responsible for upper-secondary school education in Poland. In the Polish political system, the units fulfil the state’s function related to the provision of public goods in education. The efforts undertaken by researchers worldwide to find the ways to improve the quality and effectiveness of educational processes have focused on modelling the education production function. The attempts made in this study to implement the education production function in the Polish context have confirmed the results of global research in this field. However, models constructed on the basis of literature data were characterised by low explanatory power, which prompted the author to search for new methods that use the findings of research on education production function in order to identify the factors shaping the quality of public goods in education and effectiveness of education. Econometric analyses have pointed to the inefficiency of the teacher remuneration system. The expenditure on teacher remuneration was negatively correlated with the measure of quality. The negative impact of teacher remuneration on the synthetic measure of quality may be indicative of the incorrect explanatory properties of the analysed econometric models.
P36|The Right to Money as the Fundamental Right of Individuals in the Coming Digital Economy|Poverty has been a common feature in all human societies since the dawn of civilization. Purchasing power of an individual decides her standard of living. In many cases, it even decides whether a person can live or not (eg: in starvation or malnourishment, victims have no purchasing power to buy calories). As such, the Right to Life philosophy of many National Constitutions comes to naught if the state cannot ensure adequate purchasing power for its people. Thus, an individual should have Right to Money in order to live with respect and dignity. In this paper, we will explore the concept of the Right to Money and how it is linked to the Right to Life. We will see how the Right to Money concept can ensure a continued economic expansion even in a scenario when automation has reached a critical point (i.e Technological Singularity). Right to Money can also ensure continued human dominance over Machine Intelligence as and when they arise. Interestingly the Right to Money leads to another advanced concept – The Right to Machines which will make certain that there is continued synergy between human and artificial intelligence in future and that the Human race stays relevant. The paper concludes as to how human society can be best prepared economically (or otherwise) for a Post-Technological Singularity scenario.
P36|Polarization and the Middle Class in China: a Non-Parametric Evaluation Using CHNS and CHIP Data|The record economic growth of PRC since the 1990s has been accompanied by an increase in both income inequalities and polarization. We employ Relative Distribution tools (Handcock and Morris, 1998) on different datasets in order to provide a detailed analysis of Chinese income distribution during the last decade. The main result shows a hollowing out of the mid-range deciles with a corresponding fattening of the highest ones. Thus the analysis confirms the hollowing out---or perhaps even a prevention of the rise---of the middle class in PRC. Analyzing further the “pure distribution” effect (i.e., depurated by the growth one), we find that this typical polarization profile emerged mainly in the last decade. This findings can be explained by noting that the (negative) “pure distributional” effect has been, to some extent, mitigated by the impressive GDP growth. In other words, the growth effect considered without noticing the changes in the shape of distribution effect---i.e.---the shape effect--- hides distributive changes that materially occurred in the 1990s and in the 21st century so far. We need to take both growth effects and shape effects over time into consideration for a proper political economic assessment of Chinese economic performance. As growth slows, unless countervailing policies are undertaken, polarization will reveal itself more sharply. Given the existing inequalities, increasing polarization would seem to imply that distributional and related conflicts are likely in PRC. Policies to counteract these tendencies must be anti-polarization policies along with those of relatively more egalitarian growth.
P36|Learn4Health, a European project creating health and food literacy through innovative interdisciplinary teaching and learning methods|Research documents what educators know: Healthy pupils and students are better prepared to learn (Kristjánsson et al., 2010; KL, 2015). This paper focuses on the thesis that innovative practical methods for learnings related to health and food issues create a rewarding educational experience for pupils and students while meeting academic standards in math, reading, science, social studies, art, music and more. For this reason and many more, we created Learn4Health, a project with interdisciplinary roots.Every day, in Universities across the globe, courses are being created to embrace blended learning approaches. Classes are now being developed with focus on more effective learning and better student outcomes (Jones, 2016). However, the concept of blended learning between higher educational institutions and public schools is relatively new. This paper outlines an exploratory study of blended learning initiated by Learn4Health, an Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership including twelve partners in total, representing 6 European countries (DK, ES, SI, NL, UK and LT). Each country is represented by one higher educational institution and one primary and/or secondary school.With point of departure in the globalized food systems consumers, especially children, being increasingly disconnected from understanding how and where their food is produced, the paper provides an overview of the development and expected implementation process of a new blended learning programme. The practical methods discussed are problem based learning, an experimental approach to learning involving hands on/learning by doing approach, and an ?open school? approach reaching out to local community enterprises and farms.Another Learn4Health key tool to be addressed in this paper is foodscapes, a multi-valenced concept centered around food environments. Finally, Learn4Health is about having fun and developing lifelong food literacy skills to understand the nature of food and our own impact as consumers and citizens on health status, environment, social and economic factors. Literacy is the cornerstone of the project, and we will thus discuss the concept?s relevance and impact on health in relation to Learn4Health.
P36|Effects of gender, age, research experience and leading role on academic productivity of Vietnamese researchers in the social sciences and humanities: exploring a 2008- 2017 Scopus dataset|Academic productivity has been studied by scholars all around the world for many years. However, in Vietnam, this topic has thus far been under-researched. This research therefore aims to better understand the correlations between gender, age, research experience, the leading role of corresponding authors and the total numbers of their publications, in the specific realm of social sciences. The study employs a Scopus dataset during 2008-2017, containing publication profiles of 410 Vietnamese researchers. Contrary to a range of previous studies, the results indicate that among accomplished social scientists, males have not been more productive or proficient than females with respect to academic publications (βmale = -0.179, p = 0.60). On the other hand, the proficient skills and broad vision of corresponding authors have proved to exert a rather strong influence on their sheer number of papers (ρ = 0.832). Older age and longer research time also contribute to more success in their academic careers (βage≥50 = 0.950, p
P36|The Organizational Justice of the Administrative Leaders and its Impact on Employees' Career Performance (A practical study on Baghdad for Economic Sciences and of Al-Ma'mun privet university colleges)|The aim of this study is to help us to know the degree of Organizational Justice practiced by the administrative leaders in Baghdad for Economic Sciences and of Al-Ma'mun privet university colleges in Baghdad and its relationship to the employees' work or Career Performance. In order to achieve this goal, the study will seek to answer the following questions: â€¢ What is the degree of Organizational Justice practiced by the administrative leaders in the discussed colleges from the employees' point of view? â€¢ What is level of work or Career Performance of employees from the point of view of their leaders? The study's society is formed from administrative leaders, heads of departments and discussed faculties. Researchers will use a questionnaire for data collection and it will include, the responder's demographic information, the measuring tool for the Organizational Justice practiced by the administrative leaders, the measurement of Career Performance of their employees. Study Tools has been verified by bringing it to the attention of the arbitrators of jurisdiction, and verification of the appropriateness of using the test method and the test. For answering the questions of the study researchers will use arithmetic averages, standard deviations and Pearson Linklabs.
P36|Social networks usage implications at the level of medical services consumption in Romania|The social networks usage degree increase is evident in recent years, this having implications for the consumption of the most types of products and services. A very special field of research is presented by the consumption of healthcare services, who, both in terms of consumption motivations, decisional buying process or consumer behavior is having peculiarities and specific traits. In this context, the present article aims to investigate the role that social networks use can have regarding changes within the consumer behavior in case of healthcare services consumption. In order to achieve the scientific endeavor, authors have conducted a quantitative marketing research as a field survey, using a questionnaire administered online to patients from different medical institutions, both from the public and private sector. The research results reveal key issues from the perspective of emotional involvement within consumption for the patients and the influence of key variables such as level of education, personality and lifestyle within social networks usage context.
P36|Income inequality and the Great Recession in Central and Eastern Europe|•This paper uses data from the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) to study changes in income inequality in Central and Eastern Europe during the Great Recession (2008–2012) and its determinants. Changes in inequality are decomposed using an Oaxaca-Blinder-like decomposition analysis based on the Recentered Influence Function (RIF) methodology, which allows splitting the overall change in inequality into endowment effects associated with changes in the distribution of inequality covariates and coefficient effects, which are related to changing returns to these covariates. Our results show that the Gini for disposable incomes has increased in a statistically significant way over 2008–2012 for Bulgaria, Estonia, Hungary and Slovenia. For most of the countries with significant increases in inequality, a falling full-time employment rate played the biggest role in explaining changes in inequality, accounting for about 50–60% of the Gini change for disposable incomes and about 60–80% of the Gini change for market incomes. The fall in the full-time employment rate had a smaller inequality-increasing effect for disposable incomes in Hungary (about 15% of the Gini increase). Increased part-time employment during the recession had either no impact on inequality or was rather inequality-decreasing. We did not find evidence that changes in the incidence of temporary jobs had any impact on income inequality.
P36|Diagnosing unhappiness dynamics: Evidence from Poland and Russia|This paper studies the determinants of changes in unhappiness rate (low happiness, poverty of happiness, misery) over time. We focus on two post-socialist countries, Poland and Russia, which experienced radical social and economic transformations since the collapse of communism. Using data from the Polish Social Diagnosis project for 1991-2015 and data from the Russian Longitudinal Monitoring Survey for 1994-2014, we investigate the microeconomic determinants of spectacular declines in unhappiness rates observed in the studied periods in Poland (a 56% fall in unhappiness) and Russia (a drop in the range from 46 to 75% depending on the unhappiness threshold chosen). Using a nonlinear decomposition methodology, we split the overall decreases in unhappiness rates into characteristics effects (related to the changing distribution of unhappiness-affecting factors) and coefficients effects (due to changing returns to the unhappiness-affecting factors). Our results show that unhappiness reductions in both countries were mostly driven by coefficient effects, while characteristics played a smaller, but a non-negligible role. In both countries, income growth accounted for about 15% of the total unhappiness reduction. In Russia, this effect was doubled by growing return to income as unhappiness-protecting factor, while in Poland income has been losing protecting power and in overall income had an unhappiness-increasing effect. For Russia, another strong unhappiness-protecting factor was return to employment. In case of Poland, good self-rated health and having children explains additional 15-20% of the unhappiness reduction.
P36|There is poverty convergence|"Martin Ravallion (""Why Don't We See Poverty Convergence?"" American Economic Review, 102(1): 504-23; 2012) presents evidence against the existence of convergence in global poverty rates despite convergence in household mean income levels and the close linkage between income growth and poverty reduction. We show that this finding is driven by a specification that demands more than simple convergence in poverty headcount rates and assumes a growth elasticity of poverty reduction, which is well-known to accelerate with low initial poverty levels. If we motivate the poverty convergence equation using an arguably superior growth semi-elasticity of poverty reduction, we find highly significant and robust evidence of convergence in absolute poverty headcount ratios and poverty gaps. Relatedly, we show that the results in Ravallion (2012) are driven by the special income growth and poverty dynamics in Central and Eastern European transition economies that started with low initial poverty rates and thus observed a high elasticity of poverty reduction. Once we control for their abnormal poverty dynamics, we again find robust evidence of global convergence in poverty, even in the original specification by Ravallion (2012). (authors' abstract)"
P36|There is poverty convergence|"Martin Ravallion (""Why Don't We See Poverty Convergence?"" American Economic Review, 102(1): 504-23; 2012) presents evidence against the existence of convergence in global poverty rates despite convergence in household mean income levels and the close linkage between income growth and poverty reduction. We show that this finding is driven by a specification that demands more than simple convergence in poverty headcount rates and assumes a growth elasticity of poverty reduction, which is well-known to accelerate with low initial poverty levels. If we motivate the poverty convergence equation using an arguably superior growth semi-elasticity of poverty reduction, we find highly significant and robust evidence of convergence in absolute poverty headcount ratios and poverty gaps. Relatedly, we show that the results in Ravallion (2012) are driven by the special income growth and poverty dynamics in Central and Eastern European transition economies that started with low initial poverty rates and thus observed a high elasticity of poverty reduction. Once we control for their abnormal poverty dynamics, we again find robust evidence of global convergence in poverty, even in the original specification by Ravallion (2012)."
P36|Foreign agents? Natural resources & the political economy of civil society|Resource-rich dictatorships are more inclined to repress civil society than others. In this paper, we identify a tradeoff between political rents from natural resources and the organizational density of civil society. This organizational density determines the extent to which citizens can threaten the dictator with a revolution. We find that, in the occurrence of a negative oil price shock, regime change becomes likely, whereas a positive oil shock increases the extractive capacity of the dictator. When a negative oil price shock occurs, the persecution of failed revolutionaries can prevent revolution if the probability of revolutionary success is already low ex-ante. Historical and contemporary illustrations are drawn from Iran, the Soviet Union/Russia and Egypt.
P36|War, Inflation, and Social Capital|"We use weekly data from 79 Russian regions to measure the impact of economic shocks and proximity to war in Ukraine on social capital in Russian regions. We proxy social capital by the relative intensity of internet searches for the most salient dimensions of pro-social behavior such as ""donate blood"", ""charity"", ""adopt a child"" etc. This measure of social capital is correlated with a survey-based measure of generalized social trust. Our search-based measure of social capital responds negatively to the spikes of inflation and positively to the intensity of the conflict in Ukraine (controlling for region and week fixed effects)."
P36|Russia's Billionaires|Using data collected by Forbes since the 1990s, I examine the emergence and survival of the super-wealthy in Russia over the past two decades and compare Russia's record to those of other countries. The major surge in the number of Russian billionaires came in the mid-2000s, mirroring the dynamic worldwide. While early billionaires were predominantly found in the oil, gas, metals, and banking sectors, the distribution has become more diverse, now including some in trade, real estate, chemicals, and information technology. Only a minority of today's Russian billionaires acquired significant assets in the privatization of the 1990s.
P36|Understanding the Changing Structure of Scientific Inquiry|The fall of the Iron Curtain led to an influx of new mathematical ideas into western science. We show that research teams grew disproportionately in size in subfields of mathematics in which the Soviets were strongest. This is consistent with the knowledge burden hypothesis that an outward shift in the knowledge frontier increases the returns to collaboration. We also report additional evidence consistent with this interpretation: (i) The effect is present in countries outside the United States and is not correlated with the local population of Soviet scholars, (ii) Researchers in Soviet-rich subfields disproportionately increased their level of specialization. (JEL I23, O31, O33, P36)
P36|Internal Labor Migration as a Shock Coping Strategy: Evidence from a Typhoon|We analyze how internal labor migration facilitates shock coping in rural economies. Employing high-precision satellite data, we identify objective variations in the inundations generated by a catastrophic typhoon in Vietnam and match them with household panel data before and after the shock. We find that, following a massive drop in income, households cope mainly through labor migration to urban areas. Households with settled migrants ex ante receive more remittances. Nonmigrant households react by sending new members away who then remit similar amounts than established migrants. This mechanism is most effective with long-distance migration, while local networks fail to provide insurance. (JEL J61, O15, P25, P36, Q54, R23)
P36|The Impact of Insurance Provision on Household Production and Financial Decisions|This paper uses a natural experiment to study the impact of an agricultural insurance program on household production, borrowing, and saving behavior. The empirical strategy includes difference-in-differences and triple difference estimations. The results show that insurance provision increases the insured crop production by 16 percent and raises borrowing by 29 percent. Interestingly, it does not affect total household savings; however, it does affect the relative proportion of flexible-term savings. Furthermore, effects on production and savings persist in the long run, while effects on borrowing are significant in only the medium run. Lastly, calibration results suggest that the policy is both welfare improving and cost-effective. (JEL D13, D14, G22, O16, P32, P36, Q12)
P36|BMI Growth Rates and the Nutrition Transition: The Role of Income, Inequality and Income Growth in Russia| This study analyzes the extent to which nutritional status in terms of weight change has been affected by the income distribution as the economy has grown. Is BMI growth different at different tails of the income distribution? Health and nutritional outcomes are not normally expected to be uniform across the income distribution and over time. Using recent individual level data from the Russia Longitudinal Monitoring Survey (RLMS) from 1994 to 2012, we scrutinize the influence of transitional processes, particularly economic transitions on nutritional and health outcomes. We test the hypothesis that the income gradient of individual body weight growth (i.e. the relationship between income and BMI growth) follows an inverted U-shape and thus changes its sign from positive to negative in the process of economic development. For the case of Russia, we could not find clear evidence that the income-BMI-growth gradient has already shifted. Turning points have not yet been reached. Expenditure increases have significant positive effects on BMI levels and on BMI growth rates. Better educated women have lower BMI levels than women with less than secondary education whereas men who completed tertiary education have higher BMI levels than men with less than secondary education.
P36|Evolución de las características socioeconómicas de los pescadores de Ciénaga, Magdalena|Esta investigación analiza la evolución socioeconómica de los pescadores artesanales del municipio de Ciénaga (Magdalena). La información fue recopilada mediante la realización de dos encuestas, una en el año 2011 (397) perteneciente a un proyecto interno de la Universidad del Magdalena y la otra en el periodo 2014 (199), que permitieron construir una base de datos con información social y económica de esta población objeto de estudio. Los resultados analizados demostraron que no hay grandes avances en la situación socioeconómica de los pescadores artesanales y su núcleo familiar, en el cual los diferentes módulos de las encuestas demostraron estancamientos y desmejora en los diversos niveles de educación alcanzados por los hijos y cónyuges de los encuestados, además un deterioro en la forma de eliminación de desechos porque existe un aumento en la cantidades de hogares que afirmaron que la queman o la vierten en el rio y la ciénaga.***This research analyzes the evolution of artisanal fishermen Economically the municipality of Ciénaga (Magdalena). The information was gathered by conducting two surveys, one in the year 2011 (397) Pertaining to UN internal Project Univerisdad the Magdalene and the other in the period 2014 (199), which allowed Build a database with social and Economic information esta study population . The analyzed results showed no hay great strides in socio-economic status of artisanal fishermen and in which the different modules of household surveys showed the stagnation and deterioration in the various levels of education attained by children and spouses of respondents also UN Deterioration in the way because there Waste Disposal UN Increased numbers of households who reported the burning of or discharged into the river and the swamp.
P36|Long-Lasting Effects of Socialist Education|Political regimes influence the content of education and criteria used to select and evaluate students.We study the impact of a socialist education on the likelihood of obtaining a college degree and on several labor market outcomes by exploiting the reorganization of the school system in East Germany after reunification. Our identification strategy uses cutoff birth dates for school enrollment that lead to variation in the length of exposure to the socialist education system within the same birth cohort. An additional year of socialist education decreases the probability of obtaining a college degree and affects longer-term labor market outcomes for men.
P36|Social Crisis, Terrorism and Food Poverty Dynamics: Evidence from Northern Nigeria|Food security has become an issue of global concern in the recent time. Nigeria, with her huge endowed natural and human resources is not spared. However, food poverty in Northern Nigeria has come under threats since the emergence of series of attacks by a terrorist sect called ‘Boko Haram’ (BH). Since the emergence of the BH activities in Nigeria, sectors with direct impact on the wellbeing of the people has been negatively affected. The aim of this paper is therefore to examine the various ways in which the activities of BH have threatened food security and worsens food poverty in Northern zones (North West, North Central and North East) of Nigeria where the sects are dominating and imposing demeaning menace using 2010 Nigerian Living Standard Survey (NLSS) data. The data is analyzed using descriptive statistics and ordered probit. The study used mean food per capita expenditure to generate the poverty line and ordered the households into three categories; food poor, moderately food poor and food non poor. The estimate revealed that the mean food per capita expenditure (annually) was ?25524.36 ($128.23) 1. The study further established that 84.85% of the households in northern Nigeria are food poor in which majority are rural households, male headed households and uneducated households. Furthermore, the study found that the activities of the sect have negatively impacted the wellbeing of the northern Nigerians and increases food poverty extremely. However, interventions such as donations from foreign organizations such as UNICEF, WHO, World Bank etc. were found to improve the food security and reduce food poverty of the northerners. Therefore, this study recommends increasing intervention effort by the Nigerian government and the international community in curbing the menace of “BH.” Also, state government and other stakeholders including non-governmental organization should boost awareness on productive opportunities for the unemployed women and youths; and establishment of training/development centers for the uneducated.
P36|Exploring the Role of Problem-Based Learning in Developing Conflict Resolving and other Soft Skills - A Quasi-Experimental Study|Problem-based learning (PBL) is widely regarded as a successful and innovative method of instruction for skills development in the recent decades. This empirical study therefore, intends to explore the perception of employees and assess the impact of 3 days PBL approach based training on the soft skills and traits of employees. A mixed method research approach was used for the study; the data for the study therefore, emerged from the semi- structured interviews, 53 items based survey, and observation of the training process. The employees belonging to the three development organizations from the area of Islamabad and Peshawar in Pakistan served as the sample of the study. Interviews and observation were transcribed and analyzed through thematic analysis while the data from the survey was processed in SPSS. The Findings from this study reveal the significant role of PBL in generating conflict resolving skills and other soft skills in employees
P36|Buying versus renting – Determinants of the net present value of home ownership for individual households|The tenure decision upon whether to buy or to rent accommodation has long-term consequences for households' financial wellbeing that influence macroeconomic development and stability when the cumulative effects of individual decisions are aggregated across populations. The author explains how the net present value (NPV) of ownership versus renting can be used as a framework for informing housing tenure decisions. Increases in holding periods, inflation and the spread between imputed rent and the opportunity cost of household savings shifts the balance in favour of ownership. With plausible assumptions the model demonstrates that households typically need a holding period of between five and ten years to achieve a breakeven NPV. The findings support the conjecture that inflation transfers wealth from renters and mortgage providers to owners, whereas deflation reverses the flow until rising default levels establish a new equilibrium.
P36|How much should we trust life satisfaction data? Evidence from the Life in Transition Survey|We analyse responses to two similar life satisfaction questions asked at different points in the same wave of a major cross-country household survey covering the transition region, Turkey and five Western European countries. We show that while the answers to the two questions are broadly consistent for most people, the responses for some groups differ significantly. Respondents of a lower socio-economic status and with a more favourable parental background show systematically higher levels of self-reported satisfaction in the later question. We also find evidence that responses to the later question are influenced by preceding questions on social capital. Our results have important implications for the design and length of household surveys that contain subjective questions.
P36|Public infrastructure, location of private schools and primary school attainment in an emerging economy|The paper argues that access to public infrastructure plays a crucial role on the presence of private schools in a community, as it could not only minimise the cost of production, but also ensure a high return to private investment. Results using community, school and child/household-level PROBE survey data from five north Indian states provide some support to this central hypothesis: even after controlling for all other factors, access to village infrastructural facilities is associated with a higher likelihood of having a private school in the community. This is also corroborated by an analysis of household demand for private schools. The paper concludes by examining the effect of private school presence on year 5 pass rates: while all-school pass rates are significantly higher in villages with a private school, private school presence fails to have significant effect on local state school pass rates.
P36|The Path Dependency of Poverty Reduction Policies|"The evolutionary paths followed by poverty reduction policies in the advanced and in the developing countries have been quite different. The paper endorses the view whereby the higher is the initial level of income inequality in a country, the less the subsequent GDP growth is bound to ""trickle down"" to the poor. Due to the perverse interplay between growth, income inequality and inequality of opportunity, the tight correlation between material and non-material conditions of life often prevents low-income countries to reduce the size and the intensity of poverty. After the low-income countries’ involvement in globalization, the construction of indices of multidimensional poverty is taken as decisive by international organizations to carefully design anti-poverty aid policies by taking into account the specific characteristics of the area of intervention."
P36|Math, Girls and Socialism|This paper argues that the socialist episode in East Germany, which constituted a radical experiment in gender equality in the labor market and other instances, has left persistent tracks on gender norms. We focus on one of the most resilient and pervasive gender gaps in modern societies: mathematics. Using the German division as a natural experiment, we show that the underperformance of girls in math is sharply reduced in the regions of the former GDR, in contrast with those of the former FRG. We show that this East-West difference is due to girls' attitudes, confidence and competitiveness in math, and not to other confounding factors, such as the difference in economic conditions or teaching styles across the former political border. We also provide illustrative evidence that the gender gap in math is smaller in European countries that used to be part of the Soviet bloc, as opposed to the rest of Europe. The lesson is twofold: (1) a large part of the pervasive gender gap in math is due to social stereotypes; (2) institutions can durably modify these stereotypes.
P36|The Economics of Healthy Ageing in China|Healthy ageing is a challenge for many countries with significant shares of elderly people. Literature refers to China's ageing population as a ticking time bomb which paradoxically is both a challenge and an opportunity for the country. Health is considered an important determinant of economic growth and competitiveness. The health of the elderly population determines its need for resources and care. Thus, investing in healthy ageing contributes to economic and social well-being. This study is a review of literature on the social and economic aspects of healthy ageing. It summarizes alternative approaches presented in literature to ease pressures of a rapidly growing ageing population. The main focus is on strategies for healthy ageing, policy practices and measures, organization, finances and manpower resources to promote healthy ageing in China. Up-to-date theories and methods applied to household surveys and population statistics are used to quantify the problem, resource requirements and estimating the social and economic benefits of having policies and measures for healthy ageing. Conclusions are drawn with respect to conditions of healthy ageing in China and about the state policy in this regard.
P36|戦後期ロシアの非公式経済成長：歴史統計，1960－1990|本稿では，機密解除されたアーカイブ家計調査資料（「ロシア国立経済文書館」所蔵）を活用し，戦後期ロシアの非公式経済を家計面から検証した．さらに，非公式経済の規模推計に基づき，ロシアGDP歴史統計を支出面から再評価した．公式・非公式GDPの再推計は次の点を明らかにしている．第1に，既存GDP推計において非公式GDPが適切に考慮されなかったため，1960－90年のロシア経済の規模が期間平均で6.5％～12.6％過小評価されていた．第2に，非公式GDPの名目シェアは趨勢的な縮小傾向を示した．第3に，非公式経済を考慮した場合，ロシアの実質経済成長は下方修正される．1961年を基準とするロシアの実質経済成長は，ソ連崩壊直前の1990年において15～39ポイント低下する．これは年率0.24～0.38％の成長率の低下に相当する．以上は，推計起点の名目GDPが最も過小評価されていること，名目・非公式GDPシェアが趨勢的に縮小したこと，そして，価格が計画的・硬直的に設定された公式経済部門よりも，より柔軟な価格調整機能を有する非公式経済において，価格上昇が著しいことに起因する．公式経済における不足は価格調整を伴わず，それが非公式経済に転嫁されたため，非公式経済成長は鈍化した．
P36|The Impact of a Negative Labor Demand Shock on Fertility - Evidence from the Fall of the Berlin Wall|How does a negative labor demand shock impact individual-level fertility? I analyze this question in the context of the East German fertility decline after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. Exploiting di erential pressure for restructuring across industries, I nd that throughout the 1990s, women more severely impacted by the demand shock had more children on average than their counterparts who were less severely impacted. I argue that in uncertain economic circumstances, women with relatively more favorable labor market outcomes postpone childbearing in order not to put their labor market situations at further risk. This mechanism is relevant for all quali cation groups, including high-skilled women. There is some evidence for an impact on completed fertility.
P36|México: un país que no se mueve. Un análisis de movilidad social a partir de un enfoque de clases./ Mexico: a country that does not move. An analysis of social mobility from of a class approach|El presente estudio plantea un análisis de movilidad social a partir del análisis de trayectorias de clase. La estructura de la sociedad mexicana, agrupada en clases, muestra poca movilidad social. No sólo no muestra fluidez en términos de la movilidad vertical (entre clases), sino que las distancias relativas en los niveles de vida entre clases, se mantienen en el tiempo. El presente artículo muestra evidencia de que la movilidad social inter e intrageneracionales por clase, se encuentran intrínsecamente relacionadas. La clase social a la que pertenece dirige el destino de las vidas de los individuos más de lo que la voluntad individual quisiera en otro sentido. Origen se convierte en destino y las condiciones de vida de las personas dependen, por tanto, de dos condiciones: pertenencia a una clase y, lugar que se ocupa en la distribución de los recursos entre las diversas clases y grupos sociales./ This study presents an analysis of social mobility considering a class path analysis. The structure of Mexican society, grouped into classes, shows inadequate social mobility. This phenomenon does not show fluency in terms of vertical mobility (between classes), and also the relative distances in living standards between classes are maintained over time. This paper presents evidence that social mobility inter and intra generational per class, are intrinsically linked. The social class, to which it belongs, guides the fate of the lives of individuals more than the wishes of the same persons. Origin becomes in destiny, and the living conditions of people depend on two conditions: class membership and the place that it has in the distribution of resources among the social classes and groups.
P36|Informal Employment in China: Trends, Patterns and Determinants of Entry|We empirically deconstruct informal employment in China into private business owners and casual workers without job contracts. Survey data from 2007 and 2013 document a rise in informal employment to the point where it exceeds formal employment, potentially an unintended consequence of the 2008 New Labour Contract Law. Compared with formal employees and business owners, casual workers report the lowest monetary and subjective wellbeing although business owners work longer hours with less social protection. Descriptive statistics and multivariate modelling reveal formal employees tend to have more favoured characteristics, often being educated, male, healthy and able bodied. Casual workers are more likely to have the characteristics of vulnerable groups, so the growth of casual employment is particularly concerning. There are indications that running small business is not always a sign of vulnerability and it may provide job flexibility for those with dependents to care for.
P36|Spatial Segregation and Socio-Economic Mobility in European Cities|Income inequality is increasing in European cities and this rising inequality has a spatial footprint in cities and neighbourhoods. Poor and rich people are increasingly living separated and this can threaten the social sustainability of cities. Low income people, often with an ethnic minority background, can get cut off from important social networks and mainstream society, and this can lead to social unrest. Increasing inequality and socio-economic segregation is therefore a major concern for local and national governments. Socio-economic segregation is the outcome of a combination of inequality and poverty, and the spatial organisation of urban housing markets. Poverty, and living in poverty concentration neighbourhoods is transmitted between generations and neighbourhood poverty is reproduced over time through to the residential mobility behaviour of households. Urban policy often focusses on reducing segregation through physical measures in cities, such as demolishing houses in deprived neighbourhoods and replacing them with housing for the middle classes. Such policies will not solve the underlying causes of segregation, but only redistribute poverty over cities. Policy initiatives should first of all focus on reducing inequality by creating equal opportunities for people and invest in education and training. Inclusive growth strategies should combine both people-based and area-based policy measures.
P36|International migration, return migration, and their effects. A comprehensive review on the Romanian case|Romanian migration is today one of the biggest, complex, and dynamic migration to Western Europe. This paper is a comprehensive review of the existing literature that aims at providing a full picture of this dynamic migratory process and discusses its far-reaching consequences. It first presents and characterizes the Romanian migration through the different phases during and after state socialism. The second part of the paper is dedicated to unfolding the socio-economic effects of the Romanian migration addressing the remitting behavior and its development over the past years. The issue of return migration is also addressed stressing that return is not much developed, however it has significant impacts through the emergence of returnees’ entrepreneurship. Finally we address some of the consequences of the medical doctors’ migration which is today considered one of the main migration challenges the country is facing.
P36|The Economics of Healthy Ageing in China|Healthy ageing is a challenge for many countries with significant shares of elderly people. Literature refers to China’s ageing population as a ticking time bomb which paradoxically is both a challenge and an opportunity for the country. Health is considered an important determinant of economic growth and competitiveness. The health of the elderly population determines its need for resources and care. Thus, investing in healthy ageing contributes to economic and social well-being. This study is a review of literature on the social and economic aspects of healthy ageing. It summarizes alternative approaches presented in literature to ease pressures of a rapidly growing ageing population. The main focus is on strategies for healthy ageing, policy practices and measures, organization, finances and manpower resources to promote healthy ageing in China. Up-to-date theories and methods applied to household surveys and population statistics are used to quantify the problem, resource requirements and estimating the social and economic benefits of having policies and measures for healthy ageing. Conclusions are drawn with respect to conditions of healthy ageing in China and about the state policy in this regard.
P36|Institutions and the support for market reforms|Economic self-interest and social considerations are the key determinants of public support for market reforms in transition countries. However, political strategies that rely mainly on public support for pushing through economic reforms have limited relevance if the prevailing institutional environment is weak or corrupt. Poor governance and under-developed democracy significantly reduce the level of support. A good institutional framework allows the potential gains from reforms to be realized in a beneficial way, while corruption and poor governance deny the prospect of gains for individuals and for society.
P36|What can be expected from productive inclusion programs?|Productive inclusion programs provide an integrated package of services, such as grants and training, to promote self-employment and wage employment among the poor. They show promising long-term impacts, and are often proposed as a way to graduate the poor out of social assistance. Nevertheless, neither productive inclusion nor social assistance will be able to solve the broader poverty challenge independently. Rather, the future is in integrating productive inclusion into the existing social assistance system, though this poses several design, coordination, and implementation challenges.
P36|Family structure and children’s educational attainment in transition economies|Compared to developing economies, European transition economies had high levels of human capital when their transitions began, but a lack of resources and policies to protect poor families hampered children’s access to education, especially for non-compulsory school grades. Different phenomena associated with transition also negatively affected children’s education: e.g. parental absence due to migration, health problems, and alcohol abuse. These findings call for a greater policy focus on education and for monitoring of the schooling progress of children in special family circumstances.
P36|Life Satisfaction in Germany After Reunification: Additional Insights on the Pattern of Convergence|The authors update previous findings on the total East-West gap in overall life satisfaction and its trend by using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) for the years 1992 to 2013. Additionally, the East-West gap and its trend are separately analyzed for men and women as well as for four birth cohorts. The results indicate that reported life satisfaction is on average significantly lower in East than in West German federal states and that part of the raw East-West gap is due to differences in household income and unemployment status. The conditional East-West gap decreased in the first years after the German reunification and remained quite stable and sizeable since the mid-nineties. The results further indicate that gender differences are small. But the East-West gap is significantly smaller and shows a trend towards convergence for younger birth cohorts.
P36|Life Satisfaction in Germany After Reunification: Additional Insights on the Pattern of Convergence|The authors update previous findings on the total East-West gap in overall life satisfaction and its trend by using data from the German Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) for the years 1992 to 2013. Additionally, the East-West gap and its trend are separately analyzed for men and women as well as for four birth cohorts. The results indicate that reported life satisfaction is on average significantly lower in East than in West German federal states and that part of the raw East-West gap is due to differences in household income and unemployment status. The conditional East-West gap decreased in the first years after the German reunification and remained quite stable and sizeable since the mid-nineties. The results further indicate that gender differences are small. But the East-West gap is significantly smaller and shows a trend towards convergence for younger birth cohorts.
P36|Access to Finance and Agency: An Overview of the Constraints to Female-Run Enterprises|A large proportion of women in Pakistan engage in home-based production rather than wage employment in the public space to generate an income. This article provides an overview of the literature on the role of access to finance and women’s decision-making power (at the household level) on the likelihood of business creation and growth by women. The literature shows that finance has little impact on business and household outcomes; this suggests that other constraints are at play when it comes to women setting up an enterprise or making business decisions. This overview shows how self-control – risk aversion and present biasedness – can inhibit business investment. Household members may also ‘capture’ a woman’s financial resources, including business loans or savings, and put them to unproductive use. Further, social and cultural norms may dictate whether setting up an enterprise is seen as an ‘appropriate’ activity for women. Against the backdrop of several government and private initiatives to promote enterprise, exploring these issues provides us with important insights into how female-run businesses can be encouraged and supported.
P36|Two-staged Capital Structure: An Operational Guideline for Islamic Microfinance System|Islamic Microfinance (IMF) is a recently developed area of poverty alleviation practice; however, the system suffers from identifying usable operational structure and building up sustainable capital for the programs. This article proposes for a two-staged capital structure for IMF system, which would simultaneously overcome both limitations.
P36|Decomposition of Income Inequality in Contemporary Russia|Over the last 25 years, Russia has passed from the group of countries distinguished by low levels of income inequality to the group distinguished by high ones. The macroeconomic analysis shows that this process is due to the differences in salaries, the weak equalizing effect of social transfers and new sources of income such as the income from property and of business activity. We have a poor understanding of the factors determining this inequality at the household level so far. Decomposition of equivalised household expenditure inequality into inter- and intra-groups using cross-sectional data (RLMS-HSE, 1994-2014) shows that during the whole research period one of the most significant factors of intergroup inequality is region of residence. During periods of high economic growth the significance of education and intensity of employment increased in intergroup inequality; however, during the period of economic stagnation the intergroup differentiation of educational potential began to decrease. Despite the important population policy aimed to increase the birth rate, children in families have become the most significant factor of intergroup inequality for the last years. A regression analysis of the determinants of inequality, which allows us to estimate the contribution of each factor to the model dispersion of per capita expenditure allows us to draw the conclusion that meritocratic factors explain a majority of observed inequality. The contribution of the child-burden factor to total inequality did not change during the past ten years, and at the same time, the inequality-decreasing effect of the presence of pensioners in households has continuously increased.
P36|Suffer for the Faith? Parental Religiosity and Children’s Health|Abstract This paper provides novel evidence on differences in health outcomes of children in religious and non-religious families in Russia. The health indicators analyzed include the subjective health status and anthropometric outcomes. The endogeneity of religiosity is accounted for. The empirical findings suggest that if both parents are religious, their religiosity does not affect children’s height-for-age, but increases children’s body mass index and subjective health. Father’s religiosity has a stronger salutary effect than mother’s religiosity. In fatherless families, children’s health is more strongly affected by mother’s education and employment status than in two-parent families. All findings are stronger for older children. These results underscore the importance of considering both maternal and paternal characteristics for family-oriented policies that target the protection of children’s health. Also, policies protecting children’s health should target single mothers as a particularly vulnerable social group.
P36|Aspects of the Evolution of the Existing Pre-university Education at Regional Level in 1996-2014|Education has not received the necessary attention in the past 20 years, neither from a human resources perspective, nor from an infrastructure standpoint. Many reforms were predominantly concerned with the material aspects, as opposed to to the educational effectiveness. This led to a reduction in the number of educational establishments with large implications especially for primary education. Based on these considerations, the paper presents aspects of developments in the infrastructure of the pre-university education system in eight development regions of Romania. In particular, the paper addresses developments in the number of establishments structured in preprimary, primary, secondary, upper secondary and vocational education. The analysis conducted shows a dramatic reduction in the level of vocational education as well as in the number of preprimary establishments, but also a certain degree of stability and even an increase in the number of upper secondary units.
P36|Public-Private Mix And Performance Of Health Care Systems In Cee And Cis Countries|The role of the public and private sector in health care systems remains one of the crucial problems of these systems' operation. The purpose of this research is to identify the relationships between the performance of health systems in CEE and CIS (Central and Eastern Europe and Commonwealth of Independent State) countries, and the mix of public-private sector in the health care of these countries. The study uses a zero unitarization method to construct three measures of health system performance in the following areas: (1) resources; (2) services; and (3) health status. The values of these measures are correlated with the share of public financing that represents the public-private mix in the health systems. The data used is from World Health Organization’s Health for All Database for 23 CEE and CIS countries and comprises the year 2010. The results show that the performance of health systems in the countries investigated is positively associated with a higher proportion of public financing. The strongest relationship links public financing with performance in the area of services production. For policy makers, these results imply that health systems in post-communist transition economies could be susceptible to a decreasing role of the state and that growing reliance on the market mechanism in health care can deteriorate the operation of these systems.
P36|De communismi legibus|An economic model of how a Marxist state should work
P36|The Russian population’s social status defining on the RLMS-HSE polling|This study presents a starting point in examining the issue of poverty in Russia as related to social strata. Since the Soviet Union’s breakdown Russian Federation has undergone its own unique political, social, and economic transition process. So, to learn by experience all pros and cons of almost quarter of a century old Russian transition economy outcome very important is scholar's engaging in research to introduce stratums of the population in aspect of the economic inequalities. Mainly, the term «inequality» means that people have unequal access to scarce and valued resources in society which might be economic or political. Because, the stratification might refer to the hierarchical arrangement of people in a society both on economic and on sociologic points of view. Inequality and social classes became important analytical concepts for explaining and solving the problems of Russian society after the 1990s. In order to find the ways out from the existing problems first needed to define socioeconomic status and social class in Russia. But in the time of global economics new challenges appear and they set new standards for sustainable development and eradication of poverty
P36|Estimate And Analysis Of Vocational Training School (Iek) Students’ Satisfaction Regarding The Quality Of Studies Provided By These Schools|Measuring students’ satisfaction renders great service to the post-secondary educational institutions, since it offers the possibility to detect the strengths and weaknesses of these institutions and determine the areas that should be improved. Students’ satisfaction goes beyond teachers’ evaluation, which is a short sighted perspective, and includes wider concepts of students’ learning experience. In this context, knowing the degree of satisfaction is not enough. What is rather important is to comprehend the factors contributing to this satisfaction. The present survey aims at revealing the causes leading to IEK students’ satisfaction or obstructing it. The research was carried out at IEK of West Macedonia, Greece and the research tool used was SEVQUAL. Moreover, Analyse des Correspondences was used for data analysis. Results relating to students’ satisfaction and quality of studies were not encouraging. Finally, problems affecting the quality of studies came forward.
P36|The Price of Growth: Consumption Insurance in China 1989–2009|We exploit a novel and unique opportunity to document the transmission of income risk to consumption in a growing economy. Our laboratory is China, an economy that has witnessed enormous and sustained growth. We build a long panel of household-level consumption and income data. We find that consumption insurance deteriorates along the growth process with a transmission of permanent income shocks to consumption that at least triples from 1989 to 2009. Although preliminary, our welfare analysis suggests that the loss of consumption insurance can have first-order implications for the welfare assessment of economic growth.
P36|Evaluating the Dilemma of Inflation, Poverty and Unemployment|The main aim of this study is to investigate the existence of long run relationship among poverty, inflation, and unemployment. For the sake of empirical analysis this study employs ARDL approach to find out long run relationships by using data from 1975-2013 from WDI. The reverse of Human development index (HDI) has been used as a proxy of multidimensional poverty. The index has been constructed on the same lines as the HDI is developed by UNDP with the help of four indicators i.e. life expectancy, infant mortality, per capita income, and mean year schooling. Independent variables are unemployment, inflation, and dependency ratio, and population growth, government expenditures on education, trade openness, and remittances. The empirical results suggested the validation of employing ARDL holds, and the existence of long run relationship between poverty, inflation, and unemployment has been found. The results are suggestive that unemployment and inflation both bring about increase in poverty. Further findings of the study indicate that dependency ratio, remittances, and population growth are also having significant impacts on poverty in the long run. Finally these results are not only valid for the long run but they even held in the short run as well.
P36|Institutional Reform and Depositors' Portfolio Choice - Evidence from Bank Account Data|This paper studies the effect of institutional reform on the decision to hold risky assets at the example of the natural experiment of German Division and Reunification. We present empirical evidence indicating that even 16 years after German Reunification risky portfolio choice and composition differed systematically between East and West German bank customers, even after controlling for socio-demographic factors. While these differences are especially pronounced for bank customers with experiences in the former communist system, even the younger generation of East Germans still differs remarkably from their West German counterpart in terms of risky asset choice. Thus, informal institutions tend to have more long-lasting effects on portfolio behavior as previous studies seem to imply.
P36|Changes in Alcohol Consumption and Governmental Alcohol Policy in Russia<BR>[Изменение Структуры Потребления Алкоголя В Контексте Государственной Алкогольной Политики В России]|This paper focuses on structural changes in alcohol consumption observed in Russia since the late 20th century. It explores the Soviet structural patterns of alcohol consumption shaping in the 1960–1980s. Governmental attempts to combat illegal production and sales of homemade distilled spirits (samogon) are overviewed. We analyze how the Soviet drinking patterns were broken down by two exogenous political and economic shocks and how the new trends in consumption of manufactured and homemade alcohol emerged in the 2000s. We also discuss an impact of the ongoing anti-alcohol campaign on changes in alcohol consumption. Three complementary data sources are used. They include the Rosstat official statistics on the level of alcohol consumption, expert statistics on illegal alcohol consumption in the Soviet period, and data on percentage of drinkers of main alcoholic beverages collected from the RLMS-HSE nationwide panel survey of individuals aged 15+ years in 1994-2015. Both statistical and survey data demonstrate similar trends. We observe recurrent cycles in consumption of licit and illicit alcohol that may move in parallel or in opposite directions in different periods of time. These changes in alcohol consumption are explained by the combined impact of economic and policy factors that may vary over time. The new trends were interrupted, and new patterns of alcohol consumption emerged in Russia in the 2010s. These patterns are not sustainable yet. However, they gradually move away from the traditional Northern style of drinking.
P36|Online Communication and E-Commerce Dynamics in the European Union. A Consumer-Based Approach|The European Union has settled facilitating transactions within a single market as a primary aim. Consumers’ rights and protecting their safety are priorities for the European Union, alleging a partnership between member states and citizens. National legal systems represent the first problem in applying European rules because contract laws are different in many aspects, as many authors posit. The interest of this paper is finding out if consumers consider themselves well-informed, and which are the main channels used with a view to feeling comfortable and to trusting European market dynamics. Consumers’ opinions about the efficiency of online communication have a double impact on the social spectrum: being adaptive or being repellent. Hereby, the research questions mark the importance of online communication in delineating economic transactions. Our approach is from a social-cognitive perspective, acknowledging the importance of behavioral communication in economic boundaries. The environment in which consumers work or spend spare time determines and influences their acts, attitudes and social behavior. In order to understand how consumers’ look at the European Union’s interest in being more open to citizens and to how their social behavior in online area can mark the way consumers react to European goods, we resorted to a qualitative research, with in-depth interviews. Investigating the bond between consumers’ trust and consumers’ acts in acquiring European services brings into light the fact that communication remains unavoidable and compulsory for gaining citizens’ credential regardless of the frame of reference.
P36|Measuring changes in the Russian middle class between 1992 and 2008: a nonparametric distributional analysis|Abstract Since the dissolution of the USSR in 1991, Russia is generally acknowledged to be one of the most complicated countries in the world, from a sociological perspective. In particular, the evolution of the Russian middle class is an interesting but highly complex phenomenon. Most works dealing with this issue are based on summary statistics, which do not fully convey all the information on income distribution. In the present paper, we analyze the evolution of the middle class in Russia from 1992 to 2008, by applying a nonparametric tool, the “relative distribution,” to Russian household incomes. The relative density function is a proper density function which compares two distributions observed in different years, in order to describe patterns of differences on the entire income scale. Despite a stable pattern of high inequality, we found that after a period of income convergence characterized by a rise of the middle class, in 1998 Russian households income started to polarize and in 2008 one can observe a very high degree of polarization and a marked decrease in the middle class. This shrinking of the middle class affected particularly incomes below the median. Our results can be related to the social reforms and can be partially explained by the characteristics of the Russian labor market.
P36|Behind the Wall: What Remains of the “Communist Legacy” in Contemporary Europe|Abstract The Wall of Berlin felt more than 20 years ago. Since then a deep transformation has characterised the Eastern countries. People in both Eastern and Western Europe have known dramatic changes related to the integration of former communist countries in the “western world”. Using a new empirical approach, this paper proposes an inquiry into the people’s preferences and attitudes towards competition and market regulation. The results show that strong and significant differences between Eastern and Western citizens still persist. The new approach is compared to the traditional, to show that the results are robust to different methodologies.
P36|Growth, Pollution, and Life Expectancy: China from 1991-2012|This paper examines the relationship between income, pollution, and mortality in China from 1991-2012. Using first-difference models, we document a robust positive association between city-level GDP and life expectancy. We also find a negative association between city-level particulate air pollution exposure and life expectancy that is driven by elevated cardiorespiratory mortality rates. The results suggest that while China's unprecedented economic growth over the last two decades is associated with health improvements, pollution has served as a countervailing force.
P36|Understanding Ethnic Identity in Africa: Evidence from the Implicit Association Test (IAT)|We use a variant of the Implicit Association Test (IAT) to examine individuals' implicit attitudes towards various ethnic groups. Using a population from the Democratic Republic of Congo, we find that the IAT measures show evidence of an implicit bias in favor of one's own ethnicity. Individuals have implicit views of their own ethnic group that are more positive than their implicit views of other ethnic groups. We find this implicit bias to be quantitatively smaller than the (explicit) bias one finds when using self-reported attitudes about different ethnic groups.
P36|The Retirement Consumption Puzzle in China|Using data from China's Urban Household Survey and exploiting China's mandatory retirement policy, we use the regression discontinuity approach to estimate the impact of retirement on household expenditures. Retirement reduces total non-durable expenditures by 20 percent. Among the categories of non-durable expenditures, retirement reduces work-related expenditures and expenditures on food consumed at home but has an insignificant effect on entertainment expenditures. After excluding these three components, retirement does not have an effect on the remaining non-durable expenditures. It suggests that the retirement consumption puzzle might not be a puzzle if a life-cycle model with home production is considered.
P36|Informal Employment in a Growing and Globalizing Low-Income Country|We document several facts about workforce transitions from the informal to the formal sector in Vietnam, a fast growing, industrializing, and low-income country. First, younger workers, particularly migrants, are more likely to work in the formal sector and stay there permanently. Second, the decline in the aggregate share of informal employment occurs through changes between and within birth cohorts. Third, younger, educated, male, and urban workers are more likely to switch to the formal sector than other workers initially in the informal sector. Poorly educated, older, female, rural workers face little prospect of formalization. Fourth, formalization coincides with occupational upgrading.
P36|Killer Cities: Past and Present|The industrial cities of the 19th century were incredibly unhealthy places to live. How much progress has been made in reducing these negative health effects over the past 150 years? To help answer this question, we compare mortality patterns in 19th century England to those in Chinese urban areas in 2000. We document that substantial improvements have been made in improving health in cities over this period. Unlike historical English cities, large cities in China have lower mortality than less populated areas. However, we also provide evidence that in China a substantial relationship between industrial pollution and mortality remains.
P36|Six Randomized Evaluations of Microcredit: Introduction and Further Steps|Causal evidence on microcredit impacts informs theory, practice, and debates about its effectiveness as a development tool. The six randomized evaluations in this volume use a variety of sampling, data collection, experimental design, and econometric strategies to identify causal effects of expanded access to microcredit on borrowers and/or communities. These methods are deployed across an impressive range of locations--six countries on four continents, urban and rural areas--borrower characteristics, loan characteristics, and lender characteristics. Summarizing and interpreting results across studies, we note a consistent pattern of modestly positive, but not transformative, effects. We also discuss directions for future research. (JEL D14, G21, I38, O15, O16, P34, P36)
P36|The Impacts of Microcredit: Evidence from Bosnia and Herzegovina|We use an RCT to analyze the impacts of microcredit. The study population consists of loan applicants who were marginally rejected by an MFI in Bosnia. A random subset of these were offered a loan. We provide evidence of higher self-employment, increases in inventory, a reduction in the incidence of wage work and an increase in the labor supply of 16-19-year-olds in the household's business. We also present some evidence of increases in profits and a reduction in consumption and savings. There is no evidence that the program increased overall household income. (JEL C93, G21, I38, J23, L25, P34, P36)
P36|Social Networks and the Decision to Insure|Using data from a randomized experiment in rural China, we study the influence of social networks on weather insurance adoption and the mechanisms through which they operate. To quantify network effects, the experiment provides intensive information sessions about the product to a random subset of farmers. For untreated farmers, the effect of having an additional treated friend on take-up is equivalent to granting a 13 percent reduction in the insurance premium. By varying the information available about peers' decisions and randomizing default options, we show that the network effect is driven by the diffusion of insurance knowledge rather than purchase decisions. (JEL G22, O12, O16, P36, Q12, Q54, Z13)
P36|Sharing High Growth across Generations: Pensions and Demographic Transition in China|We analyze intergenerational redistribution in emerging economies with the aid of an overlapping generations model with endogenous labor supply. Growth is initially high but declines over time. A version of the model calibrated to China is used to analyze the welfare effects of alternative pension reforms. Although a reform of the current system is necessary to achieve financial sustainability, delaying its implementation implies large welfare gains for the (poorer) current generations, imposing only small costs on (richer) future generations. In contrast, a fully funded reform harms current generations, with small gains to future generations. (JEL E13, H55, J11, O11, O15, P24, P36)
P36|Demographic Patterns and Household Saving in China|This paper studies how demographic variation affects the aggregate household saving rate. We focus on China because it is experiencing an historic demographic transition and has had a massive increase in household saving. We conduct a quantitative investigation using a structural overlapping generations model that incorporates parental care through support for dependent children and financial transfers to retirees. The saving decisions in the parameterized model mimic many of the features observed in the Chinese household saving rate time series from 1955 to 2009. Demographic change alone accounts for over half of the saving rate increase. (JEL D12, D91, E21, J11, O12, O16, P36)
P36|A Jövő Turistái, Avagy A Környezeti Szemléletformálás Fontossága A Középiskolás Korosztály Körében| A posztmodern turizmus gyakorlatába az elmúlt években elkezdett szervesen beépülni a felelősségteljes gondolkodásmód, az etika, a környezet iránti érzékenység fontossága. A turisztikai szolgáltatók, a közvetítők, az állami és egyéb döntéshozók és maguk az utazók is egyre tudatosabbak akár társadalmi akár környezeti hatásokról, kérdésekről van szó. Az új generációk képviselői, a fiatalok egyre hamarabb indulnak útnak, jóval több információval rendelkeznek az utazás technikai részleteivel, kivitelezésével kapcsolatban, mint az idősebb korosztályok. Felmerül azonban a kérdés, hogy vajon a középiskolás diákok tisztában vannak-e az utazásaik hatásával, tudják-e hogy látogatásuk a természeti környezetre és a meglátogatott desztináció társadalmára is pozitív vagy negatív következménnyel járhat? Ennek a körüljárása és felderítése az elsődleges cél, hiszen a hiányosságok ismeretében az oktatást is könnyebb alakítani. A tanulmány a középiskolás korosztály környezettel kapcsolatos érzékenységét mutatja be, ismerteti a szűk keresztmetszeteket, ahol a diákokkal kapcsolatban levők (pedagógusok, szülők, idősebb ismerősök) segíthetnek az etikus és tudatos szemlélet kialakításában. ----------------------------------------- In the last few years the importance of the responsible way of thinking, the ethic and the sensitivity to the environment has become a significant part of the postmodern turism. The people in the service sector, the agents, the ministers and other decision-makers and the travellers are more and more conscious about the questions of social and environmental effects. The members of the new generation, who are the young, against the elder people have a tendency to travel, have much more information about the technical details of the journey and how to organize it. The following questions can arise: whether the secondary school students know the effects of their travellings; whether they know that their visits can have a positive or negative influence on the environment or the society of the destination. The first purpose is to acquire more information about the topic, since if we know the deficiency and faults of the education, the alteration of it can happen easily. The study shows the secondary school students’ the sensitivity to the environment, reports the narrow cross sections, where the people who are in connection with the students (for example teachers, parents, older acquaintances) can help in creating an ethic and conscious aspect.
P36|Educational Policies And Initiatives For Improved Performance|According to Gartner estimates, due to increased variety, speed and data volume, by 2015 there will be a global demand of 4.4 million professionals for real-time analysis of data from sources with different structures, but only one third of the demand will be met. The purpose of this research is to identify possible solutions for improved academic results in the IT domain, considering the time management policies, the content and the student motivations, as well as the business strategy tendencies. These proposals are targeted toward meeting the IT specialists demand. The research is composed of two parts: the first explores the Romanian IT labour market characteristics, while the second investigates the academic education policies that can help mitigate deficiencies and attain higher performance. The deficiencies are identified through a series of statistical research and analysis based on national level databases, adopting a quantitative approach. The policies proposed are supported by a flow model developed considering the students' activity, motivation, traits and results, measured and analysed quantitatively.
P36|Hungarian Higher Edutation-Sustainability|Nowadays, the sustainability already goes far beyond the aspects of environmental protection; the knowledge and the education are also part of the sustainable development. In the field of education, a condition of realizing the sustainability is that the state should ensure a predictable and stable budget for the operation of institutions. Aim of the treatise, at first, is to examine the fulfilment of Europe 2020 Strategy objective affecting the higher education directly and then, based on statistical data, to present the trend in number of students of the Hungarian higher education and its composition by regions and to examine the change in the budgetary support.In order to retain the sustainability and competitiveness, the state and the institutions should make efforts to harmonise their sources and expenditures and to ensure a predictable, stable financial environment for the sector and its stakeholders.
P36|The health care system reform in China: Effects on out-of-pocket expenses and saving|This paper aims to evaluate the impact of 1998 Chinese health care reform on out-of-pocket expenditure and on saving. Existing evidence on the results achieved by this reform in terms of reduction of out-of-pocket medical expenditures is still mixed and contradictory, and very little is known about the impact of these measures on the consumption and saving behavior of the Chinese population. To shed more light on this issue we use data collected in 1995 and 2002 by the Chinese Household Income Project (CHIP). Contrary to previous evidence, our findings suggest that the effects of the reform have been more articulated and heterogeneous. In fact, we find that once properly accounting for income distribution and unobserved heterogeneity (potentially induced by health status), out-of-pocket medical expenses and saving rate are affected by the reform in a differentiated way. In particular, we find that out-of-pocket expenses decrease only for high income individuals with good health status and the saving rate increases only for low income individuals with good health status. This result is actually worrisome, as it suggests that the public health coverage after the reform provides financial protection only to individuals that are relatively better off (with good health status and/or high income).
P36|Social networks as a catalyst of economic change|This letter finds that East Germans with strong social ties invested earlier in a popular new financial product after reunification, while long-term ownership remained unaffected. Hence, studies of the economic impact of social networks should distinguish transitory from long-run effects.
P36|Intergenerational mobility and institutional change in 20th century China|We examine the persistence of socioeconomic status across generations, measured by educational attainment, among urban Chinese born between 1930 and 1985. The persistence of status follows a pronounced, robust U-shaped pattern, falling among cohorts educated following the Communist revolution of 1949, and rising among cohorts educated following the reforms of the late 1970s. The pattern is not driven by the Cultural Revolution or by changing associations between education and income. The U-shape also appears in complementary datasets covering rural China. We discuss the policies behind a non-monotonic relationship between educational expansion and social mobility across the institutional regimes we study.
P36|Social identity and inequality: The impact of China's hukou system|We conduct an experimental study to investigate the causal impact of social identity on individuals' performance under incentives. We focus on China's household registration (hukou) system, which favors urban residents and discriminates against rural residents in resource allocation. Our results show that making individuals' hukou identity salient significantly reduces the performance of rural migrant students, relative to their local urban counterparts, on an incentivized cognitive task, and consequently significantly lowers their relative ranking in the earnings distribution under the piece rate regime. However, the impact of hukou identity salience is insignificant in the tournament regime, suggesting that its negative effect on migrant students' performance may be mitigated when competition is introduced. The results demonstrate the impact of institutionally imposed social identity on individuals' economic performance, and potentially on inequality.
P36|Welfare, targeting, and anti-poverty effectiveness: The case of urban China|Using data from the China Household Income Project (CHIP) 2002 and 2007 data, this article provides a thorough examination of the targeting performance and anti-poverty effectiveness of urban China's primary poverty reduction program, Dibao. We found that Dibao participation rate increased during this period, but its mis-targeting rate also increased. In both years, the Dibao benefit gap remained substantial, accounting for about one quarter of the potential full post-Dibao income of all eligible families. Using a propensity score matching method to identify non-participating families comparable to participating families, we found that Dibao had significant poverty reduction effects in both years, and the effect was larger in 2007 than in 2002. However, Dibao was unable to eliminate poverty among its target population, with notable poverty rate, gap, and severity remaining in both years. Future policy reforms should focus on the improvement of Dibao's anti-poverty effectiveness by better targeting, narrowing the benefit gap, and addressing not only the poverty rate but also the poverty gap and severity.
P36|"The case study of ""Krushevo women""as a model of social entrepreneurship"|Many families in Krushevo (small city in Macedonia) are struggling with unemployment and poverty, seeking a way to address these bitter social problems. The main objective of the intervention is economic empowerment of women. The social entrepreneurship model has been applied among 25 unemployed women from Krushevo who produce traditional, homemade products divided in several categories: homemade pasta, berries products and natural teas. The model involves horizontal clustering through interconnections among individual producers and the community, as well vertical clustering through networking with the local caterers. Hence, applied approach composes of: capacity building, mentoring, piloting and promotion. The income of the women increased on average more than six times, the number of new buyers increased by 80%. At the same time, skills for packaging and sale significantly improved. Vertical clustering diversifies existing and enable new channels on sale, and horizontal clustering improved their products with joint brand, slogan and logo.
P36|In search of the elusive Chinese urban middle class: an exploratory analysis| This article aims to identify and characterise the Chinese urban middle class. We propose to improve the description of the middle class using an innovative approach combining an economic approach (based on income) and a sociological approach (based on education and occupation). The empirical investigations conducted as part of this research are based on the China Health and Nutrition Survey (2009). First, we define the middle income class as households with an annual per capita income between 10,000 yuan and the 95th percentile. On this basis, approximately 50% of urban households may be said to belong to the middle class. Second, we use information on employment and education to characterise the heterogeneity of the middle income class. Using clustering methods, we identify four groups: (i) the elderly and the inactive middle class, mainly composed of pensioners; (ii) the old middle class, composed of self-employed workers; (iii) the marginal middle class, composed of skilled and unskilled workers; and (iv) the new middle class, composed of highly educated wage earners in the public sector. We show that the different groups have distinctive features based on variables such as housing and household appliances and equipment.
P36|“Economic development” and gender equality: explaining variations in the gender poverty gap after socialism|Using the 2008 cross-sectional wave of the survey Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) and multi-level modeling techniques, this paper explores the macro-level determinants of the gender poverty gap in the ten post-socialist European Union member states. In dialogue with the literature on the impact of economic development on gender inequality in Asia and Latin America, we find that fast-paced, foreign capital led economic growth is associated with a larger gender poverty gap in Central and Eastern Europe, while generous welfare policies, specifically higher levels of spending on pensions and family policies are correlated with women’s lower relative destitution. These findings evaluate the impact of neo-liberal style “economic development” on gender inequality in a geo-politically specific context and suggest that structural adjustment and global market integration may exacerbate women’s vulnerability even when they are well equipped with human capital and other resources to compete with men in the labor market.
P36|Institutional Deficit and Health Outcomes in Post-Communist States|In this paper we explore political-economic determinants of health. We draw upon the unique natural experiment of post-communist transitions to show the effect on health (measured as life expectancy and cause-specific mortality) of the interaction between institutions for political (democratic rules) and economic (free market entry) competitiveness. To analyze this relationship empirically, we employ panel regression analysis with country and time fixed effects. We find that, ceteris paribus, political and economic institutions exert cumulative positive impact upon health (even if their separate effects are negative or insignificant). One potential causal pathway is that political-economic liberalization increases certainty and people start investing in their health. Our findings are highly relevant to other countries that experience similar reforms
P36|Poverty Studies in Transitional Economies: Meta-Analysis on Trends in Poverty Determinants|"Studies on poverty in former socialist countries started just after the collapse of the socialist regime. The situation between the former Soviet Union states and that in Central and East European countries, however, seemed to be different and the degree and trends in poverty changed in 2000s in comparison with those in 1990s. The effects of traditional poverty determinants, namely, household size, educational attainment level and rural location seem to differ from time to time and across the regions to be examined. The meta-analysis conducted in the paper generally supported the existence of ""urbanization"" of poverty in the 1990s and ""ruralization"" of poverty in the 2000s, among other results."
P36|Research on Poverty in Transition Economies: A Meta-analysis on Changes in the Determinants of Poverty|Research on the increase in poverty in the transitional economies affected by the collapse of socialism began soon after the economic transition began. However, the nature of poverty in the former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe differs, and two phases have been observed: a phase of increasing and stabilising poverty in the 1990s and a phase of declining poverty in the 2000s. Taking into account the possibility that the impact of household size, education level, and urban domicile, which are factors employed in traditional poverty research, may differ depending on the year or the region, this paper attempted a meta-analysis. The results enerally supported the hypothesis. In the 1990s, there was no difference between urban and rural populations in the probability of falling into poverty. After 2000, however, urban domicile became a significant factor in reducing the probability of falling into poverty. In addition, differences were observed between the former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe in the factors affecting the poverty situation. This phenomenon is considered to indicate one of the directions for research in comparative transitional economics in the future. Furthermore, the trend in poverty dynamics seen here can probably also be regarded as indicating steady progress in “transition”.
P36|ソ連の家計貯蓄率，1965－1989：不足効果，非公式経済効果，相乗効果，強制貯蓄|1950年代末以降における家計貯蓄の急増は，不足の深刻化の結果生じた「強制貯蓄」の問題として取り上げられ，その結果発生する「金融危機」という観点からも活発に議論されてきた．しかし，資料制約を主たる理由として，十分に説得的な実証的結論を得ていない．ソ連家計の貯蓄行動に関する議論の中心的な論点は，貯蓄の増大が公式市場の不足に伴う非自発的な貯蓄によるものであるか，非公式経済において利用可能であるか否か，という点にあった．本稿では，この問題に取り組むために，1965－1989年のソ連構成共和国のオリジナル・パネルデータを構築し，家計貯蓄率に影響を与える自発的動機と非自発的動機を区別して，その決定要因の推定を行った．分析の結果，家計の貯蓄率に対して，（1）不足要因，（2）非公式経済要因，さらに，（3）両者の相乗効果，というソ連特有の要因の影響が確認された．即ち，不足は非自発的な貯蓄を形成し，非公式経済は取引動機としての自発的な貯蓄を形成する．一方で，公式市場の未充足需要が非公式経済に移転し消化される相乗効果の作用の結果，非自発的貯蓄の一部は解消される．推定結果に基づき算定したソ連の強制貯蓄は，1980年代以降に急増し，ソ連崩壊直前には貯蓄の4割にも達した．一方で，各決定要因の影響は地域ごとに異なり，不足が強く非公式経済が小さいスラブ・バルト地域では強制貯蓄率が貯蓄の3～5割と高い一方で，非公式経済が発達した中央アジア・コーカサス地域では強制貯蓄率が1割以下という明確な地域的分化が確認された．
P36|Forced Savings in the Soviet Republics: Re-examination|"The current paper empirically examines the determinants of household savings rates in the Soviet republics, by utilizing the panel data of an aggregated household budget survey in the period from 1965 to 1989. Earlier studies claimed that increases in household savings starting from the late 1950s were the direct result of worsening shortages of consumer goods; therefore, they considered Soviet households' savings to be involuntary ones and that households were ""forced"" to save under severe shortage conditions in the official consumer market. But they failed to fully investigate this problem mainly because of unavailability of data on household incomes and expenditures and of ignorance of a widespread informal economy (""second economy""). When the informal economy could at least partly provide households with opportunities to spend their money on lacking goods, households would be able to choose whether to save money and stand in line for scarce goods at the official retail shops, or move to the informal market. This understanding leads to the implication that there existed neither involuntary nor forced savings. In order to tackle this unsolved research problem, the Soviet households' savings rate function is estimated by taking into account shortages, the informal economy, and other factors, among them life-cycle factors, and then the ""forced savings rate"" is calculated. The main findings of this study are as follows: Firstly, even taking into account these factors, there existed Soviet-unique factors, namely the shortage factor, informal factor, and demand-spillover effect. Secondly, the magnitudes of these three factors varied among regions, so forced savings rates also varied. According to our estimation results, forced savings in the Slavic and Baltic regions accounted for more than 40% of the total savings just before the collapse of the Soviet Union, while those in the Caucasian and Central Asian regions accounted for less than 10%."
P36|Fiscal incentives and policy choices of local governments: Evidence from China|This paper examines how fiscal incentives affect the policy choices of local governments in the context of China. Based on exogenous changes in the intergovernmental revenue-sharing scheme, we construct a simulated instrumental variable to resolve the endogeneity problem. We find evidence that local governments shifted their efforts from fostering industrial growth to “urbanizing” China, i.e., to developing the real estate and construction sectors, when their retention rate of enterprise tax revenue was reduced. The increase from the new revenue source compensated for half of the losses in revenue that resulted from the reassignment of fiscal rights. The reassignment had also the effect of retarding the industrial growth of domestically-owned firms in particular.
P36|Can Conditional Grants Attract Better Students: Evidence from Chinese Normal Universities|One recent policy tend to improve teacher quality is providing conditional grants to trainees in teacher colleges and commit them to working in disadvantaged areas upon graduation. Yet little is known whether such policies attract better trainees. This paper evaluates a conditional grant program in Chinese teachers' colleges, which commits students to teaching in their home province. Using a triple difference method, we find that teaching majors obtain better students due to the conditional grants. Exploring the heterogeneous treatment effects across regions, the policy effects not only increase as the costs of living during college decrease, but are larger in provinces with larger shares of disadvantaged students – i.e. rural, female, rural female, and with more siblings. These results suggest that the Chinese free teacher education program successfully attracts high quality students into the teaching force, and these high quality teacher trainees are likely to be credit constrained.
P36|Do Negative Native-Place Stereotypes Lead to Discriminatory Wage Penalties in China's Migrant Labor Markets?|China's linguistic and geographic diversity leads many Chinese individuals to identify themselves and others not simply as Chinese, but rather by their native place and provincial origin. Negative personality traits are often attributed to people from specific areas. People from Henan, in particular, appear to be singled out as possessing a host of negative traits. Such prejudice does not necessarily lead to wage discrimination. Whether or not it does depends on the nature of the local labor markets. This chapter uses data from the 2008 and 2009 migrant surveys of the Rural-Urban Migration in China Project (RUMiC) to explore whether native-place wage discrimination affects migrant workers in China's urban labor markets. We analyze the question of wage discrimination among migrants by estimating wage equations for men and women, controlling for human capital characteristics, province of origin, and destination city. Of key interest here are the variables representing provinces of origin. We find no systemic differences by province of origin in the hourly wages of male and female migrants. However, in a few specific cases, we find that migrants from a particular province earn significantly less than those from local areas. Male migrants from Henan in Shanghai are paid much less than their fellow migrants from Anhui. In the Jiangsu cities of Nanjing and Wuxi, female migrants from nearby Anhui are paid much less than intra-provincial Jiangsu migrants.
P36|Internationalization Of Higher Education In Emerging Europe. A Diachronic Perspective|The dynamics and implications of internationalization vary quite considerably among different regions and countries, depending on the history and structure of their Higher Education systems. With a target to become the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world, Europe has scaled academic mobility, partnerships between the European Research Area and the world's top universities. The aim of this paper is to present some considerations regarding the internationalization of academic space in emerging European countries; more specifically it is an analytical review of the opinions on the phenomenon of internationalization in diachronic perspective of its development, in order to distinguish the structural problems at the level of interference, of the internationalization strategies before the economic crisis in the academic phenomenon. It can be a point of view in order to prove (argued by some causal relationship) that the academic Emergent Europe manifest itself in a differentiated manner, even if the strategies are common.
P36|The Economic Impact Of The Digestive Diseases Across The Eu Member States. The Costs Analysis In Cholecystectomy|United European Gastroenterology provide wide studies and researches on the economic impact of the digestive diseases across the countries that are members of the European Union, very useful in planning health services, in making the case for investment in research where there are clear gaps in knowledge, and in reflecting the economic differences across the EU member states in the funding available to support health services. These studies reflect that there are important disparities in the accessibility to high-quality healthcare even among the industrialized countries. Out of all the digestive diseases, the gallstone disease is one of the most common and expensive of the health problems, in industrialized countries, like those of the European Union are. In general, symptomatic or complicated gallstone disease is treated by cholecystectomy, with surgical removal of the gallbladder. The advent of laparoscopic cholecystectomy has revolutionized the management of the gallstone disease, causing an increase in the rate of cholecystectomies. This study represents an analysis of the hospitalization costs involved by two surgical treatment options: laparoscopic cholecystectomy and open cholecystectomy. The investigation of the costs was done according to the type of intervention chosen and comprised the direct costs of hospitalization, including diagnostic tests and general expenses of medical assistance, pharmaceutical and medical supplies. The results are based on the analysis of the costs of cholecystectomies in the surgical department of the Emergency County Hospital Oradea for the year 2014 (781 cases). The average cost per hospitalized patient was 1.970 RON, lower in patients with laparoscopic cholecystectomy (1.579 RON). The average cost per patient with open cholecystectomy was 55% higher than for laparoscopic surgery (2.442 RON). Even if the laparoscopic operation cost is higher because of the equipment it uses, the reduction of the number of complications and of the average length of hospitalization results in a significant reduction of the hospitalization costs.
P36|Quality Assurance In Higher Education|The topic of quality assurance has always been of exceptional importance to the private sector. However, today it is very important in education and in other areas of the public sector, also. Because the private sector was the first in quality assurance, organizations and institutions in the public sector can learn from the experience of the private sector. Quality assurance has become an increasingly important topic at both local and international levels. The concept of quality assurance is not new; however, the terminology and methodologies that are now used to defi ne, develop and implement quality assurance are relatively new, mainly due to the impact of changes in quality assurance in higher education. It has become an expected norm at European universities, an unquestionable basic concept and the most frequently set political objective of the Bologna process which directly affects and changes the balance of power within the university. The aim of this paper is to determine the methods used by three countries (Croatia, Slovenia, and Hungary) to ensure quality in higher education and give suggestions for improvement of education service quality.
P36|County Management - An Important Factor Of Available Health Care|The Republic of Croatia during last 20 years of its existence goes through different forms of health care reforms whose effects are difficult to measure, and often instead of the planned positive developments, reform results are mismatch factors in the health system and reduced health care of citizens. The regional authority, county, have the task to coordinate all subjects in the health system without direct ability to make decisions on the scope of health care in their area. Healthcare providers in the public and private sectors implement the health care in the field of local self-government. Providers contract the financing of health care directly with the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance in accordance with the Network of health care by the Minister. The main goal of organized health system is accessible, continuous and comprehensive health and protection, which can be organized and implemented by only a well coordinated and organized health management consisting of service providers, orgAnizers and health care legislator. One of the main prerequisites for achieving this goal is a properly funded system
P36|Alternative setup for estimating reliable frequency values in a ripple tank|In this paper, we introduce an innovative, lowcost and easy experimental setup to be used in a traditional ripple tank when a frequency generator is unavailable. This configuration was carried out by undergraduate students. The current project allowed them to experiment and to study the relationship between the wavelength and the oscillation period of a mechanical wave, among other things. Under this setup, students could evaluate the mechanism not only qualitative but also in a quantitative fashion with a high degree of confidence. The results obtained for the propagation speed of the mechanical waves in different media with this alternative design coincided with those acquired using a commercial device designed for this purpose.
P36|Comparison Of Public, Non-Profit And Private Hospitals|The health care system in Germany is undergoing a phase of transformation. The resulting challenges and fields of action for the hospitals were described as one outcome of a scenario analysis conducted by the author. These include, for example, setting up new organisation structures, professionalising management competence or also developing a comprehensive quality management system. In the following analysis, the hospitals are to be described and compared to one another in terms of their initial conditions regarding these fields of action. The question at the focus is which different prerequisites and options the clinics have subject to their organisational structure.
P36|Socio-economic developmental agenda- A study of developing nations|Various developmental agendas as adopted and worked-upon by developing countries towards achieving socio-economic development are key instruments for the balanced growth rate. The study paper reviews the relationship between socio and economic factors of development at the same time studies the connections between sociology, civilizations and economies as to their state of affairs thereby evaluates the socio-economic developmental agendas of the developing nations.
P36|"The case study of ""Krushevo women"" as a model of social entrepreneurship"|Many families in Krushevo (small city in Macedonia) are struggling with unemployment and poverty, seeking a way to address these bitter social problems. The main objective of the intervention is economic empowerment of women. The social entrepreneurship model has been applied among 25 unemployed women from Krushevo who produce traditional, homemade products divided in several categories: homemade pasta, berries products and natural teas. The model involves horizontal clustering through interconnections among individual producers and the community, as well vertical clustering through networking with the local caterers. Hence, applied approach composes of: capacity building, mentoring, piloting and promotion. The income of the women increased on average more than six times, the number of new buyers increased by 80%. At the same time, skills for packaging and sale significantly improved. Vertical clustering diversifies existing and enable new channels on sale, and horizontal clustering improved their products with joint brand, slogan and logo.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P36|Explaining Sectoral and Spatial Variations in Growth Pro-poorness in Nigeria|This paper examines the sectoral and spatial variations in growth pro-poorness in Nigeria, using the Shapley decomposition, the Ravallion-Huppi decomposition and the Oaxaca-Blinder decomposition. The results show that spatial and sectoral variations in pro-poor growth are a result of inequality and shift in population, human capital (spatial variation only) and structural factors (sectoral variation only). In addition, the paper finds that the zones and sectors with moderate growth have high poverty-growth elasticity, while zones and sectors with high growth have low poverty-growth elasticity. Thus, spatial and sectoral variations in growth pro-poorness result in weak response of poverty to growth in Nigeria.
P36|Economic development of Comecon countries|In 1949, Soviet Union and some of its satellites created Comecon with the announced goal to facilitate economic cooperation between the socialist countries. The inefficiency of socialist systems affected the performances of Comecon members. However, the analysis of economic development from some of these countries should take into consideration the substantial subsidies received from other Comecon members.
P36|Social Aspects of Transformation|The fall of the Berlin Wall marked not the end of the transition to democracy but its beginning, with still uncertain outcomes in terms of electoral continuity and change. In order to provide a more comprehensive picture of the regime vulnerabilities and instabilities that stem from the difficult transition from a centrally planned, authoritarian economy to a free market–oriented democracy, this paper discusses the most important aspects of the transformation that has occurred in Central and Eastern Europe since the end of communism. These aspects include key patterns of social change, social welfare, social problems, and associated social pathologies. Understanding what worked and what went wrong in the social policy domain will improve our understanding of the prospects for future and more successful reforms in this region, as well as in other transitional and developing countries currently on the road to democracy. The first section of this paper provides a brief overview of the key patterns of social change, including social welfare, social problems, and social pathologies, as well citizens’ adaptation to the new environment. The second section discusses similarities and differences among countries in order to understand what policy options have been more successful and why. The third section complements this analysis by addressing ten areas where we can learn from previous mistakes.
P36|Digital development - the strengths and weaknesses of Generation Y|In 2010 in European Union was started Europe 2020 strategy. Aims of this strategy are concentrated on smart, sustainable growth associated with social inclusion. One of 7 flagship initiatives described purposes is Digital Agenda for Europe. Another very important one, in area of smart growth, is Youth on the move. Compressed information?s about Internet skills and uses of digital technologies are presented for EU Member Countries in the latest report on the implementation of new Digital Economy and Society Index - DESI (European Commission, 2014). The aim of the study is to determine strengths and weaknesses of the Poland and European Union countries and the risks of digital divide. Particular emphasis is placed on the analysis of the Y generation digital opportunities.
P36|Farmer heterogeneity and differential livelihood impacts of oil palm expansion among smallholders in Sumatra, Indonesia|The study examines the heterogeneous livelihood impacts of oil palm expansion among smallholder farmers in Jambi Province, Sumatra. Per-capita annual consumption expenditure (PACE) is chosen as a quantitative measure of livelihood status of farm-households. Its determinants are estimated using standard treatment-effect and endogenous switching regression models. After controlling for self-selection bias, adopters of oil palm are found increasing their PACE significantly in comparison to the counterfactual. On the other hand, most of the non-adopters are better-off without oil palm, presenting a strong case of comparative advantage. Differential consumption impacts of observed variables are evident across adoption and non-adoption regimes. In general, farm-households with higher opportunity cost of family labour benefit disproportionately more with oil palm adoption.
P36|Housing allocations, imputed rents and inequality in urban China|This paper demonstrates that subsidized housing substantially increased inequality among urban Chinese residents in 1988 and 1995. Regressions for 1995 rental units impute estimated market rents in 1988 and 1995 for all dwelling units. In both years, these imputed values exceeded actual rents by a factor of more than ten. Estimated true household income, the sum of imputed net estimated market rent and total reported income, exceeded total reported income by approximately 23% in 1995. The Gini coefficient for true household income in 1988 was probably in the vicinity of 0.250, more than 20 % greater than the coefficient of 0.206 for total reported income. The Gini coefficient for 1995 was probably around 0.310, 11.1% greater than the reported value of 0.279. The contribution of imputed rents to inequality is much less in recent years, as urban housing has become more commodified. Consequently, the increase in urban inequality over the past 25 years has been less than that estimated on the basis of money incomes alone.
P36|Permanent Changes in the Wage Structure and the East German Fertility Crisis|After the fall of the Berlin wall, the total fertility rate in East Germany tumbled from 1.7 (1989) to a stunning 0.7 children per woman (1994). While this fact is well-documented, little is still known about the crisis underlying causes. We propose a new explanation: permanent shifts in the East German wage structure that are plausibly exogenous from the individual s perspective. Economic transition dramatically increased the returns to human capital in East Germany. Economic theory suggests that rising returns to experience and education favor career investment and the postponement of births. Our results suggest that women postpone fertility when the wage penalty for time off work in the current period are high; and the postponement is much stronger for high-skilled women. Overall, our estimates can account for a substantial fraction of the observed fertility decline and demonstrate that incentives in the labor market have a strong influence on fertility decisions.
P36|Methodology for Assessing the Degree of Internationalization of Business Academic Study Programmes|The purpose of this paper is to develop a methodology for assessing the degree of internationalization of undergraduate, Master’s and doctoral business programmes with the aid of complex indicators designed to capture the vast array of characteristics displayed by these programmes and contribute to their promotion in the international academic competition. The methodology should include both general indicators applicable to any study programme and some indicators that are specifically developed for business study programmes. No consensus exists in the internationalization literature and practice over the actual scope and the indicators to be considered in the implementation of such a study. Researchers rather propose methods for assessing and prioritizing universities and/or faculties and lay down a lot of criteria according to which rankings are developed. These rankings are mainly focused on the level of internationalization of socioeconomic and engineering study programmes.
P36|Has Inflation Hurt the Poor? Regional Analysis in the Philippines|This paper measures the impact of price changes on poverty using the Philippines as an example. The impact of price changes is captured by the price elasticity of poverty for three widely used poverty measures, namely, headcount ratio, poverty gap ratio, and severity of poverty. An empirically operational price index called the price index for the poor is developed, which indicates whether the price changes hurt the poor relatively more than the nonpoor. Furthermore, the paper develops formulae for aggregating regional price indices into the national price indices. The results show that since 2003, price increases have led to greater suffering for the poor, particularly the ultra poor.
P36|Speed and Sequencing of Transition Reforms and Income Inequality: A Panel Data Analysis|" type=""main""> An extensive literature has analyzed the economic effects of transition patterns in Central and Eastern European and former Soviet Union countries. With few recent exceptions, analysis of the impacts of speed and sequencing of reforms has not concerned the dynamics of income inequality. In this paper we analyze the heterogeneous effects of transition reforms on inequality by explicitly considering their speed and sequencing. To this aim we identify eight transition models in which the 27 countries considered are classified. The dynamic panel-data analysis for the period 1989–2009 reveals that balanced transition patterns, which favored a coordination of reforms especially in specific fields, were relatively less pro-inequality."
P36|Factors Affecting Patients' Decision In Selection Of Hospital|The study is aimed to identify the factors affecting patients' decision while selecting hospital. To serve the purpose descriptive research design is used and a structured questionnaire based on ordinal scale is applied to 142 public & 337 private hospital patients. These patients were chosen by stratified purposive sampling method from Udaipur division. The analysis highlighted the four important factors which affects the patients' decision while selecting the hospital are Qualified & experienced Doctors, 24X7 & Emergency Service, Past Experience with Hospital and Trained Nursing Staff respectively.
P36|Aspects On Consumers Attitude Toward Genetically Modified Foods Among Youth|Advances in food biotechnology and food science in the early 1990s have opened the gates of new markets for genetically modified foods. A broad dispute over the use of foods derived from genetically modified organisms and other uses of genetic engineering in food production in terms of key scientific researches, their impact on health and eco-systems, food safety and food security, labelling and regulations, traceability is still lasting. Beside the scientifically, technical, ethical and regulators arguments, the economical aspects of the genetically modified food market is influenced by the social acceptance of it. Consumers' perception and their attitudes are different and depending on many factors. A survey of youth as undergraduate students of Constantin Brancoveanu University from Romania revealed certain differences in attitudes regarding the genetically modified foods that may be partially explained by the consumers' information. Referring the consumer behaviour, this study showed rather a tacit attitude of acceptance of the genetically modified food goods than a vehement rejection.
P36|Institutional Reform and Depositors’ Portfolio Choice: Evidence from Censored Quantile Regressions|The determinants of portfolio choice have been studied extensively in the field of household finance. In this paper we study the determinants of the decision to hold risky assets based on a novel dataset of German bank data. Our primary focus is the question whether East Germans di er in their portfolio decisions from West Germans. While we find only slight di erences in the decision to invest in risky assets at the extensive margin, the di erences at the intensive margin turn out to be much larger and non-linear. We attribute this finding to the di erent institutional environments East and West Germans experienced throughout the period of German division.
P36|Statuskonsum in Ost- und Westdeutschland: Beeinflusst durch das politische Regime?|Die deutsche Teilung nach dem Zweiten Weltkrieg dient als natürliches Experiment, um die Frage zu be - antworten, ob sich politische Institutionen auf die Präferenzen von Individuen bezüglich des Konsums von Statusgütern auswirken. Die Analyse des Ausgabeverhaltens hat bedeutende Unterschiede zwischen Haushalten in Ost und West aufgezeigt. Unmittelbar nach der Wiedervereinigung bestand eine erhebliche Lücke in den Ausgaben für statusrelevante Konsumgüter zwischen Ost und West. Dieser große Unterschied hat sich im Zeitverlauf von fast 30% auf gut acht Prozent verringert. Dennoch lagen die ent - sprechenden Ausgaben ostdeutscher Haushalte auch etwa zwanzig Jahre nach der Wiedervereinigung signifikant über den Ausgaben vergleichbarer westdeutscher Haushalte.
P36|Income growth, inequality and poverty reduction: A case study of eight provinces in China|This paper examines the growth performance and income inequality in eight Chinese provinces during the period of 1989-2004 using the China Health and Nutrition Survey data. It shows that income grew for all segments of the population, and as a result, poverty incidence has fallen. However, income growth has been uneven, most rapidly in coastal areas, and among the educated. A decomposition analysis based on household income determination suggests that income growth can largely be attributed to the increase in returns to education and to the shift of employment into secondary and tertiary sectors.
P36|Retos de la administración distrital en la recolección y disposición de residuos sólidos|"El presente documento muestra el programa ""Basura Cero"" en la ciudad de Bogotá como una medida de regulación del servicio público domiciliario de aseo, a través de la ejecución del principio de gestión integral de los residuos, que desde hace mucho tiempo viene implementándose tanto en países desarrollados como en países subdesarrollados, en función del bienestar de la población y garantizando la preservación del medio ambiente. En el caso de Bogotá, la actual Administración Distrital pretende minimizar el impacto de los residuos sólidos generados por la ciudad que afectan el medio ambiente y la salud de sus habitantes, a partir de generar cambios sustanciales principalmente en la formación ciudadana, en el planteamiento de políticas públicas sobre el manejo de residuos y las campañas de reciclaje. Se requiere el diagnóstico de las políticas de regulación y un análisis más profundo que permita determinar las oportunidades de éxito o fracaso del programa Basura Cero en la capital, dados los inconvenientes que se pueden presentar en la marcha, como se presenta hoy con el problema del relleno sanitario Doña Juana dada su capacidad de carga limitada, lo que enciende la alerta de una eventual crisis sanitaria y muestra los retos de la Administración Distrital frente la promoción de alternativas cuyo fin sea el de subsanar este problema."
P36|Pobreza Crónica y Transitoria: Evidencia para Argentina 1997-2012|Este trabajo estudia la evolución de los indicadores de pobreza intertemporal en Argentina durante los últimos 15 años. Aprovechando el esquema de rotación de la EPH, se construyen paneles sucesivos durante el período 1997-2012 que permiten descomponer la pobreza en sus componentes crónico y transitorio. Los resultados muestran que el factor transitorio está asociado principalmente con las características laborales, mientras que las cualidades estructurales y demográficas del hogar, y la educación del jefe y cónyuge del mismo, poseen incidencia fundamentalmente sobre el componente crónico. Sin embargo, en periodos con trayectorias divergentes de pobreza surgen diferencias considerables en los determinantes principales de cada uno de los componentes. Durante la última década, se evidencia, en particular, una caída generalizada en la incidencia relativa de las características de los hogares sobre la pobreza crónica, aun de aquellas cualidades tradicionalmente vinculadas con dicho componente.
P36|Trade openness and household welfare within a country: A microeconomic analysis of Vietnamese households|The positive effects of trade liberalisation on several dimensions of poverty have initiated studies of the trade–poverty relationship. Trade liberalisation accompanies institutional reforms that help to reduce institutional barriers against the poor. This study examines the impacts of trade openness and institutional reforms on rural household welfare at the provincial level through the analysis of the determinants of welfare of rural households in Vietnam. The study employs a model of micro-determinants of growth and tests it on the data from the Vietnam Household Living Standards Surveys (VHLSSs) of 2006 and 2010. What makes the study different from some other studies of the same vein is that it attempts to directly capture the institutional effect on welfare. The study finds that, in the provinces with high institutional reforms and trade openness, the welfare of rural households improved. Institutional reforms in Vietnam appeared to be sluggish in the late 2000s. In particular, both access to land and lower informal charges were the important determinants of welfare improvement over time. These findings suggest that Vietnam should maintain its development by accelerating the process of institutional reforms, thereby helping poor households to improve standards of living.
P36|Data for studying earnings, the distribution of household income and poverty in China|This paper discusses data used in publishing statistics on earnings, the distribution of household income and poverty in China by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) which is widely used by policy makers, international agencies and researchers. Unlike many other countries, China until recently had a dual system of household surveys — one rural and one urban. This has had consequences for providing official data on wages, income and poverty which we discuss along with other challenges. Since the end of the 1980s, researchers have been active in the construction of large databases aimed at mapping earnings, household income and poverty, and we present seven of these in the paper.
P36|Do elected leaders in a limited democracy have real power? Evidence from rural China|Do elected leaders in an authoritarian regime have any real power? Does grassroots democracy in a one-party state entail parochial problems? Making use of primary survey data covering two election cycles in a mountainous area of China, where an administrative village consists of several natural villages (NVs), we find that elected village heads favor their home NVs in resource allocations, especially when these NVs have a large population. In contrast, the home NVs of appointed Communist Party secretaries do not receive disproportionately more resources, on average. This pattern of resource allocation is compatible with the interest of village heads and suggests that as elected leaders, village heads have some true power in resource distribution.
P36|2004 Minority Education Reform and pupil performance in Latvia|One quarter of all schoolchildren in Latvia go to the publicly funded minority (predominantly Russian) schools. In 2004, the language of instruction in minority schools was changed from essentially minority language to a composite of 60% Latvian and 40% minority. This paper studies the effects of this ‘60/40’ reform on the academic performance of pupils in minority schools. Using data on 2002–2011 centralised exam results for the universe of Latvia's secondary schools, we find that there has been a significant deterioration in the exam performance of minority schools relative to that of majority schools after the reform year 2004. The negative effects were most pronounced in the early years following the reform.
P36|Economic and spatial determinants of interregional migration in Kazakhstan|In this paper we analyze economic and spatial determinants of interregional migration in Kazakhstan using quarterly panel data on region to region migration in 2008–2010. The main contribution of the paper relates to the ethnic divide in Kazakhstan, which is the home of a big ethnic Russian community, adding to the scarce literature on ethnic differences in migration patterns. Against this background we investigate whether the determinants of interregional mobility depend on ethnicity. In line with traditional economic theory we find that migration is determined by economic factors, first of all wage. As predicted by gravity arguments, mobility is larger between more populated regions and distance has a strong negative impact on migration, indicating high migration-related costs. Most likely caused by stronger family ties and kinship bonds, the deterring effect of distance is higher for ethnic Kazakhs.
P36|Conspicuous consumption and political regimes: Evidence from East and West Germany|This paper investigates the influence of political regimes on the relative importance of conspicuous consumption. We use the division of Germany into the communist GDR and the democratic FRG and its reunification in 1990 as a natural experiment. Relying on household data that are representative for Germany, our empirical results strongly indicate that conspicuous consumption is relatively more important in East Germany. Significantly, although we find some convergence, a considerable gap in conspicuous consumption expenditures remains even 18 years after the German reunification.
P36|Showing off to the new neighbors? Income, socioeconomic status and consumption patterns of internal migrants|This paper analyses incomes and socioeconomic status of internal migrants over time and in comparison to their new neighbors and investigates whether status consumption is a way for newly arrived city dwellers to signal their social standing. Using a novel dataset from the emerging economy of Kazakhstan we find that internal migrants earn an income and status premium for their move. In a comparison to indigenous city dwellers their earnings and household incomes are not significantly different; however, mobile households report a significantly higher subjective socio-economic status. Exploiting expenditure data, we find that recent migrant households gain status from using visible consumption to impress their new neighbors. This signaling might be used as adaptation to the new economic and social environment or to gain access to social capital.
P36|Mind the gap between the budget lines and the programs of the National strategy for poverty reduction|The objective of this study is to investigate the weak links in the processes for poverty reduction in Macedonia. We investigate the weak links between the budget lines and the poverty-reduction programs, involvement of vulnerable categories of people and researchers in the processes for poverty reduction. 27.1% of the Macedonian population lived below the poverty line in 2011. In order to reduce poverty, the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction and Social Exclusion has been introduced by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The budget lines for passive measures account around 45% of the total Budget spending in contrast to active measures which took only 0.13% of all spending in 2013. We have used three different approaches: an analysis of the current strategic documents for poverty reduction, an interview with the people at social risk and a survey among the civil society and academic researchers in the country. The main result is that vulnerable categories of people face with lack of information about measures for poverty reduction, especially those with at most primary education. The citizens are not involved in the process of identifying potential problems of the vulnerable group and the process of construction measures for addressing the problems. Also, the Macedonian social system faces with absent process of monitoring of the spending of the funds and the effects of the used measure. Only 24% of the respondents were monitored regularly. At the same time, only 18% of the researchers were involved in the process of creating some strategic document for poverty reduction and only 9% made a social change or their recommendations have potential to be accepted by the policymakers and cause change.
P36|Measuring inflation under rationing: A virtual price approach|The presence of rationing or more generally of the situations of constrained demand can make the traditional methods of measuring inflation questionable and give an erroneous image of the reality. In this paper, we use the virtual price approach (Neary, Roberts, 1980) to estimate the real inflation level in a centrally planned economy (CPE) with administrated prices. In the first part of the paper, we discuss various methods used in CPE's to evaluate the real level of inflation by the market disequilibrium indicators or proxies which take into account rationing and incomplete information. In the second part of the paper, we apply the virtual price approach to compute the real inflationist gap between demand and supply under rationing in Poland's centrally planned economy with administrated prices in 1965-1980 period. We estimate for this period the model of consumer behaviour under rationing and recover the virtual prices reflecting the real cost of purchasing rationed goods following Neary, Roberts' (1980) and Barten's (1994) methodology. The results show a very large difference between official and virtual price of food considered as the most rationed good (up to 500%). The natural experiment of shift from the centrally planned economy to the market economy (or from rationing to market equilibrium) observed in Poland during the “shock therapy” (1990) confirms the scale of estimated by the model gap between the official (administrated) and market prices
P36|Education and employment impact on hiv/aids prevalence rate and economic growth: An empirical investigation from Ecowas countries|We analyse the simultaneous effects of employment and education on GDP growth and HIV/AIDS prevalence rate in the long and short run across the 15 countries of ECOWAS. Our results suggest that employment and primary education are the main HIV/AIDS prevalence rate reduction drivers in the short run with primary education having a simultaneous effect on HIV/AIDS prevalence rate (reduction) and GDP growth (increase) while secondary education drives the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate reduction in the long term. Education and employment may therefore become the short-run policy targets in combatting HIV/AIDS prevalence rate among the active population and achieving economic growth. Our results equally suggest that GDP growth by itself may not be an HIV/AIDS reduction driver.
P36|Shortages and the Informal Economy in the Soviet Republics: 1965-1989|We measure the informal economy and shortages of consumer goods in the Soviet republics from 1965 to 1989 to estimate the relationships of these two variables. We use fixed-effect model and instrument variable approach and find that the informal economy and shortages reinforce each other. Results indicate that the Soviet central planning system is difficult to sustain in the long run. A substantial heterogeneity across the Soviet republics exists not only in the extent of the informal economy and shortages, but also in the associations of the two variables.
P36|The Relationship between Added Value Growth and Entrepreneurship in Industrial Sector: Case of Sistan and Baluchestan Province|In this paper, we investigate the relation between entrepreneurship and Added Value Growth in Industrial Sector. For this purpose, we investigated the data related to sistan and Baluchestan Province in the period of 2000 to 2010 by using endogenous growth model. In this model, we set Added Value Growth in Industrial Sector as a function of entrepreneurship, physical capital and labor based on Cobb-Douglas Form. Estimated elasticity of Added Value Growth included 0.60, 0.38, and 0.92 as compared to entrepreneurship, physical capital and labor, respectively. They all have high statistical significances. The results indicate positive effect of entrepreneurship and innovation on the Added Value Growth . In other words, increase of entrepreneurship and innovation coefficient will increase Added Value of Industrial Sector in Sistan and Baluchestan Province . The positive effect of physical capital and labor on the Added Value Growth is another result of this study.
P36|The Partnership between the Public Authorities and NGOs: An Effective Way of Covering the Need for Social Services in Romania|The paper aims to present a number of specific issues regarding the provision of social services by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) from Romania. In the current context of the budget cuts, these organizations play an important role in enhancing the quality of life for disadvantaged groups, such as elderly, disabled, families in need etc. The paper presents the characteristics of NGOs as they emerge in the national legislation and the practical ways in which the collaboration between these organizations and institutions occurs. The partnership between the public authorities and NGOs represents an effective way of covering the need for social services at the national level. The last part of the paper presents statistical data regarding the NGOsâ€™ activity in recent years.
P36|College Expansion and the Marginal Returns to Education: Evidence from Russia|This paper evaluates whether the expansion of higher education is economically worthwhile based on a recent surge in the number of campuses and college graduates in Russia. Our empirical strategy relies on the marginal treatment effect method in both normal and semi-parametric versions, and estimating policy-influenced treatment parameters for the marginal students who are directly affected by college expansion. We use high-quality panel data with multiple wage observations, many birth cohorts, disaggregated location information, and past economic conditions. We find that college expansion attracts individuals with lower returns to college, but the returns for marginal students vary considerably depending on the scale of expansion and the type of location where new campuses are opened. Marginal individuals in smaller cities and locations without college campuses receive the largest benefits from new campuses. The results provide important implications for the design of policies targeting the expansion of higher education.
P36|Can government policies reverse undesirable declines in fertility?|Since 1989 fertility and family formation have declined sharply in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Fertility rates are converging on—and sometimes falling below—rates in Western Europe, most of which are below replacement levels. Concerned about a shrinking and aging population and strains on pension systems, governments are using incentives to encourage people to have more children. These policies seem only modestly effective in countering the impacts of widespread social changes, including new work opportunities for women and stronger incentives to invest in education.
P36|Structural Changes in the Labor Market and Social Security System in China:From the Viewpoint of Flexicurity|The global financial crisis triggered by the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States in 2008 revealed the unsustainability of China’s export-led growth regime, which supported the country’s rapid economic growth for over 20 years. Today, the Chinese economy has been forced to break away from export-led growth. Furthermore, the large financial investment made to compensate for the decreased export demand has helped China maintain high economic growth after the effects of the financial crisis started to wane in 2011. Thus, in recent years, the Chinese economy has had to transition from export- and investment -led growth to consumption-led growth. In this paper, we analyze the most important factors promoting the change from export- and investment-led growth to consumption-led growth in China’s economic growth regime. That is, we examine the correlation between the recent structural changes in the reproduction of labor force in the labor market and the social security system. Especially, we focus on the changes in the income-labor nexus due to labor market reforms and the present state of the Chinese social security system from the view point of flexicurity, which increases flexibility and security simultaneously.
P36|Measuring inflation under rationing: A virtual price approach|"The presence of rationing or more generally of the situations of constrained demand can make the traditional methods of measuring inflation questionable and give an erroneous image of the reality. In this paper, we use the virtual price approach (Neary, Roberts, 1980) to estimate the real inflation level in a centrally planned economy (CPE) with administrated prices. In the first part of the paper, we discuss various methods used in CPE's to evaluate the real level of inflation by the market disequilibrium indicators or proxies which take into account rationing and incomplete information. In the second part of the paper, we apply the virtual price approach to compute the real inflationist gap between demand and supply under rationing in Poland's centrally planned economy with administrated prices in 1965-1980 period. We estimate for this period the model of consumer behaviour under rationing and recover the virtual prices reflecting the real cost of purchasing rationed goods following Neary, Roberts' (1980) and Barten's (1994) methodology. The results show a very large difference between official and virtual price of food considered as the most rationed good (up to 500%). The natural experiment of shift from the centrally planned economy to the market economy (or from rationing to market equilibrium) observed in Poland during the ""shock therapy"" (1990) confirms the scale of estimated by the model gap between the official (administrated) and market prices."
P36|Customer Equity In A Network Driven Context - Contributions For Evaluating Customer Equity|Customer Equity Management (CEM) is not only a method to analyze future customers’ behavior but also a segmentation tool for identifying customers that deliver a great value to a company and those that should be eliminated from a company’s customer portfolio. One problem companies in industry are facing nowadays is the heterogeneous customer portfolio structure and the fact, that customer equity (CE) calculation models are referring to a company’s turnover and are not profit oriented. Thus, a customer (that can be an organization, company or an individual) providing the selling company with a big turnover is more or less of greater value than a customer delivering a minor turnover. This may lead to mismanagement and wrong budget decisions. Therefore CE is a key indicator for a company’s Customer Relationship Management (CRM) environment. In this paper, first the customer equity will be explained with its monetary and non-monetary dimensions. Secondly a new and applicable model will be introducd and discussed before starting with solving the problem of a heterogeneous customer portfolio, which is very important for companies dealing with a multilevel key market (e.g. lighting industry). The outcome of this paper is a network based CE calculation model, which is dynamic and can be used for different network structures - not only in an industrial environment.
P36|Comparison of Public, Non-Profit and Private Hospitals|The health care system in Germany is undergoing a phase of transformation. The resulting challenges and fields of action for the hospitals were described as one outcome of a scenario analysis conducted by the author. These include, for example, setting up new organisation structures, professionalising management competence or also developing a comprehensive quality management system. In the following analysis, the hospitals are to be described and compared to one another in terms of their initial conditions regarding these fields of action. The question at the focus is which different prerequisites and options the clinics have subject to their organisational structure.
P36|Mind the gap between the budget lines and the programs of the National strategy for poverty reduction|The objective of this study is to investigate the weak links in the processes for poverty reduction in Macedonia. We investigate the weak links between the budget lines and the poverty-reduction programs, involvement of vulnerable categories of people and researchers in the processes for poverty reduction. 27.1% of the Macedonian population lived below the poverty line in 2011. In order to reduce poverty, the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction and Social Exclusion has been introduced by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The budget lines for passive measures account around 45% of the total Budget spending in contrast to active measures which took only 0.13% of all spending in 2013. We have used three different approaches: an analysis of the current strategic documents for poverty reduction, an interview with the people at social risk and a survey among the civil society and academic researchers in the country. The main result is that vulnerable categories of people face with lack of information about measures for poverty reduction, especially those with at most primary education. The citizens are not involved in the process of identifying potential problems of the vulnerable group and the process of construction measures for addressing the problems. Also, the Macedonian social system faces with absent process of monitoring of the spending of the funds and the effects of the used measure. Only 24% of the respondents were monitored regularly. At the same time, only 18% of the researchers were involved in the process of creating some strategic document for poverty reduction and only 9% made a social change or their recommendations have potential to be accepted by the policymakers and cause change.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P36|Агропродовольственный Рынок Региона: Классификация Институтов, Административные Барьеры, Трансакционные Издержки, Неэффективные Посредники<BR>[The region's agro-food market: the classification of institutions, administrative barriers, transaction costs, ineffective intermediaries]|The paper examines the scientific basis for the development of the institutional structure at the national and regional levels. The materials of the region classified the market institutions, assessed their development, identified the main socio-economic problems that require solutions. The concept of improving the institutional structure of the regional agri-food market is proposed, which includes reduction of transaction costs due to administrative barriers and a reduction in the number of inefficient intermediaries. The possibility of using cluster formations of the region as tools through which state authorities and local self-government can regulate interaction between different groups of market institutions is considered. The specialty of economics and management at the enterprise (by branches), employees of regional government bodies, market research specialists, researchers, teachers and students of agrarian universities is addressed to teachers and students of universities.
P36|Трансакционные Издержки На Аграрном Рынке: Измерение, Регулирование, Оптимизация<BR>[Transaction costs in the agrarian market: measurement, regulation, optimization]|The monograph examines the scientific basis for the formation and management of transaction costs in the agricultural market, as well as their measurement, regulation and optimization in terms of the proportions between the transformation and transaction costs. The questions of the methodology for measuring transaction costs in agricultural organizations, the selection of the most rational chains in the sales system, and the direction of state regulation of the transaction costs of the agroindustrial complex are disclosed. The materials of the region show the dynamics of the cost component in the agrarian production of the regional agro-industrial complex. The analysis of transformation costs in the agricultural organizations of the region is carried out, costs in the sphere of production, marketing, management accounting are investigated. The information requirements of the participants of the agrarian market are considered, the classification of consumers of information is given, and information and analytical systems of the Internet are presented.The work is addressed to employees of regional government bodies, market research specialists, heads of organizations, farmers, scientists, teachers and students of agricultural universities.
P36|The RUMiC longitudinal survey: fostering research on labor markets in China|C81; J01; P36; R23 Copyright Akgüç et al.; licensee Springer. 2014
P36|The effects of migration on poverty and inequality in rural Kosovo|The economic wellbeing of a large number of rural Kosovar families depends heavily on migrants' remittances. This paper aims at analysing the impact of migration on rural poverty and inequality in Kosovo. It draws on the 2009 nationally representative Kosovo Remittance Study. Analyses are based on a comparison with counterfactual migrant household incomes derived from Propensity Score Matching. We find that remittances have no impact on the extremely poor, but lift around 40% of migrant households above the vulnerability threshold. Gini coefficients show a tendency to increase due to migration. Determinants of different outcomes of migration are explored in a logit regression on migration success. Household and income structure as well as education play a role in how migrant households climb up the income ladder.
P36|The effects of migration on poverty and inequality in rural Kosovo|F22, F24, O15, P36 Copyright Möllers and Meyer; licensee Springer. 2014
P36|The Gorbachev Anti-alcohol Campaign and Russia's Mortality Crisis|Political and economic transition is often blamed for Russia's 40 percent surge in deaths between 1990 and 1994. Highlighting that increases in mortality occurred primarily among alcohol-related causes and among working-age men (the heaviest drinkers), this paper investigates an alternative explanation: the demise of the 1985-1988 Gorbachev Anti-Alcohol Campaign. Using archival sources to build a new oblast-year dataset spanning 1978-2000, we find a variety of evidence suggesting that the campaign's end explains a large share of the mortality crisis, implying that Russia's transition to capitalism and democracy was not as lethal as commonly suggested. (JEL D72, I12, I18, P26, P36)
P36|The Gorbachev Anti-Alcohol Campaign and Russia’s Mortality Crisis|Political and economic transition is often blamed for Russia's 40% surge in deaths between 1990 and 1994. Highlighting that increases in mortality occurred primarily among alcohol-related causes and among working-age men (the heaviest drinkers), this paper investigates an alternative explanation: the demise of the 1985-1988 Gorbachev Anti-Alcohol Campaign. Using archival sources to build a new oblast-year data set spanning 1978-2000, we find a variety of evidence suggesting that the campaign's end explains a large share of the mortality crisis - implying that Russia's transition to capitalism and democracy was not as lethal as commonly suggested.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P36|Health, Height, Height Shrinkage, and SES at Older Ages: Evidence from China|In this paper, we build on the literature that examines associations between height and health outcomes of the elderly. We investigate the associations of height shrinkage at older ages with socioeconomic status, finding that height shrinkage for both men and women is negatively associated with better schooling, current urban residence, and household per capita expenditures. We then investigate the relationships between pre-shrinkage height, height shrinkage, and a rich set of health outcomes of older respondents, finding that height shrinkage is positively associated with poor health outcomes across a variety of outcomes, being especially strong for cognition outcomes. (JEL I12, J14, O15, P36)
P36|Marriage Networks, Nepotism, and Labor Market Outcomes in China|This paper considers the role of marriage in improving labor market outcomes through the expansion of an individual's networks. I focus on the impact of the relationship with the father-in-law on a young man's career using panel data from China. The identification strategy isolates the network effects related to a man's father-in-law by examining the post-marriage death of a father-in-law. The estimates suggest that the loss of the father-in-law translates into a decrease in a man's earnings of 7 percent.
P36|Advantages and Limitations of the Front-of-Package (FOP) Labeling Systems in Guiding the Consumers’ Healthy Food Choice|"In the last decades, nutrition labels have provided an increasing amount of information about the nutritional value of a foodstuff, in a variety of patterns, having the main goal to help consumers in making healthier food choices. Now, many questions appeared related to the effectiveness of nutrition information in guiding the consumer purchasing behaviour, by encouraging the healthy foods choice. It becomes increasingly clear that many consumers have difficulties in understanding the nutritional information, preferring a simpler way in providing this information, helping them in the rapid evaluation of the nutritional characteristics of a foodstuff. In response to the obvious need to develop a more effective presentation of nutritional information, which convey this information in a simplified and systematic manner, manufacturers and retailers from different countries have created some systems for signalling the nutritional profile. For the nutritional information of greatest interest to be easily perceived by consumers, they have used various forms of graphical representation, that were marked on the front of individual packages (generically called ""front of package"" - FOP). Although created in order to facilitate healthy food choices, the effect of these FOP systems on consumers is now controversial. Following a literature review, the paper highlights the main benefits and limitations of the widely used FOP systems in the European Union (""Traffic Light"" and ""Guideline Daily Amounts""). The paper presents also some suggestions for developing an optimal FOP system, standardized and adapted to consumers’ needs."
P36|Non-linear geographics and the economics of transition and democratization|The purpose of this study is to analyse the effects of geography on the transition process in authoritarian political regimes, and to investigate the nature of the links between political change, economic reforms and geographical location. A simple model of transition and democratization is presented wherein we show that the effectiveness of repression by the incumbent elite is a negative function of the distance to the 'free world'. In consequence, geography has conflicting effects on shifts in political power. This article provides a rationale for the counterintuitive fact that the first authoritarian country to start a transition process towards democratization is not necessarily the one nearest to the free world.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P36|Movilidad de doctores colombianos. Revisión del estado del arte frente a la internacionalización de la educación superior|la globalización es un fenómeno que trasciende e impacta en diferentesaspectos de la sociedad; en este escenario la movilidad en el ámbitoacadémico toma un papel central en la transformación de la educaciónsuperior, en las necesidades de los estudiantes e intereses de las instituciones.el propósito de este artículo es hacer una revisión de la literatura,investigaciones y perspectivas de la movilidad de doctores. la primeraparte presenta un análisis de tipo histórico con relación al fenómeno deestudio, la movilidad. Posteriormente se hace una aproximación teórica a losconceptos básicos, con el fin de hacer precisiones conceptuales que facilitenla comprensión de los diferentes enfoques a través de los cuales se hananalizado los procesos de movilidad.la parte final del documento se centra en presentar la perspectiva de lamovilidad de los doctores en latinoamérica, para posteriormente analizar elcaso colombiano, tanto lo que tiene que ver con movilidad como lo relativoa la producción académica y la visibilidad de estos trabajos.
P36|Comunicaciones de mercadeo en relaciones industriales|el marketing industrial ha sido un campo que ha tenido un desarrollorelativamente bajo dentro de la teoría del marketing en general, esto encomparación con otras ramas de la materia. Pese a que sus principalesdesarrollos datan de varias décadas atrás, sus teorías y postulados siguenvigentes con el pasar de los años. Por esta razón es muy poco lo que a partirde ello se ha formulado en épocas más recientes. Con base en lo anterior, elpresente artículo tiene el objetivo de inducir a los lectores a reflexionar sobrenuevas formas de llevar a cabo las comunicaciones en el sector industrial yaque, como se examinará, es un campo complejo que exige diferentes nivelesde acercamiento y contacto con los actores interrelacionados. todo ellopartiendo de los avances tecnológicos y conceptuales que han permeadolas comunicaciones durante los siglos veinte y veintiuno, representados porla era de la computación y por los desarrollos que esta ha traído consigo.
P36|Gestión de financiación en el gremio transportador de carga en la provincia del Tundama (2006-2009): diagnóstico y análisis|este artículo profundiza en la forma como las empresas transportadorasde carga pesada de la provincia del tundama (Boyacá) gestionan susrecursos financieros, basado en los conceptos de la estructura de capital yparticularmente en las teorías del trade-off y pecking order; también utilizametodología del Wacc y del caMP.el documento es un referente de la estructura de capital de las empresasde carga de la región analizada entre 2006 y 2009, que pretendesentar las bases para futuros estudios sobre este tema. sus resultados-fundamentados en los estudios hechos a nueve empresas transportadorasde carga de la región- establecen cuál es la estructura de capital en lasempresas de carga pesada de la provincia del tundama y evidencianhallazgos llamativos.
P36|Income comparison, income formation, and subjective well-being: New evidence on envy versus signaling|Drawing on the distinction between envy and signaling effects in income comparison, this paper uses panel data on subjective well-being from Germany over the period 1991–2009 to study whether the nature of income comparison has changed in the process of economic development and institutional change. We conceptualize a person's comparison income as the income predicted by indicators of her productivity and examine if comparison effects have changed with changes in the income–productivity relationship. We find that (i) after a series of institutional reforms that affected income formation, incomes are now better explained by productivity than they were before the reforms, (ii) before the reforms, signaling was the dominant concern in East Germany whereas envy was dominant in West Germany, (iii) since the reforms, no dominance of envy or signaling effects can be found.
P36|Post-Socialist Transition and the Intergenerational Transmission of Education in Kyrgyzstan|We investigate long-term trends in the intergenerational transmission of education in a low income country undergoing a transition from socialism to a market economy. We draw on evidence from Kyrgyzstan using data from three household surveys collected in 1993, 1998 and 2011. We find that Kyrgyzstan, like Eastern European middle income transition economies, generally maintained high educational mobility, comparable to the levels during Soviet times. However, we find that the younger cohorts, who were exposed to the transition during their school years, experienced a rapid decline in educational mobility. We also document that gender differences in schooling and educational mobility, found among older-aged individuals, disappeared in the younger population.
P36|How does separating government regulatory and operational control of public hospitals matter to healthcare supply?|This paper evaluates the effect of regulatory reform separating the operational control and regulatory oversight of public hospitals in China. Using city-level data and a difference-in-difference (DID) model, this paper estimates the changes in healthcare supply in response to the regulatory reform. Based on the DID estimates, in Weifang between 2006 and 2008, the reform led to a 39.3% increase in the number of doctors per 10,000 residents and 40.1% increase in the number of health workers per 10,000 residents. Similarly, in Suzhou between 2005 and 2008 the reform led to increases of 60.5%, 30.8% and 36.6% for hospital beds, doctors and health workers per 10,000 people, respectively. Moreover, the magnitude of this impact appears to increase over time. Furthermore, the effect of the reform is consistent regardless of whether the separation reform takes place inside or outside the government. These findings lead us to conclude that the government should focus only on the regulation of healthcare markets, while leaving hospital operation to the free market.
P36|Trade integration and the skill premium: Evidence from a transition economy|Relatively little attention has been given to documenting the evolution of the skill premium (defined as the ratio of the wages of skilled to unskilled workers) in the economies of Central and Eastern Europe, most likely due to the lack of readily available data. In this article, we first uncover the patterns of the skill premium for a subset of transition economies, and then we turn our focus to the case of Slovenia, where we highlight the negative correlation between the skill premium and international trade after 2000, when Slovenia’s trade with its largest partner, the European Union (EU), increased and intensified. To conduct our analysis, we develop an applied general equilibrium model, and combining a Social Accounting Matrix, Household Budget Surveys, and the EU KLEMS Growth and Productivity Accounts database, we calibrate it to match the Slovenian data. We next perform a numerical experiment that consists of Slovenia joining the EU and quantify the impact of this trade integration process on the skill premium. We also conduct additional sensitivity experiments to quantify how our model’s predictions vary with some of the model’s parameters, including the role of sectoral productivity growth. We find that trade liberalization leads to a fall in the skill premium of roughly up to 4.5%. This implies that our model is able to account for approximately 46% of the actual decrease in the skill premium observed in Slovenia for our period of analysis.
P36|The social capital legacy of communism-results from the Berlin Wall experiment|In this paper we establish a direct link between the communist history, the resulting structure of social capital, and attitudes toward spatial mobility. We argue that the communist regime induced a specific social capital mix that discouraged geographic mobility even after its demise. Theoretically, we integrate two branches of the social capital literature into one more comprehensive framework distinguishing an open type and a closed type of social capital. Using the German Socio-Economic Panel (GSOEP) we take advantage of the natural experiment that separated Germany into two parts after the WWII to identify the causal effect of social capital on mobility. We estimate a three equation ordered probit model and provide strong empirical evidence for our theoretical propositions.
P36|Revealed Preferences for Diamond Goods|When consumers care not only for the quantity but also the value of a product, it could be rational to purchase products as they become more expensive. This study provides nonparametric—revealed preference—conditions to measure consumers' marginal willingness to pay for value (i.e., diamondness) associated with particular goods. This is the first nonparametric test of price-dependent preferences. The proposed diamondness measure is applied to observational data from the Russia Longitudinal Monitoring Survey. The results show that this diamondness measure is related to a product's visibility to society, which indicates a certain degree of conspicuous consumption.
P36|A Multidimensional Analysis of Social Vulnerability|Social vulnerability is often defined as a life-situation characterized by a multi-dimensional combination of disadvantage and advantage, of inclusion and exclusion factors. Its distinctive characteristic is that the weak and unstable integration in the main mechanisms of resources distribution in contemporary society places the people in a situation of uncertainty and high exposure to the risk of poverty and, eventually, of social exclusion. Because of its often temporary nature, vulnerability is difficult to capture. The present paper presents various aspects of social vulnerability and the structuring of the main elements of which it is constituted.The analysis focuses across the family structure, exposure to poverty (temporary or permanent), housing conditions, the family/work system (the presence of unemployed and temporary workers in the household), the ways in which work and childcare are reconciled, and the presence of dependent persons in households in economically compressed situations.
P36|"""Yetenek” Yaklaşımı Temelinde Yoksulluğun Ölçülmesi: Mersin ve Erzurum İllerinde Yoksulluğun Kayıp Boyutları"|Bu çalışma, yoksulluk kavramını “yetenek” yaklaşımı temelinde çok boyutlu olarak ele alarak Mersin ve Erzurum illerinde yoksulluğun kayıp boyutlarına odaklanmaktadır. Hesaplamalar için gerekli veri seti, adı geçen illerin kentsel kesimlerinde 2011 yılında gerçekleştirilen saha çalışmalarından elde edilmektedir. Çalışmanın hazırlanmasındaki temel gerekçe, Türkiye özelinde yapılan yoksulluk çalışmalarında çoğunlukla parasal yaklaşım yöntemlerinin uygulanması, bunun ise sosyal işleyiş ve süreci açıklamada yetersiz kaldığına inanılmasıdır. Çok boyutlu yoksulluk hesaplama yöntemi ile elde edilen Mersin ve Erzurum illerinin sonuçları incelendiğinde, Mersin’in yoksulluk oranının Erzurum’unkinden yüksek olduğu görülmektedir. Karşılaşılan en çarpıcı sonuçlardan birisi de özellikle kadının hanehalkı kararlarına katılımının incelendiği güçlendirme boyutundaki yoksunluk yaşayan kişi sayısının iki il için oldukça farklı olmasıdır. Mersin’in yoksulluk oranı Erzurum’un üzerinde olmasına karşın, Erzurum’da güçlendirme boyutunda yoksunluk yaşayanların sayısı Mersin’dekilerin üzerindedir. Bu da Mersin’deki fertlerin göreli daha özgür olduklarının bir göstergesi olabilir.
P36|China's Life Satisfaction, 1990-2010|Despite its unprecedented growth in output per capita in the last two decades, China has essentially followed the life satisfaction trajectory of the central and eastern European transition countries – a U-shaped swing and a nil or declining trend. There is no evidence of an increase in life satisfaction of the magnitude that might have been expected to result from the fourfold improvement in the level of per capita consumption that has occurred. As in the European countries, in China the trend and U-shaped pattern appear to be related to a pronounced rise in unemployment followed by a mild decline, and an accompanying dissolution of the social safety net along with growing income inequality. The burden of worsening life satisfaction in China has fallen chiefly on the lowest socioeconomic groups. An initially highly egalitarian distribution of life satisfaction has been replaced by an increasingly unequal one, with decreasing life satisfaction in persons in the bottom third of the income distribution and increasing life satisfaction in those in the top third.
P36|Post-Socialist Transition and the Intergenerational Transmission of Education in Kyrgyzstan|We investigate long-term trends in the intergenerational transmission of education in a low income country undergoing a transition from socialism to a market economy. We draw on evidence from Kyrgyzstan using data from three household surveys collected in 1993, 1998 and 2011. We find that Kyrgyzstan, like Eastern European middle income transition economies, generally maintained high educational mobility, comparable to the levels during Soviet times. However, we find that the younger cohorts, who were exposed to the transition during their school years, experienced a rapid decline in educational mobility. We also document that gender differences in schooling and educational mobility, found among older-aged individuals, disappeared in the younger population.
P36|(In)Efficiency of matching: the case of a post-transition economy|The aim of this paper is twofold. First, we provide estimates of the evolution in matching efficiencies in Poland, demonstrating decrease in estimated efficiency scores. These trends are accompanied by decreasing outputs in the matching function, as well as the lowering of the elasticities. Second, we relate the estimated efficiency scores to the use of active labour market measures. We find that job brokering intensity is conducive to matching efficiency, but active labour market policies coverage in general is not. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
P36|It’s the weather, stupid! Individual participation in collective May Day demonstrations|We investigate the possible explanations for variations in aggregate levels of participation in large-scale political demonstrations. A simple public choice inspired model is applied to data derived from the annual May Day demonstrations of the Danish labor movement and socialist parties taking place in Copenhagen in the period 1980–2011. The most important explanatory variables are variations in the weather conditions and consumer confidence, while political and socio-economic conditions exhibit no robust effects. As such accidental or non-political factors may be much more important for collective political action than usually acknowledged and possibly make changes in aggregate levels of political support seem erratic and unpredictable. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2013
P36|Az újraelosztáshoz horgonyzott államháztartási hiány<BR>[Deficit anchored to redistribution]|A szerző az államháztartási hiány újratermelődésének okát a kialakult újraelosztási ráta fenntartásában érdekelt választói magatartásban, azoknak a választóknak a relatív többségben látja, akiknek jövedelme közvetlenül az állami, politikai döntésektől függ. A tanulmány politikai gazdaságtani megközelítésben bemutatja, hogy a választók - mint megbízók - a mindenkori kormánynak - mint érdekükben eljáró ügynöknek - a lehetséges mozgásterét egyfelől az újraelosztás kialakult mértékének megtartásához, másfelől a jövedelmek centralizációs hányadának kialakult arányához horgonyozzák le. A kormánynak mint ügynöknek ebben a keretben kell manővereznie, ami a szándékoktól függetlenül is a deficit tartósságához vezet. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: O43, E02, O16, P36, P51.
P36|The Welfare Value of FDAâ€™s Mercury-in-Fish Advisory: A Dynamic Reanalysis|Assessing the welfare impact of consumer health advisories is a thorny task. Recently, Shimshack and Ward (2010) studied how U.S. households responded to FDAâ€™s 2001 mercury-in-fish advisory. They found that the average at-risk household reduced fish consumption by about 24%, resulting in a 21%-reduction in mercury exposure at the cost of a 28%-reduction in cardioprotective omega-3 fatty acids. A rough assessment of the health costs and benefits led Shimshack and Ward to conclude that the advisory policy resulted in an overall consumer welfare loss. In this note, we propose a more comprehensive assessment that links the long term cardiovascular health effects of the advisory policy to life cycle consumption. In addition to mortality risk, our model values the loss in health quality from non-fatal cardiovascular diseases. Using the same dose-response relationships as Shimshack and Ward, we find that the expected health and mortality loss to the average at-risk household is much larger than they suggested. The analysis highlights the importance of accounting for dynamic effects when evaluating persistent changes in exposure to environmental health risks.
P36|Determinants of Ultimate Control of Large Firms in Transition Countries: Empirical Evidence|We identify the ultimate ownership structures of the 20 largest firms in 12 transition countries in 1996, and the subsequent patterns of ownership change over 1996-2008. Of the state-controlled companies in 1996 more than half are still in state hands in 2008. Better quality of governmental institutions, larger external but not domestic government debt, smaller company size, and higher company profitability increase the likelihood of privatization as well as the likelihood that the company ends up ultimately in foreign hands. We document that, after 20 years, control structure and institutional quality convergence on the West is still largely incomplete.
P36|Housing Tenure Choice and Housing Expenditures in the Czech Republic|Choosing between rented housing and homeownership, the so called housing tenure choice, is a key decision made by each household. Therefore housing economists often seek an answer to the question which factors have an impact on this decision. The paper investigates potential tenure choice determinants using an econometric model based on the sample data. Results of the analysis, making use of the investigation of EU-SILC in the CR, have testified to the fact that tenure choice is affected by the factors similar to those in other countries – household income, marital status of the household head and household size (persons per household). By contrast, the influence of other demographic characteristics of the household head (gender or age) has not been confirmed. The econometric model has also made it possible to evaluate potential impact of these factors on housing related expenses of households. In addition to the logical influence of household income, tenure choice decisions are significantly influenced by household size and residence in Prague, particularly in the rented housing sector.
P36|Impact Evaluation of Remittances for Pakistan: Propensity Score Matching Approach|This study attempts to uncover the biases in the impact evaluation of remittances when the problems relating to selection bias and counter factual are not taken into account. Taking migration as an intervention and foreign remittances as an input, the study measures the socioeconomic impact using an approach which yields more accurate non-experimental estimates in self-select cases through multiple output and outcome indicators such as income, expenditure, saving, and capital accumulation which, directly and indirectly, affect households’ welfare, poverty incidence and growth prospects of a country. Using PIHS data, the study first calculates the difference in socioeconomic characteristics of treated or remittances beneficiary households (RBH) and control or remittances non-beneficiary households (NRBH) ignoring endogeneity and observable differences. Second, it calculates the propensity score and evaluates the impact using data from common support area for both RBH and NRBH households. Third, it evaluates the impact using the propensity score matching approach which replicates the experimental benchmark. The difference in the first and the third estimates reveals the bias originating from the issues of selection and difference in observable characteristics. The results show that after controlling for observable characteristics of households, regional difference, networking and applying the selection correction technique, the average impact of remittances is significantly reduced. A disaggregated analysis shows that the socioeconomic impact of remittances differs by the level of skills. The impact is significant for relatively low skilled poor households but for high skilled households it remains significant only in case of bank deposits. The paper concludes that estimates are biased upward if the selectivity issue and endogeniety problems are ignored which may lead to wrong policy implications.
P36|Human Capital and Poverty in Pakistan: Evidence from the Punjab Province|The role of human capital (education and health) is recognized both in theoretical and empirical economic literature. Better education and health services enhance productivity and earnings of the workers. So the present study is an attempt to assess the impact of human capital in poverty alleviation. A cross-sectional data of 34 districts of Punjab province was used for the analysis. Three equations have been estimated by using the ordinary least square method. Education and health services are found to have poverty lessening impact in the economy. The results are statistically robust as adjudged by the R-squared and F-value. The error terms of the estimated models fulfill the standard OLS assumptions. It is suggested that imparting of knowledge, training and skills in the people empowers them. Improved human resources increase the productivity and earnings of the workers. Furthermore, improved human capital can play its role in reducing multidimensional poverty and its severity. The study suggests a substantial increase in education and health expenditure by the government. Proper campaign to increase the enrollment can be fruitful. Every born child has its basic right to obtain basic education and health services. Provision of education and health services can help the poor to break the vicious cycle of poverty.
P36|Financial freedom experience of Indian Male and Female Executives|Financial freedom is generally understood as state to do anything whenever you want. Financial well being brings lot of direct benefits like mental peace and capability to help others financially. Gender equality is new development of last few decades and one sees women in various roles, including females developing wealth for themselves. Every individual is different. We observe behavioral differences on Gender basis. Financial freedom experience of female Executives is very important to study against traditional male Executives. We decided that an attempt should be made to examine how financial freedom experience is different for male Executives and female Executives. Sample of 60 was selected comprising of 30 male participants and 30 female participants. All Executives were at least 18 years of age. Participants pursued different types of employment largely falling in production and trade on full time basis. Executives belonged to Vapi, Navsari, Vadodara and Ahmedabad. It was observed that Executives score do not show significant difference on Gender basis
P36|Poverty and Regional Inequality in Ghana; A Review|Poverty is one of the most familiar and enduring conditions known to humanity. Some researchers view it as a reaction to the stress of being poor, whereas others perceive it as a process of adapting to the condition of poverty. In this paper, we review the regional Poverty and Inequality disparities in Ghana. We concluded that, the annual cash income concept is a poor indicator of the lifetime resources and hence, consumption may not fully reflect a familyâ€™s true well-being.
P36|Parametric Modelling of Income Distribution in Central and Eastern Europe|This paper models income distribution in four Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries (the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and the Slovak Republic) in 1990s and 2000s using parametric models of income distribution. In particular, we use the generalized beta distribution of the second kind (GB2), which has been found in the previous literature to give an excellent fit to income distributions across time and countries. We have found that for Poland and Hungary, the GB2 model fits the data better than its nested alternatives (the Dagum and Singh-Maddala distributions). However, for Czech Republic and Slovak Republic the Dagum model is as good as the GB2 and may be preferred due to its simpler functional form. The paper also found that the tails of parametric income distribution in the Czech Republic, Poland and the Slovak Republic have become fatter in the course of transformation to market economy, which provides evidence for growing income bi-polarization in these societies. Statistical inference on changes in income inequality based on parametric Lorenz dominance suggests that, independently of inequality index used, income inequality in the Czech Republic, Poland and the Slovak Republic has increased during transformation. For Hungary, there is no Lorenz dominance and conclusions about the direction of changes in income inequality depend on the cardinal inequality measure used.
P36|Russian Unified National Exams (UNE) and academic performance of ICEF HSE students|Starting from 2008, the admission to the BSc program at the ICEF (NRU HSE) is done by the UNE results. 2008 was a transition year: both UNE and internal HSE exams results were counted. Since 2009 the regulations stay stable — only the UNE and Olympiads’ results have been taken into account. In the article the academic success factors for the students admitted in 2009–2011, after 1, 2, and 3 years of study, are analyzed. It has been shown that the students — Olympiads’ winners consistently show better results than other students, other factors equal. The UNE results are still significant for academic performance forecast after 3 years of study. But the final rating of the student after the first year accumulates almost completely the information which the UNE and Olympiads results contain. Region of a student’s school is not significant and gender is marginally significant for future academic performance.
