P40|The Nature of Excessive Behavior (ISRAF) in the Islamic Economic Framework|Objective – The objective of this paper is to unfold the nature of excessive behavior in the Islamic economics framework. Methodology/Technique – This is a library research based on the various studies that specifically discuss excessive behavior and Islamic consumer behavior. The study uses a rating system to identify the relevance of content to the study and analyze content analysis. Findings – The nature of excessive behavior is condemned by Islam and is fully agreed upon by Muslim scholars. The extent of excessive behavior is not limited to certain levels of consumption. The Muslim consumer may unaware of doing the practice under the influence of a particular setting, where the pleasure of the practice is felt temporarily. Novelty – This study clarifies the terminology and nature of excessive behavior, which is unclear in previous studies conducted by Muslim scholars. Type of Paper: Review
P40|Why Did Pre-Modern States Adopt Big-God Religions?|Over the past two millennia successful pre-modern states in Eurasia adopted and cultivated Big-God religions that emphasize (i) the ruler's legitimacy as divinely ordained and (ii) a morality adapted for large-scale societies that can have positive economic effects. We make sense of this development by building on previous research that has conceptualized pre-modern states as maximizing the rulerâ€™s profit. We model the interaction of rulers and subjects who have both material and psychological payoffs, the latter emanating from religious identity. Overall, religion reduces the cost of controlling subjects through the threat of violence, increases production, increases tax revenue, and reduces banditry. A Big-God ruler, who is also a believer, has greater incentives to invest in expanding the number of believers and the intensity of belief, as well as investing in state capacity. Furthermore, such investments are often complementary, mutually reinforcing one another, thus leading to an evolutionary advantage of rulers that adopted Big-God religions.
P40|Future European Alliance - Europe as a Flexible Democracy|A reasonable future for Europe can only be achieved if two essential elements are fulfilled: Firstly, newly established institutions must be democratic and have strong support from citizens rather than from national governments. Secondly, the large number of different ethnic, cultural, religious, and regional units existing on the European continent must be able to maintain their identity. This diversity must be institutionally supported rather than be undermined by standardization and centralization. We suggest political institutions, which are formed to meet these goals, following the example of Functional, Overlapping, Competing Jurisdictions (FOCJ). If these two goals are adequately reached, a future alliance raises the identification with the European project, and induces citizens to exhibit civic virtue in strengthening these goals.
P40|Evolution towards higher net profit in a population of ensembles of ensembles leads to division of labour|In this model the basic ensemble consists of a source and a sink, three basic ensembles constitute an organism or company (both an ensemble of ensembles) and nine organisms/companies form a population or a branch of industry. Each organism is composed of either connected or unconnected ensembles. Linear cost-functions and saturating benefit-functions create superadditivity (better net profit) through a rational and peaceful transfer of substrate within a basic ensemble. Transfers by force and deception are not jet considered. All ensembles have an identical and limited concentration range and all concentrations are of the same probability. Random mutations change cost factors (cf), Michaelis-Menten constants (Km) and the maximal reaction velocities (Vmax) in source and sink of the basic ensemble. Km and Vmax shape a saturating benefit-function in Michaelis-Menten type enzyme kinetics resembling the utility function in economics. The result of mutations in the basic ensemble is a higher or lower cumulative superadditivity of an organism/company and its master if installed. The most effective organisms or masters prevail within the population. Recombination of ensembles between organisms accelerates evolution. Independent of the starting point and with or without a fix cost I observe the evolution towards strong asymmetry and inequality with a division of labour resulting in the development of a collector and a manufacturer. Although I observe a win-win situation reciprocity will become a necessity.
P40|The Basis for Legitimate Entitlement to Profit in Islamic Law|This paper is intended to investigate the basis for legitimate profit in Islamic law and compare it to the theories held by modern conventional economics regarding the cause of profit. This study shall use the theoretical framework of the Hanafi concept of damān (guarantee) and apply it to the cases of fixed revenue and profit. Finally, this paper aims at exposing how the Hanafi formulation of damān, along with capital and labor, can be useful in explaining and determining the basis for a legitimate profit in Islamic law.
P40|Globalization and the Concentration of Talent|We analyze the allocation of talent across teams in large matching markets with competition for rank. We show that under general conditions globalization in the form of a convex transformation of payoffs promotes the concentration of talent, i.e. it makes positive assortative matching more likely and negative assortative matching less likely. This is in line with recent trends in European football (soccer) leagues.
P40|The Role of Street-Level Bureaucrats in Implementing Renewable Energy Policy in Indonesia|"""Objective – This empirical paper aims to describe what action the Government of Indonesia is taking to provide alternative energy sources, such as solar cells, biomass, wind energy, ocean energy, and other renewable energy (RE) sources. Methodology/Technique – The method of analysis used in this study consists of an individual factor, a contextual factor, an external factor, an organizational factor, and a political factor. Findings – The results show that the role of street level bureaucrats in implementing RE policy in Indonesia is influenced by legal regulation and specific values in internal organizations, created by themselves. Novelty – The study highlights that street-level bureaucrats in Dirjen-EBTKE have a discretion when introducing and implementing new RE programs. The paper involves qualitative research by providing descriptive data through a case study"""
P40|Building a Scientific Narrative Towards a More Resilient EU Society. Part 1: a Conceptual Framework|This report explains the main elements of a conceptual framework for resilience. The framework was developed in consultation with several Directorate Generals of the European Commission, participating in the Research Network on the Measurement of Resilience, which was jointly established by JRC and EPSC in 2016. The conceptual framework was designed to serve the policy DGs in their policy-making activities by creating a common understanding of the concept and paving the way towards a measurement and monitoring facility.
P40|Internal Rebellions and External Threats: A Model of Government Organizational Forms in Ancient China|In ancient China, a ruler needed to handle both internal rebellions and external threats. To decrease the possibility of internal rebellions, a ruler could organize the government to establish the division of power among ministers. While effective in preventing internal rebellions, this approach could make the defense of the country against external threats less effective. The trade-off between preventing internal rebellions and dealing with external threats in a ruler's choice of government organizational form is affected by factors such as the size of the population, the level of coordination efficiency, and the degree of increasing returns to the military sector. If the magnitude of external threats increases, regardless of the type of equilibrium organizational form, the equilibrium level of the concentration of power among division heads increases.
P40|Oligarchies And Development In A Global Economy: A Tale Of Two Elites|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12284-abs-0001""> This paper studies how comparative advantage and the political elites' endowments shape long-run performance in economies with imperfect political institutions. The trade regime interacts with industrial policy and regulations on capital mobility in governing capital accumulation. In a capital-scarce economy, capitalist oligarchs striving for import substitution industrialization (ISI) initially shelter the economy from trade, while promoting industrial policies that promote total factor productivity growth in the manufacturing sector. This gradually shifts the comparative advantage toward manufacturing and renders the economy attractive to foreign investors. Allowing for trade and foreign capital inflows are thus complementary policies that spur growth in the capital oligarchy. By contrast, landed oligarchs in a capital-scarce economy favor openness to trade at an early stage of development, neglect industrial policies, and block foreign capital to maximize extractable rents. The policy mix causes the economy to stagnate. Consistent with the experiences of South Korea and Argentina in the postwar era, the model predicts that the success of ISI policies depends crucially on the conditions governing the incentives for capital accumulation. (JEL F10, F20, P40, P50, O10, O24)"
P40|Management of the Formation of Rating Preferences of Economic Entities upon Collective Choice|The applicability of a set of methods in the case of obtaining mixed results of the final ranking of economic entities in the process of their rating assessment has been substantiated. A new method of the formation of rating preferences upon collective choice has been proposed. The methodology is based on the following: An information base in the form of a summary table of ratings of compared entities; a procedure for the formation of rating preferences based on a rank-sum (or arithmetic means of ranks); a procedure for the formation of rating preferences with the joint application of rating arithmetic means and position indicators; a procedure for the formation of rating preferences using the Kemeny median. The proposals for the calculation of weighting factors of the voting procedures and modification of the procedure for profiling the preferences using the Kemeny median have been made. An algorithm for the use of the proposed method has been developed. Methodology testing has been conducted upon the rating assessment of the financial and economic condition of industrial enterprises
P40|Regional capital flows and economic regimes: Evidence from China|Using provincial data from China, this paper examines the pattern of capital flows in relation to the transition of economic regimes. We show that fast-growing provinces experienced less capital inflows before the large-scale market reform, contrary to the prediction of the neoclassical growth theory. As China transitioned from the central-planning economy to the market economy, the negative correlation between productivity growth and capital inflows became much less pronounced. From a regional perspective, this finding suggests domestic institutional factors play an important role in shaping the pattern of capital flows.
P40|A Darwinian theory of institutional evolution two centuries before Darwin?|How effective institutions come about and how they change are fundamental questions for economics and social science more generally. We show that these questions were central in the deliberations of lawyers in 17th century England, a critical historical juncture that has motivated important institutional theories. We argue that the lawyers held a conceptualization of institutional development that foreshadowed many elements of Darwinism, more than two centuries before Darwin’s great contributions. To this end, we first identify a set of features characteristic of Darwinian evolutionary social-science theories. We then match the lawyers’ own words to these features, revealing the many congruities between a Darwinian approach and the lawyers’ evolutionary model of institutional construction and change. Finally, we analyze the normative conclusions on institutional development that the lawyers drew from their evolutionary analysis.
P40|Challenges to the Development of an Islamic Economic System|The disappointment with the failure of the capitalist and socialist economic systems in solving the development problems of many countries has led several scholars to inves-tigate the Islamic Economic System (IES) as an alternative. Nienhaus (2010) describes the IES as a system that has the potential to capture the dynamism of capitalism and the equality of socialism. This paper contributes to the literature by identifying the pillars of an IES in conformity with the basic features that identify other economic systems. The paper aims at emphasizing the challenges that may arise in association with every pillar of this system to propel an Islamic economy forward in the modern world. The paper explores the challenges associated with ownership, economic decision making, incentives, and the role of the government in an Islamic framework. Accordingly, this study highlights that attaining a balanced demeanor, continuous assessment and inno-vation of financial instruments, employing spiritual incentives, institutional reform, and fighting Islamophobia are key challenges to the implementation of an IES.
P40|Monopoly Capital and Capitalist Inequality: Marx after Piketty|This paper proposes that one major explanation of growing inequality in the United States (US) is through the use of the concept of economic surplus. The economic surplus is a neo-Marxian term which combines the traditional Marxian tenet of surplus value with other ways that surplus value can be invested in a mature, advanced capitalist economy. A rising economic surplus that is not absorbed through growing consumer spending, luxury spending or government spending results in stagnant wages and growing inequality via higher levels of underemployment and greater monopoly and monopsony power among a decreasing number of huge, powerful corporations. Therefore, the politics surrounding the growth of inequality in the US has to be understood first by understanding over accumulation of the economic surplus by those at the top of the US capitalist class. This research note gives estimates of the rising economic surplus over the last several decades in the US as well as how these correlate with the level of inequality. The growth of the economic surplus gives rise and form to the politics of inequality and austerity. As time goes by, the politics of inequality and austerity in the US will be manifested by greater corporate influence in the political system, greater political polarization, less government effectiveness, and more debates about welfare spending, corporate taxation, taxes on upper income households, and taxes on wealth.
P40|Soft Power as a Effect Instruments in Foreign Policy: Turkey's Soft Power Analysis and the Assessment of its Soft Power Capacity on Azerbaijan|"With the emergence of first political structures of the world, struggles between them gave rise to the concept of power. Since the ancient times, power has played an important role in the concept of international relations and made a significant contribution to the establishment of the discipline as an autonomous structure. The concept of power, which has always maintained its importance, has evolved in time and, for the time being, is known for its rather soft side. In this century, many academic studies that dealt with the soft side of the power have been published, however, while being mentioned in popular publications, the concept has not been favored in the academic publications in Turkey. With this dissertation that is the first study that deals with the soft power within the context of international relations, we intended to contribute to the filling of the void in the Turkish literature. For this purpose, we first discussed the concept of power and the soft power in every aspect. Afterwards, we analyzed the soft power potential of Turkey culturally, politically and within the frame of foreign affairs practices and essentially in the context of Middle East, Caucasus and Central Asia regions. As the soft power sources that may influence the national politics may vary for every country, we chose Azerbaijan as the model of this study and sought for an answer to the question, ""How Turkey can possibly/efficiently have the soft power influence over Azerbaijan?"". As the hypothesis of the study and the answer of the question, we considered the cultural link between these two countries would constitute the most important and effective soft power source. In the conclusion of the study, we interviewed a group of fifteen Azerbaijanis that consisted NGO members, journalists and academicians thus proved the hypothesis of the study."
P40|Seyed Kazem Sadr, The Economic System of the Early Islamic Period: Institutions and Policies|The book is a major contribution to Islamic economic history and to Islamic economics in the English language. It presents a comprehensive yet concise economic hermeneutic of policies implemented by the Messenger (saas) in Medinah. It is an authoritative presentation based on the Qur’an, the Traditions of the Messenger, earliest writings of Muslim historians and jurists. Within the context of contemporary economic universe of discourse, the book discusses implications of policies of the Messenger with regards to allocation of resources, production, exchange, growth, development, environment, efficiency and justice. For those who think that zakat, prohibition against interest, waqf and the like are the only elements that distinguish an Islamic economy from other systems, the depth and the breadth of the book would provide a transformative experience. This Review argues that the appearance of the book is particularly timely given the distorted, dis-embedded, and fictitious model of an Islamic economy manufactured by Orientalists. The book will go a long way in correcting these distortions.
P40|The Discourse on Islam and Development: Western and Muslim Scholars’ Opinions|There is ongoing debate among scholars concerning the relation between Islam and development. The focus of the debate is particularly about the compatibility issue. Western and Muslim scholars have their own stance and argumentation. While the former have accused Islam as an obstacle to development, the latter have assured that Islam is essentially compatible to development. Based on the Qur’anic point of view, it is obvious that religion and development are essentially related in a positive, direct and causal manner.
P40|Optimality of Social Choice Systems: Complexity, Wisdom, and Wellbeing Centrality|Since circa 1900, civilization has experienced radical changes including changes in the size and distribution of populations, the power of technologies, the magnitude of energy and materials use, and the depth of scientific knowledge. With these have come increasingly complex challenges and elevated risks, and thus a heightened need for wise decision making. Accordingly, the need has grown for efficient and functional decision-making systems, also called social choice systems. I use these terms to refer to economic, governance, and legal systems. The seeming inability of societies, both individually and collectively, to effectively mitigate excessive climate change, poverty, income inequality, pollution, habitat loss, and other major problems suggests that underlying social choice systems are sub-optimal relative to need. I raise two overarching questions: (1) What characteristics would more optimal social choice systems exhibit? (2) How could research and development of more optimal systems best proceed? The answers I explore in this paper are based on the premise that the relative optimality of a social choice system is a measure of its relative capacity to help communities solve problems and organize activities such that collective wellbeing is elevated. The characteristics of complex adaptive systems, successful problem-solving systems found in nature, are explored in order to suggest useful design motifs and monitoring indicators. I emphasize the need for research and development of new social choice system designs, and argue that field testing of these can best occur at the local (e.g., community, city, or county) level. Efforts in this direction by the science and technology sectors and academic community are still nascent. The work described here suggests a new multidisciplinary program that I term wellbeing centrality: the design, testing, promotion, and operation of social choice systems that place wellbeing measurement, evaluation, forecasting, and deliberation at the center of decision-making activities.
P40|Optimization of administrative processes in public administration: the preliminary results of an empirical analysis<BR>[Оптимизация Административных Процессов В Системе Государственного Управления: Предварительные Результаты Эмпирического Анализа]|The subject of the article are the problems that arise in relation to the design and routine administrative processes in public administration, organized mainly along functional lines. Particular attention is paid to the impact of the current orders for the effectiveness of the project approach to policy development and implementation. Results of the analysis indicate significant potential for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the public administration system provided by the release of the design and routine processes from the functional environment, their diagnosis, optimization, as well as full or partial automation.
P40|The Firm, Part Of The Economic System: Reasons For Exiting A Market - An Agent-Based Modeling Approach|What are the reasons for which firms exit markets? In today s world the processes by which firms enter and exit markets are becoming more and more complex due to the fine networking system globalization and communication create at every level. To find and point out the reasons for which firms or their branches disappear off the market, we stylized and simplified market concepts and developed them in an agent-based model. Using NetLogo, we created an artificial market model where firms and their branches enter or exit the market, produce and sell goods and hire the people inhabiting this world.
P40|Systematic Approach to the Solution of Transformation Research Problem of National Economy of Ukraine|The main problems of research of the transformation process of the economic system is the election of the general theoretical approaches and methods of their implementation. The aim of the article is to identify promising theoretical approach to the problems of transformation of the national economy of Ukraine. The paradigms of economic science are analyzed: neoclassical, institutional, evolutionary. They are defined as the basis for the formation of the system paradigm within the evolutionary economic theory. It was found that the use of the system approach is the initial stage of the formation of a new scientific paradigm needed to create an effective model of the structure of the national economy during the transformational changes. As part of the systemic paradigm the socio-economic space is viewed as a set of economic systems combining agents, institutions and agencies. With regard to the system approach it is implemented the multifaceted attempt to review the socio-economic formations as the complexes having the features of the technological, economic, social, institutional, biological and other systems. It is proved that the system paradigm adapted to modern conditions of economic research, opens the possibility of creating structural and functional model of the economy, and the process of economic system modeling is characterized by the presence of assumptions and simplifications.
P40|Proposal Of A Connection Model For A University Based On The Triple Helix, Propuesta De Un Modelo De Vinculacion Para Una Universidad Basada En La Triple Helice|This work shows a connection proposal based on the triple helix model. This effort was born as a result of a strategic planning exercise at Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon (UANL). To make this proposal we investigated different models of connections of universities of the country, as well as universities in South America and Europe. We generate a proposal where the University supports the development of the region through a strategic collaboration between the Government, industry and the University itself. The results show different modalities to achieve the integration of these three elements for the benefit of the society that contains them
P40|Political Economy of Crony Capitalism: The Prospect and the Bane|The world over, capitalism had encroach the economy of nations turning governments against the people, employers against the workers all in the name of surplus values and profiteering motives. Although capitalism had made economies of nations to boom without much stress due to the fluid faces of its operations, nevertheless, it has more havocs than good. The review of most government policies has shifted to accommodate the growing bane of cronies of capitalism. This research shows the tactics employed by bourgeoisies in colliding with the government. What are the implications of these profiteering motives on the economy? The methodology adopted is the survey analysis of institutional data base. The theoretical framework of deprivation theory coupled with Marxian theory were used to x-tray the prospect and the bane of crony capitalism in the economy of polities.
P40|Bitcoin Mission Statement. Or What does it mean Sharing Economy and Distributed Trust?|Technological advancements in the means of production are the driving force behind the changes in the prevailing system of socio-economic relations. Feudalism was transformed into capitalism as a result of such advancements. While man obtained physical freedom, the financial freedom remained under the control of the centralized authority. A deep level of collaboration is required to attain the next level of productivity provided by new technological advancements. However, the present system with a centralized control of governance and finance appears to constrain and restrain the value producing economy. This constriction becomes especially evident when the business environment requires collaboration to create, as it underlines the inherent conflict of centralized control. The most recent tech sector innovations, such as smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, are poised to disrupt the system of centralized control. The removal of a centralized authority from the position of control will change the fabric of the society to reflect the mesh network of shared resources. The society will transform to the new form of socio-economic relations – the era of Crypto-Socialism.
P40|Theory of Gharar and its interpretation of Risk and Uncertainty from the perspectives of Authentic Hadith and the Holy Quran: A Qualitative Analysis|The inconclusive definition of Gharar as risk and uncertainty can be commonly found in the contemporary literatures. The difference in the meaning of Gharar is generally thought to be due to the difference in the jurisprudence point of views. The current practice is that there is no standard in defining the terms. Hence, this study introduces steps in defining terminology namely; dictionary definition, Arabic linguistic definition and jurisprudence definition. However, the philosophy of risk as stated in the Holy Quran and Hadith differs from the concept of risk in conventional finance. The finding reveals that risk in Islamic banking refers to a wider interpretation covering the concepts gharar. mysir, mukhatarah, al ghunm bil ghurm and al kharajbil daman than the element of uncertainty as in the conventional finance.
P40|Islam Sebagai Sistem Nilai Di Bidang Ekonomi<BR>[Islam As A Value System In The Economic Field]|Islam is aimed at all humans regardless of race and nationality with all the problems it faces. Not only regulating relations with God, but regulating human relations with humans and nature as a whole. Islam is the basis of various human problems with the main reference being the main source, namely the Qur'an. In Islamic teachings covering all aspects of human needs both worldly or physical or spiritual needs, individual and social, rational and emotional get attention.
P40|Ethics in Relation to Islamic Finance Activities|Ethics has been fundamental in organizations and in specific, Islamic financial institutions have selected ethics as their core competencies. Islam accepts ethics as a good value in enhancing company performance since ethics is grounded by Shariah rules. The ethical issues have been raised steadily in business and they do not seem to settle as a lot of companies have not been aware of its importance. There are a lot of theories of ethics that have been introduced but the number of unethical business activities does not seem to be reduced. This paper seeks to explain the conventional ethical theory and how Islamic ethical philosophy generates the ethical business activities. Later on, the study will produce an ethical model which is in accordance to the Islamic intellectual discourse , that will explain the relationship between ethics and Islamic finance activities and also discuss the screening criteria of financial activities . This study has the intention to contribute to the current knowledge of the business ethic’s field and to contribute its findings for further research in business ethics. This study will also bridge the gaps about how ethics can be a corporate identity to the Islamic financial institutions.
P40|Wettbewerb und Regulierung|Wettbewerb und Regulierung werfen sowohl aus einer wirtschafts- als auch aus einer politikwissenschaftlichen Perspektive interessante Fragestellungen auf und haben daher in beiden Disziplinen umfangreiche Beachtung gefunden. Der vorliegende Beitrag gibt eine Übersicht über beide Herangehensweisen. Dabei werden zunächst die grundlegenden Unterschiede und Gemeinsamkeiten offengelegt (Abschnitt 2), bevor die disziplinären Schwerpunkte in der Analyse vorgestellt, und aus Sicht der jeweils anderen Disziplin kommentiert werden (Abschnitte 3 und 4). Wir kommen zu dem Ergebnis, dass beide Sichtweisen in erster Linie komplementär sind und sich gegenseitig befruchten können.
P40|Ethics in Islamic Economics|The purpose of this contribution is to shed some light on the inter-relationships between ethics and economics in Islamic religion, and mainly to assert that ethics constitute endogenous phenomena in Islamic economics. In Islam, economic behaviours and transactions cannot be separated from ethics and values. The Islamic principles are intended to govern, direct and control human beings’ behaviours in their daily economic lives. They are aimed at helping people to distinguish between good and bad things while they do any economic activity. It is worth noting that the moral values in Islamic economics are derived from the main sources of Islam namely: the Quran (the holy book of Islamic religion) and Sunnah (the teachings and behaviours of the prophet of Islam: Muhammad PBUH 570-632 AD). Both of them represent the principal pillars of Shariah (Islamic laws and guidelines), which is seen by Muslims as the proper way to happiness, not only in economic life but in all aspects of life.
P40|The Firm, Part Of The Economic System: Reasons For Exiting A Market - An Agent-Based Modeling Approach|What are the reasons for which firms exit markets? In today's world the processes by which firms enter and exit markets are becoming more and more complex due to the fine networking system globalization and communication create at every level. To find and point out the reasons for which firms or their branches disappear off the market, we stylized and simplified market concepts and developed them in an agent-based model. Using NetLogo, we created an artificial market model where firms and their branches enter or exit the market, produce and sell goods and hire the people inhabiting this world.
P40|Policy Uncertainty in China, Oil Shocks and Stock Returns|This paper examines the interdependence of China’s policy uncertainty, the global oil market, and stock market returns in China. A structural VAR model is estimated that shows a positive shock to economic policy uncertainty in China has a delayed negative effect on global oil production, real oil prices and real stock market returns. Shocks to oil market specific demand significantly raise China’s economic policy uncertainty and reduce the real stock market returns. As measured by a spillover index the interdependence between these variables is rising since 2003 as China’s influence in the oil market increases. An equivalent spillover index calculated for the U.S. is smaller and largely flat over time.
P40|The Constraining Factors Of The Innovative Direction In The Banking System|The new reality and proper functioning of banking institutions in order to fully satisfy the customers’ needs by using modern electronic banking technologies, and in some cases, revision of the monitoring procedures and control of hazards. Without the use of innovations in the banking system it is almost impossible to create high competitive products and services. Under these conditions, a significant competitive advantage will have the banks that will be able to develop and introduce new technologies, products and services, develop alternative customer service channels, and namely achieve the innovation process, innovation becoming finally an effective mean of competition.
P40|The Significance of Waqf for Economic Development|There is an opinion among Western scholars that the institution of waqf could not any longer perform its economic role in the present times. Instead of being a vital institution as it truly played at the pre-modern era, waqf nowadays seems to be an impediment to the development in Muslim countries. This paper therefore is meant to refute such an opinion and attempts to point out the economic impacts of waqf for Muslim society in the context of the present economy. In the last part, the paper also brings about several necessary prerequisites for the revitalization of waqf in the current days.
P40|Between Free Market and State Capitalism: How Islamic Economics System Shape the Future Global Economy?|Free market economy is proposed to deliver on the promises of improving the standards of living of most citizens. However, the economic crisis that happen repeatedly failed to produce what was promised. Then, state capitalism has to step in. The state capitalism also fails in the sense that the free market economy with rules/policy in favour of rich countries or state capitalism provide more people worst-off than benefits. The question arises on how the Islamic economic system could shape the free markets and the future of the global economy. Therefore, our aim in this paper is to find out the answer(s) on how Islamic economics system shape the future global economy could. Our analysis shows that Islam has its own economic system. The free market could be developed by taking the free market of Rasulullah (saw) and free market in holding wealth. The government policy directed towards no interest and creating a welfare system is welcome.
P40|An Exploratory Research Regarding Romanian Market For Halal Food|The changes in the social structure, the economic crisis, the ageing of the population had an important role in the development of Romania. As a result, Romania must identify other segments and industries in order to rejuvenate the economy of the country. This study focuses on a market niche represented by Halal food products, which are underdeveloped in Romania at this moment. It may represent a potential catalyst for the development of other latent sectors and may consolidate the bilateral relations with the Muslim countries, in conformity with the globalization and the internalization of the global market. The research method used in this study is the thorough analysis of numerous scientific articles and a literature review. It focuses both on the past and the current state of Halal food products and how the development of this market niche can lead to the expansion of other sectors, such as tourism and education.
P40|“Love of wealth” and economic growth|This paper complements research on how {\em love of wealth} bears on key variables in a Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans growth framework. It is shown that for an optimum the social planner cannot have an excessive {\em love of wealth}. If the planner has the `right' {\em love of wealth} an optimum exists and implies higher long-run per capita capital, income and consumption relative to the standard optimal growth model. The optimum implies dynamic efficiency with the possibility to get arbitrarily close to the Golden Rule where long-run per capita consumption is maximal. It is shown that the optimal path is attaining its steady state more slowly. Thus, the beneficial effects of {\em love of wealth} materialize later than in the standard model. Furthermore, the economy can be decentralized as a competitive private ownership economy. One can then identify {\em love of wealth} with the ``spirit of capitalism''. The paper, hence, implies that one needs a 'right' level of the ``spirit of capitalism'' to realize any beneficial effects for the long run.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P40|Understanding Islam: Development, Economics and Finance|In this paper, the foundational rules governing human, economic and financial development in Islam, as understood from the Quran and from the life and traditions of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), are summarized. These rules pave the path to development as the basis of institutional structure, which in turn, underpin the path of economic and social progress. The essential elements in the life of a Muslim—the unity of creation, freedom and freedom of choice, economic and human development, economic system and financial practice—are developed.
P40|Contradictions: Finance, Greed, And Labor Unequally Paid|This volume analyzes two decisive factors that have become embedded in the world spread of capitalism, a shift toward dominance of the financial sector, now entailing massive greed and calling into question whether the ‘rules’ of capitalism have been broken, and of global wage differentials so deep that recognition of a labor aristocracy cannot be avoided. These chapters are supplemented by two additional showing that gold still regulates the dollar’s value, and that unpaid reproductive labor of women adversely affects labor productivity. (New paragraph) Analysis of finance engenders discussion of its place in value theory, posed around the rate of profit, and is more complex than often presented. Furthermore, the varying rates of profit at the firm level, not just for financials, are distributed in a manner exhibiting more frequent extreme cases than a Bell-curve would suggest. Implications for incorporation of randomization into political economy are drawn. The final chapters provide evidence that Marx was more correct than Kalecki and Minsky when arguing the lead of profits for investment, and that product innovations can mitigate problems of over-production resulting from process innovations.
P40|¿How plural is the plural economy of Bolivia? Constructing a plural economy indicator with fuzzy sets|An indicator that measures the compliance with the constitutional principles of a plural economy is proposed. An inference system based on fuzzy sets was used to calculate the indicator. The fuzzy system summarizes the principles of income redistribution and environmental sustainability into an overall measure of plural economy that allows to objectively judge the change towards a plural economy in Bolivia.
P40|Les monnaies sociales en tant que dispositifs innovants : une évaluation|This text intends to show how social currencies, which are emerging local currency schemes, constitute social innovation. It first shows how their spreading modes include the possibility of innovation. It then focuses on four transversal dimensions that are part of social innovation: the accent on purposes and local anchorage, some partnership for a unifying project, a critique of the mainstream model and the emergence of innovative forms and rules. JEL Codes: B52, O31, P40
P40|A Critical Approach to Hofstede’s Model on Cultural Dimensions|Hofstede’s model on cultural dimensions to explain cultural difference has been widely used for exploring different aspects of culture, from management to educational settings. Based on his research from the beginning of 1970, Geert Hofstede created a new paradigm for the study of cultural differences, meaning a model of national culture on four dimensions, later expanded and updated on the basis of an analysis of other cross-cultural data and on the extrapolation of the model. Following the penetration of the model in the scientific community, it became a cornerstone for cross-cultural research, providing a popular method for the study of cultural differences in a wide range of disciplines. In the same time, as with any idea or paradigm shift, Hofstede doctrine has also generated controversies, being both undervalued and overused (Peterson, 2003). The purpose of our paper is to conduct an in-depth analysis on Hofstede model, revealing an objective reflection upon the work of Hofstede by tracking various subtleties and exploring some of its limitations, postulating that seeking commonalities among existing models of national culture represents the way in which cross-cultural research is offered the possibility to advance. As for the methodology applied, the goal of the paper is achieved by analyzing the pro and cons of Hofstede’s model and from the findings derived, by indentifying the keystones of a convergent widely accepted model. This paper has as main objective to understand and to approach the topic of the SMEs in the international competition, which, being considered a significant resource for those an organization is fundamental for the creation of the wealth since an appropriate administration takes place a series of benefits. Is it important to improve innovation potential, quality and operational excellence?.
P40|Identity and Economics: Review of the Literature|"Classical economic theory has evolved over the last fifty years in the way that economists have abandoned the exclusive consideration of the only two market structures (perfect competition and monopoly) and the assumptions that all participants from one market have the same information as the others. Today, the economists are addressing deviations from the perfect rationality of homo economicus, such as the preconception of the present moment, formation of the behavior and aversion to loss. Economists describe the motivation in that the individual has a ""utility function"", which is a numeric value attached to things important to the people.The economic theory of identity, formulated by George Akerlof and Rachel Kranton, follows the progressive tradition in economics. In this paper are highlighted the theoretical foundation of the economic pillars of identity (the economics of identity) and the main areas of human activity where the theory could be observed."
P40|The Nature of Relationships between Intelligent Enterprise Stakeholders within a Competitive Pole: A New Perspective|As a key agent in a competitive pole, intelligent enterprise includes, as well as other organizations that provide goods and services, the various categories of stakeholders. Due to the large number of stakeholders, relationship management of them at intelligent enterprise level presents a high degree of complexity. This involves precisely identifying of relevant stakeholder groups and how relationships with them can be effective managed in the business model. This paper aims to provide a new perspective of the complex system of relationships that exist between the main stakeholders of an intelligent enterprise within a competitive pole structures and also intends to propose a framework that can support managers of such organization in assessing and estimating the models reactions and actions required to manage dynamic relationships with its stakeholders.
P40|Financial Inclusion: Islamic Finance Perspective|Enhancing financial inclusion or access to finance can make critical contributions to the economic development. Conventional mechanisms such as micro-finance, small-medium-enterprises (SME), and micro-insurance to enhance financial inclusion have been partially successful in enhancing the access and are not without challenges. Islamic finance, based on the concept of risk-sharing offers set of financial instruments promoting risk-sharing rather than risk-transfer in the financial system. In addition, Islam advocates redistributive risk-sharing instruments such as Zakah, Sadaqat, Qard-al Hassan, etc, through which the economically more able segment of the society shares the risks facing the less able segment of the population. These are not instruments of charity, altruism or beneficence but are instruments of redemption of rights and repayment of obligations. In addition, the inheritance rules specify how the wealth of a person is distributed among present and future generations of inheritors. This paper argues that conventional modes of enhancing financial inclusion can be replicated through instruments of Islamic finance allowing risk sharing and risk diversification. However, even after availability of micro-finance and SME financing, financial exclusion may not be fully overcome. Therefore, one needs to utilize, Islam’s instruments of redistribution where mandated levies and recommended avenue of spending may play their role. They help reduce the poor’s income – consumption correlation. The paper concludes that Islamic finance provides a comprehensive framework to enhance financial inclusion through the principle of risk-sharing and through Islam’s redistributive channels which are grossly under-utilized in Muslim countries. The redistributive instruments may be developed as proper institutions to optimize the function of such instruments. Applications of financial engineering can device innovative ways to develop hybrids of risk-sharing and redistributive instruments to enhance access to finance to promote economic development.
P40|Islamic Finance, Risk Sharing and Macroeconomic Policies|At one point it was estimated that in 2007, the total financial instruments, mostly derivatives, in the world was 12.5 times larger than the total global GDP. Similar development could be awaiting Islamic finance if the ingenuity of financial engineers continues to serve the demand-driven appetite for liquid, low risk, and short-term instruments. In that case, the configuration of Islamic finance would have failed to achieve the hopes and aspirations that expectations generated by the vision of benefits that truly Islamic finance could bring to mankind. In what follows, this paper will discuss an alternative trajectory that could allow the industry to converge to the ideal
P40|Autocracies and Development in a Global Economy: A Tale of Two Elites| This paper studies how comparative advantage and the political elites endowments shape long-run performance in an economy with imperfect political institutions. In a capital-scarce economy, an autocrat catering to the needs of landowners favors openness to trade at an early stage of development, while an autocrat complying with the preferences of capitalists chooses to shelter the economy from trade. The resulting trade regime interacts with economic institutions, and with policies on capital mobility, to govern capital accumulation. A landed autocrat neglects to improve institutions and blocks foreign capital to maximise extractable rents, leading the economy towards stagnation. By contrast, a capitalist autocrat strengthens the institutional quality, which over time shifts the comparative advantage towards manufacturing and renders the economy attractive to foreign investors. Trade and capital market liberalisation are thus complementary policies that provide an environment of growth and development in the capital autocracy.
P40|Autocracies and Development in a Global Economy: A Tale of Two Elites|Data on the growth performances of countries with similar comparative (dis)advantage and political institutions reveal a striking variation across world regions. While some former autocracies such as the East Asian growth miracles have done remarkably well, others such as the Latin American economies have grown at much lower rates. In this paper, we propose a political economy explanation of these diverging paths of development by addressing the preferences of the country's political elite. We build a theoretical framework where factors of production owned by the political elites differ across countries. In each country, the incumbent autocrat will cater to the preferences of the elites when setting trade policy and the property rights regime. We show how stronger property rights may lead to capital accumulation and labor reallocation to the manufacturing sector. This, in turn, can lead to a shift in the comparative advantage, a decision to open up to trade and an inflow of more productive foreign capital. Consistent with a set of stylised facts on East Asia and Latin America, we argue that strong property rights are crucial for success upon globalization.
P40|Home Economics: Planting the Seeds of a Research Agenda for the Bioregional Economy|Green economists are clear in their support for localisation, but there is little definitional clarity around the concept of a local economy: how large it would be, or what principles might be used to divide the world into provisioning units. This paper proposes that the 'bioregion' might be a useful concept in designing more local systems of resource supply. The paper is a scoping exercise which starts to explore how the concept of a 'bioregion' might be useful within theoretical economics, outlines key aspects of a bioregional economy, and sketches ideas for a future research agenda.
P40|Responsible innovation: bringing together technology assessment, applied ethics, and STS research|The ideas of ‘responsible development’ in the scientific-technological advance and of ‘responsible innovation’ in the field of new products, services and systems have been discussed for some years now with increasing intensity (Siune et al. 2009) and led to the phrase of ‘Responsible Research and Innovation’ (RRI). The postulate of responsible innovation adds explicit ethical reflection to Technology Assessment (TA) and science, technology and society (STS) studies and includes all of them into integrative approaches to shaping technology and innovation. Responsible innovation brings together TA with its experiences on assessment procedures, actor involvement, foresight and evaluation with ethics, in particular under the framework of responsibility, and also builds on the body of knowledge about R&D and innovation processes provided by STS and STIS studies (science, technology, innovation and society). Ethical reflection and technology assessment are increasingly taken up as integrative part of R&Dprogrammes (Siune et al. 2009). Science institutions, including research funding agencies, have started taking a pro-active role in promoting integrative research and development. Thus, the governance of science and of R&D processes is changing which opens up new possibilities and opportunities for involving new actors and new types of reflection. In this paper I want to demonstrate at a more conceptual level that Responsible Innovation can build on experiences and knowledge provided by the three mentioned fields of research: ethics, technology assessment, and STS respective STIS studies. To this end I will start by a brief analysis of the thematic dimensions included in the notion of responsibility and the respective disciplinary approaches to explore and investigate them (Sec. 2). The field of technology assessment is then introduced as a major origin of the Responsible Innovation movement including already some of the main ideas behind Responsible Innovation (Sec. 3). Based on the TA tradition Responsible Innovation may be characterized as a broadened extension of technology assessment complemented by ethics and STS (Sec. 4). As an illustration, the field of Synthetic Biology is introduced (Sec. 5).
P40|Efficiency and Equity in Anarchy and Other Historical Social Systems: A Simple Exploratory Model|We propose a model where a two-person society is considered. We study the allocations generated by a system where life is organised on the basis of economic principles consistent with the ideas of the anarchist philosophers of the 19th and 20th centuries. The «anarchic model» turns out to be, in general, inefficient in terms of allocations, as opposed to the system generated by the capitalistic firms and by a «communist» organisation; on the other hand, in anarchy the equity principle, interpreted as symmetry in allocations, always obtains.
P40|Elected Oligarchy and Economic Underdevelopment: The Case of Guyana|This study proposes the idea that Guyana’s present government can be categorized as an elected oligarchy. It highlights the existence of several binding constraints (or structural bottlenecks) and demonstrates how these constraints are exacerbated by the elected oligarchy to impair the economic development of the country. Using stylized data on economic trends, the paper illustrates the direct and indirect channels through which the elected oligarchy stifles the private sector and consequently economic progress. As such, the paper presents the elected oligarchy as an alternative channel through which private investments are crowded out by the political strategy of the state.
P40|The Conseqences Of The Global Financial Crisis Regarding The Romanian Banking System|Romania has not passed through a crisis as the existing one in the last 10 years. Despite the unfavorable conditions of economy, Romania, however, has sufficient advantages in comparison with other states which have been more seriously affected by the global crisis. Therefore, one of the economists’ greatest fears is that, because of decreased liquidities and the lack of confidence in Romania, the holding banks form Europe may let their branches in our country with less money than it should. BNR says that this thing is not going to happen. Romanian bankers sustain the same fact, and they say that credit lines, and that means the money put at the disposal of Romania’s banks by the European groups they are belonging to, will be at least at the same level as last year.
P40|Business Intelligence - The Standard Tool of a Modern Company|The present state of world economy is largely affected by economic crisis. Managers look for new ways and procedures which can start an economic growth. To support this, companies need much better systems providing the managers adequate and sufficient information. This type of information, which is usually multidimensional, can be provided by the Business Intelligence (BI) technologies. The paper briefly presents the benefits of BI technologies and shows the possibilities of BI in support of decision-making processes, e-commerce systems and corporate strategy development.
P40|Rentismo y Democracia en Bolivia|Rentismo y Democracia en Bolivia
P40|Theoretical And Methodological Considerations On Small And Medium Enterprise Strategy|In order to constantly create competitive advantages in relationship with the competing companies, small and medium enterprises must promote adequate business strategies which should take into account both the modifications occurring in the business environment and their organizational development stage. Designing and implementing business strategies in small and medium enterprises is of major significance both from a theoretical and methodological, as well as from a practical and an applicative point of view. In this context, the paper aims to reveal significant aspects concerning strategy foundation, elaboration and implementation in small and medium enterprises.
P40|The Three Arab Worlds|Given the attention currently focused on the Arab world in part as a result of adjustments in U.S. foreign policy, a fresh look at Arab socioeconomic performance is in order. The Arab world is defined by language rather than ethnicity. The League of Arab States, formed in 1945, consists of all countries in which (a dialect of) Arabic is the spoken language of the majority. It is useful to compare the human development diversity of the Arab world to that of Latin America, another vast geographic area defined by language and culture. Our strategy in this article is therefore to disaggregate the Arab world into Arab sub-Saharan Africa, Arab fuel-endowed economies, and a remainder we call the Arab Mediterranean, and to compare these three Arab worlds to non-Arab sub-Saharan Africa, non-Arab fuel endowed economies, and the rest of the non-Arab world. We will evaluate Arab socioeconomic progress from 1970 to as close to the present as the data allow.
P40|A Primer on Islamic Finance: Definitions, Sources, Principles and Methods|No abstract is available for this item.
P40|Analysing the functions and expenses of logistics packaging systems|Two main types of the packaging systems can be distinguished in the logistic supply chains, depending on which roads the packaging spreads according to their function and their role like a device or product. Today by means of their system-organization and continuous development, the companies get into a decision dependence situation in order to getting the optimal logisticpackaging expenses. This decision situation practically means the decision mechanism between packaging systems one-way and reuseable packaging (disposable, or returnable). The study examines the theoretical function processes between these two systems, and the expense-structure which is belonging to a given systems furthermore.
P40|The Impact Of R&D Investment On Productivity|In the context of the national and European efforts directed to increasing ofR&D investment up to 3% of GDP, the debate on the effects of R&D investment has receiveda new impetus last time. Starting from theoretical and methodological approaches found inthe current scientific literature regarding this issue, the paper is focused on the empiricalanalysis of the effect of R&D investment on total factor productivity in Romania for the period1996-2006. The results obtained, in line with current research results in Romania or abroad,could be taken into consideration in political decision of R&D investment and in findingappropriate economic measures aiming to stimulate business R&D investment.
P40|Integration Phenomenon Â€“ Economic Transformation For The Member Statesâ€™ Economies|Basis of the economical integration were set through the Treaty from Rome,closed in 1957. The realization of the economical and monetary union asked by theeconomical integration, are the most important success of the European project. For therealization of the economical integration were necessary an entire series of political economymeasures, of the transformations of the economical, socials and institutional structures whichexist at the moment.The economies generated by the production on large series: is the result of a biggerefficiency, based on an optimal dimension of the enterprise, which permits medium costssmaller and, through this, the possibility of increasing the competition on the internationalmarket. The scale economies are possible in some economical branches only when theproduction is realized in units with large dimensions and of large series, sustained, in thesane time, by a great technological advantage. On the other hand, only the biggestenterprises, which generate the scale economies, could be marked out on the national andinternational markets.One of the anti-arguments, which can be said, is the fact that by the scale economies obtainedin the integration areas benefits, at least in the initial phases, the large transnationalenterprises. For the European Union, these enterprises are north-Americans or Japanese,which take advantage of the large dimensions of the integrated market. To eliminate thisinconveniences it must exists a monetary union, with the same juridical cadre and a unitedvalues market, with a total mobility of the funds. The funds will be directed towards thosefinancial centers in which the settlements are favorable to the investors, the costs of the risksmanagement are reduced at minimum, the costs with assuring and reassuring polices are, aswell, very reduced for the investors, so they can enjoy the financial comfort and prosperity.
P40|Social Economy and Social Economics –The Situation in the Republic of Ireland|The Paper gives a brief overview over the social economy in Ireland, presenting this against the background of the countries history and social structure
P40|Zwischen Boykott und CSR – Eine Beziehungsanalyse zu Unternehmen und NGOs (Caught between Boycott and CSR – An Analysis of Business-NGO-Relations)|Um zur verstehenden Analyse der vielfaeltigen Beziehungen zwischen dem Unternehmenssektor und Nichtregierungs-Organisationen (NGOs) beizutragen, wird im vorliegenden Artikel die Idee eines hohen gesellschaftlichen Legitimationskapitals von NGOs aufgegriffen. Darauf aufbauend werden die Strategien der Einflussnahme von NGOs und ihre Einflusschancen auf Unternehmen vorgestellt und in Beziehung zu den strategischen Reaktionsmoeglichkeiten von Unternehmen gesetzt. Daraus ergibt sich eine Topographie der Beziehungen zwischen den Akteurstypen. Es wird argumentiert, dass insbesondere die Bestrebungen von Unternehmen, sich durch Corporate Social Responsibility-Engagement gesellschaftlich zu legitimieren, zu einer wichtigen Achse der strategischen Positionierung fuer NGOs gegenueber Unternehmen geworden ist.
P40|Leistungsprogrammplanung karitativer Nonprofit-Organisationen als Instrument des Ethik-Controlling – Eine exemplarische Analyse des Portfolios diakonischer Sozialleistungsunternehmen in Vorpommern (Portfolio Management of Caritative Nonprofit Organisations)|In diesem Beitrag wird eine Portfolioanalyse fuer Sozialleistungsunternehmen vorgestellt und anhand des Beispiels diakonischer Unternehmen in Vorpommern erlaeutert. Die Analyse basiert auf einer angepassten BCG-Matrix mit den Dimensionen „Refinanzierbarkeit“ und „diakonische Auftragserfuellung“. Mit ihrer Hilfe koennen die Leistungsangebote strukturiert und ihre Staerken bzw. Schwaechen analysiert werden. Es zeigt sich, dass die diakonischen Unternehmen in Vorpommern durchaus auch Geschaeftsfelder mit hoher Auftragserfuellung abdecken, wenn diese nicht refinanzierbar sind. Derzeit erfolgt noch eine Subventionierung dieser verlusttraechtigen Geschaeftsfelder durch UEberschuesse in anderen Bereichen. Ob dies auf Dauer moeglich ist, bleibt fraglich. Die Arbeit zeigt damit fuer das Beispiel der Diakonie in Vorpommern auf, dass betriebswirtschaftliche Instrumente auch zur Evaluation des eigenen ethischen Anspruches verwendet werden koennen, wenn sie sinnvoll adaptiert werden.
P40|Wirtschaftsethik und Dritter Sektor (Economic Ethics and the Third Sector)|Der Beitrag setzt bei einer Klaerung der Entwicklung und der Spezifika des Dritten Sektors und seiner Organisationen ein. Dem neueren Forschungsinteresse folgend geht er auf Dritte-Sektor-Organisationen als zivilgesellschaftliche Akteure ein. Im zweiten Teil wendet sich der Beitrag den zwei fuehrenden Ansaetzen zu, die im deutschsprachigen Raum umfassende Konzeptionen von Wirtschafts- und Unternehmensethik entwickelt haben. Welchen Beitrag koennen die Ansaetze von Karl Homann einerseits und Peter Ulrich andererseits – so wird gefragt – zu einer ethischen Reflexion des Dritten Sektors und seiner Organisationen leisten?
P40|Codes of Conduct: Ein Guetesiegel fuer die Legitimitaet von NGOs? – Eine Untersuchung anhand der Diskurstheorie des Rechts von Juergen Habermas (Codes of Conduct: A Hallmark of Legitimacy for NGOs?)|Viele international agierende Nichtregierungs-Organisationen (NGOs) sehen sich einem Legitimationsdefizit gegenueber. Die Distanz zu den von ihrem Handeln betroffenen Personen wird zunehmend groesser. Der Beitrag untersucht verschiedene Ansaetze zur Loesung dieses Problems, wobei die Diskurstheorie des Rechts nach Juergen Habermas als Leitfaden dient. Anhand dieser werden auch die derzeit entstehenden Codes of Conduct von NGOs als moegliche Loesung des Legitimationsdefizits diskutiert.
P40|Praktische Philosophie und Unternehmensethik – Weisheit und Wirtschaft: Konstruktiver Dialog oder Kategorienfehler? (Philosophy and Ethical Business – A Dialogue between Wisdom and Economy: Profitable Alliance or Twisted Categories?)|Die praktische Philosophie eroeffnet durch die Klaerung scheinbar selbstverstaendlicher Begriffe sowie individueller und kollektiver Denkgerueste, die in wirtschaftlichen Kontexten gesetzt sind, eine neu und anders ausgerichtete Perspektive in der Debatte um ethische Standards oder Perspektiven fuer Unternehmen. Das Ziel des philosophischen Dialogs ist die UEbersetzung von theoretischen Denkansaetzen in konkrete – authentische wie sinnvolle – Handlungsszenarien fuer unternehmensethische Fragestellungen.
P40|Revolutionary Situation, Early Socialism and the Logic Of History in Russia|The social character of people’s attitude to each other is developing regarding the conditions, the process, and the result of labour attitude towards nature, regarding the mode of production. The movement for socialism, the revolutionary process, emerges as a necessity based on the contradictoriness development of the social character of labour. Early Socialism emerges and develops on a material and technical base, which by no means corresponds to socialism, under the conditions of the insufficiently socialised character of labour, while the capitalistic world has the supremacy in the correlation of forces. The basic contradiction of early socialism is the contradiction between the relations of production and productive forces, between social property of the means of production (formal socialization, nationalization) and insufficient growth, « immaturity » of social character of production, or, in other words, the contradiction between formal and real socialization. The theoretical and methodological approach of “The Logic of History” to the fundamental problems of social development provides a key to the comprehension of an objective reason for a number of social phenomena, thus opening a whole spectrum of research approaches.
P40|The Indigenous Movement and the Economic Trajectory of Ecuador|On many measures, the indigenous movement in Ecuador has been the most successful in Latin America. This is particularly the case in political terms where they were key players until leaving the Gutiérrez cabinet. Their influence on the direction of economic policy has been minimal, however, and the rapid economic changes undertaken by the Correa administration since 2007 may marginalize them further. This paper examines Ecuador’s checkered economic performance in the Washington Consensus period and the notable changes undertaken by Pres. Correa. These changes are then set in the context of the economic programs of the indigenous movement, specifically of CONAIE (Confederación de Nacionalidades Indígenas del Ecuador). This allows us to isolate several significant areas of overlap where the interests of the indigenous movement and of the Correa administration coincide and where collaboration on economic policy may be feasible.
P40|A Political Economy Pattern of China's History: On Revolution, Reform, and Involution under Dictatorship|This paper aims to develop an integrated analytical framework for revolution, reform, and involution under dictatorship based on China’s history. In order to grasp the essence of political and economic interactions in historic China, this paper gets some abstract variables from China's history, on the basis of which a political economy model is built. The autocrat plays an important role in determining authority form and development pattern, which endogenously brings about different outcomes of revolution, reform, and involution. When the economic system is closed, path-dependence plays an important role, however, when the system is open, we should not attach much importance to path-dependence.
P40|l’économie sociale : un potentiel d’innovations ? (is social economy an opportunity for innovation?)|"Les organisations et les entreprises de l’économie sociale s’apparentent aujourd’hui à une sorte de ""laboratoire d’expérimentations de pratiques sociales nouvelles"". Elles constituent un secteur dynamique et sont porteuses d’innovations sociales, notamment en matière de gestion économique, d’organisation du travail, de démocratie participative et de développement durable. L’économie sociale peut être considérée comme innovatrice car elle met en interaction, dès sa création, un regroupement de personnes et une entreprise ou une organisation capable de mobiliser des ressources financières et humaines pour produire des biens ou des services. Pourtant, avec les excès de la mondialisation, d’autres concepts, telle la responsabilité sociale des entreprises, ont émergé et rendent plus floues les frontières avec le tiers-secteur. Organizations and companies of the social economy are today a kind of ""laboratory of experiments for new social practices"". They constitute a dynamic sector and are carrying social innovations, in particular as regards management, organization of work, participative democracy and sustainable development. Social economy can be regarded as innovating because it puts in interaction, since its creation, a group of people and a company or an organization able to gather financial and human resources in order to produce goods or services. However, due to the excesses of globalization, other concepts, such as corporate social responsibility, are emerging and make fuzzier the boundaries with the third-sector."
P40|Estimating the probability of leaving unemployment using uncompleted spells from repeated cross-section data|We propose a new econometric estimation method for analyzing the probability of leaving unemployment using uncompleted spells from repeated cross-section data, which can be especially useful when panel data are not available. The proposed method-of-moments-based estimator has two important features: (1) it estimates the exit probability at the individual level and (2) it does not rely on the stationarity assumption of the inflow composition. We illustrate and gauge the performance of the proposed estimator using the Spanish Labor Force Survey data, and analyze the changes in distribution of unemployment between the 1980s and 1990s during a period of labor market reform. We find that the relative probability of leaving unemployment of the short-term unemployed versus the long-term unemployed becomes significantly higher in the 1990s.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P40|Economic failure in the Middle East|We show how human and economic development has generally remained low amongMiddle Eastern oil-exporters, despite over three trillion dollars in oil revenues. Islam and religion have not contributed to the region's failure. Extensive mismanagement of oil wealth has fueled corruption, decelerated economic growth, and reducedeconomic freedom in oil-producing countries. Government inefficiency and barriers to trade have discouraged foreign investment and have further undermined growth. We follow with an explanation of the relative economic costs and impact of conflicts in the region, and conclude with a brief assessment of each oil exporter's currenteconomic state and potential for future growth.
P40|Economic failure in the Middle East|We show how human and economic development has generally remained low amongMiddle Eastern oil-exporters, despite over three trillion dollars in oil revenues. Islam and religion have not contributed to the region's failure. Extensive mismanagement of oil wealth has fueled corruption, decelerated economic growth, and reducedeconomic freedom in oil-producing countries. Government inefficiency and barriers to trade have discouraged foreign investment and have further undermined growth. We follow with an explanation of the relative economic costs and impact of conflicts in the region, and conclude with a brief assessment of each oil exporter's currenteconomic state and potential for future growth.
P40|Russia: An Abnormal Country|Andrei Shleifer and Daniel Treisman recently rendered a summary verdict on the post Soviet Russian transition experience finding that the Federation had become a normal country with the west's assistance, and predicting that it would liberalize and develop further like other successful nations of its type. This essay demonstrates that they are mistaken on the first count, and are likely to be wrong on the second too. It shows factually, and on the norms elaborated by Pareto, Arrow and Bergson that Russia is an abnormal political economy unlikely to democratize, westernize or embrace free enterprise any time soon
P40|The principle foundations of an Islamic economy|The Quran is the primary source for Islamic teachings and tenets. While the community may adapt social and economic policies in order to meet a society's shifting socio-economic needs, the basic principles of the Islamic economic and social system, however, must be preserved. Freely elected leaders are expected to work with society to formulate policies supporting economic and social stability, economic prosperity, public education, healthcare, economic equity, a fair distribution of income and a social safety net. All physically and mentally competent Muslims are required to work for their livelihoods, and those with a sufficient level of assets are obliged to pay taxes to fund welfare and other social programs. While our definition of the Islamic economic system is supported by a number of modern specialists in Islam and Islamic economics, it is not in complete accord with those of religious figures and establishments connected with a state authority.
P40|The principle foundations of an Islamic economy|The Quran is the primary source for Islamic teachings and tenets. While the community may adapt social and economic policies in order to meet a society's shifting socio-economic needs, the basic principles of the Islamic economic and social system, however, must be preserved. Freely elected leaders are expected to work with society to formulate policies supporting economic and social stability, economic prosperity, public education, healthcare, economic equity, a fair distribution of income and a social safety net. All physically and mentally competent Muslims are required to work for their livelihoods, and those with a sufficient level of assets are obliged to pay taxes to fund welfare and other social programs. While our definition of the Islamic economic system is supported by a number of modern specialists in Islam and Islamic economics, it is not in complete accord with those of religious figures and establishments connected with a state authority.
P40|An abnormal country|Andrei Shleifer and Daniel Treisman recently rendered a summary verdict on the post-Soviet Russian transition experience finding that the Federation had become a normal country with the west's assistance, and predicting that it would liberalize and develop further like other successful nations of its type.This essay demonstrates that they are mistaken.It shows factually, and on the norms elaborated by Pareto, Arrow and Bergson that Russia is an abnormal political economy unlikely to democratize, westernize or embrace free enterprise any time soon. JEL classification: P30, P40, P51, P52 Keywords: Russia, transition, welfare
P40|A puha költségvetési korlát - II<BR>[The soft budget constraint II]|A tanulmány javaslatot tesz a puha költségvetési korlát fogalmának tisztázására. A fogalmat széles körben alkalmazzák mind a szocialista és posztszocialista, mind pedig a piaci gazdaságok elemzése során. A szerzők által megfogalmazott értelmezés fel öleli a puha költségvetési korlát jelenségcsoportjával kapcsolatos megközelítések zömét, és egyben osztályozza az okokat és a következményeket (I. rész). Ezen az értelmezésen alapul a témáról szóló elméleti irodalom áttekintése, valamint összeve tése a dinamikus elkötelezettség problematikájával foglalkozó más közgazdasági iro dalommal (II. rész). Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód:P10, P20, P30, P40, G20, G30, H60, H70.
P40|A puha költségvetési korlát I<BR>[The soft budget constraint I]|A tanulmány javaslatot tesz a puha költségvetési korlát fogalmának tisztázására. A fogalmat széles körben alkalmazzák mind a szocialista és posztszocialista, mind pedig a piaci gazdaságok elemzése során. A szerzők által megfogalmazott értelmezés fel öleli a puha költségvetési korlát jelenségcsoportjával kapcsolatos megközelítések zömét, és egyben osztályozza az okokat és a következményeket (I. rész). Ezen az értelmezésen alapul a témáról szóló elméleti irodalom áttekintése, valamint összeve tése a dinamikus elkötelezettség problématikájával foglalkozó más közgazdasági irodalommal (II. rész). Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: P10, P20, P30, P40, G20, G30, H60, H70.
P40|Mit tanulhatnak a posztszocialista átalakulás útjára lépő országok az átmenet eddigi tapasztalataiból?<BR>[What can countries embarking on post-socialist transformation learn from the experiences so far?]|A cikk eredetileg egy amerikai egyetemi intézet felkérésére készült, amely Kuba tanulmányozására specializálódott, és azt a kérdést tette fel: mit okulhatna a majdan posztkommunista útra lépő ország Kelet-Európa átalakulásából. A szerző a feladatot kiszélesítette, és a címben feltett általánosabb kérdésre kereste a választ. Elöljáróban hangsúlyozza: az átalakulásnak nincs egyöntetű receptje, minden ország sajátos helyzete határozza meg a teendők sorrendjét, sebességét és konkrét módozatait. Hiba lenne bármelyik ország útját gépiesen követni. Ám annak a látószögnek, amelyből közelíteni kell az átalakulási program kidolgozásakor, vannak közös vonásai. Sehol sem szabad elfeledkezni arról, hogy minden lényeges változtatásnak erős politikai töltése van; illúzió arra számítani, hogy vannak politikamentesen kialakítható, tisztán szakmai feladatok. Lelkiismeretesen végig kell gondolni a tervezett változtatások etikai kérdéseit. A tanulmány elemzi a reprezentatív demokráciával, a jogállam megteremtésével, a privatizálással, az árreformmal, a liberalizációval és a jóléti állam reformjával kapcsolatban kikristályásodott tapasztalatokat. Végül a külföldi tanácsadók felelősségével és viselkedési normáival foglalkozik. Journal of Economic Literature (JEL) kód: P10, P20, P30, P40, G20, G30, H60, H70.
P40|Attribute Coordination in Organizations|We study coordination in organizations with a variety of organizational forms. Coordination in organization is modeled as the adjustment of attributes and capacities of tasks when facing external shocks. An M-form (U-form) organization groups complementary (substitutable) tasks together in one unit. In the presence of only attribute shocks, particularly when gains from specialization are small, communication is poor, or shocks are more likely, the expected payoff of the decentralized M-form is the highest. When facing both types of shocks, centralization does better if communication is good. The implications of organizational forms for the patterns of innovations and reforms within an organization, particularly centralized versus decentralized experiments and top-down versus bottom-up reforms, are discussed.
P40|Does Parliament Matter in New Democracies? The Cas of South Africa 1994-2000|The role of parliaments is a neglected topic in the study of the democratisation in sub-Saharan Africa. This working paper provides a case study of the South African parliament from the first democratic elections in 1994 to the present. The paper examines the external environment and the internal characteristics of parliament and provides a description of the institution. The second part discusses the dominant party, the ANC, and its role in the evolution of parliament.
P40|Creation Of Money And The Role Of Central Bank In An Islamic Framework: A Simulation For Pakistan|The paper attempts to formulate, in the context of an Islamic economy, a practical model through which monetary management could be practiced in the absence of interest rate. Having developed the model, it has also been applied to the case of Pakistan to simulate a complete process of monetary management with interest-free banking. Four steps are envisaged in this process: assessment of demand for money; determining the size of the outside and the inside money; quantifying needs of the major claimants of money; and actual process of money creation and distribution. The simulated results for Pakistan's economy for 1996-97 point to a relatively more efficient and economical monetary management as it reduces dependence on base money, provides for interest-free consumption loans, meets fiscal requirements without resorting to interest-based borrowing, and also caters to the requirements of the private sector by providing more credit than was actually recorded for 1996-97.
P40|Gibt es einen Reformtrend der Sozialordnungen in der EU? Skizze einer Typologie zur Diskussion um einen neuen dritten Weg / Is there a Cross-national Trend in Reforms of European Social Policy? Draft of a New Third Way Concerning the Three Worlds of Welfare Capitalism|Proponents of the economics and policies of the new third way mainly ignore the history of this debate. Following their project they prefer to focus on politics which seek to combine labour market deregulation and efficiency with procedural social justice. To answer local questions it is important to combine economics and political science. Thus, the current third way debate can be linked to Esping-Andersen’s “three worlds of welfare capitalism”. However, European welfare states are far away from showing a ‘frozen landscape’. Since system competition shows positive effects in both innovation and control one can expect a trend towards universal elements and principals of the welfare states. Thus, path dependence is not more than a filter for the international system competition of the welfare states. Especially investments in education, active labour market policy and the concept of ‘flexicurity’ play a key role in the new third way. However, with the empirical evidence still insufficient, there is a lot of research to be done - by economists who use the results of political science.
P40|Le modele quebecois en question|Il faut remonter au deuxieme mandat pequiste, au debut des annees 1980, pour assister a l'emergence des nouveaux espaces publics de developpement economique. C'est en effet dans la foulee de la grave recession de 1981-1982, et du nouveau plan d'action du gouvernement (le Virage technologique), que sont formules les principes et que sont mises en place de nouvelles institutions sur la base d'une gouvernance associative. Mais un frein est severement applique a cette dynamique suite au retour du PLQ au pouvoir en 1985. Les institutions les plus interessantes sont alors carrement eleminees. De maniere generale, le premier mandat du PLQ s'avere toutefois une periode de transition. En raison de l'absence d'initiatives de la part des acteurs etatiques dans le domaine des strategies de developpement, on voit eneffet les acteurs de la societe civile enclencher une seconde phase dans le processus d'emergence de nouveaux espaces de deliberation dans la sphere economique. Le Forum pour l'emploi en constitue un bel exemple. Par la suite, c'est la situation d'urgence decoulant de la longue recession de 1990-1992 qui marque le point de depart d'une tendance lourde ou l'on voit une diffusion importante des nouvelles pratiques de concertation, pendant le deuxieme mandat liberal.
P40|Islamic and Neo-Confucian Perspectives on the New Traditional Economy|This paper argues that the new traditional economy is an emerging form important both ideologically and in practice in the world economy today. It is characterized by an effort to embed economic practices within a traditional socio-religious structure while simultaneously seeking modern technology and high incomes. The examples of the Islamic economic system and the neo-Confucian economic system are considered in more detail, with the former seen as more significant ideologically and the latter as more important practically.
P40|Cohesion et Diversite au Sein de l'Union Europeenne: des Trafectoires irreconciliables?|L'objectif general de cet article est de parler des tensions qui emergent des engagements de l'Union Europenne (UE) envers la cohesion et la solidarite sociale, ainsi que de l'heterogeneite qui caracterise les geographies humaines de l'Union. Dans ce but, nous adoptons des perspectives a la fois economiques et culturelles, qui, en elles-memes, contiennent aussi des tensions irresolues.
P40|Language orders|This essay examines the alternatives of spontaneous order and central planning in the context of human language to cast new light both on the issues raised in the Socialist Calculation debate of the 1930s and 40s and on the nature of language itself. The evolution of the complex systems of rules that comprise natural languages is discussed, and the process of language acquisition in children is used to illustrate the problems involved in characterizing any spontaneous order as a social contract or convention. Natural language orders are distinguished from explicit contracts through the concept of a “language trap,” in which an individual who voluntarily begins to participate in the order is gradually transformed by this participation and eventually becomes unable to leave it. A concluding section considers the implications of this trap and the pursuit of self-interest through language for attempts to construct and win adherents to artificial languages, and suggests the nature of the obstacles that confront any attempt to overcome or redirect the deeply rooted behaviors associated with spontaneous orders through the imposition of a central plan. Copyright Kluwer Academic Publishers 1996
P40|Islamic Economics and the Islamic Subeconomy|Although Islamic economics was developed to serve cultural and political ends, efforts have been made to put its ideals into practice. There now exist Islamic banks, which claim to offer an interest-free alternative to conventional banking, and government-run Islamic redistribution systems, which were established to reduce inequalities. These institutions have not revolutionized the economic lives of Muslims. Yet, along with a wide variety of enterprises that have emerged outside the purview of Islamic economics, they have formed vibrant Islamic subeconomies in numerous metropolises. These subeconomies are expanding because they foster interpersonal trust and offer opportunities for guilt relief.
P40|'Humanomics' of Ranade|M.G. Ramrde (1842-1901) was among the pioneering thinkers of India who, wanted modification in classical economics and criticized it because of its abstraction, miscalculation of human nature, and no accounting of socio-cultural environment and religious elements. The present paper aims to study this aspect of his contribution to economic theory in general and to Indian school of economics in particular. We refer to it as 'Humanomics' because he gave the prime importance to diverse human society and culture, its values and beliefs in formulation and application of economic theory.
