P41|Future Design|Members of future generations are yet unborn. Therefore they cannot participate in markets and cannot vote in democratic elections. This paper surveys a number of articles that incorporate future generations in current decision-making. Consider the Demeny voting system that allows parents to vote as proxies for their children. In an experiment, the parents did not always vote in their children's interest and people who voted for younger generations under a normal voting system did not necessarily vote for them. These outcomes undermine the intended effect of the Demeny system. On the other hand, groups with imaginary future generation subjects in an experiment tended to choose a sustainable alternative. When people considered choosing future policies in actual practice, the current generation tended to focus upon the current unsolved problems, whereas the imaginary future generation tended to create original policies for future generations.
P41|LDC Graduation: Challenges and Opportunities for Vanuatu|"Vanuatu will graduate from the least developed country (LDC) category on 4 December 2020. This will be a momentous occasion, heralding a new era in the nation’s development journey. However, it will be essential to carefully manage the transition leading up to, and following graduation. A smooth transition will be dependent on improving institutional and productive capacity; providing the stimulus for the private sector to flourish; ensuring inclusive, culturally sensitive development; and working to mitigate the country’s deep-seated vulnerabilities. Transition strategies should be led by, and continue to inform, the implementation of Vanuatu 2030 | The People’s Plan - the national sustainable development plan - and be integrated into sector strategies and action plans. Overcoming the challenges and maximizing the opportunities associated with graduation will require collaborative partnerships between government, community leaders, businesses, civil society, and the country’s development and trading partners. Working together, these partnerships should honour the global commitments made by the international community and serve to deliver the development aspirations articulated by the people through Vanuatu 2030. This background paper is intended to build awareness and increase understanding of the key issues associated with Vanuatu’s graduation to help inform national consultations, and the formulation of strategies that guide the smooth transition. It is based on a synthesis of the existing knowledge base, analysis and shared learning that exists on the topic, and has benefited from an initial round of consultations with key stakeholders. While it concludes with a series of recommendations in support of the formulation of appropriate transition strategies, this paper is not presented as a final strategy document. Rather, it is envisaged that it will provoke the necessary further thinking, discussion, research and analysis that will be guided by the National Coordinating Committee for LDC graduation in the lead up to December 2020."
P41|Preparing to graduate: Issues, challenges and strategies for Kiribati’s LDC graduation|This paper outlines the recent development trajectory of Kiribati in relation to the least developed country (LDC) categorisation and the prospect of Kiribati’s graduation out of LDC status. In particular, the paper discusses the economic vulnerability of Kiribati’s economic and fiscal position due to recent increases in fishing license revenue, and presents a framework for policies moving forward. The framework aims to mitigate the fishery revenue as a source of risk by (1) making the most of current resources (through public financial management reform and prudent fiscal management), (2) ensure the sustainability of the key resource (protect fish stocks), and (3) create an environment for new opportunities through establishing the precursors to tourism-orientated development (through deregulation and investment in public infrastructure). More broadly, the paper advocates for a risk-averse approach to policymaking in Kiribati through broad-based improvements in public financial architecture and investment rather than targeting higher-level interventions.
P41|A new societal contract|"This paper argues that the traditional societal contract that underlies the market economy has run its course and needs to be replaced by a new contract, based on a new conception of the ""empowering economy."" Whereas different societal contracts are relevant to different societies, there must be some features that all societal contracts will have in common, in order to address some basic human needs that every thriving society must satisfy and to promote popular approval for multilateral agreements to address multilateral problems. The paper proposes a new societal contract that promotes three building blocks of economic policies: (1) automatic stabilizers that reduce inequalities of economic power, (2) policies that focus not just on material prosperity, but also on personal and social empowerment and (3) policies that develop the human capabilities of cooperation and innovation."
P41|Technical efficiency of Slovak general hospitals|In this study, technical efficiency of Slovak general hospitals was investigated. The well-known non-parametric Data Envelopment Analysis was used to compare performance of Slovak health care providers. Results are based on four slightly differentiated models. Both CRS and VRS variation with different input approaches were used. Our results suggest low average efficiency in Slovak hospitals in the range 0.45 to 0.62 with great variations in efficiency score between individual Decision Making Units (DMUs). These results are relative without appropriate cross-country comparisons. Furthermore, in type of hospital entity there is no significant difference in efficiency score. However there is not a single efficient DMU in a group of municipality hospitals. Although, these results must be taken with caution due to questionable quality of data, this paper provides some valuable overview on technical efficiency of health care providers
P41|Enhancing governance in Thailand|The Peace pillar of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development encompasses a diverse range of issues including stability and effective governance. Reforming the public sector is high on the government’s agenda, but involves a number of challenges: the gap between planning and implementation of policy objectives remains large; insufficient public participation in policy making is undermining the efficient allocation of resources toward public needs and development goals; under-development of evidence-based regulations is hampering the creation of a business-friendly environment essential to high value-added activities; and high levels of perceived corruption are weakening business confidence and public trust in the government. Thailand’s 12th Economic and Social Development Plan emphasises the importance of public sector reform. It sets out measures to strengthen co-ordination across ministries and agencies aimed at improving implementation of policy programmes, boosting public participation in policy making, improving online access to government services and combating corruption by strengthening integrity measures. The upcoming 20-year National Strategy and the accompanying National Reform Plan are expected to pave the way for future development. However, an inclusive and consultative process will be essential to ensure the success of reform efforts. This Working Paper relates to the Initial Assessment report of the Multi-dimensional Country Review of Thailand. (http://www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/multi-dimensional-review-thailand.htm)
P41|Non-farm employment trends and policy in rural areas of Samarkand region (Uzbekistan)|Nonfarm employment plays an important role in absorbing unemployment in rural areas of developing countries. The agricultural transition in Uzbekistan followed by structural transformations in the economy changed the rural economy. Although farm restructuring and farm optimization policies led to agricultural growth, they had a negative impact on rural employment. The government of Uzbekistan promoted many policies to create jobs within the country. A presidential decree launched the State Program on Rural Development and Well-being in 2009, which played a crucial role in developing the economic and social infrastructure of rural areas. Small business and private entrepreneurship were given priority to absorb the rising unemployment, especially in rural areas. Against this background, the paper studies non-farm employment trends in rural areas of Samarkand region. In particular, we explore the main drivers of non-farm business development and its impact on rural employment in the Samarkand region. The main employment trends in rural areas of Samarkand region are described using statistical data. We also explore migration trends in Uzbekistan and Samarkand regions. A survey was conducted with 34 mahallas' (community) chairpersons and representatives to better analyze the intersectoral and international migration of the agricultural workforce. Although remittances are crucial in poverty alleviation of Central Asian countries, including Uzbekistan, the economic crisis in 2008-2009 in Russia cast a shadow on the further prospects of migration. We show how the development of non-agricultural business in the Samarkand region increased the incomes of the rural population. The agro-processing sector plays a vital role in creating clusters based on the agro-industrial complex, which in turn will create more opportunities for employment in rural areas of the country.
P41|Population Aging of Reunified Korea (in Korean)|This study introduces various scenarios of changes in fertility rates and life expectancy of North Korea after Korean reunification, and compares the development of population aging by scenario based on demographic projections calculated by the cohort component method. These scenarios are set up in consideration of the demographic changes in Germany, observed after its Reunification: the fertility rate of East Germany dropped by half right after unification; and its life expectancy converged to the level of West Germany. Therefore, the fertility shock and the convergence of life expectancy are reflected in the scenarios of North Korean population after unification. Besides, this study assumes a scenario where the fertility rate of the North could increase due to an improvement in child-care environment and public health, considering the distinct features of the inter-Korean unification. The main finding of this study is as follows. The population integration of the two Koreas may alleviate the burden of population aging of South Korea. This positive impact, however, may be gradually reduced if the North's fertility rate sharply drops and life expectancy converges to the level of the South. Yet, the level of population aging may be continuously reduced in case the fertility rate of the North raises even though its life expectancy converges to the level of the South.
P41|The outcomes of 25 years of agricultural reforms in Kyrgyzstan<BR>[Die Ergebnisse von 25 Jahren landwirtschaftlicher Reformen in Kirgistan]|Kyrgyz agriculture experienced substantial reform during the 1990s and early 2000s. Subsequently, the pace of reform slowed and at present the government does not appear to have any clear strategy for further development in the sector. Summarizing the outcomes of these reforms, a certain freedom granted to farmers stands out as one of the main achievements and an important reason for the sector's efficiency. Peasant farms are effectively protected from attempts to administratively regulate crop structure or introduce any other types of market distortions. However, an insufficient level of investments is undermining long-term prospects for development in the sector. Supporting large professional players in the sector is one of the key policy priorities of the government. It is however necessary to provide space for these enterprises to emerge on their own. It is additionally important to ensure that any support policies in favor of such players also provide positive spillovers to the small farmers around them, and do not aim at replacing them mechanically. The list of incomplete policy reforms is very long, especially in the area of natural resource management and provision of other essential public goods. The state of pastures and irrigation systems is alarming and requires government support well above its current level. Understanding the key areas for government intervention and focusing interventions on public goods provision should be the key components of a future agricultural development strategy.
P41|Текущая Роль Производственных И Обслуживающих Кооперативов В Сельском Хозяйстве Южного Казахстана<BR>[Current role of production and service cooperatives in agriculture in southern Kazakhstan]|Перед агропромышленным комплексом Казахстана стоят кардинальные задачи по устойчивому развитию и наращиванию сельскохозяйственного производства, увеличению выпуска экспортоориентированной, конкурентоспособной продукции и обеспечению продовольственной безопасности страны. Сегодня для решения поставленных задач перед АПК страны принята Государственная программа развития АПК на 2017–2021 годы и внедряются в производство новые Законы «О сельскохозяйственных кооперативах», «О пастбищах» и др. Особое внимание в этих документах уделяется созданию крупных товарных хозяйств на основе кооперации. Анализ современного состояния развития сельского хозяйства в республике показал, что мелкие крестьянские хозяйства, состоящие из одной семьи или из группы людей, слабо оснащенные материально-техническими средствами, в одиночестве без объединений общих сил не в состоянии вести расширенное производство и установить межотраслевые связи в процессе производства и переработки. Эти хозяйства не в состоянии самостоятельно решать проблемы повышения конкурентоспособности производимой ими продукции, внедрения инноваций, поставок безопасных для здоровья населения продуктов питания и лишены возможности получать услуги высококвалифицированных специалистов. Основными сдерживающими факторами развития кооперативного движения в республике являются недостаточные меры государственной поддержки сельского хозяйства, кадрового обеспечения, несовершенство правого законодательства, налогообложения и отсутствие механизмов организации взаимоотношений внутри кооператива. Для реализации поставленных выше задач перед АПК страны, необходимо объединить мелкие крестьянские хозяйства в крупные сельскохозяйственные кооперативы по производству, переработке, хранению, транспортировке и сбыту сельскохозяйственной продукции.
P41|Влияние Несельскохозяйственного Бизнеса На Уровень Занятости В Сельской Местности Южно-Казахстанской Области<BR>[Impact of non-agricultural businesses on rural employment in south Kazakhstan province]|В условиях развития глобального экономического кризиса проблемы занятости населения, безработицы и мобильности трудовых ресурсов в Казахстане приобретают все большую актуальность и всегда находятся в центре внимания научной, общественной, политической и хозяйственной деятельности соответствующих ведомств, организаций и предприятий. В кризисный период в целях защиты граждан от безработицы государством была разработана стратегия, которую можно условно охарактеризовать, как «стратегия выживания». Данная стратегия направлена на реализацию государственных программ: создания социальных рабочих мест, переобучения и переподготовки специалистов, и организации молодежной практики. В исследовании проводилось интервью с работниками акиматов, сельскохозяйственных ведомств, сельскими предпринимателями и представителями несельскохозяйственного бизнеса в Южно-Казахстанской области (ЮКО). Основными направлениями развития несельскохозяйственного бизнеса в сельской местности ЮКО являются переработка сельскохозяйственного сырья и продукции, торгово-закупочная деятельность, общественное питание в сельских населенных пунктах (придорожные магазины и кафе) и их бытовое обслуживание, строительство жилых и производственных построек, производство товаров народных промыслов, транспортные услуги. Развитие несельскохозяйственного бизнеса на селе будет содействовать диверсификации хозяйственной деятельности в сельской экономике, расширению источников формирования доходной базы местных бюджетов, повышению устойчивости развития сельских территорий в части расширения масштабов занятости и развития самозанятости сельского населения, а также повышению уровня его жизни.
P41|Adaptation assessment and analysis of economic growth since the market reform in China|China has experienced extraordinary institutional and socio-economic changes after 1978, and its deepening reform to market-oriented economy since 1990s was also recognized as one the most significant factors to drive China's rise in the contemporary world. Although many aspects of China's market reform have been extensively analysed in the literature, specific attention on the adaptation of economic growth to this reform has been relatively ignored. To fill this gap, this research adopts the extenics assessment method to assess this adaptation and applies the membership function coordination degree model to analyse the sustainability of such adaptation. In conclusion, China has demonstrated a significantly enhanced adaptation capacity at the expense of coordination, which requires to be further emphasised in its economic growth adaptation strategies.
P41|International Public Sector Accounting Standards Implementation in the Russian Federation|The purpose of this study is to ascertain the impact of International Public Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS) on reliability, credibility and integrity of financial reporting in State Government administration in Russia. The article provides the rationale for developing Federal accounting standards for public the sector. The proposals formulated in the study may be useful in developing and perfecting the Federal accounting standards, in practical work of accounting organizations and educational process of higher educational institutions. The article provides a substantiation of the conclusions that the adoption of the program for Federal accounting standards development and subsequent formulation of the standards will facilitate the transition of domestic accounting to a totally new level
P41|The Direct and Indirect Costs of Power Outages to Small Scale Manufacturing Industries of Punjab|The paper quantifies the various costs incurred due to power outages in Punjab by the small scale manufacturing sector. The previous studies that calculated the cost of power outrages have focused at a national level only. The type of costs identified are: Direct Costs like spoilage cost and value of output loss and Adjustment Costs like inbuilt power generation costs (capital cost, fuel cost, operation and maintenance costs of generators etc.) and costs of other adjustments. The methodology used for quantifying the cost of outages is based largely on Pasha, et al. (1989). In conclusion, the paper estimates that the total outage cost for small scale industry of Punjab for 2012 is almost Rs. 21 billion which accounts for 12.4 percent of small scale manufacturing value added. Policy recommendations are made to mitigate the impact of load shedding.
P41|Optimization of administrative processes in public administration: the preliminary results of an empirical analysis<BR>[Оптимизация Административных Процессов В Системе Государственного Управления: Предварительные Результаты Эмпирического Анализа]|The subject of the article are the problems that arise in relation to the design and routine administrative processes in public administration, organized mainly along functional lines. Particular attention is paid to the impact of the current orders for the effectiveness of the project approach to policy development and implementation. Results of the analysis indicate significant potential for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the public administration system provided by the release of the design and routine processes from the functional environment, their diagnosis, optimization, as well as full or partial automation.
P41|Commons-creating Society|The main purpose of this contribution is to give an insight into the radical German commons discourse. It rejects naturalist conceptualizations of commons and rather emphasizes the social dimensions. Combining free software and traditional commons, it builds on and goes beyond the Ostromâ€™s research. Commons are seen as an enabling form and potential foundation for a decentralized and needs-oriented post-capitalist society free of personal and structural domination and beyond the market and state.
P41|Сельскохозяйственная Политика В Производстве Пшеницы И Диверсификации Производства Сельскохозяйственных Культур В Узбекистане<BR>[Agricultural policy in wheat production and crop diversification in Uzbekistan]|В период независимого развития в Узбекистане производство пшеницы достигло восьмикратного роста, в то время как ее посевные площади увеличились почти в три раза. Рост валовых показателей не привел к улучшению качества пшеницы и повышению рентабельности ее производства для фермерских хозяйств. Существующая арендная система землепользователя перегружена дополнительными обязательствами для арендаторов, что снижает их мотивацию. При этом надо иметь в виду, что официальная статистика по производству пшеницы не достоверна. Главный вопрос для сельского хозяйства Узбекистана не в том, какая форма организации сельскохозяйственного производства лучше и не в размерах земельных участков, а в механизме закупок сельскохозяйственной продукции для государственных нужд и гарантиях прав собственности для субъектов сельскохозяйственного производства. Реформы в системе обязательного государственного заказа по хлопку и пшенице могли бы повысить стимулы к эффективному землепользованию у фермеров и расширить их возможности по диверсификации производства за счет увеличения посевов альтернативных культур (плодоовощные, кормовые и пр.), и тем самым увеличить экспортный потенциал сельскохозяйственного сектора.
P41|Опыт Сельскохозяйственной Реструктуризации В Туркменистане<BR>[Agricultural restructuring in Turkmenistan]|Данный отчет представляет основные моменты земельной реформы и аграрной реструктуризации в Туркменистане. В первой части отчета основное внимание уделяется описанию хода аграрной реформы с представлением хронологии основных осуществленных мер аграрной политики, а также рассмотрена организация поставки материалов и ресурсов в сельскохозяйственное производство. Центральная часть отчета отведена на описание изменений в структуре посевов, а также динамики развития различных категорий сельскохозяйственных производителей и их вклад в развитие аграрного сектора и продовольственной безопасности страны. Как показывает исследование, земельная реформа и аграрная реструктуризация в стране в целом проводились со значительными функциями государства в регулировании этих процессов. На основе реформирования сельского хозяйства за период с 1992-2013 гг. общая посевная площадь в стране возросла на 25 %, в то время как, крестьянские объединения остаются основной категорией в сфере производства сельскохозяйственной продукции, базирующейся на арендной системе земледелие с целью выполнения государственного заказа стратегических культур.
P41|Сельскохозяйственная Политика В Производстве Хлопка И Диверсификация Агропромышленного Комплекса В Таджикистане<BR>[Agricultural policy in cotton production and the diversification of the agricultural sector in Tajikistan]|Основная цель данной статьи - представить изменения в хлопковом секторе Таджикистана и роль диверсификации в сельском хозяйстве с момента обретения независимости. В первой части данной статьи представлена информация об изменениях в госрегулировании производства хлопка с момента независимости, включая динамику закупочных цен на хлопок-сырец, а также описание особенностей процесса приватизации хлопкоочистительных заводов. Также представлена картина изменений в основных категориях сельскохозяйственных производителей и их вклад в производство сельскохозяйственной продукции, и дано описание организационных изменений, которые произошли в секторах поставки материалов и производственных ресурсов. В следующей части статьи представлены вопросы государственной политики и меры по продовольственной безопасности по основным сельхозкультурам и их влияние на структуру сельского хозяйства. В этом плане дана оценка недавних реформ в сельскохозяйственном секторе, направленных на диверсификацию производства сельскохозяйственных культур; а также отражены вопросы продовольственной безопасности и экспорта сельхозпродукции на новые рынки.
P41|The Role of Palatial Economic Organization in Creating Wealth in Minoan and Mycenaean States|During the Late Bronze Age, Aegean societies (Minoan and Mycenaean) exhibited strong economic development. This resulted from the implementation by the elite of a centralized and hierarchical administrative and social system in order to manage most economic activities. In these palatial economies, the elite organized the extraction of the surplus, therefore avoiding the Malthusian trap. They also organized the division of labor and the specialization in production and the distribution of the collected surplus by means of staple and wealth finance systems, the latter being based on the production of luxury items controlled by the palace. Trade was also encouraged in order to strengthen palatial power.
P41|Demographic Structural Change in North Korea and Its Implications (in Korean)|The demographic structure of North Korea is one of the most important variables that could influence economic growth or unification cost in the processes of transition and integration with South Korea. This paper examines changes in the demographic structure of North Korea based on the World Population Prospects of the UN: it compares demographic structures between an integrated Korea and the reunified Germany, as well as those between North Korea, China and Vietnam. Based on these comparisons, we could draw some important implications for demographic issues during the transition of North Korea and after reunification. In China and Vietnam, the first demographic dividend effect caused by a sharp decline in the dependency ratio has been pronounced in the process of economic growth since the reform and opening-up. However, North Korea, which had already completed its demographic transition before the 1990s, is unlikely to enjoy the demographic dividend effect in the future even if it attempts to embark on reform and opening-up. Meanwhile, the population integration between North Korea, whose the youth population ratio and total fertility rate (TFR) are higher, and South Korea can delay entering into an aged society by 4 years. It is also expected to make the share of the working-age population increase by up to 4.3%p by 2065, compared to that of South Korea. However, the speed of population aging of an integrated Korea is expected to be faster than that of the reunified germany.
P41|Let the markets begin: The interplay between free prices and privatisation in early transition|This paper revisits the period of early post-communist transition to study the immediate impact on economic growth of the interplay between price liberalisation and large-scale privatisation in 27 economies. The trajectories along these two dimensions were quite different across transition economies in the period under scrutiny – this diversity is well mirrored by available indicators, which I use to approach empirically the interaction between that pair of reforms. My estimates suggest that the negative short-run effect of privatisation may be counterweighted by the existence of a system of non-distorted price signals. These results seem to be in broad agreement with previous analyses, which I review briefly. Given the small size of my sample and other possible data issues, particular care is taken when examining the robustness of the findings. While not rejecting earlier explanations (e.g. based on the importance of initial conditions, namely the dimension of inherited distortions in production), this paper offers the suggestion of an additional view on why the so-called transformational recession was deeper in some countries than in others – countries which have privatised without fully liberalising prices may have experienced more economic harm.
P41|Innovative finance for development - Instruments of social integration and responsibility in lower-middle-income countries (LMICs)|Existing proposals for transforming the system of development assistance and especially in relation to middle income countries are manifold. The idea of cutting assistance to middle income countries gained ground parallel with the questioning of the rationale to use only per capita income as an eligibility criterion for assistance. LMICs3 have much in common with LDCs but the operation and structure of their domestic economy and politics may be significantly different. My proposal is not to disregard middle income countries as potential targets of development assistance as a whole; rather my study argues that focus should be placed on lower-middle-income economies. The LMIC strategy would be different from the one that targets the least developed countries. I tend to coin this policy with the term of “convergence assistance” – an innovative allocation and spending mechanism. Convergence means the reduction of internal disparities and the elimination of the dual structure of these economies. Against this backdrop successful adaptation of development banking models of developing andadvanced economies can support the establishment of an economic incentive system based on efficiency requirements coupled with concentration, expertise, the knowledge of the local market and people. By incorporating the best practices of microfinance institutions from the developing world and those of the institutions with the objective of economic inclusion in advanced countries, a development bank may be a good choice in LMICs. This institution ideally may function as a window for all development or convergence financing independently from their origin and nature. The proposal is not meant to prefer LMICs to LDCs but a pilot project is more likely to be feasible in their case.
P41|Policy Implications of Economic Complexity and Complexity Economics|Policy implications of complexity economics (CE) are investigated. CE deals with “Complex Adaptive (Economic) Systems” [CA(E)S], generally characterized by mechanisms and properties such as “emergence” of structure or some capacity of “self-organization”. With this, CE has manifold affinities with economic heterodoxies. CE has developed into a most promising economic research program in the last decades. With some time lag, and boosted by the financial crisis and Great Recession, a surge to explore their policy implications recently emerged. It demonstrated the flaws of the “neoliberal” policy prescriptions mostly derived from the neoclassical mainstream and its underlying more simplistic and teleological equilibrium models. However, most of the complexity-policy literature still remains rather general. For a subset of CA(E)S, those with heterogeneous human agents interacting, particularly on networks, using evolutionary games in the “evolution-of-cooperation” tradition, therefore, we exemplarily derive more specific policy orientations and tools, and a framework policy approach called Interactive Policy.
P41|The Romanian Internal Public Audit System – An X-Ray Analysis of Audit Compartment Activities|Closely following the Romania’s EU-Integration, the public administration began a drastic reform process of all its systems, including internal public audit. In this regard, even right after 1989, a connection to European governance mechanisms and the implementation of European best practices were sought. Thus, building an efficient and sustainable public administration migrated over time from intention to necessity and lately to priority of all development strategies. For implementing such mechanism, clear and transparent decision processes, a good management of available resources, an adequate institutional and administrative structure and standards centered on public interest promotion are necessary. This paper presents an X-Ray like image of the public audit system in Romania, for the implementation of an efficient management in public entities as part of public sector good governance. The sustainable development of public administration is in need of an audit system consolidation, based on specialists contributing to reaching objectives by improving information flows and efficient risk management.
P41|The Distributed Cognitive Economics of Reform: A Framework|We present an enriched cognitive approach to the political economy of reform based on the notion of distributed cognition. Our aim is to describe the origination causation of economic reforms highlighting the interactions between people, artefacts as well as internal and external representations. In particular, we ask how reformers are able to turn a cognitively ill-defined situation into a cognitively well-defined situation. The proposed framework, we tentatively call â€˜the distributed cognitive economics of reformâ€™, emphasizes three key messages: First, economic reforms are creative processes largely driven by self-organized innovation and acts of public entrepreneurship. Second, the cognitive distance between individuals both enables and constraints cooperation and, most importantly, learning. Third, reformersâ€™ ability to communicate to a wide range of audiences is crucial in times of reform. In consequence, successful reformers often rely on policy metaphors as primary means to manage high levels of uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. Presenting post-1978 Chinese economic reform as a case study, we argue that the notion of distributed cognition can improve our understanding of economic reform processes.JEL: B41, B52, P41, Z18
P41|Vet: A Strategic Approach For Economic, Organisational And Personal Development In Eu Countries|Vocational Education and Training (VET) is a continuous long-term process of economic, organisational and personal development. It envisions the construction of dynamic skills to improve performance, productivity and organisational, personal and social development. This article focuses on generating skills. It frames training as a process of work-linked training and as a primary source for generating skills whilst seeking to boost creativity. It sheds light upon the discussion pertaining to learning transfer as a necessary condition to structure performance and competitiveness. It highlights the Learning Transfer System Inventory (LTSI), because it allows to measure the effectiveness of training and it identifies the organisations' weaknesses. The data used were collected from the Eurostat Database.
P41|Measuring tourist satisfacction in Los Cabos|To see the view of tourist after having interacted with the various tourist services, is important. This allows you to improve the performance of the localities and receiving as well to attract future an increased influx of visitors. That is why the private sector and the public they are interested to know the opinion of the tourist and his rating of the destination.In this sense, the aim of this work was to analyze the level of qualification and satisfaction of the tourists in the destination of the ends during the second half of 2013. Analyzing its characterisation and potential future through the methodology used by Center for Tourist Studies (CESTUR). It is important to note that the results indicated that Los Cabos has competitive advantages in infrastructure, customer service and the natural environment. As well as challenges to resolve how to increase the range of tourist activities and the change of image in the historical center of the destination.
P41|Determinants of Anti-Trafficking Policies: Evidence from a New Index| We develop an index measuring the three main dimensions – prosecution, protection, and prevention – of the anti-trafficking policies of the governments of up to 180 countries over the 2000−2010 period. Overall, developed countries perform better than the rest of the world; compliance with prosecution policy is highest, while governmental efforts to protect victims of human trafficking remain weakest. We employ the new indices to investigate which factors determine anti-trafficking policies. We find that compliance with anti-trafficking policies significantly decreases with corruption and is higher in countries that also respect the rights of women. We also find some tentative evidence for spatial dependence in anti-trafficking policies.
P41|Experiences of Transition and Integration in the Financial System: Implications for North Korea (in Korean)|This study reviews the experiences of transition and integration in the financial sector in the three East European countries, that is, Hungary, Czech Republic, and East Germany. In more detail, it analyzes the following experiences: the establishment of two-tier banking system, privatization of commercial banks and the management of non-performing loans, and the reform of exchange rate regime. The implications for North Korean transition and integration are drawn as follows. North Korea should replace a mono-banking system with a two-tier one by dividing the Chosun Central Bank into two parts: the function of a central bank and that of a commercial bank. Following this division, the part of commercial bank should be privatized using the method of sale to outsiders. The problem of non-performing loans needs to be addressed properly with a sufficient amount of financial resources. It is advised to establish an exchange rate regime that provides a long-term economic stability and competitiveness. For this purpose, a fixed exchange rate regime followed by a floating one should be considered as a default option.
P41|China’s Roadmap to Harmonious Society : Third Plenum Decisions on “major issues concerning comprehensively deepening reforms”|In November 2013, the central committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC), at its third plenum, issued a Directives Paper (with 16 items and 60 prescriptions), setting out a long-term strategic compendium of China’s reform agenda, based on the principle of separation between market and state under the unifying predominance of the Law. Its prescriptions refer to three basic objectives: inclusiveness, protection of rights, and improving economic efficiency. The Directives Paper formulates an ambitious plan of reforms over the next 20 years, aimed at overhauling the factor price system. There are two pillars to the Reform. First, labor market developments should provide workers with enhanced bargaining power. Government is expanding the basic social safety net, promoting low catch-up, enforcing labor contracts and introducing collective bargaining. Second, capital market reform has been speeded-up by the urgency of dealing with non-performing loans held in state-owned enterprises and credit platforms guaranteed by local governments. The Government intends to foster bond markets, encourage private banks to finance SMEs, build a strong prudential framework, deregulate interest rates, and move to Renminbi convertibility in the new Shanghai free trade area. We believe that the political feasibility of the Reform depends on the sequencing of its implementation. Benefits in the early stage would legitimate more contentious future policy decisions. But the deep social changes involved in the Reform also imply risks. Reforming rural land and natural resource prices will be difficult. Farmers’ land-use rights will be secured by law and made transferable in rural land markets. Fuel, water, electricity and carbon prices will rise progressively to their social marginal costs within an integrated urban rural model to accommodate 350 million migrants over the next 20 years. New smart cities and greater social inclusiveness will be spurred by relaxing the hukou system and the one child policy. Tough political decisions will be required related to fi scal sharing amongst local H77governments, and rebalancing the tax system towards more progressive direct taxes.
P41|Are complementary reforms a “luxury” for developing countries?|This paper investigates the impact of complementarity reforms on growth and how it depends on GDP per capita. Based on reform data for six policy areas compiled from various sources during the period 1994–2006 for over 100 countries, we compute composite indicators of reform level and complementarity. We provide qualitative justification for the existence of pair-wise complementarities among policy areas. We then use cross-section and panel data estimates to test the effect of reform level and complementarity on GDP per capita growth. We found reforms to be positively related and their dispersion (or the inverse of complementarity) negatively related to growth, controlling for initial conditions, monetary stability and other structural and institutional variables, as well as endogeneity of reform level and complementarity. We show that the effect of policy complementarity is a stronger condition for sustainable growth in developing than in advanced countries, to conclude that complementary reforms are not a ‘luxury’ for developing countries.
P41|Continental Visions: Ann Seidman, Reginald H. Green, and the Economics of African Unity in 1960s Ghana|The paper presents the history of the contribution of two American economists to a radical cause: the establishment of a socialist and politically united Africa. The setting is 1960s Ghana which under Kwame Nkrumah, the man who led the country to independence from British colonial rule, emerged as the epicentre of this Pan-African vision. Ann Seidman and Reginald H. Green became, as members of the research team on ‘The Economics of African Unity’ established at the University of Ghana in 1963, the most sophisticated and systematic advocates of Nkrumah’s economic argument for continental planning and political union. The paper argues that Green and Seidman’s support for Pan- Africanism was rooted in an attempt to question radically the applicability of mainstream economic theory to African conditions, and find an alternative framework to conceptualise African trade, institutions and economic integration. Ultimately the vision associated with Nkrumah and economists like Green and Seidman failed to gain any significant political legitimacy and ended in 1966 with Nkrumah’s overthrow. Yet, it is argued that the story of the ‘economics of African unity’ is a useful departure point to deepen our understanding of the relationship between economics and political imagination in postcolonial Africa.
P41|Growth in public finances as tool for control: Norwegian development 1850-1950|By drawing on information from public accounts from the nineteenth and twentieth century the present paper aims at mapping the development of key financial indicators for the Norwegian central government sector. It concludes that growth in the size of this sector often, but clearly not always, reflects political economy regimes. The paper concludes that persistant growth in public finances as tool for control over the economy did not take place before the introduction of the social-democratic regime in 1935.
P41|Ukrainian Population Opinion on Role of State: Surveys Results|The changing attitude of Ukrainian population to state is investigated based on sociological surveys. The majority of respondents called for significant participation of state in economic governance, while not excluding market instruments. About one third of respondents wanted new model of social structure, but capitalism supporters were few. Unemployment was perceived as main economic problem. Based on analysis of respondents emphasis of state goals the conclusion can be made on existence in Ukrainian society the demand for another state model, which should be different from existing one and should be chosen.
P41|The Debt Consolidation of Hungarian Local Governments|The total debt of Hungarian local governments accumulated during the 2002–2008 period was consolidated in full by the government between 2011 and 2014. Most of the debt assumed by the central budget was denominated in foreign currency, which involved high exchange risk and, therefore, financial instability for both the central and the local subsystems of public finances. According to some economists, the bailout of local governments by the state is another manifestation of the soft budget limit, showing that the Hungarian market economy is unable to break with the bad culture of centrally planned economy. The present study – building on primary research – presents the process that led to the indebtedness of local governments, as well as the theoretical and practical background of consolidation. The author believes it is unwarranted to enforce a hard budget limit for the local governments at any price.
P41|Mechanisms for the Formulation and Implementation of Employment Policy in Argentina|The paper identifies and assesses the mechanisms used to formulate and to implement the employment policy in Argentina. Specifically, it investigates the range of factors that have had a direct or indirect effect on determining the institutional organization surrounding such policies, as well as the context in which the mechanisms of employment policy have been developed. It also reviews the structure of employment policy and how it functions, as well as the main challenges to its consolidation as a component of a development strategy. The following factors are identified and described: a) mechanisms for tripartite coordination and coordination across jurisdictions and sectors; b) pillars essential to supporting employment policy, such as inspection, vocational education and training, and public employment services, as well as information, management and assessment systems; and c) accountability mechanisms.
P41|The Korean Energy and GHG Target Management System: An Alternative to Kyoto-Protocol Emissions Trading Systems?|The Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Target Management System (TMS) is one of South Korea’s major instruments to achieve national energy policy as well as GHG reduction targets. The TMS was introduced in the late 1990s, focusing on energy only and aiming to reduce the level of South Korea’s energy consumption and fossil fuel imports. During the presidency of Lee Myung-bak, the system was reformed and a GHG abatement function was integrated. This paper applies an analytical governance perspective to investigate the main procedural logic of the TMS. Even though South Korea’s GHG policy is closely linked to the Kyoto Protocol, the Energy and GHG TMS does not rely on market-based instruments. In fact, it combines command-and-control components with strong voluntary network-like mechanisms. The analysis indicates that the Korean TMS thus represents a policy alternative to an emissions trading system. In conclusion and in reference to an eventual Kyoto follow-up agreement, the paper recommends a better integration of such not market based, energy consumption and GHG abatement addressing instruments with global climate change politics.
P41|Economic Theory and Policy in Dictatorship and Democracy: Spain 1939-1996|The role played by economists and thus economic theory in implementing the Spanish economic policy during the second half of the 20th century is the main topic analysed in this article. Political framework indeed is crucial for understanding the relationships between Spanish economists and economic policy during the period. The authoritarian regime imposed by victorious General Franco did not leave room to economic rationality as he entrusted economic policy to engineers politically committed with the dictatorship. Later on, once these policies proved to be ruinous, a group of technocrats assumed the responsibility for economic policy on the basis of more rational principles although political goals prevailed on economic ones. The advent of democracy in the mid-1970s, however, meant the contribution of economists to both the transformation of the economic institutions and the implementation of the economic policy that took place during a period of economic turbulences.
P41|Reengineering – Revolution in the Management of Cooperative Banks|In this article, the authors intends to underline the major problem for cooperative banks is that they entered the 21st century with entities devised in the 19th century to function in the 20th. The strict regimenting of power relations within the framework of the hierarchical management of cooperative banks, the formalism of the constituting act’s structure, as well as the assignment of responsibilities to each employee based on official documents render the organisational structure of cooperative banks obsolete, bureaucratic and utterly devoid of capacity for innovation. The intensification of competition, the demanding nature of customers, as well as the acceleration of the above-mentioned trends make it necessary to devise new organisation patterns, and the place of classic, bureaucratic structures is being taken by flexible structures.
P41|Empirical Study Regarding Sustainability Of Romanian Pension System|"This paper is part of a broad, applied scientific research, based on popular empirical procedures (such as natural observation). Positivistic and constructive research methodology used was based on the consensual-inductive system (Locke), which is why we studied the different views of specialists on sustainability of pensions in Romania, necessary to formulate the problem of generating relevant information. Research strategies used were the comparative and longitudinal ones, as we analyzed the time evolution of qualitative indicators VUAN (unitary value of net asset) specific to pension funds Pillar II and Pillar III of Romania, concomitant with the number of participants in these funds, as to determine their direct relationship with the need for sustainability in this area. The hypotheses regarding causal relationship efficiency â€"" participants - sustainability and needed measures for pension reform were built in this paper inductively (by analyzing the sustainability issues of pensions in time), causally (by explaining the cause and effect phenomenon studied), deductively, logically and subjectively (due to the existence and perpetuation of conflict premise between generations and social inequality between employees and pensioners). The qualitative approach of the phenomenon studied by collecting information (using mediated data collection technique) has allowed the relevant findings and practical solutions necessary for all those involved in this concerted action of pensions, which affects us all."
P41|Empirical Study Regarding Private And Voluntary Pensions Funds From Romania|This paper continues our scientific and practical research. The analysis of information collected, along with specialists opinions represent our positivistic research methodology used. Analysis the time evolution of the rate of return specified for private and voluntary pension funds, investment structure, the economic dependency ratio, the number of employees compared to that of pensioners represent research strategies used (comparative and longitudinal). The hypotheses regarding causal relationship between specific variables private and voluntary pensions are determined causative (to explain the reasons and effects of the studied phenomenon), due to the desire to understand the current reform measures in this area, established by the involved stakeholders. Qualitative treatment of the phenomenon studied allowed us to obtain the relevant conclusions and proposals, required by practical viability and sustainability of the pension system in Romania.
P41|Mecanismos de formulación e implementación de la política de empleo en Argentina<BR>[Mechanisms for the Formulation and Implementation of Employment Policy in Argentina]|This paper identifies and assesses the mechanisms used to formulate and to implement the employment policy in Argentina. Specifically, it investigates the range of factors that have had a direct or indirect effect on determining the institutional organization surrounding such policies, as well as the context in which the mechanisms of employment policy have been developed. It also reviews the structure of employment policy and how it functions, as well as the main challenges to its consolidation as a component of a development strategy. The following factors are identified and described: a) mechanisms for tripartite coordination and coordination across jurisdictions and sectors; b) pillars essential to supporting employment policy, such as inspection, vocational education and training, and public employment services, as well as information, management and assessment systems; and c) accountability mechanisms. Este documento identifica y realiza una apreciación de los mecanismos de formulación e implementación de la política de empleo en Argentina. En particular indaga sobre una diversidad de aspectos que directa e indirectamente han determinado la organización institucional y el contexto en que los mecanismos de la política de empleo fueron desarrollados. Asimismo, realiza una revisión de cómo es la estructura y funcionamiento de la política de empleo, como así también los principales desafíos que enfrentan en vistas de su consolidación como parte de una estrategia de desarrollo. En particular se identifican y describen: (a) los mecanismos de coordinación interjurisdiccional, sectorial y tripartitos; (b) los pilares que forman parte del apoyo de la política de empleo, como la inspección, la formación continua y los servicios públicos de empleo, como también otros mecanismos de apoyo como los sistemas de información, gestión y evaluación; y finalmente (c) los mecanismos de rendición de cuenta (“accountability”).
P41|Ship to Ship (STS) Transfer ïf Cargo: Latest Developments and Operational Risk Assessment|The significant development of Ship to Ship (STS) transfer of cargo operations originates from different operational and trading reasons and factors, all of which however in the context of optimizing the distribution plan between the source and the final consumers (markets). The transferred cargo can be either petroleum products, or liquefied gases (LPG, LNG), or even some dry bulk cargoes. The IMO resolution, MEPC 186(59)/2009, gives to tanker vessels the full operational responsibility of an STS operation of petroleum products. To reduce the possibility of a potential accident with severe effects, risk assessment is necessary for the evaluation of the hazards embedded in the procedures and to prevent the occurrence of mishaps during STS transfers by taking additional control measures. The aim of this paper is to describe the latest developments related to STS transfer cargo procedures and moreover to scrutinize on the implementation of risk assessment in the context of optimizing the procedures. It is intended to determine the factors that can affect the operations; accidents that happened in the past are presented in order to investigate the parameters that should be considered as lessons learned to avoid similar unpleasant situations in future activities related to STS operations.
P41|Illusion therapy: How to impose an economic shock without social pain|This study attempts to demonstrate how a government launched an economic structural reform plan that previous governments, fearing a serious social backlash, had been unable to implement over the course of 30 years. The findings show that the Iranian government used “illusion therapy”, a package of econo-psychological techniques, to implement IMF-backed “shock” economic reforms to long-standing energy and food subsidies, without facing the expected social reaction.
P41|La ricerca del lavoro: problema di costi e di rigidità del mercato? Uno studio di caso sui tirocini di formazione e orientamento|Il saggio approfondisce le problematiche connesse alle forme associative tra Comuni, nel caso italiano, a partire dall’analisi del caso Veneto nella prospettiva europea. Tali forme di aggregazione possono essere efficacemente definite come esempi di reti intercomunali: un concetto che consente di spostare l’accento dalla staticità e rigidità della struttura organizzativa del singolo ente locale, alla flessibilità e funzionalità delle relazioni tra gli attori rispetto alle politiche che si intendono condividere e alle differenti logiche di rete che si implementano a seconda del modello di governance prescelto.
P41|Analiza razvojnih dokumenata Republike Hrvatske|The aim of this paper is to analyze the contemporary production of development documents and how they relate to development management in the Republic of Croatia. Since the early nineties some 150 development documents were produced, but very few of them were implemented. Therefore, a framework for the analysis of development documents is established: required technical criterion for implementation which consists of four independent conditions. The goal is to show how many development documents that have been produced are actually suitable for implementation. Most of them are incomplete, lacking crucial parts such as sources of financing and cost estimates. However, there are noticeable improvements in development documents production. Change came about with the process of European integration which has influenced both the production of development documents and their implementation. Moreover, visible progress has been made since 2005 when the Government prescribed the standard methodology for the evaluation of financial/fiscal impact of development documents. Progress became even more evident with the Budget Act of 2008. Strategic planning became a method of connecting measures prescribed by development documents to the sources of financing in state budget. However, it is still too early to provide final assessment of the overall development management in Croatia.
P41|Growth and public finance in Bihar|This paper explores the causal links between the role of public finance and Bihar's growth and development in the last decade; and argues that these links are tenuous. Bihar's growth acceleration precedes the ‘policy reforms' in public finance based on the ‘good governance' agenda initiated since 2005-06. However, the constraints on sustaining efforts to close Bihar's development gap with the rest of India stems from the nature of the growth process in its regional, sectoral and social dimensions and the contradictory means and ends of the ‘policy reforms' in public finance. Together, this has not only prevented the economic growth to add to public coiffeurs of the state but also occluded the role of tax institutions.
P41|Property rights and democratic values in Bronze Age and Archaic Greece|In the present essay we introduce the concept of macroculture as a complex of mutually supporting values, norms and beliefs in various areas of human activity, like war, religion, politics, athletics, etc. in a model. Then, by applying the concept of bounded rationality, we analyse how some macrocultures that are favorable or the ‘precondition’ for the emergence of democracy and institutions develop, in particular property rights, that foster economic development. We analyze this for Bronze Age and Archaic Greece, as being the historical case where such a macroculture favorable to democracy and stable property rights first emerged. Our main findings indicate that during Mycenaean and Archaic age period, the emergence of various elements of macroculture, in warfare, religion, city-state environment and athletic games evolved into similar proto-democratic values leading to the establishment of democracy as a political phenomenon in Classical Greece.
P41|The Making of Captains of Lives:Prison Reform in Singapore: 1999 to 2007|This book tells a story of successful prison reform that brought the recidivism rate of prisoners down from 44% to 24%. In the process of this reform, the entire Prison Service was transformed from a custody focused mindset to a rehabilitation centred culture. This change was wrought despite the lack of enthusiasm of the then political leadership.
P41|The spread of anti-trafficking policies: Evidence from a new index|We analyze the spread of policies dealing with international trafficking in human beings. Arguing that countries are unlikely to make independent choices, we identify pressure, externalities and learning or emulation as plausible diffusion mechanisms for spatial dependence in anti-trafficking policies. We develop a new index measuring governments' overall anti-trafficking policies for 177 countries over the 2000-2009 period. We also assess a country's level of compliance in the three main constituent dimensions of anti-trafficking policies - prosecution, protection and prevention. Employing a spatial autoregressive model, we find that, with the exception of victim protection measures, anti-trafficking policies diffuse across contiguous countries and main trading partners due to externality effects. We find evidence for learning or emulation effects in all policy domains, with countries looking toward peers with similar political views or cultural values. Surprisingly, major destination countries do not seem to exert pressure on relevant main countries of origin or transit to ratchet up their policies.
P41|Instituciones, mercados y políticas a la luz de la Gran Recesión|In this paper we examine the effects of the Great Recession on the acceptance of the new institutional economics approach. Among the very conclusions, we emphasize the approch was reinforced in theoretical terms, but many empirical and policyoriented studies in the «institutions matter» way gave clear proof of bias and errors. In other sense, a new deleveraging era is probably coming now and, in this way, the notion of institutional efficience as a source of growth is becoming outstanding. Finally, the crucial institutions in economic policymaking processes will also be affected; mainly the notion of policy rules could go through some important change in the next future.
P41|Reformas institucionales en la Unión Europea. Hacia una política marítima integral|After 2006, with the publication of a Green Paper on Maritime Policy, the European Commission laid the groundwork for a global maritime policy on the basis of sustainable development. The guiding principle behind these initial reflections was the need to establish universally applicable guide regulations which must accompany those specific to each activity or field of interest and be compatible with them in order to ensure governance and favour sustainability. A more detailed review of activities and the problems they entail enable us not only to understand the immense economic scope of the proposed objective but the magnitude of the problems faced as well. With this scenario as a reference, in this article we focus on analysing the institutional aspects regarding some significant activities with the aim of assessing the scope and feasibility of the EU proposal.
P41|Sistemi di regolazione locale in una prospettiva di governance: proposte per l’analisi|Il saggio propone una rivisitazione del concetto di governance al fine di analizzare la sua validità come modello per l’analisi dei sistemi locali di sviluppo. La riflessione inizia evidenziando le continuità che esso dimostra di avere con sistemi pregressi di regolazione locale (modello distrettuale) nei quali i fattori socio-relazionali rappresentavano l’anello forte dello sviluppo e si conclude proponendo di utilizzare il modello di governance per osservare gli impatti socio-economici dei più recenti programmi integrati territoriali. Tra limiti e opportunità, gli autori convergeranno nell’osservare come l’utilizzo di una prospettiva propria della sociologia economica nello studio della governance locale possa rappresentare un’occasione per continuare a dare un’attenzione specifica alla dimensione meso (istituzioni) e micro (attori) dei processi che entrano nelle dinamiche dello sviluppo locale studiandone il sistema di relazioni e le pratiche di coordinamento.
P41|Russia’s Economic Policy in 2010: Quest for Innovations|The austerity vs stimulus discussion among economists and politicians is gaining momentum. Not surprisingly, both parties are actively appealing to the memory of John Maynard Keynes who, indeed, put forth the idea of economic stimulus but never recommended that it be used on a scale as massive as that in the 1970s, when Richard Nixon declared himself a ‘Keynesian’ and pursued state intervention policies under the guise of Keynesianism.
P41|Implementation of International Standards on Auditing in the EU- Objective Necessity|The purpose of this article is to highlight the need to implement the Inter-Audit standards in Europe along with their international adoption. Thus we start from the necessity of adopting these tools at European level normalization as their main purposes strengthening the accounting profession and professional standards aimed at stimulating the basis of the auditors. We believe that conducting an audit in accordance with International Auditing Standards involves compliance by auditors to audit all relevant standards, understanding their correct and full text of the application. ISA adoption should be considered as one of the priority measures to restore confidence in the underlying economic recovery. Then continue and show that although there are assumptions that the introduction of international auditing standards will bring great benefits to the European audit market there are still impediments to their convergence.
P41|Supramacroeconomics: the newest management technology|A new management technology, based on modern developments in macroeconomics, was offered. It is aimed at the highest issues of state and society governing as well as finding methods of their solving. The grounding of necessity of separate supramacroeconomical level of management establishment was made; the methods and tools on its realization were developed. Examples of their implementation in Ukraine are still being interpreted.
P41|Ресурсная Теория Системной Организации Экономики<BR>[The Resource-Based View and the System Organization of Economy]|In this article the substantive provisions of the resource-based theory are generalized, modified and transferred from population of firms on population of any economic systems (firm, corporation, clusters, business groups, economic projects, processes, environments, etc.). The concept of competitive advantages of economic system is generalized. In appropriate way, that gives the chance to speak about advantages of the given system not only in case of competitive, but also in case of cooperation or other kinds of mutual relations between systems. It is shown that the space and time can be considered as base (primary) kinds of resources of economic system and system potential on their effective utilization — as its base capabilities. This approach allows to reveal and investigate base structures of steady groupings of the economic systems arising in connection with an exchange by base resources and capabilities and providing steady functioning of these groups and economy as a whole.
P41|Selection and institutional shareholder activism in Chinese acquisitions|This paper aims to investigate the role that institutional shareholders play in acquisition decision using micro data in the Chinese stock market during 2003-2008. Acquisition decision is the selection and coordination process of shareholders as strategic alliances, which is determined by corporate acquisition ability, composition of institutional shareholders and concentration of tradable share (TS) in China. We use Heckman selection model to surmount the selection biases in acquisition decision. We find that institutional shareholders including qualified foreign institutional investors (QFII), social security funds (SSF), security firms (SF) and security investment funds (SIF), as well as TS concentration affect acquisition probability rather than annual acquisition scale. SSF, SIF and TS concentration can increase acquisition probability while QFII decreases it. Our paper contributes to the published literature in three ways. First, we offer a model to understand the selection and coordination process of acquisition decision. Second, we investigate whether institutional shareholders could effectively monitor annual acquisition scale. Third, we identify Heckman selection problem that institutional shareholders could affect PLCs’ acquisition decision on whether to acquire rather than how much to acquire.
P41|Model of CR Systems in the EU Countries|Introduction of actual topics in the area of the corporate social responsibility (CR): definitions, approaches, scientific base and practical utilization, the European Commission activities for the CR support. Ethic and economic context of the CR. Analyse of the existing CR system in selected European Union countries: Spain, France, Sweden, The United Kingdom, Poland, Lithuania, the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic. The CR public policy. Roles and rationales of the CR. Actors of the CR: public authorities involved in CR and non state actors. Instruments and activities of the CR: mandating; soft law; initiatives, partnerships; incentives; awareness. Conclusion of the CR comparative analyse for each analysed EU country: strengths and weaknesses. Results and recommendations for CR strategy in the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic
P41|Protection And Security Of Data Base Information Summary|Data bases are one of the most important components in every large informatics system which stores and processes data and information. Because data bases contain all of the valuable information about a company, its clients, its financial activity, they represent one of the key elements in the structure of an organization, which determines imperatives such as confidentiality, integrity and ease of data access. The current paper discuses the integrity of data bases and it refers to the validity and the coherence of stored data. Usually, integrity is defined in connection with terms of constraint, that are rules regarding coherence which the data base cannot infringe. Data base that integrity refers to information correctness and assumes to detect, correct and prevent errors that might have an effect on the data comprised by the data bases.
P41|Commercial Facilities and Urban Regeneration|The paper deals with a model for assessing disparities in the development of commercial facilities. The term “commercial facilities” helps one perceive distribution not only as an economic activity in itself but also as an urban infrastructure and as a component of an urban area that forms a town, area which should be designed in accordance with the new concepts promoted by the European Union: integrated town planning, and urban regeneration. The paper consists of three parts: the first part briefly presents the importance of town development from the perspective of the theory of urban area modelling; the second part deals with the functional integration of commercial facilities into urban regeneration projects; the third part suggests a model for assessing regional disparities in the development of commercial facilities, which – using the “point method” – can be applied so that it meets the requirement of quantifying the equipment levels reached and make space comparisons. This model is based on ten indicators relevant to the studied field, as taken from Statistical Yearbook of Romania. For Romania, it is all the more necessary to define programmes for the territorial development of commercial facilities as, at present, major disparities have been caused by the disequilibrium resulted from the uncontrolled expansion of the great multinational distribution chains, which equally hindered the small independent trade and the network of shops specific to the main/historical centres of towns. The outcome of our research confirms the need that local communities should think and act consistently with the new policy of sustainable development of towns, promoted within the European Union, aimed at observing the basic principles of the territory planning policy: restructuring and strengthening the structurally deficient areas.
P41|Education and Training Needs in the Field of Local Development in the Lower Danube Macro Region|The present paper is the result of an effort made by the authors to explore the needs of education and training in the field of local development, according to the situation in Romanian and Bulgarian Danube bordering regions, aiming at designing joint projects to address such needs between the universities to which authors are affiliated. Local development is here understood as a deliberately induced process of improving the welfare of local communities, which should be democratic, inclusive and sustainable, in particular with regard to creating competitive local economies, stimulating economic growth and ensuring better living conditions for the inhabitants. Local development is an important part of a governance process which involves complex interactions at various territorially defined levels: local, regional, national, cross-national, international. In the case of the regions considered in the present paper a historical opportunity is provided for them by the so called European Union Strategy for the Danube Region. In order to fully exploit this opportunity, the capacity to address local development issues should be strengthened in both countries, especially by well designed education and training programmes. This is why local development was considered a priority topic for the cooperation between the two universities. In the same framework, taking into consideration the challenges which are specific to the Lower Danube Region, other topics of interest were considered: logistics, tourism, consumer affairs or rural development. The authors of the present paper had to avoid overlapping with the work of the other teams. In particular, there are many common points between local development and rural development, because in both countries the regions on the border of Danube are predominately rural and significantly dependent on agriculture. Therefore, here, the needs for education and training are defined in strict correlation with the required capacity for understanding the development process and its priorities, designing, planning, implementing and assessing development policies with a favourable local impact in a regional context. The paper presents as in a mirror the Romanian and the Bulgarian points of view. The two perspectives are quite different but complementary. Briefly said, while the Romanian approach is bottom-up, with a focus on the local capacity to take initiatives that will contribute at shaping the regional development process, the Bulgarian one considers first the priorities of the region, in order to define the capacities required for a proper response at AE Education and Training Needs in the Field of Local Development in the Lower Danube Macro Region local level. Both perspectives are valid, and it should not be any contradiction between them. This is why we consider they are complementary. The studies rely on documentary research and secondary analysis of data in order to assess the capacity gap in addressing local development issues, and to identify education and training needs in economics and business matters related to local development. They discuss the rationale of cooperation between universities from Bulgaria and Romania in responding to such needs, and, finally they propose an inventory of joint initiatives in this respect. The paper emphasizes the factors which explain the reasons why cooperation between universities in raising the expertise in local development maters on both sides of Lower Danube is required and desirable, such as the vicinity, the common opportunities and responsibilities related to having Danube as a common asset, the similarities in development patterns, the common challenge of European integration, use of EU support and better exploitation of the Internal Market, the need to speed up the modernisation process and to achieve some economies of scope and scale. Among other proposals, authors propose the establishment of a university hub to coordinate networking among higher education institutions from Bulgaria, Romania and other countries of the Danube Macro-region in the field of local and regional development related research, education and training and a joint master program in local development.
P41|L’esperienza francese nel processo europeo di liberalizzazione del mercato dell’energia|La liberalizzazione del mercato elettrico e del gas in Francia ha urtato contro la tradizionale e condivisa cultura francese che fa affidamento sull’intervento diretto dello stato e dei monopoli pubblici per la fornitura di molti servizi pubblici. Questo spiega la resistenza contro l’apertura del mercato energetico imposta dall’UE. Tuttavia la liberalizzazione ha avuto il benefico effetto di rimettere in causa alcune rendite, l’organizzazione istituzionale e lo stesso concetto di servizio pubblico. In prospettiva però la liberalizzazione è destinata anche ad aumentare la complessità tecnica, istituzionale, finanziaria ed organizzativa del settore energetico.
P41|Modeling Technological Progress and Investment in China: Some Caveats|Since the early 1990s, the number of papers estimating econometric models and using other quantitative techniques to try to understand different aspects of the Chinese economy has mushroomed. A common feature of some of these studies is the use of neoclassical theory as the underpinning for the empirical implementations. It is often assumed that factor markets are competitive, that firms are profit maximizers, and that these firms respond to the same incentives that firms in market economies do. Many researchers find that the Chinese economy can be well explained using the tools of neoclassical theory. In this paper, we (1) review two examples of estimation of the rate of technical progress, and (2) discuss one attempt at modeling investment. We identify their shortcomings and the problems with the alleged policy implications derived. We show that econometric estimation of neoclassical models may result in apparently sensible results for misinformed reasons. We conclude that modeling the Chinese economy requires a deeper understanding of its inner workings as both a transitional and a developing economy.
P41|Urban governance and planning for Economic growth|Governance in short is a shift from bureaucratic process to shared power for the people. Governance in the urban areas goes hand in hand with planning. Issues of governance cannot be dealt with completely without proper planning. However, planning in the two largest cities of Kumasi and Accra has seen some major changes over time both spatially and administratively. Spatial, urban planning system has moved from new towns and town expansion to high standards of living. Administratively there has been the frantic effort of merging all law governing land use into one legal document which was not previously the case. But planning for growth and governance are faced with the following weakness; selective restraint, institutional and geographical fragmentation, short termism and power and resources.
P41|An Unbiased Pareto Improvement strategy for poverty alleviation|There are historical and institutional reasons behind our economic problems like poverty and environmental damage but it is not acceptable if they persist in years to come. The strategic use of information by individual economic agents establishes a biasing effect on our economy. In case of poverty, economic efforts of poor people are continuously undervalued and therefore, true welfare across an economy cannot be achieved without protecting the poor people for their immediate economic needs and simultaneously counteracting the biasing forces. This article describes an Unbiased Pareto Improvement (UPI) strategy to be implemented across an economy and eventually across the world to solve poverty problems. This strategy describes making business opportunities involving poor people as well as helping government to set up pro-poor economic policies and infrastructures. A new indicator RICR (Real Income to Contribution Ratio) is introduced to measure its performance.
P41|Financing Social Protection in the Light of International Spending Targets: A Public Sector Spending Review|This study explores the ‘affordability’ of development targets in six key sectors (health, education, water and sanitation, agriculture and infrastructure), by means of an empirical study examining sectoral expenditure in five low income case study countries in sub-Saharan Africa (Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique and Uganda) and comparing them with target levels of expenditure set out in recent international agreements to which sub-Saharan governments are signatories. The study has a particular focus on social protection in response to growing government and donor interest in the affordability of provision in this sector. This approach is taken in order to assess the limitations of the current ‘silo’ approach to sector financing which characterises much of the development financing discourse, and which results in the abstraction of one sector from the broader fiscal whole, to the detriment of overall fiscal coherence and realism. While this study looks at total expenditure per sector, it does not look at efficiency or outcomes of this spending. The report examines expenditure in 2006/ 2007 in relation to sector-specific international targets, assesses the shortfall, and then explores the fiscal feasibility of financing all six sectoral targets. The paper finds that meeting all the six targets simultaneously would require more than 100% of total government expenditure in four of the five case study countries, and 98% in the fifth, and that to meet these targets while retaining current levels of expenditure in other sectors would imply doubling current levels of government expenditure. Often it is claimed that developing country governments lack the political will to allocate resources to some sectors. However, this study suggests that the inadequacy of public expenditure in key sectors is also informed by the inherent impossibility of simultaneously meeting the range of international commitments to which developing counties are signatories. Current funding for basic social protection provision is between 0.1% and 0.7% of GDP in the case study countries, compared to target expenditure levels of 4.5% to achieve the goals of the basic social protection component of the AU Social Policy Framework. This study concludes that the social protection sector is in competition with the five other key development sectors and that not all goals can be met from available resources. While there may be potential to increase financing to this sector through the conventional range of instruments (efficiency savings, reallocation, increased borrowing, increased revenue generation, increased ODA or private sector financing) the social protection sector is in effect in competition with each of the other key development sectors in pursuit of any additional resources, and when considered in aggregate as part of the wider fiscal context, it is clear that meeting all targets is not realistic, and consequently that the development vision which underlies them, is challenged, even compromised by the fiscal reality. Input targets have a role to play in i) motivating greater effort in revenue generation (within the boundaries of sound macroeconomic policy) and ii) encourage governments and donors to prioritise spending by reallocating from low to high-priority sectors within existing budgets. While such targets can serve as useful lobbying mechanisms, spending targets should be taken ‘seriously but not literally’ (Wood, 2004): that is primarily as a guide and motivation for raising and spending public finance. This report does not conclude that such targets should be dropped, but it does caution against the argument that particular sectoral targets are ‘affordable’ in any objective sense. The report highlights the tension faced by governments between the need for good public financial management on the one hand, and the challenge of meeting international commitments on the other, raising the impossibility of meeting the key development spending targets simultaneously. Given the unavoidable overall financing shortfall, the key question becomes prioritisation of the use of existing resources, the opportunity cost of programming outside these sectors and non priority or ineffective use of resources within the sectors.
P41|Εφαρμογή Μετρήσεων Απόδοσης – Αποτελεσματικότητας - Αποδοτικότητας Στη Δημόσια Διοίκηση: Διεθνής Και Ελληνική Εμπειρία<BR>[Performance – effectiveness – efficiency measurement methods in public sector: international and greek experience]|A plethora of performance – effectiveness – efficiency measurement methods have been developed and implemented to public organizations since the mid-nineteenth century. However, the ’60s have been considered a milestone for the measurement methods embraced by the public sector, initially in the United States and later in most of the OECD countries, when sophisticated accounting and financial performance methods were developed. During the first era, of the ’60s and ’70s, the public administration became process-oriented and adopted output assessment methods. The second era of measurement methods’ implementation to public organizations started in very early ’80s and continues today. During the second period, the public administration’s strategy started becoming extroverted focusing on the outcomes assessment rather than the output, shifting from financial performance assessment methods to those of efficiency, effectiveness and performance. The main goals set for the second period are expenses squeeze for public organizations, efficiency and effectiveness attainment, transparency and accountability. The implementation of performance – effectiveness – efficiency measurement methods within public organizations is a condition for measuring and assessing the output and outcome of the administrative units, and for establishing operational optimization plans, though, it is not adequate to ensure the accomplishment of the aforementioned goals. Political and managerial commitment to the implementation and handling of measurement methods, the application of the proposed methods’ reforms to the operational units, personnel experience to the usage of measurement methods, and readiness for change are considered vital prerequisites for success. It has been established that the more sophisticated the method, the more demanding it turns to be. As a consequence, the failure rate is greater for the performance assessment methods (i.e., for the Balanced Scorecard) than the straight financial performance ones or the efficiency measurement methods. Given the drawbacks of most of the existing performance – effectiveness –efficiency measurement methods, which are already adopted by public organizations, and the attributes of public administration, we have developed a comparative effectiveness measurement method called Quality-driven – Efficiency-adjusted Data Envelopment Analysis (QE-DEA). This method introduces synchronous analysis of operational efficiency and citizen satisfaction for a group of homogeneous operational/administrative units. It’s not demanding in terms of data collection, imputation, elaboration and report, hence, skilled personnel are not required. Nevertheless, similar to the rest of the performance – effectiveness – efficiency measurement methods, QE-DEA goal attainment depends on political and managerial commitment to restructuring the assessed public organizations according to a road-map provided in order to improve their effectiveness.
P41|Comparison of health care financing schemes before and after market reforms in China¡¯s urban areas|The health financing schemes is the foundation for the nation¡¯s health care system, and the health insurance is a main one of some options for financing health care. This article compares two health care financing schemes in urban areas before and after the health reform, and targets at the impacts facing coverage groups, the financing methods, decision-making power or financial management (i.e. the distribution of responsibility and rights between the central government and local governments), payment arrangement and cost containment of health care financing mechanisms. Prior to reform, the equal access and universal coverage of health care services were implemented through the employment-based health insurance in a state-controlled economy with guaranteed full employment and central control in general. The decentralization reforms of fiscal system and tax sharing reforms disrupts the past economic foundation, the rebuilding health insurance system which still benefits the employed bring the limited coverage. The next trend is to make transition from health insurance covering only part of the employed population to what are in effect national health services covering the whole population in urban areas.
P41|Hospital capacity in large urban areas: is there enough in times of need?|No abstract is available for this item.
P41|The „Chinese style reforms” and the Hungarian „Goulash Communism”|Similarities and differences will be demonstrated between Chinese and Hungarian party-state systems. We define the role of reforms in the self-reproduction of both party-states. We shall demonstrate how different patterns of power distribution lead to the implementation of different reforms. We shall describe how these different reforms have created the Hungarian “Goulash communism” and the “Chinese style” reforms. We shall also explain the conditions that have lead “Goulash communism” to political transformation first in Hungary accompanied by economic crisis, and “Chinese style reforms” to economic transformation first in China, accompanied by macroeconomic growth.
P41|The metamorphosis of the communist party: from entity to system and from system towards an entity|A complex analytical framework, the Interactive Party state model (IPS), is offered for revealing the structural and dynamic background of opposite processes: first, the development of the communist party as a political entity into a politically monopolized regime and then to a social system; second, the retreat of the party as a social system towards a politically monopolized regime or a political entity during the process of transformation into another system. We shall point to the fact that it is the structural background of the differences of the transformation process that brings about the different sequence of the retreat of the party as a social system from economic or political sub-fields first. The different sequence will be accompanied by different economic conditions for political transformation contributing to the complete or partial retreat of the party to either a political entity or to an authoritarian political regime.
P41|Global crisis and its implications on the political transformation in China|This paper analyzes the impact of global financial and economic crisis on the process of system transformation in China. First, it details the direct impact of global growth on macroeconomic development and its indirect impact on economic transformation. Second, it analyzes the direct impact of global crisis on macroeconomic decline and its indirect impact on the prospects of political transformation. The paper builds on the basic principles and ideas of the Interactive Party-State model to introduce the concept of transformation dynamics. This concept implies the direction and speed of change of the retreating party-state sphere and the emergence of the field outside of it during the process of transformation. Using this concept a statistical survey was carried out on the economic transformation of the Chinese party-state. Results reveal the disparities of the dynamics of transformation in time, in space, and at different levels of aggregation between 1999 and 2004. A dominant type of transformation dynamics is revealed during this period and the shift of dominant type within that period, sensitive to the trend of certain economic indicators. Based on those findings, the paper projects the dominance of another type of transformation dynamics as a result of the consequences of global crisis. It also outlines the possible impact of this dynamics on the premises of political transformation.
P41|Cross-border metropolitan integration in Europe (Luxembourg, Basel and Geneva)| This article questions the integration processes in three small cross-border metropolitan areas: Luxembourg, Basel and Geneva. By referring to an original analysis framework, it evaluates the nature and intensity of the functional and institutional integration and highlights the elements that structure the cooperation between the actors. The analysis shows that there is not necessarily a reciprocal link between the size of the functional area and the extent of the cooperation. Whilst no metropolitan-sized project is on the agenda in Luxembourg, the example of Basel and Geneva shows that the presence of a national border offers an opportunity to invent original forms of governance, increase the autonomy of the local authorities by different types of cooperation which transcend the institutional and territorial divides, and enable the international character of the metropolitan centre to be valued for what it is. In a context of global competition, these features represent an undeniable benefit.
P41|Program Management for Social Development|"Program Management is an important step in Social Development. There are variety of uses of the term ""program"" in organizations. In general use, a program is a collection of organizational resources that is geared to accomplish a certain major goal or set of goals. This definition of a program is similar to that of an organization and a system. A program is also an organization and a system. It is created for a purpose for a time period. Program is a time bound set of activities having larger scope than a project. Otherwise the steps of Program Management is similar to that of Project Management."
P41|Branding Ghana|Ghana being a developing nation should embark on a national rebranding campaign to change its image domestically and internationally. This paper focuses on ways in which the Ghanaian government can achieve its goals, where the campaign wouldn’t just be another governmental propaganda, but prove worthy of taxpayers’ money, with the effects witnessed by all.
P41|Beyond GDP - Measuring the Wealth of Nations|This work devotes analysis to the consistency of the idea to measure the Wealth of Nations beyond GDP. Looking at the desirability, utility and feasibility of the concept, the main objective is to outline whether a socially and environmentally adjusted GDP would be able to have a real policy effect in the direction of sustainability. Section I discusses the desirability of the issue and suggests that our current paradigm of progress needs serious rethinking, as it rests on teleological presuppositions prevalent in the 17th and 18th century - an antiquated mechanical world view, developed by Descartes and Newton. In this context, the historical ascendency of GDP is discussed, outlining its rise and demise. Section II then discusses the utility of an adjusted GDP. Departing from an analysis of the growth elasticities of poverty (health and literacy), which gives empirical evidence on the insufficient correlation of GDP per capita and living standards, conventional GDP will then be weight against the alternative measures. An environmental adjustment will thereby be found justified on the ground of efficiency gain effects occurring along the allocation of resources and health expenditure among others, suggesting that the conventional GDP is inefficient and an economically irrational model to guide progress. Concerns will however be raised about the possible inflationary effect of a social adjustment, which is politically unfeasible under the current paradigm of progress and requires further research in terms of measurement techniques. Section III then suggests that the feasibility is a political question. Taking the Case study of the failed Green GDP attempt in China, lessons learnt will be formalised on which I conclude with suggestions under which circumstances an adjusted GDP would be able to have a real policy effect in the direction of sustainability.
P41|Clusters – A New Form Of Regions Development In Slovakia|A new form of regions` development is based on development of territorial entity and utilization of specific region unique in order to underline region positives and create maximum work opportunities. These forms include parks and clusters. They are factors of productivity and competetiveness increase on the national and international scale. The effects are not permanent. In 2008 Slovak Republic signed an international treaty with other countries of the Middle and Eastern Europe regarding corporate strategies and future innovative goals and clusters politics.
P41|pOST-EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION: TOWARDS A MUCH MORE PARTICIPATORY PLANNING|After the devastating Great Wenchuan Earthquake occured in May 2008, China responded rapidly to mitigate the losses caused. Post-earthquake reconstruction planning plays a crucial role to the future development of earthquake struck areas. The post-earthquake reconstruction planning work has demonstrated to be an immediate action and tends to be a much more open and participatory. Since the influence of long term planned economy in the past and its centralised administration system, planning in China is comparatively information-close to ordinary people. However, the post-earthquake reconstruction planning turns to be a much wider participatory and more open than before, though it is still immature and there still many obstacles need to be overcome. This paper firstly introduces the Great Wenchuan Earthquake and the quick response of reconstruction planning in China. It depicts the intensive work of the reconstruction planning. Then it reviews the concept of participatory planning and the history of participatory planning in China. Thirdly, it identifies three new trends that a more participatory planning has showed in the reconstruction planning. Lastly, this paper points out some problems still exist in the reconstruction planning.
P41|Comparison of health care financing schemes before and after market reforms in China’s urban areas|No abstract is available for this item.
P41|A Different Look at Inward FDI into Mainland China|This paper aims to find out the relationship between inward FDI into China and China's economic development. According to the descriptive analysis of FDI data from 1980 till 2007, we firstly found that there is a sectoral and regional biased distribution with regard to the inward FDI into China; we saw that the contribution of inward FDI to China's economic development exhibits a reversed U shape (the turning point locates in the year of 2001). In order to figure out the main reason and the causal-effect relationship between inward FDI into China and China's economic growth, we used ECM and Granger Causality Test based on the data between 1978 and 2001 in the second part. We found that within this period the causal-effect relationship between China's economic development and inward FDI was bidirectional and the causal impact of China's economic development on FDI was larger than the impact of FDI on China's economic development. To discover the reason of reduced FDI contribution to China's economic development since 2001 onwards, we used the fixed-effect panel analysis based on a panel dataset consisting 31 provinces in China from 2001 to 2005. We found that inward FDI in China since 2001 onwards has negative spillover effect on China's economic development. We argue that the reason might be the duplication effect of foreign firms, negative externalities of backward, forward and horizontal relationships between foreign and domestic firms, increased welfare loss, and China's regional economic disparity.
P41|Reforma Bugetului Uniunii Europene La Etapa Consultărilor Publice|De la sfârşitul anului 2005, conform acordului interinstituţional, Uniunea Europeană a lansat un important demers de revedere fundamentală a bugetului comunitar. Demersul a fost determinat nu numai de interesul general valabil de îmbunătăţire a oricărui instrument de lucru, bugetul Uniunii Europene (BUE) având un rol primordial în traducerea în viaţă a obiectivelor politicilor comune, ci şi de evoluţiile interne şi externe, punând în faţa Uniunii noi provocări: extinderea geografică şi lărgirea domeniilor obiect al integrării, respectiv globalizarea şi, mai recent, criza financiară şi economică. Dorinţa unei revederi/evaluări profunde a bugetului comunitar a fost gândită nu numai cu implicarea instituţiilor Uniunii, ci şi cu sprijinul unor consultări publice largi, ceea ce demonstrează interesul real pentru rezultate viabile, acceptabile, asimilabile unei îmbunătăţiri de fond a concepţiei şi funcţionării BUE. Este de remarcat, în acelaşi timp, calendarul generos acordat acestui demers, corelat cu posibila înglobare a ideilor noi de reformare a bugetului în viitorul cadru financiar multianual al UE, 2013 – 2020, demonstrând viziunea strategică a abordării reformei, de la care se aşteaptă revizuirea calitativă a BUE de o manieră în care să i se mărească eficienţa şi rezonarea la viteza schimbărilor. Încurajarea iniţiativelor, ideilor şi contribuţiilor la nivelul statelor membre, sau la cel al societăţii civile şi academice, a avut la bază, printre altele, renunţarea de la bun început la anumite tabu-uri, în special la eliberarea de constrângerea cifrelor, tocmai pentru stimularea şi concentrarea efortului creativ pe instrumentul reprezentat de buget în conducerea politicilor comunitare şi nu pe câtimea cheltuielilor, domeniul unor negocieri care s-au dovedit mereu dificile, mai ales la modificarea cadrului financiar multianual.
P41|Economic Planning: Time to Reconsider?|Together with the collapse of what was once called the socialist system, was also the collapse of research on any other form of economic organisation of a society. Administrative methods for running an economy, with economic planning foremost among them, were inseparably linked to the collapse of the socialist system and, in essence, were held responsible for it. Thus, although the dominant economic paradigm has once again failed to deliver in recent years, the research for other methods fell into oblivion along with the system they were attached to. This work represents an attempt to reconsider the potential of economic planning as a means of organizing an economy at various levels, at various degrees and in various environments. I shall try to illustrate that the blame for the collapse of different socialist systems should not have fallen on the systemic deficiencies of economic planning but, instead, on the political institutions responsible for its application. In addition, I will stress that economic planning has been condemned by non-economic parameters and the application of wrong planning methods. In making this argument I hope to provide an angle through which the discussion of economic organisation can be opened to a broader scope of research.
P41|¿Porque el desempleo en Ibagué ha sido tan alto?|Hasta el año 2000, el desempleo de Ibagué era similar al de las otras ciudades. Sólo desde entonces, comenzó a exhibir niveles más altos y persistentes. En este artículo se sostiene que ese mayor desempleo se origina principalmente en factores de demanda. A diferencia de lo ocurrido en las demás ciudades, en Ibagué la crisis iniciada en la segunda mitad de los noventa fue más larga y más prolongada; apenas recientemente está saliendo de ella. La mayor participación laboral de la ciudad ha sido –no la causa del desempleo- sino más bien un síntoma de la depresión en que se sumió por largos años la economía moderna. El elevado y persistente desempleo que ha exhibido Ibagué ha sido una manifestación sistémica de la baja calidad del empleo (la alta informalidad); los bajos ingresos laborales y la pobreza de la ciudad y no admite soluciones particulares por grupos poblacionales. Para reducirlo modernizar el empleo y elevar la productividad y los ingresos, se requiere de la movilización de las fuerza sociales locales y el concurso del Gobierno Nacional. Por el lado del desarrollo futuro y de los retos locales generados los diversos acuerdos de libre comercio en que se comprometa el país, es preciso afinar las prioridades y compromisos en materia de “Agenda Interna” para el Tolima y para Ibagué. Paralelamente, las autoridades locales deben –en colaboración con las fuerzas sociales y los gremios- elaborar un Plan de largo plazo contra la pobreza y en particular contra extrema que, debe hacer énfasis en la lucha contra el desempleo y complementarlo con algunas estrategias en materia educativa.
P41|Assessing the Importance of National Economic Reform Ã¢â‚¬â€œ Australian Productivity Commission Experience|No abstract is available for this item.
P41|Political Economy of Structural Reforms in Pakistan|No abstract is available for this item.
P41|The Unequal Effects of Liberalization: Evidence from Dismantling the License Raj in India|We study whether the effects on registered manufacturing output of dismantling the License Raj—a system of central controls regulating entry and production activity in this sector—vary across Indian states with different labor market regulations. The effects are found to be unequal across Indian states with different labor market regulations. In particular, following delicensing, industries located in states with pro-employer labor market institutions grew more quickly than those in pro-worker environments. (JEL J50, L52,L60, O14, O15, O25)
P41|Анализ Использования Методов Индексного Прогнозирования Для Подготовки Управленческих Решений<BR>[Analysis of the use of Methods index predicting for preparation of administrative decisions]|The article considers the prospects for the use of the index ratings in predicting socio-economic development of the Russian Federation, critically analyzes the existing methods of indicative planning and the ways of solving problems facing the practice of regional management tasks.
P41|Cohesion Policy:Methodology And Indicators Towards Common Approach|The territorial cohesion is a focal object of the regional programming period 2007-2013. This paper aims to purpose a critical review of the cohesion conceptualisation and of its measure, starting from an exchange of experiences and from an initial institutional demand inspired to regional projects foreseen in 2013 programme (ESPON Seminar 2008; French Green paper on Cohesion 2008). Starting from a literature review and from the basic question of indicators, the paper aims to enhance territorial cohesion, measuring its different levels at local, national and European level. The author takes a methodological approach to analyse and to detect a set of territorial cohesion indicators and to evaluate effectiveness and efficiency of indicators’ systems, currently used to measure this territorial dimension (STeMA). This kind of approach is relevant to the programming period of new Structural Funds, looking at the French Green Paper 2008, implementing the 2007-13 Programme.
P41|Preference Structure and Random Paths to Stability in Matching Markets|This paper examines how preference correlation and intercorrelation combine to influence the length of a decentralized matching market's path to stability. In simulated experiments, marriage markets with various preference specifications begin at an arbitrary matching of couples and proceed toward stability via the random mechanism proposed by Roth and Vande Vate (1990). The results of these experiments reveal that fundamental preference characteristics are critical in predicting how long the market will take to reach a stable matching. In particular, intercorrelation and correlation are shown to have an exponential impact on the number of blocking pairs that must be randomly satisfied before stability is attained. The magnitude of the impact is dramatically different, however, depending on whether preferences are positively or negatively intercorrelated.
P41|Endogenous Institution Formation under a Catching-up Strategy in Developing Countries1|This paper explores endogenous institution formation under a catching-up strategy in developing countries. Since the catching-up strategy is normally against the compartive advantages of the developing countries, it can not be implemented through laissez-faire market mechanisms, and a government needs to establish non-market institutions to implement the strategy. In a simple two-sector model, the authors show that an institutional complex of price distortion, output control, and a directive allocation system is sufficient to implement the best allocation for the catching-up strategy. Furthermore, removing any of the three components will make it no longer implementable. The analysis also compares the best allocation and prices under the catching-up strategy with their counterparts under no distortions. The results of this paper provide important implications for understanding the institution formation in the developing countries that were pursuing a catching-up strategy after World War II.
P41|The Old Age Pensions in Bulgaria|The paper presents an analytical overview and systematizes the changes in the Bulgarian old-age pension system in the period 1990-2004 on the basis on their “depth” as the full transformation of the model is the watershed. Three change periods are designated and evaluated from the point of the view of their nature and scope. The paper then assesses whether and how far some main objectives of the pension reform have been achieved by examining some parameters of the reformed pension model such as pension level, coverage of insured persons, income replacement rate, provision of more adequate link between insurance contribution and pension rights, financial standing of the Pension Fund, etc. Lessons from the Bulgarian practice and major challenges ahead of the pension system development are outlined.
P41|Perspective and Prospects of Commencing New Education Policy (NEP) of Pakistan: A Review of Conference|This article focuses on four important factors: Assessment, Curriculum and Text Books’ Policy, Teachers for quality education and Education and management, as formulated by Education and Literacy Department of Sindh Government. Open poll discussions and views given by educationists and experts were taken. All the views have been summarized for consideration by all concerned. Chief Minister Sindh, Arbab Ghulam Rahim, Javed Hussain, Education Minister, Hamida Khoro and Education Secretary to Government of Sindh, Ghulam Ali Pasha also shared their opinions on the new Education Policy and Government’s intention to ensure quality education in Sindh Province. The purpose of this article is to review and summarize the views presented in the Education Conference and reach fruitful conclusions. The implications are also made keeping in mind the targets of New Millennium Development Goals (NMDGs).
P41|The Rise and Fall of the Oslo School|In 1931 Ragnar Frisch became professor at the University of Oslo. By way of his research, a new study programme and new staff he created the ”Oslo School”, characterised by mathematical modelling, econometrics, economic planning and scepticism towards the market economy. Consequently, detailed state economic planning and governance dominated Norwegian economic policy for three decades after WWII. In the 1970s the School’s dominance came to an end when the belief in competitive markets gained a foothold and the economy had poor performance. As a result a decentralized market economy was reintroduced. However, mathematical modelling and econometrics remain in the core of most economic programmes.
P41|A Cointegration Analysis of Investment Output Ratio in Bangladesh|In this article, we have estimated a neo-classical model of investment augmented with real rate of interest to proxy the user cost of capital for Bangladesh. Our results reveal that there is a equilibrium relationship between investment output ratio, real output and real rate of interest. The long run relationship persists even in the presence of structural breaks in the model.
P41|The Leader As Catalyst: On Leadership And The Mechanics Of Institutional Change|Individual leaders have been central to the transformation of organizations, political institutions and many instances of social and economic reform. In this paper we take a first step towards analyzing the role of leadership to ask: when and how does a leader engineer change? We show that while underlying structural conditions and institutions are important, there is an independent first-order role for individual agency in bringing about change and thus transforming the institutions. We emphasize the key nature of the symbiotic relationship between followers decisions' to willingly entrust their faith in the leader and the leader's initiative at leading them. This two-way interaction can endogenously give rise to threshold effects; slight differences in the leader's ability or the underlying structural conditions can dramatically improve the prospects for successful change. Given the centrality of this leader-follower relationship, we further explore conditions under which an individual may deliberately prefer to follow an ambitious leader with divergent interests rather than a benevolent one with congruent preferences. Thus by virtue of having followers, both `good' and `bad' leaders may be effective at bringing about change.
P41|Estimating the probability of leaving unemployment using uncompleted spells from repeated cross-section data|We propose a new econometric estimation method for analyzing the probability of leaving unemployment using uncompleted spells from repeated cross-section data, which can be especially useful when panel data are not available. The proposed method-of-moments-based estimator has two important features: (1) it estimates the exit probability at the individual level and (2) it does not rely on the stationarity assumption of the inflow composition. We illustrate and gauge the performance of the proposed estimator using the Spanish Labor Force Survey data, and analyze the changes in distribution of unemployment between the 1980s and 1990s during a period of labor market reform. We find that the relative probability of leaving unemployment of the short-term unemployed versus the long-term unemployed becomes significantly higher in the 1990s.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P41|How much does investment drive economic growth in China?| Investment-driven growth has long been regarded as a key development strategy in China. This paper investigates empirically the validity of this view. Post-1990 data analyses and macroeconometric model simulations show that market demand has become a regular force in driving investment since reforms, that non-demand-driven investment growth contributes to increasing capital-output ratio far more than output growth, that government investment exerts a pivotal role in amplifying investment cycles, albeit effective in promoting employment, and that delayed and rising consumption from current investment surge can help sustain the impact of growth even with constant-returns-to-scale in the long-run GDP.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P41|Cooperation after War: International Development in Bosnia, 1995 to 1999|This paper discusses how predispositions, incentives, the number and heterogeneity of participants, and leadership (Faerman et al. 2001) jointly influenced the international effort to develop Bosnia and Herzegovina. International coalitions, task forces, and advisory groups are increasingly charged with implementing reforms following civil conflict. This requires a complex web of interorganizational relationships among NGOS, donors and host nations at both global and ‘ground’ levels. To better understand development assistance, attention must be paid to the relationships between these varied players. We find that four factors influenced relationships between policy, donor, and implementing organizations; and those strained relationships, in turn, affected development success. The paper draws on interviews, conducted in Bosnia, with 43 development professionals, observation of development meetings in Tuzla and Sarajevo, and review of related documents from international development programs.
P41|Review of Lead Phase Out for Air Quality Improvement in the Third World Cities Lessons from Thailand and Indonesia|Due to the rapid economic growth, and increase of motor vehicle ownerships in Asian countries, people are suffering from serious air pollution problems, especially in large cities. There has been a worldwide movement to eliminate lead from gasoline since the 1970s. In accordance with lead elimination from gasoline, the concentration of lead in air and its health impact have also decreased. This paper is an attempt to discuss about environmental measures in Thailand and Indonesia. From a point of view on environmental measures, the case studies show different problem and process of lead phase out policy because of different socio-economic backgrounds, the initial conditions of the oil industries and government capacity. Behinds environmental measures, the case studies indicate that the most important change driver is strong leadership to achieve consensus among different stakeholders.
P41|Economic Policy and State Owned Enterprises: Evolution Towards Privatisation in India|The paper endeavours to look into the evolution of the role of the state and move towards privatisation in India. It starts with a discussion on the role of State intervention in the economic development within the contours of socio-economic and political circumstances. It recognises the fact that different scholars have advocated various ways through which state can intervene in an advanced capitalist economy and a developing economy or a colony. The nature of intervention is different in each case. The paper argues that State owned enterprises (SOEs) are one such manifestation of state Intervention. In many developing countries, state enterprises are assigned the responsibility of fulfilling specific social goals, which have their origin in colonial period. Whatever may be the idea behind the creation of such enterprises, they come into existence either by direct state investment or through nationalisation of private enterprises. The state intervenes through state owned enterprises in the countries where investment needs for different projects are large and the expected returns at least in the short run are too low to motivate private capital to invest. Since 1980, however, the intervention by the state through state owned enterprises has been undergoing a close scrutiny in many developing countries including India. The argument is that excessive political interference and lack of managerial interests (autonomy) hamper the performance of state enterprises. It has resulted in the reflection of various theories on assessing the performance of state enterprises which includes property rights theory, public choice theory, non-market failure and competition theory. Since economic policy making by the state requires balance of accumulation and legitimisation, then generally, the adopted economic policy serves the interests of a few major social groups. These dominant social groups react to the adopted policy and their reactions are normally taken into account while amending the existing policy or making the new economic policy. Hence, the proper understanding of the economic policy of an economy like India necessitates its historical evaluation. Therefore, in this chapter, the whole period of interaction of economic policy and state owned sector in the post-independence India has been divided into following four phases: (i) 1950-1965, (ii) 1966-1984, (iii) 1984-91 and (iv) post-1991 policy regime. During the first phase, i.e. 1950-65, the growth rates of the economy were generally high and state owned sector was occupying the position of 'commanding heights'. Despite the economy passing through crisis during this phase, the state owned sector enjoyed by and large a significant position. The policy adopted in 1982 was a step forward towards the process of liberalisation. In state owned enterprises, a visible change in the attitude took place. The economy was made predominantly dependent upon market forces rather than on the state. The industrial policy that was initiated in 1985 was the culmination of the process of drifting away, which started during the second phase of the economic policy in India. In the Post 1991, Policy Regime, the Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Plan documents suggested many policy initiatives towards restructuring, modernisation, rationalisation of capacity, product-mix changes, privatisation, autonomy, performance accountability and disinvestments policy. However many studies emerged in favour of and against the policy of privatisation and disinvestment of SOEs and also on the performance of those enterprises that were privatised. While referring to those studies, the chapter looks into the trends of the privatisation of State Owned Enterprises from 1991 to 2000 and points out that during this period, the government offloaded shares in as many as 39 state owned enterprises. However, since March 2000 emphasis has increasingly been on strategic sales of identified state owned enterprises (SOEs). The chapter ends with a critical analysis of the performance of disinvestment process in india and observes that the policy of disinvestment has been looked upon with scepticism. JEL Classifications: O11, P41, P47, P52
P41|Tourism companies performances and managerial skills|The tourism could be one of the important sectors that create the GDP. That is why its evolution is important for any country. The transformation of the national economies from Eastern European countries caused major changes in tourism and its management requirements. Romanian experience during the last 16 years demonstrates that managerial skills are closely related to the tourism companies’ performances. At the same time, there are different other factors that indirectly influence the evolution of this sector. In our opinion, the managerial skills are dependent of the level of decision making as a result of the organization autonomy degree, the later one being directly influenced by the type of property.
P41|Генезис Цивитальной Организации: Идеология Нового Мира<BR>[Genesis of the social organisation: ideology of the new world]|The monography considers laws and mechanisms of social development from positions of positivism, dialectic materialism and the theory of systems. The methodology of the author is based on causality in relations of a society and social institutes. Social development is considered as result of opposition of a society and the social systems. The author offers new methodology of the analysis of social processes in the conditions of crisis of traditional social philosophy.
P41|Markets, models and planning: the Norwegian experience|After World War II economic policy in Europe comprised considerable elements of planning. The paper discusses how this shift was related to the conceived failure of the free enterprise economy to provide full employment in the interwar period and to the war experience. The Norwegian post-war planning had a more integrated and comprehensive character and a more structured format than in most other countries in Western Europe. Some major aspects of the Norwegian planning system and the models developed to support it are discussed, with particular emphasis on the roles played by key economists
P41|Política de ciencia y tecnología en el contexto regional. Implicaciones para el País Vasco|The present survey treats with four crucial subjects related to the sustain efforts of the Basque Country in order to promote a high and large participation in the knowledge economy. The study is oriented to the crucial necessities that can develop an active and specialist population who can select the strategic areas of science and technology and invest effectively in those, and who can facilitate the competent installations that can put together a vanguard investigation in the Basque Country. In the context of various theoretical models that explain the trends to an investment, under the optimum level, and considering the heterogeneity of the concerned interests and relations, there is a browsing of different initiatives that can promote a major participation of the private sector in the I+D+i.
P41|Economic reforms: Policy and institutions some lessons from Indian reforms|"Economic policy and policy reform over the last few decades has been motivated by the need to accelerate growth or equivalently to reverse a decline in growth rate. The economic literature on the determinants of growth has burgeoned and disagreement has followed consensus on the policy prescriptions that need to befollowed to achieve this purpose. Sometimes the disagreement is exaggerated by the titans of the profession, so as to distinguish themselves from those constituting the conventional wisdom. The present paper moves the focus from this ""macro""debate to concrete issues of policy formulation and policy change and explores the links between policy and institutions in the context of economic reforms. Thus successful introduction of new policies may require new institutions and the degree of success in changing policies may depend on the degree to which existing institutions are modified. The literature on Institutions and Development has dealt with questions of grand design such as the Constitution, the rule of law (personal safety), property rights and informal rules embodied in culture. These are matters that happen on a timescale of a quarter/half century or more and can be thought of as the ""superstructure"" of institutions. The quantitative work on institutions and growth has explored the linkage between these institutional issues and economic growth. In the current paper we focus on what may be called the ""microstructure"" of institutions, a smaller scale at which change can occur over a time frame of decades (or half decades). Among the issues that a rise in this context are how changing institutions requirechanges in policies."
P41|Prioritization of Policies: A Prototype Model of a Flowchart Method|"This paper builds a prototype model of how to prioritize policies by using a flowchart. We presented the following six steps to decide priorities of policies: Step 1 is to attain the social subsistence level (primary education, health care, and food sufficiency); Step 2 is to attain macroeconomic stability; Step 3 is to liberalize the economy by structural adjustment programs; Step 4 is capacity building specific to a growth strategy by facilitating sufficient infrastructure (physical infrastructure and institutions); Step 5 is to initiate a growth strategy; and Step 6 is to narrow income inequalities. We illustrated the effectiveness of our ""flowchart method"" in case studies of Morocco, Laos, Vietnam, and China. The first priority of reforms in Morocco was given to social sectors of primary education and health care, particularly in the rural areas at Step 1. Laos should not put much emphasis on growth strategy before educational reform, attainment of macroeconomic stability, and institutional capacity building at Steps 1, 2, and 3. Vietnam can focus on reforming the state-run enterprises and developing the stock markets at Step 5 of growth strategies. We found that we should apply our flowchart method to China not nation-wide but province-wide."
P41|Shocks económicos y cambios en los patrones de escolaridad educativa|Este documento investiga cómo los shocks económicos tienen un efecto sobre los patrones de inversión en capital humano de las familias, analizando cómo se modifica el avance de los niños de 6 a 14 años en el sistema educativo peruano. A diferencia de otros estudios que han analizado el impacto de shocks sobre la acumulación de capital humano basándose, principalmente, en el análisis de la asistencia a la escuela, aquí se plantea un análisis más comprehensivo de los distintos mecanismos a través de los cuales la inversión en educación se puede ver afectada por los shocks. Se encuentra que los mecanismos planteados son consistentes con la hipótesis de que los shocks también pueden tener impacto sobre la reducción en la calidad de la educación. Así, no se encuentra evidencia que shocks negativos tengan un impacto sobre el atraso educativo adicional, por lo que no habría tampoco un efecto sobre la deserción escolar. Sin embargo, aún cuando ante un shock negativo no haya un cambio en el tiempo dedicado a la educación, se encuentra que sí se reduce la acumulación efectiva de capital humano a través de una reducción en el gasto en educación, tanto en zonas urbanas como rurales. Se encuentra evidencia de este efecto tanto en el caso de reducciones en el ingreso, y condicional a cambios en el ingreso cuando algún miembro del hogar pierde su empleo.
P41|The rhetoric of disagreement in reform debates|"This paper is about the discursive aspects of reform debates, more particularly about their rhetorical forms. In the debates on economic reforms in India, communities of scholars seem to have been talking past each other, each side equally convinced that it has the `Truth"". Persistent disagreement among economists on important public policy issues sounds disconcerting to others. We argue that an appreciation of the rhetoric (i.e. the art of persuasion) might help us understand the nature of disagreement in reform debates. Through a close reading of the literature on economic reforms in India we attempt to examine the rhetorical devices - logic, facts, metaphor and story - that the participants in the reform debates have been using to persuade their audience."
P41|Gift Equilibria and Pareto Improvements|"Piecemeal reform methodology is used to identify Pareto improving directions of gifts in the economy studied by L. Kranich, ""Gift Equilibria and Pareto Optimality Reconsidered"", Journal of Economic Theory, 64, 1994, pp. 298-300."
P41|Ten Years After . . . Transition and Economics|"This paper attempts to portray a synthesis of what has been learned in the past 10 years with regard to the transition process. It contrasts the mainstream ""Washington consensus"" view of transition with the ""evolutionary institutionalist"" perspective. It argues that the latter gives a more adequate and complete picture both of the transition processes and of economic systems and is of better help to prevent serious transition failures. Copyright 2002, International Monetary Fund"
P41|Общая Теория Систем И Научная Интерпретация Социальной Реальности<BR>[General systems theory and scientific interpretation of social reality]|An article about the use of the methodology of general systems theory and the theory of self-organization as a methodological basis of scientific interpretation of social reality. The author analyzes the role of ideology and propaganda in the different concepts of interpretation of social reality (social Darwinism, Marxism, etc.). The main conclusion of the paper is the need deideologization scientific knowledge.
P41|Targeting Youth Employment Policy in Bulgaria|Youth unemployment and in particular long-term youth unemployment in Bulgaria is much higher than the EU average. Low flows out of unemployment into a job, especially for the least educated and qualified young people residing in peripheral regions, are the principal source of long-term unemployment amongst young people. Evidence based on various data sources suggests on one hand that the most disadvantaged segments of the young population are left with two equally unsatisfactory alternatives: working in the informal sector and thus, in practice, often permanently withdrawing from the labour force, or emigrating. On the other hand, employment policies face significant financial and institutional constraints. Increasingly, with rising overall unemployment, passive policy is absorbing an increasing proportion of expenditure on labour market policy to the detriment of active policies. Moreover, important segments of young people are being bypassed by those active measures that do exist. An appropriate response requires action at the level of the education system as well as a more extensive and more effective active labour market policy. This paper concludes with some suggestions as to the way in which such policies might be developed.
P41|Direct and Indirect Effects of Corporatism on Economic Growth|We investigate whether corporatist governance negatively affects growth: a) directly through higher transaction costs involved in the policy decision making process; b) indirectly, yielding growth retarding policy decisions. We construct a more accurate data set for 18 OECD countries in the 1960-1993 interval and improve the specification and estimation of the model. We find that corporatist governance and left wing governments do not directly reduce growth, but there are a robust correlations between growth, union pervasiveness and other policy regressors. On average, corporatist (decentralized) countries adopt growth retarding (enhancing) policies, consistently with the hypothesis that corporatism exerts an indirect negative effect on growth.
P41|Horizontal Information Flows in A Simple Model of Multilevel Planning|Most formal models of multilevel economic planning allow for vertical information flows but not horizontal flows between agents on the same level. This papers develops a simple model of multilevel planning where horizontal flows form an integral part of the planning procedure. The procedure is designed to have a flow cost structure, achieve greated informational decentralization, and preserve systemic stability when the normal planning breaks down and laissez-faire takes over. The procedure is compared with two other procedures in the literature that use vertical flows only. The comparative advanteages of the procedures are established and also confirmed under certain parametric variations.
P41|The Optimal Speed of Transition: A General Equilibrium Analysis| We present a benchmark model for the optimal speed of transition from a state-owned to a private market economy, based on the consumption-savings decision in a closed economy. We abstract from frictions to focus on the macroeconomic conditions for accumulation of private capital and closure or restructuring of state-owned enterprises. It is shown that hard budget constraints compensate for too slow speed of enterprise closure but that an excess speed of closure may slow down transition because of output contraction effects. This will especially be the case if such a deviation occurs at early stages of transition. Copyright 2000 by Economics Department of the University of Pennsylvania and the Osaka University Institute of Social and Economic Research Association.
P41|Reform without Losers: An Interpretation of China's Dual-Track Approach to Transition|"We develop a simple model to analyze the ""dual-track"" approach to transition to a market economy as a mechanism for implementing efficient Pareto-improving economic reform, that is, reform achieving efficiency without creating losers. The approach, based on the continued enforcement of the existing plan while simultaneously liberalizing the market, can be understood as a method for making implicit lump sum transfers to compensate potential losers of the reform. The model highlights the critical role of enforcement of the plan and full liberalization of the market track. We examine how the dual-track approach has worked in product and labor markets in China's economic reform in practice.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
P41|Transition and the output fall|We present a model to explain why in the transition economies of Central andEastern Europe an important output fall has been associated with price liberalization. Its key ingredients are search frictions and Williamsonian relation‐specific investment, implying that new investments are made only after having found a new long‐term partner. When all firms search for new partners, output may fall because of three effects: a) disruption of previous production links, b) a fall in investment, and c) capital depreciation due to the absence of replacement investment. We show that forms of gradual liberalization like the Chinese ‘dual‐track’ price liberalization may avoid the transitory output fall. JEL classification: D21, D50, E30, E61, P41, P51.
P41|La convergencia regional en Colombia : una visión de largo plazo, 1926-1995|Muestra una visión de largo plazo del proceso de convergencia y polarización regional en Colombia. Para ello se estudia el período que va desde 1926 hasta 1995, dividiéndolo en dos subperíodos de acuerdo con las fuentes estadísticas disponibles. El primer subperíodo está comprendido entre 1926 y 1960. El segundo subperíodo va de 1960 a 1995. La convergencia se estudia a partir de la información sobre PIB departamental disponible. Finalmente, se presentan las principales conclusiones del estudio.
P41|La convergencia regional en Colombia: una visión de largo plazo 1926-1995|"“La convergencia económica regional ha sido tema de diversos trabajos en Colombia desde 1992. Estas investigaciones han estado acorde con las tendencias internacionales que han seguido la metodología del trabajo pionero de Robert Barro y Xavier Sala-iMartin (1990). Desde la década de 1980 varios trabajos a nivel internacional han retomado los temas de crecimiento económico y convergencia, en los niveles de ingreso per cápita de los países y las divisiones subnacionales. El primer trabajo en aplicar el enfoque de Barro y Sala-i-Martin al estudio del PIB regional en Colombia fue el de Mauricio Cárdenas (1993). El presente documento muestra una visión de largo plazo del proceso de convergencia y polarización regional en Colombia. Para ello se estudia el período que va desde 1926 hasta 1995, dividiéndolo en dos subperíodos de acuerdo con las fuentes estadísticas disponibles. El primer subperíodo está comprendido entre 1926 y 1960, en el que, dada la carencia de información sobre PIB departamental, se utilizan los datos correspondientes a los depósitos bancarios departamentales como proxy del nivel de ingreso departamental. El segundo subperíodo va de 1960 a 1995. La convergencia se estudia a partir de la información sobre PIB departamental disponible. Adicionalmente, este documento utiliza nuevos indicadores de convergencia que permiten alcanzar conclusiones ""robustas"" sobre la hipótesis de convergencia en el país. El trabajo contiene cuatro secciones. En la primera se expone el marco analítico y se señalan brevemente los principales trabajos realizados en Colombia sobre la convergencia regional en los niveles de ingresos. En las siguientes dos secciones, se aborda el tema de la convergencia en los subperíodos señalados. Finalmente, se presentan las principales conclusiones del estudio.”"
P41|L'economie sociale au Quebec: elements theoriques et empiriques pour le debat et la recherche|"Ce texte veut demontrer que l'economie sociale occupe aujourd'hui une place de plus en plus importante dans nos societes. Apres avoir mis en lumiere les diverses significations du concept d'economie sociale, il propose une analyse du contexte institutionnel quebecois et un apercu de la ""nouvelle economie sociale"". En conclusion, quelques questions sont soulevees pour elargir le debat politique et poursuivre la recherche sur l'economie sociale."
P41|Методологические Основы Системного Анализа Социально-Экономических Процессов<BR>[Methodological basis of a systems analysis of the socio-economic processes]|Article on the use of system analysis methodology for modeling socio-economic processes. The author justifies the methodological approach, based on dynamic analysis of exogenous processes in economic and social management practices. Particular attention is paid to the use of index indicators adaptive response of socio-economic systems to environmental changes.
P41|Методология Системного Анализа В Экономике<BR>[Methodology of System Analysis in Economics]|Article on the use of systems analysis indexes that are based on the basic relations of the theory of self-organization. The author substantiates the thesis of the universal nature of laws, reflecting the effectiveness of competitive adaptation of economic systems in the environment.
P41|The Consequences of EU Enlargement for Central and Eastern European Labour Markets|This paper summarizes some of the findings of Boeri, Burda and Köllo (1998), which provide an overview of the state of labour markets in the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe. It argues that a hasty ‘return to Europe’ with respect to labour market policies may not be in the best interests of these economies, and may actually impede an efficient transition.
P41|Islamic and Neo-Confucian Perspectives on the New Traditional Economy|This paper argues that the new traditional economy is an emerging form important both ideologically and in practice in the world economy today. It is characterized by an effort to embed economic practices within a traditional socio-religious structure while simultaneously seeking modern technology and high incomes. The examples of the Islamic economic system and the neo-Confucian economic system are considered in more detail, with the former seen as more significant ideologically and the latter as more important practically.
P41|Cohesion et Diversite au Sein de l'Union Europeenne: des Trafectoires irreconciliables?|L'objectif general de cet article est de parler des tensions qui emergent des engagements de l'Union Europenne (UE) envers la cohesion et la solidarite sociale, ainsi que de l'heterogeneite qui caracterise les geographies humaines de l'Union. Dans ce but, nous adoptons des perspectives a la fois economiques et culturelles, qui, en elles-memes, contiennent aussi des tensions irresolues.
P41|Delegation and Delay in Bank Privatization|"The paper explains why bank privatization in transition economies is frequently delayed in comparison to privatizing non-financial firms. In the model, the government inherits a distressed bank with bad loans to a representative non-financial firm. The firm will only abstain from wasteful opportunistic behavior if there is a credible to signal that its future budget constraint will be hard. If the government takes over the state-owned bank directly or re-capitalizes and privatizes it immediately, then signaling leads to excessive liquidation. Delay in privatization allows delegating the signaling and can be beneficial because the signaling distortion can be shifted across ""types"". The analysis assumes a political constraint to sell the state-owned bank to a domestic investor (shallow pockets), but shows also that a Pareto improvement can typically be achieved if a buyer with a deep pocket can be found (foreign investor), Policy implications concerning timing and scope of bank privatization are discussed."
P41|Pareto-improving economic reforms through dual-track liberalization|"Pareto-improving economic reforms that also simultaneously achieve efficiency can be implemented through a strategy of ""dual-track"" liberalization. Its success requires the feasibility of the original plan and its continued enforcement by the state. The Chinese experience demonstrates that such a strategy works. Keywords: economic reform, transition, political economy, dual track, China. JEL classification: P21<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
P41|Nationalist Planning for Autarky and State Hegemony: Development Strategy Under Nehru|"In a revisionist interpretation, this article finds the position of mainstream economists to be in error in relation to the impact of economic theory on the economic strategy incorporated in the Second Five Year Plan. In place of ""the power of (economic) theory"", it suggests a ""theory of power"" as a more appropriate explanation for the strategy. Similarly, it finds the position of Marxist scholars and activists also to be mistaken in maintaining that the economic strategy had been designed on behalf of the capitalist class in order to build capitalism. Instead it suggests that the origins of the strategy were ideological, intended to build socialism; the strategy was contingently facilitated by a ruling coalition usually associated with an ""intermediate regime""."
P41|Policy on Modern Small Scale Industries: A Case of Government Failure|In this paper, we address ourselves to an evaluation of government policy designed for the modern segment of the small scale manufacturing sector. We argue that the policy has been and continues to be supply-driven and paternalistic leading to dependency. In addition, the individual unit-centered atomistic approach of policy is dominated by continuous protective and discretionary promotional measures with perverse incentive effects for the healthy growth of this segment. We underline the need to move away from continued protection and bureaucratic discretion-based promotion and argue for a radical shift in this policy towards a demand-driven, group-oriented and collective effort-based (rather than atomistic) approach. We argue for the abolition of indiscriminate reservation of production lines for exclusive production in the small scale sector and introducing and strictly enforcing the time bound character of promotional concessions. It would induce this segment to get out of the syndrome of remaining small and inefficient. The suggested shift in policy is necessary in order to flexibly adjust to fast changing circumstances so as to better serve the longstanding and as yet unattained objective of developing a vibrant and self-reliant modern small scale industry.
P41|Restructuring and Capital Accumulation in Transition Economies: A General Equilibrium Perspective|This paper adresses the issue of the optimal speed of economy-wide restructuring from a state-owned to a privately-owned economy. The analysis is led from a general equilibrium perspective, focusing on the role of endogenously generated capital accumulation. Sensitivity of the optimal speed of transition is performed with respect to preferences and technology. It is found in particular that adverse productivity shocks to the state sector, occurring early on in transition tend to create macroeconomic contraction and slow down investment and the speed of transition. Such shocks tend to accelerate transition if they occur at a later stage, however. This may shed light on the effect of adverse productivity shocks on output contraction in the early phase of transition in Central and Eastern Europe.
P41|Realizing Hungary's Potential - The Country's Industrial R&D System in Transition|Since the beginning of the transition from real socialism to capitalism the Hungarian innovation system has been going through a number of changes. The turbulences the industrial research and development (R&D) system has been facing have been even heftier than the changes the rest of the innovation system has had to put up with. Despite a number of revisions of governance and funding mechanisms as well as a more realistic approach of government towards short and medium term goals for R&D in Hungary, industrial R&D still is neglected. For an explanation of this fact the interest group structures of the R&D system are analyzed. The results of the analysis imply already a solution for the problem. Finally, a few measures are suggested, which should help to realize Hungary's economic potential.
P41|Equilibrium Real Exchange Rates in Transition|This paper tests two central assumptions regarding transforming economies: that the initial exchange rates were strongly undervalued and that the subsequent evolution of the real exchange rate was both a response to the initial undervaluation and an equilibrium real appreciation. The econometric results support both assumptions. The degree of initial overvaluation varies from country to country, ranging from very little in the case of Hungary to more than 100% in most other countries. It is estimated using a sample of 49 high-and middle-income countries, with five observations per country (1970, 1975, 1980, 1985, 1990). The subsequent process of equilibrium appreciation is estimated with pooled data for six countries (Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia) covering the period after inflation stabilization.
P41|The management of Pakistan's economy 1947-82|National economic management is a new but growing science. The developing world's experience of the recent decades underlines the fact that economic and social progress is an induced process. Governments are not only called upon to initiate the development process but are also rc:quired to influence its composition, pace, tone, and direction through an appropriate policy-mix. A consistent framework encompassing various policies within the bounds of an overall national strategy needs to be worked out by the national policy-makers. But experience has also clearly sbown that the formulation of economic policies and, even more important, the actual implementation of these policies is a formidable task. Policy formulation skills are scarce in the developing world. This book is a .modest attempt to look critically at the management of Pakistan's economy during the period 1947-82. While it has been written primarily for under-graduate and post-graduate students in economics, we feel that it should prove useful and interesting for policy-makers as well as for readers desirous of information and interested in an analysis of Pakistan's economic performance and development record since 1947. A deliberate attempt has been made, especially in the earlier chapters, to explain as simply as possible the features of Pakistan's economy, its historical development, and the process and evolution of economic decision-making. These are developed in more analytical detail in subsequent chapters especially those dealing with the major sectors.
P41|Balanced or Unbalanced Development: Special Economic Zones as Catalysts for Transition|Journal of Comparative Economics, March 1998. We develop a theory for a transition economy under which an unbalanced development strategy that favors special economic zones emerges as a response to two critical problems: (1) political pressure to satisfy certain social expenditure requirements, and (2) the lack of institutions to constrain the state from expropriation. By promoting the concentration of resources in some areas, a low equilibrium trap can be avoided, while important spillover effects may be generated elsewhere. The experience of China with special economic zones and coastal open areas is interpreted in this light. Some problems in the Russian economy are also discussed in the context of this theory. Key Words: Unbalanced Development, Special Economic Zones, Political Constraint, Commitment, Transition Economies Journal of Economic Literature Classification Numbers: O20, P41, H30
