P42|Financial Credit Risk and Core Enterprise Supply Chains|Supply chain finance has broken through traditional credit modes and advanced rapidly as a creative financial business. Core enterprises have played a crucial role in the credit enhancement of supply chain finance. Through the analysis of the core enterprise credit risks in supply chain finance, by means of Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process (FAHP), the paper constructs a supply chain financial credit risk evaluation system, leading to quantitative measurement and evaluation of core enterprise credit risk. This novel approach should assist enterprises in taking appropriate measures to control credit risk, thereby promoting the healthy development of supply chain finance.
P42|Financial Credit Risk Evaluation Based on Core Enterprise Supply Chains|Supply chain finance has broken through traditional credit modes and advanced rapidly as a creative financial business discipline. Core enterprises have played a critical role in the credit enhancement of supply chain finance. Through the analysis of core enterprise credit risks in supply chain finance, by means of a ‘fuzzy analytical hierarchy process’ (FAHP), the paper constructs a supply chain financial credit risk evaluation system, making quantitative measurements and evaluation of core enterprise credit risk. This enables enterprises to take measures to control credit risk, thereby promoting the healthy development of supply chain finance. The examination of core enterprise supply chains suggests that a unified information file should be collected based on the core enterprise, including the operating conditions, asset status, industry status, credit record, effective information to the database, collecting related data upstream and downstream of the archives around the core enterprise, developing a data information system, electronic data information, and updating the database accurately using the latest information that might be available. Moreover, supply chain finance and modern information technology should be integrated to establish the sharing of information resources and realize the exchange of information flows, capital flows, and logistics between banks. This should reduce a variety of risks and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of supply chain finance.
P42|A kis- és középvállalati szektor Magyarországon<BR>[The small and medium enterprise sector in Hungary]|In Hungary, more than 670,000 SMEs operate (99% coverage), which employ the 70% of all employees, more than 1.9 million people. The operating small and medium-sized enterprises are characterized by a strong territorial concentration: Central Hungary's weight is outstanding (40%). In the case of organizations, micro-enterprises dominate in all regions, at national level more than 94% of enterprises operate in this form. The main goal is to bring productivity and wage rise simultaneously, thus enabling Hungary to rise above the labor-cost – benefit competitiveness model and the medium-level trap. In terms of its labor productivity per employee, Hungary is somewhat below the average of the Visegrád countries (Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia). In the Visegrád region, the productivity of Hungarian manufacturing SMEs grew to a small extent (2.7%), while the growth rate of the service sector (3.5%) was the highest in the region. Six main themes can be identified, which clearly reduce the domestic and international competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises: weaknesses in the state and Union support system, low productivity and wage levels, moderate research and innovation performance, high public burdens and a lot of administrative burden. Therefore, the main objective is to strengthen the competitiveness.
P42|Innovation as an immanent attribute of an agile enterprise|Each organization faces the challenge of operating in an environment that is unpredictable and turbulent. Emergence of business era caused that change had become a key feature that determines the economic environment of an enterprise. Market environment forces companies to seek strategic orientation that would allow them to use market opportunities and come to grips with growing customer demands. These goals can only be achieved by an organization that bears the hallmarks of agility. The purpose of this article is to analyze relationships between obtaining an ability to be innovative and agility attributes of an organization. The problem was analyzed on the basis of empirical research of an international character. The article points out that adopting by a company agility attributes translates into a better competitive position and a higher level of innovation. Innovation in an enterprise constitute an impulse to take new challenges, which perfectly fits into the paradigm of the organization’s agility. In turn, through innovation, companies become agile. The presented research confirms that there is a connection between having agility attributes by a company and obtaining by it a high level of innovation. Many authors also specify important role of IT system in introducing product innovations and innovation processes
P42|Knowledge Intensive Business Services (KIBS) in the Context of Changing Energy Economics in Germany|This paper is part of a PhD project (2013-2016) researching the effects and impact of changes in the energy economics on enterprises in Romania and Germany. The project so far revealed that energy efficiency measures belong to the top activities selected by enterprises to react to these new challenges. The main purpose of the study is to determine the role of KIBS in the currently changing German energy sector. The general context of KIBS is being presented through a literature research, including the KIBS framework in the sectors of energy efficiency, energy audit, energy management and related areas. As being top actual, this specific topic was sofar not researched yet, the article covers the identified gap in literature. The methodology used is a qualitative research focused on KIBS in the context of the changing German energy system - several experts were interviewed including academic and industry experts preparing for the German Energy Efficiency Summit (managed by the first author).Their feedback was further analyzed using the causal correlation model. Based on the key finding that KIBS could belong to the winning sectors, the first author is in process of creating a new innovative business model for KIBS in the sector of energy services.
P42|Romanian Wellness Tourism – A Potential Solution with Positive Implications for the Effects of the Aging Population in the European Union|Romania is a member state of the European Union. Among the resources of the Romanian tourist patrimony, mineral and thermal waters, mofettes, salt mines, muds and the climate build up a valuable portfolio of the wellness tourism offer. These resources are used to recover and reacquire the strength to work, but also for minimizing the effects of degenerative diseases commonly affecting senior citizens. The aging of the population of the European Union is one of the challenges affecting this block on a macroeconomic level increasingly more visibly. A solution for minimizing the effects of the rising number of senior citizens might be the integration of the Romanian wellness offer in the European tourist offer. Our country is also affected by this phenomenon and the existing wellness resources are useful in diminishing the negative effects of the aging process. The research began by analyzing the specialized literature, which confirmed the phenomenon of aging among the Europe's population. This was followed by a pilot study (287 respondents) which was undertaken from June to December 2015 on representatives of the Romanian population. Romania's tourist heritage, represented by its wellness tourism resources, may represent an important tourist product on the European market which can help senior citizens benefit from treatments of degenerative illnesses.
P42|Efficiency with Rule-Compliance: A Contribution to the Theory of the Firm in Islamic Economics|The theory of the firm and the profit maximization have been important areas of debate among Islamic economists as being fore bearers of applicability of conventional economic theory in the Islamic economics. One strand of the debate holds the view that the postulate of profit maximization, as a useful theoretical construct, has to be modified for a firm operating in an Islamic economy, while the other strand highlights that Islamic economy has its own normative rules with an underlying institutional scaffolding derived from the Qur’an and Sunnah. Following the second view, this paper is a modest contribution to the debate by demonstrating that once an institutional scaffolding containing the rules of behavior compliant with the Qur’an and Sunnah is in place, the profit maximization postulate becomes a useful concept in Islamic economic theory. The paper also shows that allocation efficiency with equity is possible provided that the firm is rule-compliant, even in case of a monopoly.
P42|Unions and Wage Determination: Can Monopsonist Unions Reduce Unemployment?|"This paper extends the standard closed shop union model of wage determination by introducing endogeneity of union membership. The labor market outcome with endogenous membership may differ when unions behave monopsonisticaly relative to the case where they are ""membership-takers"", resulting in higher or lower wages (more or less favorable contract curve in efficient bargaining) according to the form union´s utility function and/or implicit decision process value union size. Some notes are added highlighting the role of membership fees in the membership function determination of a union that works as a nonprofit organization."
P42|The Direct and Indirect Costs of Power Outages to Small Scale Manufacturing Industries of Punjab|The paper quantifies the various costs incurred due to power outages in Punjab by the small scale manufacturing sector. The previous studies that calculated the cost of power outrages have focused at a national level only. The type of costs identified are: Direct Costs like spoilage cost and value of output loss and Adjustment Costs like inbuilt power generation costs (capital cost, fuel cost, operation and maintenance costs of generators etc.) and costs of other adjustments. The methodology used for quantifying the cost of outages is based largely on Pasha, et al. (1989). In conclusion, the paper estimates that the total outage cost for small scale industry of Punjab for 2012 is almost Rs. 21 billion which accounts for 12.4 percent of small scale manufacturing value added. Policy recommendations are made to mitigate the impact of load shedding.
P42|Innovación, generación de capacidades tecnológicas y competitividad empresarial de Mipymes del sector manufacturero en la Ciudad de Morelia|El objetivo de este artículo es analizar las innovaciones de procesos, productos, organizacionales y de mercadotecnia o comercialización de una muestra de 23 micro, pequeñas y medianas empresas (Mipymes) del sector manufacturero de la Ciudad de Morelia y del Parque Industrial Morelia (PIM), para establecer si esas mejoras tecnológicas han generado en las empresas capacidades tecnológicas y de gestión e incrementado su competitividad empresarial. Para cumplir con dicho objetivo se realizaron entrevistas a las empresas señaladas y se encontró que son capaces de competir en el mercado de Morelia porque han acumulado habilidades tecnológicas y de gestión.
P42|Evaluating the Dilemma of Inflation, Poverty and Unemployment|The main aim of this study is to investigate the existence of long run relationship among poverty, inflation, and unemployment. For the sake of empirical analysis this study employs ARDL approach to find out long run relationships by using data from 1975-2013 from WDI. The reverse of Human development index (HDI) has been used as a proxy of multidimensional poverty. The index has been constructed on the same lines as the HDI is developed by UNDP with the help of four indicators i.e. life expectancy, infant mortality, per capita income, and mean year schooling. Independent variables are unemployment, inflation, and dependency ratio, and population growth, government expenditures on education, trade openness, and remittances. The empirical results suggested the validation of employing ARDL holds, and the existence of long run relationship between poverty, inflation, and unemployment has been found. The results are suggestive that unemployment and inflation both bring about increase in poverty. Further findings of the study indicate that dependency ratio, remittances, and population growth are also having significant impacts on poverty in the long run. Finally these results are not only valid for the long run but they even held in the short run as well.
P42|The Secret To Business Success After The Crisis A Business Model In An Enterprise| Many scientific researches look for and study the success factors of businesses. (Colins, 2001; Móricz 2009; Osterwalder-Pigneur 2002:3; Chesbrough-Rosenbloom 2002:535; Casadesus-Masanell-Ricart 2008; Stähler 2002:6; ) After the economic crisis of 2008, attention has especially drawn to those businesses which successfully survived the previous hard times, probably due to their “best practices”. In addition to internal resources, the external environment effects taking place outside the walls of a business are likely to be crucial factors though it is neither incidental how and to what extent individual enterprises are preparing for the expected or unexpected effects of certain events. In our study we examine a unique business model based on a kind of revolutionary idea about an enterprise that was born and flourished in the crisis; using a “logical framework” of the “entrepreneurial quintet” business model in support of business decisions to throw light onto several key strategic issues. Applying the case study method we would like to process the success story of a real life business by means of logical and semantic analysis. The idea of the business in question and selecting its name, the appearance of business(es) and products were already done by looking for radically new ways when the owners wanted to find a totally different thing that is young, dynamic and progressive. The idea of the so-called “designer cake shop” did not even exist as so common among Hungarian businesses, and the idea generator of the business also thought that it is not enough if one of their cakes is delicious but it also has fashionable and aesthetic dimensions: “Let it be a pleasure for the eye too, not only for the mouth”. (SUGAR!) ----------------------------------------------------- Számos tudományos kutatás keresi, kutatja a vállalkozások sikertényezőit. (Colins, 2001; Móricz 2009; Osterwalder-Pigneur 2002:3 Chesbrough-Rosenbloom 2002:535 Casadesus-Masanell-Ricart 2008; Stähler 2002:6) A 2008. évi gazdasági válságot követően különösen is ráirányult a figyelem, azokra a vállalkozásokra, amelyek sikerrel élték túl a vészterhes időket, feltehetően a „jó gyakorlatuknak”. A belső erőforrások mellett a vállalkozások falain kívül végbemenő külső környezeti hatások valószínűleg sorsdöntő tényezők, de az sem mellékes, hogy az egyes vállalkozások, hogyan és milyen mértékben készülnek fel az egyes események várt, vagy nem várt hatásaira. Tanulmányunkban egy egyedi, a maga válfajában korszakalkotó ötletre alapozódó, a válságban életre kelő és virágzó vállalkozás üzleti modelljét vizsgáljuk, és a vállalkozói döntéseket támogató, „vállalkozói ötösfogat” üzleti modell „logikai keretmódszerét” használva világítunk rá az egyes stratégiai kulcskérdésekre. Az esettanulmány módszerével élve egy valódi vállalkozás siker sztoriját kívánjuk feldolgozni, logikai-szemantikai elemzés útján. Már a vizsgált vállalkozás ötlete és névválasztása, az üzlet(ek) és a termékek megjelenése is merészen új utak keresése jegyében zajlott, amikor a tulajdonosok, merőben más, fiatalos, lendületes, haladó dolgot szerettek volna létrehozni. Az un. „dizájn cukrászda” fogalma sem létezett például a magyarországi üzleti köztudatban, és a vállalkozás ötlet gazdái is úgy gondolkodtak, hogy nem elég, ha egy süteményük finom, annak divatos, esztétikai dimenziói is vannak. „Legyen az, élvezet a szemnek is, ne csak a szájnak”. (SUGAR!)
P42|The Evolution Of The Textile And Clothing Industry - Romania: From Lohn To Loss|Textile industry and clothing represent an important source of income and employment opportunities for many developing countries. Recent global economic events determined rapid changes which led to restructuring and reorganization of the industry. In recent years, in Europe and implicitly in Romania has increased the competition from a number of third countries, particularly in Asia, which benefit from low labour costs. An important feature of European textile and clothing industry is the widespread use of lohn production, which means that labour-intensive operations with lower added value are transferred in countries where labour cost is much lower. This article aims to analyze the evolution of textile and garments sector in Romania, which ranked among the top three manufacturers in the field at European level, highlighting the political and economic changes that have occurred and influenced the economic indicators of the industry. The analysis carried out is based on data collected from Romanian statistical yearbooks and the findings suggest that lohn production is not a long-term advantage for subcontracting companies.
P42|Environment Kuznets Curve for Carbon Emissions: A Cointegration Analysis for Bangladesh|This article investigates the current status of the association between carbon emissions releases, use of energy, openness of trade and overall output of Bangladesh from its independence to 2012. The research outcomes for Bangladesh show that a robust long-run association is present there along with short-run dynamic adjustment among those variables. The research indicates that environmental degradation in Bangladesh may increase because of high economic growth in future and therefore, policies to tackle environmental pollution are imperative where the use of both market and non-market based management tools is important. Finally, this study provides some future research directions which were beyond the scope of this research.
P42|Russia and Europe Under Sanctions: Problems of Energy Development|Reciprocal application of sanctions due to geopolitical instability in Ukraine, led to the rupture of economic ties and investment cooperation between the Russian Federation and the European Union. Further escalation of the conflict can lead to the formation of a new cold war and the reorientation of the world economy. In connection with this assessment of the risks and challenges of mutual economic development in the Eurasian continent becomes particularly relevant theme. The study reviews the current economic partnership between the Russian Federation and the European Union. Actualized data on the implementation of joint investment projects. In conclusion reveals the degree of mutual economic risks in case of continuing the policy of restrictive measures.
P42|Assessing sport brand value through use of the contingent valuation method|This work is a first attempt to estimate customer-based brand equity with the contingent valuation method (CVM) for a service-oriented product. We assess the value of a sport brand, IRONMAN triathlon, utilizing the CVM - one of the few available measures for estimating intangible product values. The equity of the IRONMAN brand was derived from consumersâ€™ perceptions, attitudes, and behaviours by asking consumers (i.e., triathletes who have experiences with IRONMAN and non-IRONMAN branded events) about their willingness to pay for an IRONMAN and generic non-IRONMAN triathlon events. We found (1) the presence of price premiums that sport consumers were willing to pay for the branded sport product and (2) the estimated brand equity value of approximately $102 million for IRONMAN Half-distance events, and $123 million for IRONMAN Full-distance event.
P42|Transaksi drop shipping perspektif ekonomi syari’ah<BR>[Dropshipping transaction in shariah economic perspective]|The drop shipping transaction which a glance look like bai’ assalam, especially parallel salam, which is suspension transaction model that allowed in Islam. But, there is a little difference in the dropship (online store) does not accommodate for sell. Therefore, from that thing makes obscurity of drop shipping law status in the domain of the law economic shariah. So, to avoid the doubt transaction in drop shipping it is should be the shariah clarity of the law, in order that the businessman can be wide in the transaction. The goal of this research: (1) To know the drop shipping concept in the business world, (2) To know bai as-salam concept in the business world, and (3) To know the drop shipping concept in line with bai as-salam concept. The result shows that the drop shipping transaction cannot line with bai as-salam concept. Because did not accommodate in bai as-salam seller condition by dropship (online store), namely the drop ship never accommodate the commodity so that the drop ship have not dominance toward accommodating to sell, and played dirty on goods dispatch label made as if drop ship as owner and real goods dispatch. So that, the dropship has did accommodate sale which did not have and it is did not allowed in the law of economic shariah.
P42|Dynamic Model of Markets of Homogenous Non-Durables|A new microeconomic model is presented that aims at a description of the long-term unit sales and price evolution of homogeneous non-durable goods in polypoly markets. It merges the product lifecycle approach with the price dispersion dynamics of homogeneous goods. The model predicts a minimum critical lifetime of non-durables in order to survive. Under the condition that the supply side of the market evolves much faster than the demand side the theory suggests that unsatisfied demands are present in the first stages of the lifecycle. With the growth of production capacities these demands disappear accompanied with a logistic decrease of the mean price of the good. The model is applied to electricity as a non-durable satisfying the model condition. The presented theory allows a deeper understanding of the sales and price dynamics of non-durables.
P42|Warehouse Receipts Functioning To Reduce Market Risk| Cereal production underlies the market risk to a great extent due to its elastic demand. Prices of grain have cyclic movements and significant decline in the harvest periods as a result of insufficient supply and high demand. The very specificity of agricultural production leads to the fact that agricultures are forced to sell their products at unfavourable conditions in order to resume production. The Public Warehouses System allows the agriculturers, who were previously unable to use the bank loans to finance the continuation of their production, to efficiently acquire the necessary funds, by the support of the warehouse receipts which serve as collaterals. Based on the results obtained by applying statistical methods (variance and standard deviation), as a measure of market risk under the assumption that warehouse receipts’ prices will approximately follow the overall consumer price index, it can be concluded that the warehouse receipts trade will have a significant impact on risk reduction in cereal production. Positive effects can be manifested through the stabilization of prices, reduction of cyclic movements in the production of basic grains and, in the final stage, on the country’s food security.
P42|Financial Results Achieved In Short-Day Strawberry Production| In South-western Ontario’s continental climate (short days, hot summers and very cold winters) the matted-row system was the dominant production system to grow short-day strawberries. Varieties-staggered production (planting a combination of early, mid and late-season varieties) provides strawberry harvest from five to seven weeks. Short-day strawberries are vegetative grown in the first year, and harvested for two consecutive years. The total cost of short–day strawberry production was 54,370 $CAD/ha. The production and harvest costs in the first and second years were 20,812 $CAD/ha and 16,930 $CAD/ ha, respectively, and accounted for 69.42% of the total. Pre-plans operations were the least expensive procedures costing 8.13%, while planting and care of young plants made up 22.45% of the total costs. The total income of growing short-day strawberries under a matted-row system was 76,671 $CAD/ha (the first and second production years 41,330 $CAD/ha and 35,341 $CAD/ha, respectively). The short-day strawberries in matted-row system, with average yield of 15,722 kg/ha, generated a net revenue of 22,300 $CAD/ha.
P42|National Brands, Private Labels, and Food Price Inflation| This article investigates the extent to which national brand and private label (store brand) prices behave differently as food price inflation changes. Empirical tests using a range of indices support the hypotheses that rising commodity and fuel prices lead to relatively larger surges in private label prices. When food prices are rising or high, the average price dif- ference between national brands and private labels shrinks. The findings have implications for understanding the welfare effects of private labels. Moreover, they suggest that food price inflation is stronger for low-income households as food prices rise.
P42|Supporting the Development of Municipal Water Policy: A study of the United States with Implications for Other Nations|The challenges faced by both developed and developing nations to collect, distribute, and conserve water are becoming even more difficult. While different strategies have been attempted by different governments, an economically viable solution appears to be the use of increasing block-rate tariffs. In the United States, determining its feasibility of implementation and potential for success currently involves large and expensive surveys paired with various marketing and advertising strategies. Our paper helps alleviate these logistical challenges by constructing a model that accounts for differences in block pricing structures across the continental U.S. and estimating the probability that a community with particular characteristics would have such a pricing structure. Using data on 467 communities in each of the 48 contiguous states, our model and conditioning set explains a substantial amount of block pricing variation across the U.S., aiding policy makers when exploring conservation alternatives to regulation. Our model can also lay the groundwork for similar studies in other nations that are contemplating similar conservation strategies.
P42|Indian bank efficiency and productivity changes with undesirable outputs: A disaggregated approach|The objective of this study is to examine technical efficiency and productivity growth in the Indian banking sector over the period from 2004 to 2011. We apply an innovative methodological approach introduced by Chen et al. (2011) and Barros et al. (2012), who use a weighted Russell directional distance model to measure technical inefficiency. We further modify and extend that model to measure TFP change with NPLs. We find that the inefficiency levels are significantly different among the three ownership structure of banks in India. Foreign banks have strong market position in India and they pull the production frontier in a more efficient direction. SPBs and domestic private banks show considerably higher inefficiency. We conclude that the restructuring policy applied in the late 1990s and early 2000s by the Indian government has not had a long-lasting effect.
P42|Effects of Measurement Errors on Population Estimates from Samples Generated from a Stratified Population through Systematic Sampling Technique|In various surveys, presence of measurement errors has led to misleading results in estimation of various population parameters. This study indicates the effects of measurement errors on estimates of population total and population variance when samples are drawn using systematic sampling technique from a stratified population. A finite population was generated through simulation. The population was then stratified into four strata followed by generation of ten samples in each of them using systematic sampling technique. In each stratum a sample was picked at random. The findings of this work indicated that systematic errors affected the accuracy of the estimates by overestimating both the population total and the population variance. Random errors only added variability to the data but their effect on the estimates of the population total and population variance was not that profound.
P42|Comparing Mobile Communication Service Prices Among Providers: A Hedonic Approach|The present article proposes a new approach to compare mobile communication service prices among different communications service providers. To this end, a hedonic model based on monthly phone bills is employed that relates billed amounts and the quantities of consumed mobile communication services. A linear hedonic regression model is separately estimated for each provider and then used to estimate prices. Laspeyres, Paasche, and Fisher double-imputed price indices are then used to compare prices across communications service providers on an aggregate level. The sensitivity of these indices in relation to the estimated hedonic functions is investigated using a generalized additive model.
P42|Do minimum wages affect firms’ labor and capital? Evidence from Vietnam| This study measures the effect of minimum wage increases on firm outcomes using fixed effects regression and panel data from Vietnam Enterprise Censuses during 2008–2010. It finds that minimum wages reduce firms’ labor size, albeit at a small magnitude. A one-percent increase in real minimum wages leads to a 0.1% reduction in the number of workers of firms. Firms are more likely to reduce male workers and those without social insurance. As a result, the proportion of female workers and workers with social insurance in firms increases due to minimum wages. Interestingly, under pressure of minimum wages, firms tend to increase assets, especially fixed assets, for labor substitution.
P42|Wybrane koncepcje polityki społecznej związane ze starzeniem się ludności<BR>[Selected Concepts of Social Policy Related to the Aging Population]|Polish abstract: Artykuł przedstawia koncepcje polityki wobec starości i polityki wobec ludzi starych; polityki społecznej wobec kapitału społecznego; oraz wybrane cechy Miast Przyjaznych Starszemu Wiekowi według Światowej Organizacji Zdrowia. English abstract: The paper presents the concepts of policy and policy towards old age and old people; social policy towards social capital; and selected features of the age-friendly cities and communities according to the World Health Organization.
P42|Polityka społeczna wobec starości i osób starszych w mieście Białystok w świetle dokumentów strategicznych<BR>[Social Policy Towards Aging and Older People in the City of Bialystok in the Light of the Strategic Documents]|Polish abstract: Artykuł przybliża główne wnioski z analizy dokumentów strategicznych dotyczących polityki społecznej wobec starości i osób starszych w mieście Białystok. English abstract: The paper presents the main findings from the analysis of strategic documents concerning social policy towards aging and older people in the city of Bialystok.
P42|An expensive diversion: Abu Dhabi's renewables investments in the context of its natural gas shortage|In the midst of a shortage of natural gas, Abu Dhabi has launched an investment into renewable energy. Why? Will renewables allow the Persian Gulf sheikhdom to meet rising electricity demand without simultaneous increases in conventional power? No. Even in one of the world’s sunniest places – but not one of its windiest – conventional solar generation is unable to handle a demand peak that extends past sundown. Renewables offer an intermittent electricity supply at a much higher average cost than the existing gasfired system. Abu Dhabi will be neither able to forgo construction of a single conventional generating plant, nor reduce its reliance on gas imports from Qatar. The contribution to energy security will be negligible. This paper finds two main benefits, among several limitations. First, renewables may allow reduced fuel consumption in conventional power plants, which will cut carbon emissions and burning of expensive backup fuels. Second, the highly publicized investment has improved the regime’s international image, bringing acclaim as a leader in clean energy, despite its status as a key OPEC oil producer. In the political context of a rentier monarchy, such prestige is as an important source of domestic legitimacy.
P42|Effective Virtual Teams for New Product Development|At present, the existing literature shows that the factors which influence the effectiveness of virtual teams for new product development are still ambiguous. To address this problem, a research design was developed, which includes detailed literature review, preliminary model and field survey. From literature review, the factors which influence the effectiveness of virtual teams are identified and these factors are modified using a field survey. The relationship between knowledge workers (people), process and technology in virtual teams is explored in this study. The results of the study suggest that technology and process are tightly correlated and need to be considered early in virtual teams. The use of software as a service, web solution, report generator and tracking system should be incorporated for effectiveness virtual teams.
P42|Povratak industrije u Srbiju - izme?u želja, mogu?nosti i iluzija|Osnovno obeležje tranzicije u Srbiji je radikalna deindustrijalizacija. Mnoge stare, posebno, izvozne industrije su nestale, a nijedna nova nije stvorena. Proizvodnja i zaposlenost u industriji Srbije 2010. godine je iznosila prema procenama samo oko 36% od predtranzicionog maksimuma ostvarenog 1987/1988. godine. Time je Srbija nakon dve decenije od restauracije kapitalizma i realizacije dva modela (post) socijalisti?ke tranzicije došla u paradoksalnu situaciju da je njen završetak, kao osnovni uslov za uklju?enje u ekonomski i socijalni deo procesa evropskih integracija, više uslovljen nalaženjem rešenja za greške u njenoj operacionalizaciji, nego negativnim nasle?em poslednjeg privrednog modela, zbog koga je, uostalom, i zapo?eta. U ovom okviru, naglasak u radu je na odre?ivanju novog modela razvoja industrije u Srbiji u skladu sa principima operacionalizacije evropskog koncepta endogenog, autopropulsivnog i samoodrživog razvoja u funkciji uklju?enja u proces razvoja novog globalnog proizvodnog sistema, odnosno traženja (najboljih) rešenja za klju?ne izazove rekonfigurisanja sadašnje civilizacije na principima industrijske organizacije, u okviru trougla paradigmi: (1) Obrazovani narod, (2) Razvijena industrija i (3) Moderan društveno-ekonomski sistem. Suština ovog koncepta je traženje efikasnijih rešenja za razvoj znanja i njegovu primenu u rešavanju prakti?nih problema na na?in koji donosi korist inovatoru, a nove vrednosti korisniku. U ekonomskoj ravni, njegova primena se oslanja na reindustrijalizaciju stvaranjem uslova za unapre?enje i umrežavanje sedam faktora – humanog kapitala, produktivnog (proizvodnog) preduzetništva, inovacija, proizvodnje, štednje, privatnog investiranja u realnu privredu i izvoza. U slu?aju Srbije, naglasak u operacionalizaciji ovog koncepta se o?igledno mora zasnivati na unapre?enju produktivnog (proizvodnog) preduzetništva i razvoju dobrog poslovnog okruženja za izvozni biznis. Pri tome, moramo biti svesni da nauka, bar u dominiraju?em shvatanju njene suštine, ne može da razvije metode za uspešno odre?ivanje konkretnog sadržaja industrijske politike za njegovu implementaciju. Time su neka suštinska pitanja formulisanja i realizacije novog modela razvoja industrije u Srbiji prepuštena voluntarizmu (nacionalnih, regionalnih, subregionalnih i lokalnih) politi?ara. U skladu sa tim, problem odre?ivanja dobre (uspešne) industrijske politike je, pre svega, stvar ljudske kreacije, odnosno njegova suština je u razumevanju rizika koji stoji iza svake (javne) odluke. U ovom kontekstu, obra?ena materija je pored uvoda i zaklju?ka podeljena na ?etiri dela. U prvom delu, naglasak je na identifikaciji dimenzija deindustrijalizacije Srbije u periodu od 1990. do 2010. godine. U drugom delu, obra?eni su osnovni društveno-ekonomski uzroci deindustrijalizacije Srbije i njihove implikacije na struktuiranje novog (proizvodnog) modela nacionalnog razvoja. U tre?em delu, dato je vi?enje strategije razvoja industrije u Srbiji u skladu sa konceptom endogenog, autopropulsivnog i samoodrživog razvoja i ciljevima strategije reindustrijalizacije Evropske unije (Lisabonske agende iz marta 2000. godine i njene inovirane i redukovane verzije EVROPA 2020 iz marta/juna 2010. godine). U ?etvrtom delu, težište je na istraživanju modela dobre (uspešne) industrijske politike sa naglaskom na faktorima koji ograni?avaju?e deluju na njenu operacionalizaciju.
P42|A tale of two federalisms: Germany, the United States and the ubiquity of centralization|No abstract is available for this item.
P42|Coordinates of Romanian Natural Gas Market|This work paper analyses Romania’s natural gas market. We have analyzed the demand, supply and price elements, taking into consideration also the import price of the natural gas. Trying to identify the concentration level of the market, we have used the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI). Calculating HHI for the Romanian gas market, we have found a high market concentration. Analyzing statistic data we have also found that Romania has the lowest gas price in the European Union.
P42|Elementi di una teoria dell'impresa sociale|Idealtipicamente, l’impresa è sociale se offre, con un impegno vincolante di governance, i servizi dei commons e i merit goods, impiegando in maniera non privatistica la maggior parte degli eventuali profitti. Questa definizione viene argomentata discutendo le caratteristiche dei beni economici, l’arco di forme di cui l’impresa sociale si riveste, nonché le sue possibilità di ramificazione nel sistema economico.
P42|El empleo en México Del modelo de sustitución de importaciones (ISI) al modelo de libre mercado|Durante la década de los años cincuenta y sesenta, las economías capitalistas más desarrolladas disfrutaron de una bonanza sin precedentes combinada con índices de bajo desempleo, baja inflación y un rápido crecimiento de los estándares de vida. Esta etapa estuvo muy cerca de ser nombrada como la “era de oro”, a no ser que en la segunda mitad de los sesenta y entrando en los setenta, toda la estructura del crecimiento estable y rentable amenazó con derrumbarse. El propósito del presente estudio es el de arrojar un poco de luz sobre el desempeño de la economía mexicana y el empleo a partir de los cambios del modelo de sustitución de importaciones (ISI) al modelo de libre mercado.
P42|Elementi di una teoria dell'impresa sociale<BR>[Elements of a theory of social enterprise]|From an idealtypical perspective, an enterprise is social if it offers, with a binding commitment to governance, merit goods and services of the commons, using in a non-privatistic manner the most part of profits that may be obtained. This definition is discussed in relation to the characteristics of economic goods, the range of forms that the social enterprise assumes, and its possibility of branching in the economic system.
P42|Approaches Of The Competitiveness At The Macroeconomic Level|In this article we approach gradually the competitiveness. Thus we present in the introduction some definitions of this concept, although there isn’t a widely accepted definition for this term. Then, we present how this indicator can be measured and used to achieve the national or European strategies.
P42|Does wage differential driven migration continue to exist? Tests on the role of regional economic structure in wage differential driven migration|No abstract is available for this item.
P42|On the entrepreneurial genesis of new markets: effectual transformations versus causal search and selection|No abstract is available for this item.
P42|KNOWLEDGE INTEGRATION DYNAMICS:Developing Strategic Innovation Capability|Since the 1990s, Japanese firms have sought to expand their capacity for innovation by incorporating Western management practices into their organizational culture. This combination of Japanese and Western management practices has been highly successful â€” Japanese firms are presently at the forefront of technological and service innovation in areas such as digital consumer electronics, mobile phone services, and the games industry. Much can be learned from the success of Japanese companies in these areas.This book presents an analysis of the business model unique to Japanese firms, emphasising four special features: the vertical value chain model, cross-industry collaboration, dynamic knowledge integration, and strategic innovation capability. Drawing upon in-depth case studies, this book presents a new theory of knowledge integration, and places special emphasis on inter- and intra-organizational collaboration as a source of strategic innovation. It is a good reference source for academics, graduate students and professionals in the field of innovation management.
P42|Cost Analysis of Alternative Harvest and Storage Methods for Switchgrass in the Southeastern U.S| This study evaluated the potential impacts of dry matter losses from alternative harvest and storage methods on the costs of growing switchgrass for energy production. Data from a switchgrass bale harvest and storage experiment at Milan, TN, indicate that storage losses for covered rectangular bales were greater than for covered round bales. In addition, the cost of delivered feedstock increased with longer storage times because of larger dry matter losses. Even though storage losses were higher with uncovered large round bales, production costs were the lowest because costs of storage were minimal compared to other storage methods.
P42|Los factores de competitividad de las MIPYMES agroindustriales del limón mexicano en Colima, México|El presente trabajo se refiere al estudio de los factores de competitividad de las micro, pequeñas y medianas empresas agroindustriales del limón mexicano en Colima,México, tomando como referencia el modelo del International Institute for Management Development. Se diseñó un nuevo instrumento de recolección de la información consistente en un análisis estadístico, a través del cual se determinaron los factores y el nivel de competitividad de las empresas ya mencionadas.
P42|Nonparametric Frontier Estimation from Noisy Data|A new nonparametric estimator of production a frontier is defined and studied when the data set of production units is contaminated by measurement error. The measurement error is assumed to be an additive normal random variable on the input variable, but its variance is unknown. The estimator is a modification of the m-frontier, which necessitates the computation of a consistent estimator of the conditional survival function of the input variable given the output variable. In this paper, the identification and the consistency of a new estimator of the survival function is proved in the presence of additive noise with unknown variance. The performance of the estimator is also studied through simulated data.
P42|Fundamental Issues Concerning the Organization of Management Accounting in Units of Natural Resource Exploitation|The complexity of economic life in the competition imposed by the market economy requires a continuous search and use of the most rational and efficient organizational forms and methods of managerial accounting and therefore of production cost calculation. The implementation of such method must consider both the specific of companies where it will be used and the requirements of a modern information system, able to respond at any time to the continuous pressure exerted by external factors of the company.
P42|Plantations Agriculture|"Large plantations producing tropical cash crops based on hired labor represent a sharp contrast with small family farms, popularly called ""peasants"" in developing economies. The family farm is an old institution that has existed since time immemorial, but the plantation is a new institution introduced by Western colonialism for extracting tropical cash crops for export to home countries. Large-scale operation of the plantation was necessary for internalizing gains from investment in infrastructure needed for opening vast tracts of unused lands. However, where the communities of indigenous smallholders had already been established, family farms proved to be equally or more efficient producers of tropical export crops using the family labor of low supervision costs, relative to plantations based on hired labor. This advantage of family farms rose as population density increased and rural infrastructure improved, whereas not only economic but also social drawbacks of the plantation system loomed. However, reforms aimed to break down plantations to the operation of smallholders by a government's coercive power could be disruptive and inefficient. A better approach might be to support the initiative of the private sector to reorganize the plantation system into a more decentralized system, such as the contract farming system in which an agribusiness enterprise manages the processing/marketing process and contracts with small growers on the assured supply of farm-produced raw materials."
P42|Personal Income Tax Structure: Theory and Policy|The eminent contributors (including Altshuler, Creedy, Freebairn, Gravelle, Heady, Kalb, Sørensen and Zodrow) investigate the beneficial directions for medium-term tax reform in the light of global developments and lessons from the latest taxation research. In addressing this issue, they review recent advances in both the theoretical and empirical tax literature and reform evidence from individual countries. Topics covered include the impact of taxes on economic performance; international and corporate taxation; personal tax and welfare systems; environmental taxation; and country-specific tax reform experiences.
P42|Custo da Água nos Pequenos Regadios Individuais do Alentejo|Os pequenos regadios individuais do Alentejo ? PRIA ? representam actualmente uma área bastante superior aos designados regadios colectivos, ou estatais, construídos pelo Estado até aos princípios da década de 70. Estes regadios, são alimentados a partir de fontes de água privadas (barragens, charcas e/ou furos) e são, na sua quase totalidade, regados por métodos de rega sob pressão (aspersão ? milho, girassol, pastagens e cereais -, e rega gota-a-gota ? vinha, olival, tomate, melão e algumas fruteiras). Quando hoje em dia se fala em custo da água, e em que a Lei-Quadro da Água está em fase de aplicação, pouca informação se encontra disponível sobre o custo da água ao nível dos PRIA. Com este objectivo e com a finalidade de poder comparar os custos da água dos sistemas de abastecimento privados com os dos grandes regadios públicos é apresentada esta comunicação, através da qual se estimam os custos de pequenos regadios com diferentes tipos de captação. Com base na informação recolhida pelo COTR, ao longo a realização do inventário dos pequenos regadios individuais do Alentejo, e tendo por base os casos em que a informação disponível assim o permitia, foi possível criar três grandes grupos de empreendimentos em função da fonte de água: barragens isoladas (63 casos), charcas isoladas (57 casos) e furos solados (143 casos). Para estes casos, foi possível conhecer os custos de investimento das estruturas de armazenamento e/ou captação, das estações de bombagem associadas, das redes primária e secundária/terciária e do consumo energético anual, em função das áreas regadas, culturas instaladas e características dos grupos de bombagem instalados. Estes empreendimentos foram construídos num lapso de tempo de mais de 10 anos. Assim, para tornar os seus valores comparáveis actualizaram-se todos os custos para o ano de 2006. Tendo por base esta informação, procurou-se dar resposta aos principais objectivos do presente trabalho que são: (1) estimar os custos fixos médios do abastecimento de água para as barragens e para as charcas; (2) estimar o consumo de energia.
P42|SMEs; Virtual research and development (R&D) teams and new product development: A literature review|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are indeed the engines of global economic growth. Their continued growth is a major subject for the economy and employment of any country. Towards that end, virtual research and development (R&D) could be a viable option to sustain and ease the operations of SMEs. However, literature shows there has not been a great deal of research into the diverse characteristic of virtual R&D teams in SMEs. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R&D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the literature review is to provide an outline on the structure and dynamics of R&D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the rationale and relevance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R&D team for SMEs and new product development (NPD) has been examined. It concludes with identifying the gaps and feebleness in the existing literature and calls for future research in this area. It is argued to form of virtual R&D team deserves consideration at top level management for venturing into the new product development within SMEs.
P42|Critical factors for new product developments in SMEs virtual team|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are considered as an engine for economic growth all over the world and especially for developing countries. During the past decade, new product development (NPD) has increasingly been recognized as a critical factor in ensuring the continued survival of SMEs. On the other hand, the rapid rate of market and technological changes has accelerated in the past decade, so this turbulent environment requires new methods and techniques to bring successful new products to the marketplace. Virtual team can be a solution to answer the requested demand. However, literature have shown no significant differences between traditional NPD and virtual NPD in general, whereas NPD in SME’s virtual team has not been systematically investigated in developing countries. This paper aims to bridge this gap by first reviewing the NPD and its relationship with virtuality and then identifies the critical factors of NPD in virtual teams. The statistical method was utilized to perform the required analysis of data from the survey. The results were achieved through factor analysis at the perspective of NPD in some Malaysian and Iranian manufacturing firms (N = 191). The 20 new product development factors were grouped into five higher level constructs. It gives valuable insight and guidelines, which hopefully will help managers of firms in developing countries to consider the main factors in NPD.
P42|A Geographical Information System Approach to Defining Economic Coastal Zones in Ireland|In order to develop a policy framework and guidelines for improving a national approach to the management of Irish coastal regions and associated resources one first needs to be able to define what is meant by ‘a coastal region’ in an Irish context and secondly to know how the socio-economic characteristics of Irish coastal populations differ from the national perspective. This paper contains a range of official socio-economic statistics, from a range of existing statistical domains, compiled for the first time in terms of Irish coastal regions. These coastal regions are defined at a number of alternative levels of spatial aggregation. The compilation of such data is important when one considers the recommendations of the European Council and Parliament concerning the implementation of Integrated Coastal Zone Management and the requirements of policies such as Integrated Maritime Policy for the European Union and the EU Marine Framework Strategy Directive.
P42|Critical Factors for New Product Developments in SMEs Virtual Team|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are considered as an engine for economic growth all over the world and especially for developing countries. During the past decade, new product development (NPD) has increasingly been recognized as a critical factor in ensuring the continued survival of SMEs. On the other hand, the rapid rate of market and technological changes has accelerated in the past decade, so this turbulent environment requires new methods and techniques to bring successful new products to the marketplace. Virtual team can be a solution to answer the requested demand. However, literature have shown no significant differences between traditional NPD and virtual NPD in general, whereas NPD in SME's virtual team has not been systematically investigated in developing countries. This paper aims to bridge this gap by first reviewing the NPD and its relationship with virtuality and then identifies the critical factors of NPD in virtual teams. The statistical method was utilized to perform the required analysis of data from the survey. The results were achieved through factor analysis at the perspective of NPD in some Malaysian and Iranian manufacturing firms (N = 191). The 20 new product development factors were grouped into five higher level constructs. It gives valuable insight and guidelines, which hopefully will help managers of firms in developing countries to consider the main factors in NPD.
P42|SMEs; Virtual Research and Development (R&D) Teams and New Product Development: A Literature Review|Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are indeed the engines of global economic growth. Their continued growth is a major subject for the economy and employment of any country. Towards that end, virtual research and development (R&D) could be a viable option to sustain and ease the operations of SMEs. However, literature shows there has not been a great deal of research into the diverse characteristic of virtual R&D teams in SMEs. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R&D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the literature review is to provide an outline on the structure and dynamics of R&D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the rationale and relevance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R&D team for SMEs and new product development (NPD) has been examined. It concludes with identifying the gaps and feebleness in the existing literatures and calls for future research in this area. It is argued to form of virtual R&D team deserves consideration at top level management for venturing into the new product development within SMEs.
P42|Determinants of business success of small and medium enterprises|The small and medium enterprises (SMEs) play critical role in the development of the country. The success of SMEs depends on number of factors. This study examines the role of key factors in the success of SMEs in Pakistan. The study also investigates the relationship between SMEs success and its determinants. Target population of the study was SMEs operating in different lines of business from service to manufacturing. Sample size of this study was 520 small and medium lines of businesses. Responses of the subjects were collected through questionnaires. SPSS software is used for analysis. This study concludes that there is a significant relationship between business success and its determinants. The result also shows that financial resources are the most important factor in the success of business perceived by small and medium enterprises. The success of small and medium enterprises can contribute significantly in the development of the country.
P42|Nodal prices, capacity valuation and investments in natural gas markets - Overview and Analytical Framework|Especially in the short-term, prices in natural gas markets are not exclusively determined by overall supply and demand, but also by the availability of the transport infrastructure. If transportation capacity is scarce, prices may form in (local) residual markets and can differ regionally. If available, storages provide intertemporal arbitrage possibilities which also impact prices. Temporal and regional price differences, in turn, determine the value of storage and transport capacity if either one is scarce. This paper applies an analytical framework for a simple pipeline grid with a storage over two periods to illustrate the interdependencies between prices, scarce capacity and capacity value. The theoretically optimal transportation and storage tariffs are described analytically. The optimal pipeline investment size is shown to be related to marginal storage investment and a function of the discounted and aggregated cost of congestion over the lifetime's asset.
P42|The Effects of Temporary Immigration on Prices of Non Traded Goods and Services|This paper analyzes the impact of temporary immigration on the prices of nontradable goods and services. It presents a model of a small open economy that produces two goods/services, one tradable and one non tradable. It is assumed that temporary immigrants are confined to work in the non-traded sector and that they are only imperfect substitutes for permanent immigrants and native low skill workers. In our theoretical set-up temporary immigration is predicted to have a negative effect on the prices of non-traded goods and services, while the effect of permanent immigrants depends on the relative low skill domestic labor intensity of the non tradable sector. We test these predictions empirically using a panel dataset of 14 U.S. cities for the period 2000-2006. In line with other recent empirical studies we find that both types of immigration have a negative impact on the relative price of non-tradable services as a whole. These findings confirm that immigration, like trade and offshoring, has the potential to increase welfare through the reduction of consumer and input prices. When distinguishing individual non tradable sectors, though, we find evidence that permanent immigration increases the price of transport and health services. This finding is in line with the predictions of earlier theoretical work and suggests in the context of our model that these sectors are less low skill domestic labor intensive than tradable goods and services.
P42|The Collaboration Effectiveness And Efficiency In A Virtual Enterprise|An important number of factors are creating different types of barriers among the members of a virtual enterprise affecting the collaboration between them. In our attempt to study the evolution of importance of these factors we have chose a set of three studies published in the last decade and a half, which we consider as relevant. This study aims to identify new research directions for mitigating the effects of collaboration barriers by highlighting the most important factors and how they affect the effectiveness or efficiency of collaboration.
P42|Nonparametric Frontier Estimation from Noisy Data|A new nonparametric estimator of production a frontier is defined and studied when the data set of production units is contaminated by measurement error. The measurement error is assumed to be an additive normal random variable on the input variable, but its variance is unknown. The estimator is a modification of the m-frontier, which necessitates the computation of a consistent estimator of the conditional survival function of the input variable given the output variable. In this paper, the identification and the consistency of a new estimator of the survival function is proved in the presence of additive noise with unknown variance. The performance of the estimator is also studied through simulated data.
P42|SMALLER MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES IN AN INTERNATIONAL CONTEXT:A Longitudinal Exploration|This book provides an overview of approaches to internationalization as experienced by smaller manufacturing enterprises over a relatively long period of time â€” the 35-year period from 1974 to 2009. The original research on which this study is based dates back to the mid-1970s, when academic interest in export studies, market entry modes, and internationalization approaches, among others, have their origins. With practical examples of companies from both inside and outside the USA, readers will be able to understand how smaller manufacturing enterprises approach the world of international commerce, how they prepare themselves for it, and what really draws them into the world of international commerce.
P42|The Nature of the Diversified Farm Household| This paper presents a theoretical approach that explains farm household diversification decisions by the relative attractiveness of both food production and family businesses. The empirical analysis of diversified activities of Swiss farm households shows that a low household income leads to diversification by off-farm activities, while a high income leads to diversification by on-farm activities. It is also shown that arable farms, mountain farms and farm households with a non-agricultural education are more likely to enter off-farm activities.
P42|Evaluation Of The Oral Anti-Diabetic Drugs Market In Romania During 2004-2007| The increased prevalence of diabetes mellitus, mainly of the non-insulin dependent has brought about more sales of oral anti-diabetic drugs. Starting from the sales in the interval 2004-2007, we tried to make a medium term estimate of sales for the period 2008-2010. The software Statgraphics Plus and the index method have been used. Results show that the best sold medicines for the interval in question were Siofor (Berlin Chemie), Amaryl (Sanofi-Aventis), Diaprel (Servier) and Glibomet (Berlin Chemie), and the same products are supposed to increase in sales in the interval 2008-2010.
P42|A Study On Anti-Diabetic Drug Delivery From Pharmacies| During 2004-2006 anti-diabetic drug delivery was done through centralized procedure, national auction just through hospital pharmacies. Starting with October 1st, 2006, their delivery has decentralized through community pharmacies. The present study was carried out through 100 questionnaires in pharmacies in 6 counties from the North-Western part of Romania. The study shows that both urban and rural pharmacies delivery both oral anti-diabetic drugs and insulin’s. Aspects such as: preferred distributors, time of delivery, the most requested products, collaboration between physicians and pharmacists, pharmacists’ grievances, communication with patients etc have been identified.
P42|Report on trends in the Italian productive system|In the last decade the Italian economy has underperformed compared both with the previous decades and with the main European countries. It is widely acknowledged that this evolution reflects unresolved structural problems, which have become more urgent in view of the major changes in the world economy (the new technological paradigm, globalization, European economic integration). The goal of the Report is to make a critical survey of all the empirical analyses on the Italian economy and to derive policy suggestions. The evolution of Italy's productive system is examined from a long-run perspective, highlighting weaknesses and possible signs of recovery and elaborating on the systemic features that may have negatively affected growth performance directly or indirectly through the above exogenous shocks. The focus, mostly but not exclusively microeconomic, emphasizes the considerable heterogeneity of firms, a crucial element for identifying the factors that affect economic growth.
P42|Working Paper 09-09 - Alternative assessment of Belgian competitiveness|This paper investigates graphically and econometrically the relationship between the relative positions, in terms of value added and relative prices, of Belgian manufacturing and market services in the European Union over 1970-2005. Relative prices are then decomposed into relative unit costs of factors of production. The analysis goes further by replacing relative unit labour cost with relative hourly wages and relative productivity. Finally, relative produc-tivity is replaced with relative capital deepening, relative labour composition effect and relative total factor productivity. All data are coming from the EUKLEMS database, March 2008 release.
P42|Virtual teams: A literature review|In the competitive market, virtual teams represent a growing response to the need for fasting time-to-market, low-cost and rapid solutions to complex organizational problems. Virtual teams enable organizations to pool the talents and expertise of employees and non-employees by eliminating time and space barriers. Nowadays, companies are heavily investing in virtual team to enhance their performance and competitiveness. Despite virtual teams growing prevalence, relatively little is known about this new form of team. Hence the study offers an extensive literature review with definitions of virtual teams and a structured analysis of the present body of knowledge of virtual teams. First, we distinguish virtual teams from conventional teams, different types of virtual teams to identify where current knowledge applies. Second, we distinguish what is needed for effective virtual team considering the people, process and technology point of view and underlying characteristics of virtual teams and challenges they entail. Finally, we have identified and extended 12 key factors that need to be considered, and describes a methodology focused on supporting virtual team working, with a new approach that has not been specifically addressed in the existing literature and some guide line for future research extracted.
P42|Virtual R & D teams in small and medium enterprises: A literature review|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the driving engine behind economic growth. While SMEs play a critical role in generating employment and supporting trade, they face numerous challenges, the prominent among them are the need to respond to fasting time-to-market, low-cost and rapid solutions to complex organizational problems. Towards that end, research and development (R & D) aspect deserves particular attention to promote and facilitate the operations of SMEs. Virtual R & D team could be a viable option. However, literature shows that virtual R & D teaming in SMEs is still at its infancy. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R & D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the state-of-the-art literature review is to provide an overview on the structure and dynamics of R & D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the foundation and importance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R & D team and SMEs has been examined. It concludes with the identification of the gaps in the existing literature's and calls for future research. It is argued that setting-up an infrastructure for virtual R & D team in SMEs still requires a large amount of engineering efforts and deserves consideration at top level management.
P42|Modified stage-gate: A conceptual model of virtual product development process|In today’s dynamic marketplace, manufacturing companies are under strong pressure to introduce new products for long-term survival with their competitors. Nevertheless, every company cannot cope up progressively or immediately with the market requirements due to knowledge dynamics being experienced in the competitive milieu. Increased competition and reduced product life cycles put force upon companies to develop new products faster. In response to these pressing needs, there should be some new approach compatible in flexible circumstances. This paper presents a solution based on the popular Stage-Gate system, which is closely linked with virtual team approach. Virtual teams can provide a platform to advance the knowledge-base in a company and thus to reduce time-to-market. This article introduces conceptual product development architecture under a virtual team umbrella. The paper describes all the major aspects of new product development (NPD), NPD process and its relationship with virtual teams, Stage-Gate system finally presents a modified Stage-Gate system to cope up with the changing needs. It also provides the guidelines for the successful implementation of virtual teams in new product development.
P42|Innovation and R&D Activities in Virtual Team|Innovation plays a central role in economic development, at the regional and national level. In the competitive environment companies are obliged to produce more rapidly, more effectively and more efficiently in new product development, which is a result of research and development (R&D) activities. It is necessary for them to put together different capabilities and services with the goal, through cooperation between suppliers and customers, service providers and scientific institutions to achieve innovations of high quality. Depending on the type of industry, the type of business, the type of innovation and the strategic objectives that have been set, firms will regularly have to modify the way in which their R&D and innovation are organized. Nowadays, shift from serial to simultaneous and parallel working in innovation has become more commonplace. Literature's have shown that collaboration is as a meta-capability for innovation. By a comprehensive reviewing of literature this article after define virtual teams and its characteristics, addressing virtual environment innovation and the relationship to R&D activities. Finally conclude that innovation cannot be successful, unless the knowledge and information in the R&D project are effectively captured, shared and internalized by the R&D project’s virtual team members.
P42|Virtual Teams for New Product Development – An Innovative Experience for R&D Engineers|New interaction tools such as internet allow companies to gain valuable input from research and development (R&D) engineers via virtual teams. Consequently, engineers also get more expertise in diminutive time frames. Virtual R&D teams present the key impetus to the technology acquisition process. The present knowledge-economy era is characterized by short product life-cycles. Virtual R&D teams may reduce time-to-market, make available a large pool of new product know-how and provide greater flexibilities, which are the key success factors in a competitive market. This comprehensive review contains almost 100 references and covers the recent literature with emphasis on the topic. The review has focused on authentic and reputed publications and extracts the results. This article presents the type of virtual teams and their main features and explains how virtual R&D team can play a prominent role in developing new products. The article is evolved future study guideline and also illustrates how to apply virtual interaction tools and integrate engineers into the innovation process. Management of virtual R&D teams in new product development (NPD) processes in an innovative, effective and efficient is of a high importance, but the issue has been poorly addressed in the previous studies. Findings show that virtual R&D team provides valuable input for new product development and R&D engineers are able to attain virtual experience.
P42|Price Categories Used in International Trade|In the current world economy conditions, development of any state can not be based solely on internal sources and the national economy results. Increased volume and diversification of cross-border transactions in goods and services, the dynamics of international capital flows, and the fast spread of technology, gives multiple values of foreign trade leading to growth of economic interlinks across the world countries. Through the foreign trade activity is carried out exchange of goods and services on the international market and ensure the participation of states in international economic cooperation. In today's global world economy, operation and coordinated sustainable development of economic systems involve, necessarily, to obtain the highest results and meeting/satisfy the needs of present without compromising the ability of national economies to satisfy their own requirements in the future more or less distant. A determining factor in business relationships and their success, regardless of export choosen manner and the type of contract used, is the price, contributing to the size of revenues from export, revenues that allow, among other things, make investments in infrastructure leading to raising living standards and social security. Starting from the importance of prices in achieving incomes related to international trade, in this article I will address the main categories of prices used in the export and import activity, also the models/patterns on the composition of the external price of export and import in terms of delivery conditions FOB, CIF and CAF.
P42|Envisages of New Product Developments in Small and Medium Enterprises through Virtual Team|New product development (NPD) in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) virtual team has not been systematically investigated in developing countries. Literatures have shown no significant differences between traditional NPD and virtual NPD in general. New product development especially for SMEs virtual team are somewhat lacking in the literature and constitute a research gap. This paper aims to bridge this gap. This study first reviews the NPD and its relationship with virtuality and then identifies the critical factors in definition of NPD in SMEs virtual team. The statistical method was utilized to perform the required analysis of the data from survey. The results are achieved through factor analysis at the perspective of NPD in some of Malaysian and Iranian manufacturing firms. The 20 new product development factors were grouped into five higher level constructs. It gives valuable insight and guidelines which hopefully will help managers of firms in developing countries to consider the main factors in NPD.
P42|Innovation and R&D Activities in Virtual Team|Innovation plays a central role in economic development, at the regional and national level. In the competitive environment companies are obliged to produce more rapidly, more effectively and more efficiently in new product development, which is a result of research and development (R&D) activities. It is necessary for them to put together different capabilities and services with the goal, through cooperation between suppliers and customers, service providers and scientific institutions to achieve innovations of high quality. Depending on the type of industry, the type of business, the type of innovation and the strategic objectives that have been set, firms will regularly have to modify the way in which their R&D and innovation are organized. Nowadays, shift from serial to simultaneous and parallel working in innovation has become more commonplace. Literature's have shown that collaboration is as a meta-capability for innovation. By a comprehensive reviewing of literature this article after define virtual teams and its characteristics, addressing virtual environment innovation and the relationship to R&D activities. Finally conclude that innovation cannot be successful, unless the knowledge and information in the R&D project are effectively captured, shared and internalized by the R&D project's virtual team members.
P42|Virtual Teams for New Product Development: An Innovative Experience for R&D Engineers|New interaction tools such as internet allow companies to gain valuable input from research and development (R&D) engineers via virtual teams. Consequently, engineers also get more expertise in diminutive timeframes. Virtual R&D teams present the key impetus to the technology acquisition process. The present knowledge-economy era is characterized by short product life-cycles. Virtual R&D teams may reduce time-to-market, make available a large pool of new product know-how and provide greater flexibilities, which are the key success factors in a competitive market. This comprehensive review contains almost 100 references and covers the recent literature with emphasis on the topic. The review has focused on authentic and reputed publications and extracts the results. This article presents the type of virtual teams and their main features and explains how virtual R&D team can play a prominent role in developing new products. The article is evolved future study guideline and also illustrates how to apply virtual interaction tools and integrate engineers into the innovation process. Management of virtual R&D teams in new product development (NPD) processes in an innovative, effective and efficient is of a high importance, but the issue has been poorly addressed in the previous studies. Findings show that virtual R&D team provides valuable input for new product development and R&D engineers are able to attain virtual experience.
P42|Modified Stage-Gate: A Conceptual Model of Virtual Product Development Process|In today's dynamic marketplace, manufacturing companies are under strong pressure to introduce new products for long-term survival with their competitors. Nevertheless, every company cannot cope up progressively or immediately with the market requirements due to knowledge dynamics being experienced in the competitive milieu. Increased competition and reduced product life cycles put force upon companies to develop new products faster. In response to these pressing needs, there should be some new approach compatible in flexible circumstances. This paper presents a solution based on the popular Stage-Gate system, which is closely linked with virtual team approach. Virtual teams can provide a platform to advance the knowledge-base in a company and thus to reduce time-to-market. This article introduces conceptual product development architecture under a virtual team umbrella. The paper describes all the major aspects of new product development (NPD), NPD process and its relationship with virtual teams, Stage-Gate system finally presents a modified Stage-Gate system to cope up with the changing needs. It also provides the guidelines for the successful implementation of virtual teams in new product development.
P42|Virtual R & D teams in small and medium enterprises: A literature review|Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the driving engine behind economic growth. While SMEs play a critical role in generating employment and supporting trade, they face numerous challenges, the prominent among them are the need to respond to fasting time-to-market, low-cost and rapid solutions to complex organizational problems. Towards that end, research and development (R & D) aspect deserves particular attention to promote and facilitate the operations of SMEs. Virtual R & D team could be a viable option. However, literature shows that virtual R & D teaming in SMEs is still at its infancy. This article provides a comprehensive literature review on different aspects of virtual R & D teams collected from the reputed publications. The purpose of the state-of-the-art literature review is to provide an overview on the structure and dynamics of R & D collaboration in SMEs. Specifying the foundation and importance of virtual teams, the relationship between virtual R & D team and SMEs has been examined. It concludes with the identification of the gaps in the existing literature's and calls for future research. It is argued that setting-up an infrastructure for virtual R & D team in SMEs still requires a large amount of engineering efforts and deserves consideration at top level management.
P42|Innovation Process is Facilitated in Virtual Environment of R&D Teams|Innovation is becoming the most important key issue for company's success in the 21st century. In the competitive environment it is necessary for the enterprises to put together different capabilities and services with the goal. It is widely accepted that innovation can be better achieved by working in team particularly in the virtual environments. The employed web services technology, although very popular nowadays but it is still not mature enough, so dealing with it can bring new findings. Virtual teams base on information technology are formed to facilitate transnational innovation processes and it should be noted that innovation has a positive impact on corporate performance if it is well guided. This has the pronounced effect when it comes to the learning issues as the virtual preconditions persist. In this environment the possibility of getting closer to the interest of learner from the new environment raise as the barriers being imposed by the service provider is reduced and the freedom of what is require to learn is improved. Information and communication technology has brought about significant changes in organizations and produced important benefits, including in the areas of innovation which is recognized as a prime source of national competitive advantage. This contribution proposes a conceptual model for understanding and analyzing the process of virtual R&D team as an innovation and technology assimilation facilitator when it comes to the issue of conveying innovative message for learning by individuals. The context of the knowledge-based economy introduces a major shift from serial to simultaneous R&D in the way of idea conception to technology creation is conceived. This paper briefly reviews the existing perspectives on virtual teams and their effect on innovation and technology regarding the learning capability which is being altered. It also discusses the main characteristics of virtual teams and clarifies the different aspects of virtual team application in the topic. To support the theoretical analysis, this paper provides a comprehensive review based on authentic and reputed publications. We argue that scanty research has been conducted to facilitate understanding the problem of systematically governing creative innovation toward a technology through virtual R&D teams in the atmosphere of educating individuals based on what they interest them to learn.
P42|Spatial Price Adjustment with and without Trade| In this paper we introduce a switching error correction model (SECM) estimator that allows for the possibility that price transmission between markets might vary during periods with and without physical trade flows. Applying this new approach to semi-weekly data on tomato markets in Zimbabwe, we find that intermarket price adjustment occurs quickly and as much when there is no trade as when product flows from one market to another. This finding underscores the importance of information flow for market performance.
P42|Transfer Prices: Mechanisms, Methods And International Approaches|Transfer prices are considered the prices paid for the goods or services in a cross-border transaction between affiliates companies, often significant reduced or increased in order to avoid the higher imposing rates from one jurisdiction. Presently, over 60% of cross-border transfers are represented by intra-group transfers. The paper presents the variety of methods and mechanisms used by the companies to transfer the funds from one tax jurisdiction to another in order to avoid over taxation.
P42|The vulnerability of enterprise and the operating financial balance|In the light of functional analysis, the company is vulnerable if used, for the most time part, to financing through bank loans in the short term. This item is highlighted by the study compared of variation of the operating revolving fund, with the variation of revolving fund need. In the frame of operating balance, it believes that the need for floating capital is the most important indicator whereas place in the record those cyclical needs not covered financial from temporary resources and permanent renewable in the same cycles of operation. Achieving this balance is put into evidence of the 4 levels of functional balance, namely: working capital fund (FRF) or stable level of funding, the need for capital funds for operating (NFRE), on the one hand and the need to revolving fund outside exploitation (NFRAE) on the other hand, and the level of treasury securities.
P42|R&D Network and value Creation in SMEs|Research and development functions are fundamental drivers of value creation in technology-based Small and Medium enterprises (SMEs) seemingly successful R&D is a function of innovation processes and R&D networks. There is a perceived lack of understanding regarding the importance of SMEs and their need to continuously enhance their technological capabilities for the purpose of establishing themselves a dominant market position. In this paper R&D network issues from the perspective of their impact on value creation in SMEs have been studied. One very important trend to enable new knowledge creation and transfer in and to SME's is the development of collaborative environments and networks to increase their innovation capabilities as a single unit but also the capabilities of the network as a whole through collective learning. SMEs seem to be appropriate units to behave like network nodes because of their lean structure, adaptability to market evolution, active involvement of versatile human resources, ability to establish sub-contracting relations and good technological level of their products. SMEs not only shape the larger outcome, but also constrain actions of the state and MNCs in demand-responsive, buyer-driven networks. The objective of this paper is the notice to creation of a network of SMEs that are perhaps geographically dispersed but virtually linked so that the participating members focus on their specialized tasks yet also share their knowledge and experience resources to create an agile structured and flexible enterprise.
P42|Virtual marketing in virtual enterprises|"Virtualization caused tremendous evolution in the economics of marketing channels, patterns of physical distribution and the structure of distributors and developed a new concept that is known as virtual marketing (VM). VM combines the powerful technologies of interactive marketing and virtual reality. Virtual enterprise (VE) refers to an organization not having a clear physical locus. In other words, VE is an organization distributed geographically and whose work is coordinated through electronic communications."" It should be mentioned that here VE encompasses all other similar phrases like Virtual company, virtual corporation, etc. One of the greatest challenges facing business owners and managers – both for traditional and virtual organizations- is finding a way to cost−effectively communicate frequently and consistently with their target markets; and the virtual marketing perform this function at the best possible. In this paper, we focus on the concept of “Virtual marketing in virtual enterprises”."
P42|Analyse von Grenzkostenpreisen im Europaeischen Gasmarkt|Der An- und Verkauf von Erdgas an Grosshandelsmaerkten wird in einem zunehmend liberalisierten Gasmarkt auch in Kontinentaleuropa weiter an Bedeutung gewinnen. Die Preise an diesen Maerkten bilden sich aus Angebot und Nachfrage; wie in jeder netzgebundenen Industrie kommt der Infrastruktur und ihrer Verfuegbarkeit dabei jedoch eine wichtige Rolle zu. Mit Hilfe des Ergasinfrastruktur- und Dispatchmodells Tiger werden in dieser Arbeit Grenzkostenpreise fuer ausgewaehlte europaeische Handelspunkte geschaetzt. Die Grundlage dafuer bildet ein most-likely Szenario fuer die Entwicklung des europaeischen Gasmarktes bis zum Jahr 2018. Die aktuell in der Realitaet zu beobachtende hohe Korrelation der europaeischen Boersenpreise fuer Erdgas untereinander kann dabei mit dem Modell nachvollzogen werden. Getrieben durch die Entwicklung von Angebot und Nachfrage zeigt sich jedoch, dass signifikant unterschiedliche Grenzkostenpreise in Nordwest- und Zentraleuropa in der naechsten Dekade temporaer auftreten koennen. Grund dafuer sind Infrastrukturengpaesse in Zeiten hoher Nachfrage.
P42|Agricultural insurances in Romania: present and future aspects|Concern for risks that stifle investment and contribute to vulnerability of the rural poor is a driving force behind various types of agricultural insurance. Insuring small-scale farmers against crop losses to adverse weather or other hazards has attracted public sector involvement in the provision of agricultural insurance in many countries among which Romania. With few exceptions, such interventions have encountered severe problems owing to high administrative costs, moral hazard, adverse selection etc. Government interventions should be aimed at improving the accessibility and quality of private sector insurance. This will require the establishment of a framework for responding to severe systemic events affecting agricultural production, and establishing an appropriate regulatory environment to foster private sector innovation and investment in services for less catastrophic events. Thus, in this item we tried to illustrate some elemental incident to appearances agricultural insurances in Romania.
P42|Evolución de la Eficiencia Productiva de una empresa privatizada: El Caso del Grupo Telefónica de España<BR>[Productive Efficiency in Telefonica]|Este trabajo trata de comprobar si la eficiencia productiva del Grupo Telefónica S.A. de España ha mejorado luego de ser privatizada. Se ha utilizado este caso por ser una empresa representativa en la industria de las telecomunicaciones globales. La evidencia empírica indica que las empresas de este sector y que fueron públicas, suelen presentar índices de productividad más altos cuando pasan a ser privadas, en un contexto de competencia y liberalización. Esta investigación busca demostrar si esta afirmación se cumple en este caso. Para este fin, se hace un análisis que cubre dos décadas, utilizando la técnica de evaluación y comparación de períodos previos y posteriores a la privatización. Se utilizan los indicadores de Productividad Global (IPG), Productividad Parcial del Trabajo (IPAT) y del Capital (IPAC), además de los indicadores financieros ROA, ROE, ROI y margen de explotación. Los resultados sugieren que el Grupo Telefónica, luego de su privatización, ha seguido un patrón similar al de sus pares de otros países, al mostrar aumentos en sus índices de productividad y en algunos de los índi-ces financieros. Este documento describe además, las principales aportaciones teóricas y empíricas de la eficiencia productiva de empresas de telecomunicaciones privatizadas en todo el mundo.
P42|R&D Management in Iran, Opportunities and Threats|Research and Development (R&D) management in Iran has faced many barriers and obstacles, in which R&D units are considered as the basic core of the product development and innovation. Due to structural shortcomings, a great number of organizations and industries have not yet been able to position themselves in the market. There are about 1141 R&D units throughout Iran, due to the geographical decentralization of these units this paper considers and analyzes the R&D case study in one of the provinces located in the north part of Iran, and the findings can be generalized to the other industrialized areas and zones in Iran. In this province, there are about 2504 industrial units of which there are only 44 R&D units certified by the state government. However, there is limited number of these R&D units that are extensively active. This paper also addresses the current status in respect with the R&D activities to find out why little attention has been paid to these activities in the industrial units. Considering the opportunities and challenges of these R&D units reveals that there is a need to activate these units so that they can quickly respond to changes in the market. Finally, a few alternative solutions and improvement plans are proposed, in which the Iranian R&D Society is responsible for supporting and fostering these action plans towards the organization goals. The research methodology was based on a previous field research conducted in Hamedan province, and after the analysis of the research results, a model for the efficiency of R&D units will be presented.
P42|Poverty and Access to Maternal Health Care Services in Pakistan: Evidence from Perception Based Data|Pakistan is on its way to achieving the targets of the fifth Millennium Development Goal in terms of reducing the maternal mortality ratio by three-quarters between 1990 and 2015. However, the rate of decline needs to speed up over the next decade as Pakistan has a high Maternal Mortality Ratio ranging between 400 to 1,400 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. The aim of this study is to explore the role of poverty status as a barrier in access to maternal health care services in Pakistan by regions and provinces. The analysis is based on The Pakistan Social and Living Standard Measurement Survey 2004-05. Four important indicators prenatal care, institutional delivery, postnatal care and utilization of family planning services are taken to assess the utilization of maternal health care services across perception based economic status. The findings of this study reveal that approximately 20 to 27 percent of women’s economic status worsened in 2004-05 as compared to a previous year. The antenatal care services received by women suggest that 49 percent births are preceded by a single prenatal visit in Pakistan while variation is observed across economic status and provinces while delivery care is still dominated by home births particularly in rural areas and among the lower economic status groups. As far as health care providers are concerned, better off women avail the facility from private sector while majority of poor women visit government hospitals or clinics. The role and content of postnatal care has been paid less attention across region and provinces. Only a quarter of women ever utilized the facility of family planning center during the month preceding the survey. Finally, it can be concluded that the poor economic status of women is a barrier in utilizing the maternal health care services. Finally, it is suggested that the progress of policies and program related to maternal health care services should always be monitored and evaluated in terms of the success achieved not only on aggregate terms but for each group of the population.
P42|Distretti e tecnologia: il caso di Lumezzane|Questo lavoro si propone di studiare lo sviluppo economico e tecnologico del distretto di Lumezzane, riconosciuto come archetipo del modello distrettuale italiano dalla letteratura distrettualista, che attraversa una fasi di profonda trasformazione. Tale trasformazione ha condotto, sia le singole imprese sia il distretto nel complesso, ad adottare nuove strategie produttive e commerciali per far fronte alle mutate condizioni competitive. Le tipicità dovute sia al territorio montano, certo non favorevole alla diffusione delle imprese, sia ad una filiera di specializzazione composita, basata su diversi prodotti in metallo, fanno del distretto di Lumezzane un caso di studio certamente di grande interesse. Una parte consistente del lavoro è dedicata all’analisi dei caratteri strutturali del distretto ed al suo peso relativo rispetto all’economia regionale e nazionale; ciò sembra particolarmente utile per coglierne esattamente punti di forza e di debolezza. Il mutamento più rilevante intervenuto nell’ultimo decennio è di carattere istituzionale, pur con numerose implicazioni di carattere organizzativo e produttivo, e si sostanzia nell’evidenza che le sorti competitive del distretto dipendano in misura sempre maggiore dalle imprese di dimensioni maggiori. Questo trend sottende anche la non facile trasformazione del tessuto competitivo che risulta composto sempre meno da imprese familiari, tipiche del distretto, e sempre più da imprese in forma di gruppo o di società connesse tra loro da legami formali (proprietari, commerciali, di fornitura) che definiscono reti sempre più complesse. Di fatto questo distretto, come molti altri in Italia, sta modificando alcuni degli elementi identificativi e peculiari della natura distrettuale definiti dalla letteratura economica. Un primo elemento è dato dal rafforzamento dei legami produttivi e commerciali con l’esterno del distretto, dal momento che le imprese si inseriscono nelle grandi reti nazionali ed internazionali sopra richiamate che rendono le relazioni intra-distrettuali meno decisive che in passato. Un secondo elemento riguarda il graduale cambiamento dei legami tra imprese che passano da informali – sub-contratto – a formali – gruppi. Il grado sempre più elevato di concorrenza richiede connessioni stabili associate alla capacità di articolare in maniera flessibile funzioni e competenze fra imprese dello stesso gruppo. Un terzo elemento riguarda la difficoltà delle piccole imprese, considerate individualmente, di rimanere cruciali all’interno di queste trasformazioni strutturali, nonostante l’artigianato dimostri ancora buone performance. La mutazione di questi elementi apre questioni di analisi e di policy che riguardano il futuro dei distretti e che richiederanno opportuni approfondimenti. Questo lavoro, oltre agli elementi di criticità, segnala come il distretto di Lumezzane disponga ancora di quel vantaggio competitivo che ha determinato buona parte del successo dei distretti nel corso degli ultimi decenni e che è rappresentato da quelle conoscenze, codificate e tacite, che gli consentono ancora di primeggiare nelle produzioni tipiche della sua specializzazione settoriale. Sembra chiaro, infine, che per il futuro prossimo internazionalizzazione ed innovazione costituiscano le due sfide competitive principali che questo distretto, come tutti gli altri distretti industriali italiani, è chiamato ad affrontare.
P42|Analysis of Opportunities and Challenges for R&D Management and the Role of the R&D Society for its Improvement – A Case Study in Iran|Research and Development (R&D) management in Iran is faced to many barriers and obstacles, in which R&D units are considered as the basic core of the product development and innovation. Due to structural shortcomings, a great number of organizations and industries have not been able to find their actual status. There are about different 1141 R&D units with a dispersion pattern in Iran. This paper considers and analyzes the R&D case study in one of the provinces located in the north part of Iran in order to enhance the potential R&D activities in respect with the industrialized areas and zones. In this province, there are about 2504 industrial units of which there are only 44 R&D units certified by the state government. However, there are limit numbers of these R&D units that are extensively active. This paper also addresses the current status in respect with the R&D activities to find out why there is a lack and depression of these activities in the industrial units. By considering the opportunity and challenges of these R&D units, there is a need to change these units to be active in order to quickly respond the market and demand requirements. Finally, a few alternative solutions and improvement plans are proposed, in which the Iranian R&D Society is responsible for supporting and succeeding these action plans towards the organization goals.
P42|The meso-firm as an entrepreneurial choice for a local sustainable economic development|The present essay argues about increasing both, the university pertinence, and the local economic development by creating a new type of firm called “meso-enterprise”. The meso-enterprise is characterized by being an independent and hierarchical organization; depending on knowledge an innovations, and with a high jointed-value production which can be interchangeably in national and international markets. To perform in this way, it is necessary that the meso-enterprise remains itself in a tie relationship with the knowledge creator’s institutions. Besides that, the meso-enterprise is able to form part of enterprising networks and clusters. In consequence, with this type of enterprise it is possible to diversify the production, and export it, as well as to improve quality life in those territories where these enterprises establish itself.
P42|Networking And Cooperation Of Small And Medium Sized Firms In Cross - Border Regions| During the last twenty years, and in the frame of rapid globalisation, technology is causing significant changes to the organisation of firms. In the European Union these significant changes have reinforced the European economy, though they have also led to reclassifications and a rise in competition within the Union, and they have created significant problems in less competitive regions. The transitional process in former socialist countries has created (or uncovered) inequality levels that are a completely new phenomenon for Europe. The course of events has resulted in winners and losers. Presently and following the market unification and the enlargement of the E. U., many border regions have found themselves at the centre of development, while others have become even more marginalized and are undergoing profound changes. The fordist system has gradually lost its significance and alternative models have been developed. Among these, it is believed that “flexible specialisation” offers the shortest route to development, especially for regions undergoing a phase of crisis and restructuring. Market mechanisms seem to reward flexible and innovative corporate organisation strategies. A corporate model involving intensive networking and cooperation is being promoted, whereby relatively smaller firms are being invited to play a more important role with respect to the past. An empirical study was carried out with the use of questionnaires in order to examine the model of flexible specialisation and networking by small and medium sized border firms. The study covers tourism firms that are active within the geographic triangle of Greece – Albania – Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Through the processing and cross-referencing of the study data it has been possible to develop a “model for the cooperating small and medium sized tourism firm” and to identify its characteristics.
P42|How Uncompetitive is the State-Owned Industrial Sector in China|The profitability gap between state-owned enterprises and the non-state industrial sector in China is significant. Using a highly-disaggregated database of China's industry in 2003, we estimate an average return to capital in state-owned enterprises about 9% that of foreign-invested firms, and about 59% of the return to capital in all non-state-owned industrial enterprises. Capital return differences are mainly driven by productivity differences, but the negative impact on SOEs' rental rates of a relatively integrated labor market is not negligible. The rental rate gap is much higher in sectors that represent a small share in SOEs' output and assets, meaning that the capital subsidies granted by the government have not biased SOEs' production structure toward industries with greatest profitability gap. The inefficiency cost of distortions in relative factor prices is estimated between 5% and 8% of total industrial output.
P42|Barter for price discrimination|Unprecendented growth of barter is a striking phenomenon of Russia's transition. The explanations of barter include tight monetary policy, tax evasion and poor financial intermediation. We show that the market power may also be important. We build a model of imperfect competition in which firms use barter for price discrimination. The model predicts a positive relationship between the concentration of market power and the share of barter in sales. We also show that barter disappears at a certain level of competition. The model has multiple stable equilibria which may explain persistence of barter. Using a unique dataset on barter transactions in Russia, we show that empirical evidence is consistent with the model's predictions.TEST<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P42|Managing Strategic Enterprise Systems and E-Government Initiatives in Asia:A Casebook|This book presents a socio-technical view of strategic information systems issues such as enterprise systems implementation and management, knowledge management, customer relationship management, and e-government initiatives. It contains eight case studies documenting experiences of utilizing enterprise systems and e-government initiatives in organizations and government agencies from Asia-Pacific countries such as Australia, India, Singapore, and South Korea.
P42|Infosys Technologies Limited, India|AbstractThe following sections are included:Company BackgroundBusiness ModelThe HistoryKnowledge Management at Infosys TechnologiesEarly Strategies — The Body of Knowledge (BoK) DocumentsEvolving toward Formal KMThe Web-based BoK System and the Process Assets SystemPeople Knowledge Map (PKM)Drivers of Formal KMPlanning for KM — The Knowledge Management Maturity (KMM) ModelKnowledge Management Systems (KMS): KshopKM Related Rewards ProgramDrawing Benefits from Organization-wide KM — An Evolving ProcessOrganization-wide KM — The ChallengesCoping with the Challenges of Implementing a KM StrategyConcluding Remarks
P42|NCS Private Limited, Singapore|AbstractThe following sections are included:Company BackgroundFrom Government to Commercial ServicesKnowledge Management in NCS: An OverviewThe Provision of IT Services and SolutionsKnowledge XPress — The Development of an Organizational KMSRolling Out and Refining Knowledge XPressToward a Social and Technical ApproachCommunities of PracticeConcluding Remarks
P42|Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Maintenance and Upgrade Management and Challenges|AbstractThe following sections are included:Company BackgroundMaintenance Department and ManagementERP maintenance challenges: An overviewMaintenance Activities from CA's Clients and IT Staff: ProcessManaging Support Package: ProcessUpgrade: An OverviewManaging Upgrade: Business Case and the ProjectConcluding Remarks
P42|UNI, Singapore|AbstractThe following sections are included:IntroductionSAP Implementation Background in UNIThe SAP Time Management (TM) ModuleProject PlanProject Preparation PhaseBusiness Blueprint PhaseRealization PhaseFinal Preparation PhaseGo-Live and Support PhasePost-Implementation PhaseStakeholder Descriptions: Project Management TeamSteering CommitteeProject ManagersUser LeadHuman Resources Department Users (HRD Users)Human Resources Department IT Officer (HRD-IT)SAP Lead Consultant (SAP-LC)Development TeamComputer Department Staff (HCD-IT)Stakeholder Descriptions: Other StakeholdersPolicy MakersUniversity Staff
P42|Singapore Police Force: One-Stop Public Entertainment Licensing Centre (OSPEC)|AbstractThe following sections are included:BackgroundThe General Environment for ChangeThe Beginning of ChangeThe PartnersThe SystemThe PublicityThe LaunchConcluding Remarks
P42|The Infocomm Development Authority Of Singapore (IDA)|AbstractThe following sections are included:BackgroundThe National I.T. Literacy ProgramKnowledge Collaboration in Strategic PartnershipsBarriers in Knowledge Sharing within E-government InitiativesResolving Barriers in Knowledge SharingConcluding Remarks
P42|Supreme Court Registry Office of South Korea (SCRO)|AbstractThe following sections are included:Organizational BackgroundRationale behind the Initiation of the e-Government Project at the SCROStrategic DirectionsProject StructureInitial Effects of ImplementationChallenges Faced by the SCRO during ImplementationChanges and Benefits Introduced by Project ImplementationFor the Administration DivisionFor the Correction and Investigation DivisionFor the Public Access DivisionFor District and Local BranchesBeyond the SCROFor the PublicConcluding Remarks
P42|Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (IRAS)|AbstractThe following sections are included:BackgroundEvolution of the e-Filing SystemPhase I: Digitizing Taxpayers' InformationPhase II: Automating Organizational Business ProcessesPhase III: Developing the Phone-filing SystemPhase IV: Designing the e-filing SystemPhase V: Maintaining and Improving the e-filing SystemPhase VI: Extending e-filing servicesConcluding Remarks
P42|Decomposing Wage Gaps between Ethnic Groups: The Case of Israel|Past investigations of the income gaps between Jews and non-Jews in Israel treat non-Jews as one group. In this paper we separate the non-Jewish group into three main religious minorities: Muslims, Christians, and Druze and focus on the northern part of Israel, where most minorities live. Using the latest Israeli census, we find significant explained and unexplained income gaps in favor of Jews. The unexplained gaps tend to be larger the more educated the individual. Jews have much higher representation in the more lucrative occupations, and earn significantly more in them. Muslims generally suffer from the largest income gaps, while Druze have the lowest income gaps, reflecting direct and indirect benefits reaped from serving in the army. Among minorities, Christians are the most educated and most concentrated in the top occupations, which explains why they have the lowest gaps in the highest percentiles of the income distribution.
P42|Web Auctions in Europe|This paper argues that a better understanding of the business model of web auctions can be reached if we adopt a broader view and provide empirical research from different sites. In this paper the business model of web auctions is refined into four dimensions. These are auction model, motives, exchange processes, and stakeholders. One of the objects of this research is to redefine the blurry concept of the business model by analyzing one business model, the web auction model. We show in this research the complexity and diversity of factors contributing to the success of the web auction model. By generalizing the results to the level of business model we also show how complex and diverse business models can be. Motivated by the lack of empirically grounded justification for the mixed business results of web auctions, this paper adopts a qualitative approach that includes telephone interviews with web auctions developed in different European countries.
P42|Barter for price discrimination? A theory and evidence from Russia|Unprecedented demonetization of Russia’s transition economy has been explained by tight monetary policy, tax evasion and poor …nancial intermediation. We show that market power may also be important. We build a model of imperfect competition in which …rms use barter for price discrimination. The model predicts a positive relationship between concentration of market power and share of barter in sales. The model has multiple equilibria which may explain persistence of barter in Russia but not in other economies. Using a unique dataset on barter transactions in Russia, we show that the …rm-level evidence is consistent with the model’s predictions.
P42|Barter for price discrimination? A theory and evidence from Russia|Unprecedented demonetization of Russia’s transition economy has been explained by tight monetary policy, tax evasion and poor …nancial intermediation. We show that market power may also be important. We build a model of imperfect competition in which …rms use barter for price discrimination. The model predicts a positive relationship between concentration of market power and share of barter in sales. The model has multiple equilibria which may explain persistence of barter in Russia but not in other economies. Using a unique dataset on barter transactions in Russia, we show that the …rm-level evidence is consistent with the model’s predictions.
P42|Agricultural Support Policies in Transition Economies|In the pre-reform period, agriculture was heavily subsidized in most Central and Eastern European countries (CEECs). Around 1989, most CEECs began to open up their markets, liberalize prices, and reduce subsidies. At the same time, the level of support provided to agriculture declined drastically. Since 1996, however, this trend has been reversed in most CEECs. To analyze the agricultural sector in CEECs, this report begins with a synthesis of the multi-country investigation. It presents estimates of various agricultural support indicators and an analysis of the impact of trade and price policy interventions. It also asks to what extent those adjustments provided for a more internationally competitive agricultural sector. The second part of the book presents individual country studies, including Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Russia, and Ukraine. Germany and Turkey are included for comparison.
P42|Enhancing the food security of the peri-urban and urban poor through improvements to the quality, safety and economics of street-vended foods|There has been a continuing growth in urbanisation in developing countries, and governments’ face a major challenge in ensuring that city dwellers are able to procure sufficient food. Street foods are sold in almost every country in the world. In most towns and cities in Ghana, selling of snacks and whole meals on the streets is an important way to obtain income, especially among the poor women. Street foods have a long tradition in most countries. The role of this sector in the urbanisation process and the urban economy reflects the way of life and the survival and coping strategies adopted in most African cities. Some earlier studies on street food vending in Ghana have taken place. The FAO and WHO have funded these. Unfortunately, the studies did not include potential food safety concerns such as the presence of heavy metals, pesticide residues and the presence of mycotoxins. The studies did not also examine the contribution of these informal microenterprises to the Ghanaian economy. The DFID/NRI/FRI project on improved street-vended foods was a one-year exploratory study aimed at assessing the safety and quality of food sold in Accra as well as estimates the contribution of this sector to the national economy of Ghana. The project complemented previous work carried on the sector by other workers. This workshop was therefore organized to present findings and identifies new areas where further knowledge is required. As part of this dissemination, key stakeholders of the streetfood vending business in Ghana made short presentations on the status of the foods sold in Accra. These short presentations are also included in this report.
P42|Labor Productivity in Transition: A Regional Analysis of Russian Industry|This paper examines within-industry variation in labor productivity at the beginning of Russia's transition process in 1992, as well as regional variation in the percentage of firms that exhibit below industry average labor productivity. The main hypothesis is that industries and regions where a disproportionate share of firms exhibited below average labor productivity in 1992 will experience above average employment reductions between 1992 and 1995. In only 25 percent of the locales included in this analysis, however, does the predicted match emerge. Most of these locales are located in the Central region.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P42|Restructuring with What Success? A Case Study of Russian Firms|"This case study of enterprise restructuring utilizes data collected from thirty-two former state-owned firms in Taganrog, Russia, in the summer and fall of 1999. These data are used to construct three composite measures of enterprise restructuring. When defined broadly to include several dimensions of the restructuring process, the ""restructuring threshold"" is achieved by half of the privatized firms participating in the project. The firms achieving this threshold are distributed across all industries included in the sample. Regardless of the composite measure used, more than one-third of the former state-owned firms participating in this project attained the ""active"" restructuring designation. The results indicate that (1) production assortment changes appear to be ongoing among those firms engaged in restructuring activities, (2) employment changes appear to involve a mixed strategy with regard to timely wage payments, workforce size, and the benefits package; and (3) outsider ownership is more prevalent among the group of firms designated as restructuring than among those firms that failed to achieve the ""restructuring threshold."" To put into perspective the economic and business environment in which these former state-owned firms operate, a comparison is made to a group of de novo firms that were surveyed under the auspices of the same project."
P42|Cartagena 1900-1950 : a remolque de la economía nacional|Historia económica de Cartagena en el período 1900-1950, la dinámica del puerto, el comercio exterior, la población, el urbanismo, los inicios de la industria, el transporte férreo y posterior pérdida de empuje en el desarrollo económico de la ciudad.
P42|El costo del capital en las empresas colombianas|"“El costo del capital de una empresa es el rendimiento mínimo requerido sobre un proyecto de inversión de tal forma que el valor de la misma aumente si se ejecuta el proyecto. El financiamiento de la inversión se realiza con recursos escasos provenientes de distintas fuentes, siendo las dos principales la deuda y el capital. Las características de estos instrumentos reflejan preferencias de determinados agentes por distintos tipos de riesgo. El objetivo de este trabajo es realizar estimativos del costo del capital de las empresas en Colombia. Igualmente se busca hacer una presentación detallada de algunas metodologías, de tal manera que los procedimientos se puedan replicar para alguna empresa o proyecto específicos. Para esta tarea emplearemos diversas metodologías. En primer término se estimarán los coeficientes de riesgo (betas) y las primas de riesgo por sectores económicos, con base en los modelos del CAPM (Capital Asset Pricing Model) y el APT (Arbitrage Pricing Theory), replicando los procedimientos empleados en un trabajo anterior para el caso de una empresa petrolera (Mora, 1996). En segunda instancia, se utilizará la metodología de similares, o ""pure play"", apropiada cuando no existe un mercado efectivo para los activos que se desean valorar o cuyo rendimiento se desea conocer. En tercer lugar se medirá el costo del capital siguiendo la metodología de Hsia (1991). En este orden de ideas, el documento se divide en dos capítulos. El primero describe las metodologías empleadas para estimar el costo del capital. El segundo presenta la aplicación y los resultados. Finalmente se resumen las conclusiones e implicaciones para la política económica.”"
P42|Enterprise Restructuring in Russia's Transition Economy: Formal and Informal Mechanisms|This paper examines the nature and scope of enterprise restructuring in Russia using two sources firm-level data. The first involves a panel of over 2,000 civilian manufacturing firms in Moscow, Tver, Volgograd, Rostov, and Novosibirsk The second involves data collected from a series of in-depth interviews conducted benveen 1994 and 1997 with top-level managers in 47 firms located it Moscow, Tver, Nizhny, Volgograd and Novosibirsk. The objective of the paper is threefold. First, we summarize the existing literature on enterprise restructuring, and evaluate the pros and cons of a number of restructuring measures that have been used in studies of privatized firms in Russia and other transition economies. Second, we apply two measures of enterprise restructuring to our data to investigate the extent of variation by industry, ownership structure, and location. Third we examine in detail the question of whether barter enhances or impedes enterprise restructuring in Russia.
P42|Ownership and Employment in Russian Industry: 1992-1995|Using data collected from a panel of 6,205 civilian manufacturing firms located in the Central, Volga, North Caucasus, Northern and Western Siberian regions of Russia, this paper examines the hypotheses that in the first stage of the transition process (1) Russian industry exhibited a low labor elasticity, and (2) employment changes were highly correlated with ownership structure. The first section summarizes what we know about output and employment patterns in Russian industry between 1992 and 1995. In section two, characteristics of the panel are described. Section three describes the methodology employed to test the two hypotheses. Section four presents the empirical results. In particular, given the socialist production and employment patterns Russia inherited, the results from the panel data regressions indicate that manufacturing firms in Russia experienced an unsustainably low elasticity of labor in the first stage of the transition process. However, ownership structure tends not to be a major influence on employment change for these Russian firms. Section five offers concluding remarks.
P42|How are China's state-owned enterprises doing in the 1990s? Evidence from three interior provinces|Since its inception in the early 1980s, the success of China's enterprise reforms remains hotly debated. This paper introduces a new element into the analysis of state-owned enterprise performance by drawing on the recent increase in interregional income disparities. It is argued that as a result of less favourable structural conditions and stronger fiscal dependence on the central government, reform implementation in the interior provinces has lagged behind the progress made along the coast. This hypothesis is investigated using enterprise survey data from three interior provinces which is compared to a similar survey carried out earlier in four coastal cities. The evidence generally supports the view of larger administrative restrictions in the interior and relatively poor economic performance.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P42|Depreciation and Russian Corporate Finance: A Pragmatic Approach to Surviving thr Transition|"Are Russian firms being allowed to clean the slate with respect to the Soviet legacy of obsolete capital stock? If estimates of capital productivity and firm-level efficiency in Soviet industry are correct, enterprise managers in Russia's emerging market economy will lobby for high depreciation rates in order to write off as quickly as possible the obsolete capital stock which they inherited. Policy makers, seeking to maintain or expand tax revenues to finance the transition, may resist pressure to allow market forces to value capital and continue to set depreciation rates similar to those in the former Soviet economy. This paper utilizes firm-level data in 1992 and 1995 to investigate the extent to which depreciation rates vary across industries and regions by the size of the firm's capital stock, the intensity of capital use, the size of the firm's workforce, the firm's ownership structure, and whether or not the firm exports any portion of its output. The results indicate that in both 1992 and 1995, state-owned firms reported significantly higher average depreciation rates, and thus faced a lower tax burden, ceteris panibus, than joint ventures, leased firms, joint stock companies, and privately-owned firms. While pragmatic from the policy maker's perspective of maintaining a broad tax base, this result highlights the disproportionate burden imposed on the ""engines of transition."" Moreover, while economic rationale might explain the higher depreciation rates for exporting firms in 1992, economic rationale is unsatisfactory in explaining why firms in the Central region, particularly those located in Moscow, reported higher depreciation rates in 1995."
