P44|Temporal disaggregation of overlapping noisy quarterly data using state space models: Estimation of monthly business sector output from Value Added Tax data in the UK|This paper derives monthly estimates of turnover for small and medium size businesses in the UK from rolling quarterly VAT-based turnover data. We develop a state space approach for filtering and temporally disaggregating the VAT figures, which are noisy and exhibit dynamic unobserved components. We notably derive multivariate and nonlinear methods to make use of indicator series and data in logarithms respectively. After illustrating our temporal disaggregation method and estimation strategy using an example industry, we estimate monthly seasonally adjusted figures for the seventy-five industries for which the data are available. We thus produce an aggregate series representing approximately a quarter of gross value added in the economy. We compare our estimates with those derived from the Monthly Business Survey and find that the VAT-based estimates show a different time profile and are less volatile. In addition to this empirical work our contribution to the literature on temporal disaggregation is twofold. First, we provide a discussion of the effect that noise in aggregate figures has on the estimation of disaggregated model components. Secondly, we illustrate a new temporal aggregation strategy suited for overlapping data. The technique we adopt is more parsimonious than the seminal method of Harvey and Pierse (1984) and can easily be generalised to nonoverlapping data.
P44|Socio-Political Instability and Growth Dynamics|Since 2006, almost 60 percent of global protest events have been exclusively driven by economic injustice. Standard determinants of socio-political instability reported in the literature, do not fully explain the effect of monetary and fiscal policy decisions on the intended target audience of those policy outcomes. We develop an overlapping generation’s monetary endogenous growth model characterized by socio-political instability, to analyse growth dynamics and specifically, monetary policy outcomes in the presence of this augmentation. Socio-political instability is specified as the fraction of output being lost due to strikes, riots and protests and is positively related to inflation. Interesting, two distinct growth dynamics emerge, one convergent and the other divergent, if socio-political instability is a function of inflation. And by using a sample of 170 countries during the 1980 – 2012 period, and allowing for time and fixed effects, the results indicate that inflation correlates positively with socio-political instability. Policy makers should be cognisant that it is crucial to maintain long-run price stability, as failure to do so may result in high inflation emanating from excessive money supply growth, and high (er) socio-political instability, and ultimately, the economy being on a divergent balanced growth path.
P44|The Transactions Demand for Paper and Digital Currencies|This paper investigates optimal currency choice, particularly the choice between paper and digital currencies, when currency is utilized solely as a medium of exchange. The Baumol-Tobin model of transactions demand for money is extended to derive conditions under which digital currency is preferred to paper currency, taking into consideration the network externality in the choice of currencies. The model is applied to explain potential variations in currency preferences across countries, especially between advanced and developing economies. Also discussed is how the introduction of negative interest rates, currency taxes, and central bank digital currency affect optimal currency choice.
P44|Association between inflation rates and inflation uncertainty in quantile regression|Inflation and its associated uncertainty impose costs on real economic output in every economy. In developing economies, this welfare cost is higher than those obtainable in developed countries because inflation rate is still higher than desired, mostly double-digit in Africa. In contrast to conventional conditional mean approaches, this study employed quantile regressions and cross-sectional data from 44 African countries for the period 1986 to 2015 to examine the relationship between the level of inflation and inflation uncertainty. This study considers two measures of inflation – Inflation rate and mean inflation, and three different measures of inflation uncertainty – standard deviation, relative variation and median deviation of the inflation rate. The study found evidence of positive and significant association between inflation and its uncertainty across quantiles. It also found that higher inflation brings about more inflation variability, thereby supporting the Friedman-Ball hypothesis and on the other hand high inflation uncertainty prompts rises in inflation, confirming the Cukierman-Meltzer hypothesis. The study therefore recommend that policy makers should target low average inflation rates in order to reduce the negative consequences of inflation uncertainty, which in turn can improve economic performance in Africa.
P44|What is the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana?|The paper examines the effect of inflation on consumer spending behaviour in Ghana during the period 1964 to 2013 using annual data. The analysis of the results was done using Ordinary least square test (OLS), the Johansen test (JH), and Vector Error Correction (VECM) test. The findings of the studies based on the JH tests showed stable significant long run relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. The findings of the study shows significant short run relationship between inflation and consumer spending using the VECM. The results of the OLS test show there is positive relationship between inflation and consumer spending behaviour. Policy makers should take into account the findings of the study in managing the economy. Future studies on causality and structural break are worth undertaking.
P44|Empirical Analysis of the Transformation of Economic Growth into Social Development at an International Level|Abstract This paper takes a look at the countries of the world and their rankings in terms of material wealth. Using the attributes and variables featured in the development of these countries and synthetic indexes, it analyzes the relationship between wealth levels and estimates of social development. First we use the indicators estimated by UNDP. Using UNDP methodology and multivariate statistical methods such as factor analysis, we then turn to complementary estimators. Our results not only allow us to identify which countries are better (or worse) at turning economic growth into social development but they also contribute to detecting the dimensions of development behind position changes across various rankings.
P44|A New Multidimensional Ranking of Shadow Economy for EU Countries|Shadow economy is a perennial, multifaceted and hard to gauge phenomenon that affects to some degree all countries. Scientific research needs to develop rigorous and internationally comparable metrics of shadow economy in order to avoid possible misunderstanding, exaggeration and sometimes bad intentions concerning the assessment of shadow economy, corruption and fiscal fraud. Considering the limitations of single shadow economy indicators we propose a more comprehensive measurement based on a new synthetic shadow economy index (SSEI). This index encompasses three relevant indicators, namely the size of shadow economy per capita, the shadow economy relative to GDP and the countries’ shares in EU total shadow economy. The analysis covered the period 1999 to 2012 and the results indicated that some of the developed EU countries, rather than the new members, are on top positions of the shadow economy. We also found a sigma convergence trend in shadow economy size and intensity among EU-28 countries over 1999-2012. The main conclusion of our paper is that the analyses of shadow economy should be based on a set of relevant indicators, instead of a single indicator.
P44|L’impact de l’instabilité politique sur la volatilité de l’inflation dans les pays en développement|Dans ce papier, nous analysons les effets de l’instabilité politique sur La volatilité d’inflation dans les pays en développement. A cette fin, nous examinons en premier lieu le caractère multidimensionnel de l'instabilité politique dans les pays en développement en utilisant 26 indicateurs de l’instabilité politique dans une analyse en composantes principales (ACP). Nous sommes arrivés à détecter quatre dimensions d’instabilité politique, à savoir : le niveau de la démocratie, la violence et la protestation à motivation politique, les effets des pays voisins, et l’instabilité au niveau du gouvernement. En deuxième lieu, Nous examinons l’impact de l’instabilité politique à travers ces quatre dimensions sur les niveaux d’inflation à l’aide d’une méthode de panel dynamique (GMM). Nous avons constaté que seule les dimensions, l’instabilité du régime politique et le niveau de protestation et violence politique ont un effet significatif et positif sur les niveaux d’inflation dans les pays en développement.
P44|The Empirical Analysis of Relationship between Exchange Rate Volatility and Stock Prices Volatility, the Combination of Garch and Ardl Models|Exchange rate is one of the effective factors on stock prices. In this paper has been investigated the effect of informal exchange rate volatility on stock prices volatility based on the daily data from 2007 to 2011 using the General Autoregressive Conditional Heteroscedasticity (GARCH) and Auto Regressive Distributed Lag Model (ARDL) in the Iranian economy empirically. The results from estimated models indicate that the informal exchange rate volatility has a negative and significant effect on stock prices volatility with coefficient (-0.411). Also the error correction coefficient in estimated Error Correction Model (ECM) is (-0.88) that shows is adjusted 84 percent of imposed shock by the informal exchange rate on stock prices in the short term.
P44|The New Concept of Money: From Record-Of-Value (RoV) To Record-Of-Entropy (RoE)|In this paper, we shall analyse the concept of Money. Presently money is viewed as Record-of-Value i.e. money is used to capture value created in any activity. We start by defining money. Then we discuss the way energy is spent in creating value is measured using money. We also assess the uses of money by viewing it as a Record-of-Value entity. We discuss about the parallel economy which impacts mainstream economy in various ways. Economic Entropy is then defined and discussed. An equation that relates Economic Entropy, value based money and other economic parameters is proposed. The various advantages of viewing money as a Record-of-Entropy are debated. Finally, the paper concludes as to which concept is best suited to present day and future economic scenarios.
P44|Locating a chronology for the great divergence: a critical survey of published data deployed for the measurement of nominal wages for Ming and Qing China|Since the publication of Kenneth Pomeranz’s seminal book The Great Divergence, the landscape of world and global history has changed dramatically. For the first time, living standards, instead of labour, land and capital productivities, have become the prime concern among historians in various parts of the world. The key to this decade-long debate hinges on quantity and quality of information for transnational and cross-regional comparisons. But due to the obvious constraints we historians constantly face, genuinely good data are frustratingly hard to obtain and thus set the upper limits for what we can possibly achieve. The task of the present study is to put some currently circulated nominal wages for the Ming-Qing Period (1368-1911) under the microscope to check their feasibility. Our main findings from Chinese sources suggest that published cash wages did not reflect the actual living wages needed in reality to support a worker and his family of the average size. This means that we may have been barking at the wrong tree.
P44|The concept of Ordnungspolitik through the lens of the theory of limited and open access orders|The paper argues that there are certain parallels between the ideas of ordoliberalism and the framework of limited and open access order (LAO/OAO) as developed by North, Wallis, Webb and Weingast (NWWW): Both approaches focus on the “interdependence of orders”, and both share an emphasis on state capacity in processes of social transition. I also argue that the ideas of the ordoliberals might give impulses for the further development of the LAO/OAO research agenda. Firstly, whereas NWWW mainly deal with the transition process from LAO to OAO, the members of the Freiburg school intensely dealt with the danger that an OAO might revert into an LAO. Accordingly, they spent much effort on developing policy proposals that aimed at preventing such a ‘re-feudalisation’ (Franz Böhm) of society. Secondly, especially when it came to the issue of accomplishing reforms, they also considered the role of informal institutions and beliefs, a topic somewhat neglected in the LAO/OAO-framework in its present form. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
P44|The Opportunities of Growth in the Environment of Currency Collapses in Russia and Financial Bubbles in the World|Introduction of the free-float regime of exchange rate of the Russian ruble coupled with the fall of oil prices led to sizeable ruble depreciation. All oil-exporters devalued their currencies, however the devaluation of the ruble was the most significant. Against the backdrop of remaining instability in the world economy where a lot of financial indicators reach their pre-crisis highs, it makes the global situation highly unstable and the creation of anti-crisis buffers and stabilizing mechanisms extremely relevant for Russia.
P44|Revenues, Expenses, Profitability And Investments Of Potential Contenders For The Status Of A Listed Company In Poland|The purpose of this article is an attempt to determine the scope of Polish companies operating on the market which could raise capital by the means of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Therefore, a preliminary analysis is made of selected results achieved by economic entities in the years 2003-2012, as well as values and trends produced by them, with particular emphasis on the fluctuation of their number, undertaken investments, structure of revenues and expenses and financial performance, against other countries of the European Union. To illustrate the whole potential volume, the study covered all structures operating in the market: micro, small, medium and large enterprises, and their results are shown on the basis of statements arising from the undeniable specificity of the entire SME sector and large companies operating in Poland.
P44|Revenues, expenses, profitability and investments of potential contenders for the status of a listed company in Poland|The purpose of this article is an attempt to determine the scope of Polish companies operating on the market, which could raise capital by the means of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Therefore, a preliminary analysis is made of selected results achieved by economic entities in the years 2003-2012 as well as values and trends produced by them, with particular emphasis on the fluctuation of their number, undertaken investments, structure of revenues and expenses and financial performance, against other countries of the European Union. To illustrate the whole potential volume, the study covered all structures operating in the market: micro, small, medium and large enterprises and their results are shown on the basis of statements arising from the undeniable specificity of the entire SME sector and large companies operating in Poland.
P44|Análisis del acoplamiento entre la riqueza y el desarrollo socioeconómico de las naciones<BR>[Analysis of the mismatch between wealth and socio-economic development of nations]|In this paper, the attributes and variables featuring the development of the World countries are reviewed. The relationship between wealth levels and some estimates using synthetic indices of social development is analyzed. With this aim, we firstly use the indicators estimated by UNDP. Afterwards, we turn to complementary estimators using UNDP methodology and multivariate statistical methods such us factor analysis. Results allow us to identify which countries do better (or worse) at turning economic growth into social development. They also contribute to detect the dimensions of development that are behind of changes in positions in several rankings.
P44|Monetary Development and Transmission in the Eurosystem|Since the launch of the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) in January 1999 till today in 2015, the Euro has ascended to become the second largest reference currency in the world. With about €1.6 trillion of currency in circulation it is at present even positioned above the US dollar with €1.3 trillion. The Eurosystem now comprises 19 EU countries with about 340 million people and inherits an outstanding role for the economy of the EMU, world trade, and international finance. Despite its importance, a recent independent empirical review that conclusively analyzes all key factors and efficiencies remains much obsolete. Thus, this research and review sets out to empirically-theoretically compile the last 16 years of the EMU with a focus on monetary developments, functioning of monetary transmission channels (MTCs) and mechanisms, as well as the performance of the Eurosystem and its ECB governed monetary policies (MP). For the first time it reviews a complete set of 16 MTCs and systematically evaluates the functioning of the Eurosystem and its role for the real economy and its people. It finds a high efficiency loss in all MTCs related to fractional reserve banking, excessive EU indebtedness, or legal frameworks such as MFI, financial, or equity law. Scientifically, based on all data and results, there is no way to reach a different conclusion and reminder that stresses the need, exigency and must to replace an old-fashioned reserve banking system by digital full-reserve banking via monetary reform at the earliest feasible date possible.
P44|Monetary Policy-Making in Nigeria: Does evidence support augmented Taylor Rule?|This paper relies on the augmented Taylor rule to evaluate the reaction function of the historical path of nominal monetary policy rate in Nigeria in the period 1996:Q1-2014:Q4. The main technique of analysis is the GMM econometric approach and the reaction function is augmented with the real exchange rate. Evidence from the study suggests that the real output and exchange rate are both significant in explaining the path of monetary policy rate while the inflation variable was not statistically significant. Monetary policy reacts negatively to lagged real exchange rate and current real exchange rate but positively to lagged real output gap. We conclude that lag of real exchange rate has a greater effect on the policy rate consequently inflation targeting is not a primary objective of the CBN. Based on economic theory, the study recommends the adoption of Taylor rule because findings from such rule based approach can be used to stabilize output and inflation in Nigeria.
P44|Social Protection and The Politics of Anger in the Middle East and North Africa|This article investigates the confessional resource dependent welfare regimes of the Middle East and North Africa. It emphasizes the elite-captured nature of resources as well as the dependence of these regimes on oil and gas revenues or the acquisition from state-assets. The article pays a special attention to religious and other non-state actors in the administration and delivery of social protection. By examining key institutional features in Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Libya, Jordan, Morocco, Syria, Yemen and Tunisia, the article also highlights the ways in which differential sets of social protection institutions succeeded in ensuring social peace and loyalty to the regimes. In addition, by identifying shortcomings and strengths in the administration of public goods, the article highlights the prospects for future and more successful reforms. In the conclusions, the «politics of anger» that led to the Arab Spring of 2011 is briefly elucidated.
P44|The Wild Bunch! An empirical note on populism and economic institutions|The debate on populism has recently been revitalized by the rise of new political actors, especially in Latin America and Europe. Despite the renewed interest, the concept of populism remains vague, complicating any empirical investigation on its political and economic outcomes. Still, all populist politicians strongly emphasize the defense of the common man’s interest against those of privileged elites, suggesting that such governments will have notable implications for economic policy and institutions. Using a non-partisan indicator of populism, this paper seeks to assess the impact of populist policies on institutional change, as measured by the economic freedom of the world index. Results indicate that populist governments actively reduce economic freedom. In particular, they erode legal security, reduce freedom to trade, and tighten economic regulation. Findings expand on previous research with empirical methodology, questioning the importance of ideological orientation in some definitions of populism. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
P44|Banking concentration and financial stability: Evidence from developed and developing countries|In this paper, the authors analyze the relationship between banking concentration and financial stability for a sample of 173 developed and developing countries over the period 1980-2011. First, they empirically examined the direct effect of banking concentration on financial stability by using a panel logit model. Second, the authors investigated the indirect effect through which concentration may affect stability. Their findings provide support for the existence of both concentration-stability and concentration-fragility channels. However, the authors report the absence of any direct effect of banking concentration on the occurrence of financial stability in our sample. When considering heterogeneity across countries, their results help confirm the stabilizing effect of concentration on financial stability for developing countries. However, the concentration-fragility hypothesis does not hold for these countries. They also confirm the existence of both effects regarding concentration: the stabilizing and destabilizing effect of concentration on financial stability.
P44|Estimaciones Quinquenales del PIB Estatal Industrial en México durante 1930-1965, a partir de Información Censal|Se detalla el procedimiento para elaborar estimaciones quinquenales del PIB estatal industrial en México, durante un periodo en el que se carece de información oficial al respecto: 1930-1965. Las estimaciones se desglosan a nivel de rama, para lo cual se siguen métodos indirectos sustentados fundamentalmente en información de los censos industriales de la época. Se propone un método de Asignación Geográfica Relativa del Producto Interno Bruto –que aquí se le denomina AGERP–, que permiten en forma controlada, reducir los sesgos que pudieran presentarse ante los problemas censales más comunes, como son: falta de proporcionalidad y representatividad, errores de medida, cobertura incompleta, excesiva agregación geográfica, campo y unidad censal inadecuados, y otros. Después de validar las estimaciones –a través de su correlación con indicadores auxiliares que se comportan en forma similar a la actividad económica–, se concluye que mediante este método, es factible estimar el PIB estatal industrial en forma adecuada, y que las estimaciones que se han realizado con metodologías similares pueden ser mejoradas.
P44|Triangular Relationship between Energy Consumption, Price Index and National Income in Asian Countries: A Pooled Mean Group Approach in Presence of Structural Breaks|Energy consumption is a key factor in economic activity. To ascertain its role in economic growth, this study empirically investigates its role for Asian countries. Price index is also included in analysis as factor of economic growth. We examine and quantify this long run relationship for a sample of selected Asian countries with data on relevant variables for a large time dimension (1970 to 2012). Econometric precision is brought by using pooled mean group (PMG) besides other Pedroni, Kao and Westerlund panel cointegration tests. PMG being heterogeneous panels estimation technique allows the slope and short run parameters to vary across the countries. Structural breaks are also incorporated to observe the impact of shocks that leave permanent effect on national income. Results show the presence of long run relationship between energy consumption and national income. The positive contribution of energy consumption is quantified using Fully Modified OLS and dynamic OLS as well. Policy recommendations are made on the basis of empirical analysis.
P44|Dolarizasyon ve Finansman Maliyeti|Günümüzün çalkantýlý ekonomik ortamýnda kendisini kanýtlamýþ yabancý para birimleri üzerinden iþlem yapma eðilimleri artmaktadýr. Dolarizasyon olarak bilinen bu eðilimler, ekonomiler üzerinde olumlu ve olumsuz çeþitli etkiler yaratmaktadýr. Bunu ekonomik aktörlerin en önde gelenlerinden birisi olan bankalarýn dikkate almalarý gerekmektedir. Bu çalýþmada bankalarýn dolarizasyondan ne þekilde etkilendikleri, bir araþtýrma vasýtasýyla ele alýnmaktadýr. Bankalarýn finansal iþlemlerinde dolarizasyonun belli derecelerde olmasýnýn, finansal performansý etkilemesi beklenti dahilindedir. Gerçekten de araþtýrma sonucunda, bu hususa yönelik önemli bulgular elde edilmiþtir. Çalýþmada, T.C. Merkez Bankasý’ndan yýllara göre 3 aylýk periyotlarla, dolarizasyon, enflasyon, zorunlu rezerv karþýlýk oraný ve reel kesim güven endeksi rakamlarý alýnmýþtýr. Hayali bir firmanýn belli sabitlerle ve ayný tarihteki faiz oranlarý ile birlikte finansman giderleri bulunmuþtur. Bu veriler birbiri ile korelasyon analizine tabi tutulmuþ olup, aralarýnda çeþitli yoðunluklu iliþkiler bulunmuþtur.
P44|Del concepto de crecimiento económico al de desarrollo y bienestar de las naciones: Una aplicación a la Unión Europea<BR>[From economic growth to development and welfare of nations: An application to the European Union]|In this paper, the attributes and variables that characterize the development and welfare of rich countries (EU27) are reviewed. The relationship between the wealth levels and some estimates using synthetic indices of social development is analyzed (SDI). For this purpose, we firstly use the indicators estimated by UNDP. Afterwards, we turn to complementary estimators using UNDP methodology and multivariate statistical methods (factor analysis and distance P2). Our main conclusion is that there is a mismatch between per capita GDP and social development indicators. This fact justifies a review of the key instruments used for assessing and comparing the levels of economic welfare. En este trabajo se revisan los atributos y variables que caracterizan el desarrollo y bienestar social en países de elevado nivel de riqueza (UE27). Se analiza la relación entre su posición en términos de riqueza material y la derivada de distintas estimaciones de índices sintéticos de desarrollo social (IDS). Para ello se utilizan, en primer lugar, los indicadores estimados por el PNUD. A continuación recurrimos a estimadores complementarios mediante la propia metodología PNUD y métodos estadísticos multivariantes y de distancias (análisis factorial y distancia P2). Nuestra conclusión principal es que el nivel de PIB per cápita y el de desarrollo social se muestran desacoplados, lo que justifica y motiva una revisión de los instrumentos dominantes a la hora de evaluar y comparar en el tiempo y el espacio los niveles de bienestar económico.
P44|Determinantes de la inflación en Ecuador Un análisis econométrico utilizando modelos VAR|En el presente trabajo se busca identificar cuáles son los componentes que determinan el comportamiento de la inflación en el caso de la economía ecuatoriana. A través de un modelo VAR se realiza una estimación y proyección de la evolución futura del nivel de precios en función de la inflación rezagada, salario nominal, oferta monetaria, gasto público y tipo de cambio real. Obteniéndose evidencia empírica que permita hacer recomendaciones de política económica.
P44|Are the inflations of world co-integrated?|The hike in prices to any product and/or service is the common man’s fright. Inflation has faced upheavals regardless of the countries around the world. This study has specifically quantified the co- movement of inflation rates of different countries around the globe. Johansen Co-integration was used to analyze the co-movements of the inflation rates of the selected world regions divided as South Asia, North Asia, Africa, Middle East, South America, North America, Central America, Europe and Australia. The results revealed that co-movements of inflation rates prevails in North Asia, Africa, Middle East, North America, Central America, Europe and Australia whereas; South Asia and South America’s co-movements in regards to inflation rates was not found. This simply depicts that the territorial inflation levels in most of the economies shift mutually all around the globe and most of the countries are absorbing the inflationary trends from each other regardless of political, social, technological diversity. But in few nations despite of their symmetric socio-economic nature the inflationary trends are asymmetric.
P44|Belarusian Economic Growth Decomposition|Belarus experienced rapid economic growth in the 2000's, which abruptly came to halt after 2008. The authors found that the major source of growth was capital accumulation, while growth in total factor productivity (TFP) was modest. Moreover, government interventions and controls on the capital market contributed to misallocation which lowered aggregate productivity. Lack of productivity growth led to the loss of competitiveness on the international markets. Comparisons of TFP in Belarus with the Czech Republic and Sweden shows that comparative advantages of Belarus are concentrated in the natural-resource based industries, and TFP gap with the Czech Republic is not closing over time.
P44|Financing Japan's World War II Occupation of Southeast Asia|This paper analyzes how Japan financed its World War II occupation of Southeast Asia, the transfer of resources to Japan, and the monetary and inflation consequences of Japanese policies. In Malaya, Burma, Indonesia and the Philippines, the issue of military scrip to pay for resources and occupying armies greatly increased money supply. Despite high inflation, hyperinflation hardly occurred because of a sustained transactions demand for money, because of Japan's strong enforcement of monetary monopoly, and because of declining Japanese military capability to ship resources home. In Thailand and Indochina, occupation costs and bilateral clearing arrangements created near open-ended Japanese purchasing power and allowed the transfer to Japan of as much as a third of Indochina's annual GDP. Although the Thai and Indochinese governments financed Japanese demands mainly by printing large quantities of money, inflation rose only in line with monetary expansion due to money's continued use as a store of value in rice-surplus areas.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P44|La brecha del producto y el producto potencial en Venezuela: una estimación SVAR|Este artículo estima la brecha del PIB para Venezuela por medio de un modelo de vectores autorregresivo estructural y el método de descomposición de Blanchard y Quah para el período 1999:1-2010:4. Se usó información trimestral para la tasa de inflación, el producto interno bruto real, la tasa de desocupación y los precios de realización del barril de petróleo; se identificaron shocks fiscales y monetarios por el lado de la demanda, y tecnológicos y laborales por el lado de la oferta. Los resultados empíricos revelan que aunque inicialmente existe una amplia brecha entre el producto real y el potencial, esta tiende a cerrarse progresivamente hacia finales del período como consecuencia del aumento de los precios del petróleo. Las proyecciones revelan que la brecha pudiera eventualmente caer como resultado de la contracción económica observada durante los años 2009 y 2010.
P44|Environmentally Sustainable National Income: Indispensable Information for Attaining Environmental Sustainability|Environmental functions are defined as the possible uses of the non-human-made physical surroundings on which humanity is entirely dependent. Competing functions are by definition economic goods, indeed the most fundamental humanity disposes of. Environmental sustainability is defined as the dynamic equilibrium by which vital environmental functions remain available for future generations. Environmentally sustainable national income (eSNI) is defined as the maximum attainable production level by which vital environmental functions remain available for future generations. Thus the eSNI provides information about the distance between the current and a sustainable situation. In combination with the standard national income (NI), the eSNI indicates whether the part of the production that is not based on sustainable use of the environment is increasing or decreasing in the course of time. Calculation of the eSNI involves the use of environmental models and a static general economic equilibrium model. It is shown that asymmetric entries are obscuring what is happening with both environment and production and that there is no conflict between employment and safeguarding the environment.
P44|Economic Turnovers and Financial Vacuum Cleaners|The paper considers different types of financial flows in the form of turnovers to imply the return to the starting point with direct or indirect losses. The dynamic schemes, volumes and losses of turnovers are examined: the financial turnover between federal budget, financial markets for budget surplus investments­ and financial markets for the budget deficit borrowings; pension turnover between the State Pension Fund, financial institutions for pensions’ savings and federal budget; the property turnover and the tax turnover for raw materials export. The total volume of turnovers is estimated as 15—19% of GDP with losses equal to 35% of federal budget expenditures.
P44|Theoretical Aspects Concerning the Inflation Analysis|"Definition of inflation was the victim of a ""war"" theory of money growth and general price increase. What was once described as a monetary issue is now presented as a price effect. This change of position sense supporters anti-inflation complicated by the simple fact that inflation based on prices may have, as I mentioned with several causes, making it difficult to identify solutions to eliminate this phenomenon. When inflation was a question of money with one location, namely the central bank and a single solution - reducing the rate of monetary expansion."
P44|Stochastic National Income|How can national income be adjusted to indicate welfare improvement if the future is uncertain? The present paper extends the definition of national income to stochastic settings on the basis of discounted utilitarian welfare function. Real interest rate of consumption is redefined so that real national income can be interpreted as the expected present value of real interest on future national consumption. A stochastic one-good model is used to illustrate the application of the stochastic real national income. It turns out that under uncertainty real national income may be decreasing even though captial stock is constant or increasing over time
P44|La brecha del producto y el producto potencial en Venezuela: una estimación SVAR<BR>[Output Gap and Potential GDP in Venezuela: A SVAR Estimation]|This paper estimates the GDP gap in Venezuela by means of the structural VAR methodology and the Blanchard and Quah decomposition for the period 1999:1-2010:4. We use quarterly data for the inflation rate, real GDP, unemployment rate, and oil prices. We identify fiscal and monetary innovations on the demand side and technological and labor market disturbances on the supply side. Empirical results are consistent with the ones found the literature and reveal that even though there is a wide gap between real and potential GDP at the beginning of the period, it tends to narrow towards the end of the period as a result of the rise in oil prices. The GDP gap out of sample forecast shows that this gap, eventually, could fall as a result of the contraction in economic activity during 2009 and 2010.
P44|Общностните валути като инструмент за противодействие срещу нежеланите аспекти от икономическата криза (Community currencies as a counter tool to unacceptable aspects of economic crisis)<BR>[Community currencies as a counter tool to unacceptable aspects of economic crisis]|The questions which the global crises insistently sets today once again head to the organization of monetary circulation. Many scientists defend the proposal to eliminate the state monopoly, respectively the central bank monopoly as the only issuer of currency and to be allowed the circulation of the complementary currencies as a local legal tender altogether with the national currency. On this base the setting of currency communities has some logic. Practically, these types of complementary currencies are constructed as microstructures and are proof of favorable impact to social-economy activity at local level. Data indicates that they are beneficial to both the participants and the higher rank economic systems as the community, the state, the union. This paper studies the positive impact of community currencies to the community welfare, if they are used but not the degree of this impact compared to another measures types during crises.
P44|Towards the European integration model perspectives|European integration within the booming European Union with its original as well as emerging members became a prominent example of sustainable economic growth, employment and social and ecologic development. However, conditions throughout the EU are not the same everywhere; moreover, they change drastically due to demographic processes and migration, which have a huge impact on the social structures and social policy, correspondingly. During the year 2011 it became clear that the last financial and economic crisis not simply had a negative impact on dynamics of economic development of EU, but revealed deep contradictions in European integration model. These processes (quite often accompanied by erroneous anti-recessionary steps of the national governments of EU countries) led to the aggravation of the whole range of economic and social problems in the European states. For instance, expected measures including rigid economy of the budgetary expenses have a boomerang effect, i.e. cause reduction of consumer demand and investment activity; therefore growth rates of gross domestic product slow down as well. As a result, the budgetary incomes continue to shrink while sufficient deficiencies and the related new loans remain. Finally, Greece and other problem states get to the 'vicious circle'. We aim to discuss some issues concerning the European integration project and its reasonability: to define the degree of national EU member states' responsibility in regard to their national economic and social policy, to assess possibilities of restriction of their sovereignty within EU, to analyze peripheral relations’ overcoming within EU when Germany and some of the most successful member countries tend to be “locomotives of economic growth” and the centers of key economic decision-making which are only applied on other states of EU.
P44|Confidence as an Economic Indicator :A Cultural-Ecology Perspective|In previous research endeavours on national economic development, almost no studies exist on how regional confidence can influence industrial and economic well-being. This paper provides a cultural-ecology parenthesis, which integrates climatic, geographic and genetic factors to spell out the forces of confidence on national economic well-being, which is reflected by the gross national income per capita. The correlation between the mean level of the Rosenberg selfesteem scale and the GNI per capita growth of 45 countries across the globe supports the hypothesis that the cultural-ecology perspective of confidence has a positive influence on overall economic development.
P44|Optimal government size and economic growth in France (1871-2008) : An explanation by the State and market failures|This paper analyses the effect of public expenditure on economic growth from both a theoretical and an empirical point of view. Given that the economic literature supplies numerous and conflicting views on the topic, the article offers a framework combining both theories of market failures and State failures to account for an inverted U-shapped relation between government size and GDP growth. The empirical contribution is to provide evidence through a long time-series analysis of the existence of such a relation on the period 1871-2008 for France, which offers one of the longest stable democratic periods to analyse.
P44|Pakistan: Breaking Out of Stagflation into Sustained Growth|This paper proposes that the underlying cause of the macroeconomic problems facing Pakistan today are a series of supply shocks which have constrained output growth. It is argued that while the current debate has solely focused on government expenditures and revenues, it is critical to also address the acute energy shortages which is constraining supply. The paper goes on to present four recommendations for breaking out of the present stagflation: (i) prudent macroeconomic management, (ii) reviving the role of the government in development while restoring fiscal balance, (iii) loosening monetary policy in order to spur the private sector, and (iv) improving social safety nets.
P44|The Economics of Inflation, Issues in the Design of Monetary Policy Rule, and Monetary Policy Reaction Function in Pakistan|The objective of this study is to estimate a monetary policy reaction function for Pakistan. To do this, we use data for the period 1992Q4–2010Q2. Our results show that the State Bank of Pakistan reacts to changes in the inflation rate and economic activity in a manner that is consistent with the Taylor (1993) rule, and with the explicit objective of interest rate smoothing and exchange rate management. This policy has remained consistent for most of the sample period, except for the last two years, during which a price hike and the massive depreciation of domestic currency led to a significant change in the parameters of the policy reaction function. We also find evidence of nonlinearity in the reaction function as the response to an inflation rate above 6.4 percent is found to be more aggressive than that in low inflationary episodes.
P44|Efficient government size: France in the 20th century|The benefits and costs of government suggest an efficient government size. We investigate efficient government size by analyzing the relation between public spending and real GDP for France in the period 1896–2008. The results show a co-integration nonlinear relationship. Our time-series data on France represents one of the longest periods studied in literature. Our empirical findings suggest that efficient government size measured by public spending was reached when public spending was around 30% of GDP. Conclusions point to particularities of countries that suggest efficient government size is specific to different countries.
P44|. Relationship between Trade Openness and Inflation: Empirical Evidences from Pakistan (1976–2010)|This study empirically verifies the existence of significant relationship between inflation and trade openness for Pakistan using annual time-series data for the period of 1976 to 2010. The basic objective of this study is to examine the Romer‘s hypothesis for Pakistan with real agriculture value added, real exchange rate, real gross domestic product, financial market openness, money and quasi money and used trade openness, import openness and export openness ratios separately as explanatory variables with inflation rate as dependent variables. For this purpose, we have used multivariate Johansen (1998) and Johansen and Juselius (1990) Maximum Likelihood Cointegration Approach and a Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) and the expected empirical findings shows that there is a significant positive long-run relationship between inflation and trade openness, which rejects the existence of Romer‘s hypothesis for Pakistan.
P44|Estimating Demand for Nutrients in Nigeria: A Vector Error Correction Model|This article is designed to investigate the existence of relationship between daily per capita demand for nutrients (calorie, protein, and animal fat intake) and economic growth indicator measured by per capita real Gross Domestic Products (GDP). Using annual time series data covering 1961-2007 from Nigeria, the study employed vector error correction model (VECM). The daily per capita demands for nutrients are analyzed as endogenous variables while real per capita GDP was taken as exogenous variable. These series are defined in logarithm. Preliminary investigation revealed that the series were found to be I (1) process at initial level while the series become I (0) after first differences. The trace statistics test shows that the pear of the series on the daily per capita demand for nutrients and per capita real GDP are co-integrated. Hence, the results of VECM shows that in the long-run, per capita real GDP positively and significantly impact per capita demand for nutrients in Nigeria over the years. Specifically, we observed that 1% increase in real GDP significantly increases the demand for calorie, protein and animal fat by 0.073%, 0.068%, and 0.059%, respectively. Also, the result of the short-run dynamics indicated that the speed of adjustment of the demand for calorie, protein and animal fat intake towards long-run equilibrium relationship associated with the shocks in the real GDP from the previous period is about 29%, 41% and 26%, respectively in the current period. Furthermore, we noted that the result of the impulse response function lend support to the observation that real per capita GDP increases the demand for calorie, protein, and fat intake in Nigeria. Our findings provide no support for the hypothesis that growth in real GDP is constrained by the nutrient intake in the same period.
P44|The debt-inflation cycle and the global financial crisis|Writing over 230 years ago, Adam Smith noted the 'juggling trick' whereby governments hide the extent of their public debt through 'pretend payments.' As the fiscal crises around the world illustrate, this juggling trick has run its course. This paper explores the relevance of Smith’s juggling trick in the context of dominant fiscal and monetary policies. It is argued that government spending intended to maintain stability, avoid deflation, and stimulate the economy leads to significant increases in the public debt. This public debt is sustainable for a period of time and can be serviced through 'pretend payments' such as subsequent borrowing or the printing of money. However, at some point borrowing is no longer a feasible option as the state's creditworthiness erodes. The only recourse is the monetarization of the debt which is also unsustainable due to the threat of hyperinflation.
P44|Bayesian Integration of Large Scale SNA Data Frameworks with an Application to Guatemala|We present a Bayesian estimation method applied to an extended set of national accounts data and estimates of approximately 2500 variables. The method is based on conventional national accounts frameworks as compiled by countries in Central America, in particular Guatemala, and on concepts that are defined in the international standards of the System of National Accounts. Identities between the variables are exactly satisfied by the estimates. The method uses ratios between the variables as Bayesian conditions, and introduces prior reliabilities of values of basic data and ratios as criteria to adjust these values in order to satisfy the conditions. The paper not only presents estimates and precisions, but also discusses alternative conditions and reliabilities, in order to test the impact of framework assumptions and carry out sensitivity analyses. These tests involve, among others, the impact on Bayesian estimates of limited annual availability of data, of very low reliabilities (close to non-availability) of price indices, of limited availability of important administrative and survey data, and also the impact of aggregation of the basic data. We introduce the concept of `tentative' estimates that are close to conventional national accounts estimates, in order to establish a close link between the Bayesian estimation approach and conventional national accounting.
P44|The Role Of Internal Assignment Prices In The Evaluation Of The Transactions Between Profit Centers|The internal assignment price, also called transfer price, represents the value at which the trans-fers between profit centers within the same economic entity are assessed. These transfers are determined by the organizational and functional structure of the economic entity. The internal the in-ternal exchanges between the responsibility (profit) centers of the entity must be evaluated at the assignment price. Moreover, the performances of these centers are influenced by the existence of in-ternal assignments, and the explanation lies in the fact that what the “buying” center considers a cost will become an income for the “selling” center. Despite all these, the internal assignment price does not influence the general income of the economic entity, but only the analytical income of each re-sponsibility center.`The problem of the internal assignment price was scientifically approached in 1920 by General Motors, followed by other companies in the USA (1930s, 1940s) and then by France, starting with 1950.
P44|Systems Of Public Expenditure Charged In European Union|This article seeks to highlight the concern of the EU for social dimension and measures implemented in public expenditures for social security. Also, place the value systems and public spending that the European Union has practiced and practice them today. Future funding of pension insurance systems, but also attempt to mitigate the negative effects that they (the tax burden and population), can induce on the labor market, is, for all EU countries a real challenge.
P44|Sticky Prices and Inflation Dynamics (NBER-TCER-CEPR)|No abstract is available for this item.
P44|Considerations Regarding the Importance of the Service Sector in the National Economy. A Romanian Case Study|The economic literature and practices show that an efficient service sector, with a high level of quality, is a decisive factor of the sustainable economic development and competitiveness of modern economies. In this paper we would like to highlight, through a statistical-economic analysis, the importance of the service sector in the process of economic growth and job creation, compared with other sectors of Romanian economy in the period 1990- 2008. For Romania, the existence of a constant concern for efficiency and services quality is imperative both at the national and regional level in order to accede to the status of a country with a developed economy, a knowledge-based economy.
P44|An Unbiased Pareto Improvement strategy for poverty alleviation|There are historical and institutional reasons behind our economic problems like poverty and environmental damage but it is not acceptable if they persist in years to come. The strategic use of information by individual economic agents establishes a biasing effect on our economy. In case of poverty, economic efforts of poor people are continuously undervalued and therefore, true welfare across an economy cannot be achieved without protecting the poor people for their immediate economic needs and simultaneously counteracting the biasing forces. This article describes an Unbiased Pareto Improvement (UPI) strategy to be implemented across an economy and eventually across the world to solve poverty problems. This strategy describes making business opportunities involving poor people as well as helping government to set up pro-poor economic policies and infrastructures. A new indicator RICR (Real Income to Contribution Ratio) is introduced to measure its performance.
P44|The Analysis Of The Romanians’ Knowledge On Inflation Phenomenon| TThe modern monetary policy approach sustains that increased transparency and enhanced communication are essential for the success of the central banks decisions. The National Bank of Romania is conducting a transparent monetary policy, releasing to society a considerable amount of information. The problem is that the public does not always receive correct all these information. The reasons for these inconvenient may be multiple, but in this paper we will focus firstly, on the transmission channels which may not be suitable and secondly, on the receivers, which may not have the capacity to understand the information. According to NBR, the inflation reports represent the main communication tool with the public, so our goal is to verify if they are fulfilling their role or there are other information sources which are more appropriate. Beside all the factors that influence the public capacity to understand the inflation phenomenon, we will concentrate our analysis on the impact of age, income and education. The necessary data for our analysis were collected using a questionnaire.
P44|A multivariate approach for identification of optimal locations with in Ethiopia’s wheat market to tackle soaring inflation on food price|Two surplus markets of Bale Robe and Shashimiene and one deficit market of Jimma are observed to fix long run price. However the system is observed to have better capacity to process demand side than supply side shocks. Therefore for efficient stabilization the focus should be in Jimma. For equity and political feasibility it would be preferable if poor deficit centers are provided with subsidized supply of grain, too. Though distance did not seem to be an important factor for border of one price but only for strength of cointegration, the methodology used by early papers is observed to work.
P44|The National Accounts as a Tool for Analysis and Policy; History, Economic Theory and Data Compilation Issues|Without national accounts statistics, citizens, politicians, entrepreneurs and economists would be blind for the size, composition and development of national economies. This book provides a unique overview of the merits and limitations of the national accounts. Attention is paid to the three centuries old history of the national accounts and the links with economic theory, practical data compilations issues and the many uses and applications.
P44|Formal and Informal Sectors in China and India: An Accounting-Based Approach|This paper discusses the estimation of a social accounting matrix that distinguishes between formal and informal activities for China and India for 2000 and 1998-99 respectively. Wage shares for the formal/informal employment for China and net domestic product shares for the formal/informal sectors for India are being applied as weights to the input-output tables and flow of funds tables provided by official statistics. While some estimation techniques used in this paper remain vulnerable to criticism, the proposed methodology is a first step towards an integrated approach to account for the dualism of many economies in the developing world. The results are important data input for any policy-driven CGE model for developing countries.
P44|Die Wachstumsspirale in der Krise ; Ansätze zu einem nachhaltigen Wachstum|Im vorliegenden Text wird dargelegt, warum in die moderne Wirtschaft ein Wachstumszwang und Wachstumsdrang eingebaut sind. Wird eine globale minimale Wachstumsrate unterschritten, kommt es zur Krise.
P44|Money as Social Exergy|No abstract is available for this item.
P44|Generación del producto interno bruto mexicano por entidad federativa, 1940-1992|This work looks to improve the regional databases. We derive estimates of the state gross domestic product for every year among 1940-1992. The generated estimates were built with data published by INEGI. The generated series this way are derived using the estimated sensibility by a regression equation and later on adjusting them by means of a method of across conciliation. This generated relationship varies in time allowing to capture the temporary behavior and the cyclical fluctuations of the states’ economy. As a result, we offer homogeneous and sufficiently long product series starting from which can be derived more complete regional studies.// Este trabajo busca mejorar las bases de datos regionales. Derivamos estimaciones del producto interno bruto estatal para cada año del periodo 1940-1992. Las estimaciones fueron calculadas a partir de datos acerca del producto publicados por el INEGI y de información no oficial. Las series generadas de esta manera son derivadas usando la sensibilidad estimada por una ecuación de regresión y posteriormente ajustándolas mediante un método de conciliación transversal. Esta relación estimada varía en el tiempo, lo que permite captar el comportamiento temporal y las fluctuaciones cíclicas de la economía de los estados. Como resultado ofrecemos series de producto homogéneas y suficientemente largas, a partir de las cuales se pueden derivar estudios regionales más completos.
P44|Is There Any Race to the Top of Productive Government Expenditures? Evidence from OECD Countries (1970-1997)|This paper evaluates whether there has been any convergence in government expenditures. The results obtained, by means of the Tukey box-plot, sigma-convergence and conditional beta-convergence, reveal that there is a growing fiscal interdependence among OECD countries. I argue that there is strong evidence of a Òrace to the topÓ of government productive expenditures among OECD countries during the period 1970-1997. The econometric analysis shows that aggregate OECD productive expenditures have pressured countries to increase their own levels of productive expenditures, which might be indicating a competition to attract FDI. In contrast, there is no evidence of convergence in non-productive government expenditures.
P44|Disinflation And Monetary Policy Arrangements In Romania|Disinflation has been pursued successfully in Romania in recent years. Inflation came down from over 40 per cent in 2001 to 14 per cent in 2003 and is expected to be cca 9.5 per cent in 2004. By 2007 it should come down to around 3%. The benefits of a lowinflation environment are unquestionable, as price stability is the ultimate objective of monetary policy. In addition, low inflation is a pre-condition for EU accession. There only remains the other critical question, namely, what is the proper strategy to achieve the ultimate objective. Different central banks have adopted strategies which place different emphasize on the various pieces of information, or elements of their decision-making process or different aspects of their communication policies. Inflation targeting (IT) is one of those strategies.
P44|How to Rationalize the Export-Saving Paradigm (the Czech experience)|"The paper analyzes the relationship between saving and export in the Czech economy. Because the Czech economy has been increasingly trading with Western Europe, testing the relationship between these two variables is significant. OLS and 2SLS are applied to quarterly data between gross national savings, gross domestic product and exports over the period 1994 - 2001. The 2SLS procedure has also the advantage of identifying the underlying principles of the formal paradigm by means of instruments (productivity, real investments and unemployment). This study does lend support to the paradigm advanced by Maizels in 1968, which relates a country""s increase in domestic savings to exports."
P44|Accounting for unexpected capital gains on natural assets in Net National Product|Failure to separate unexpected capital gains and losses on natural assets from depletion breaks the link between Net National Product (NNP) and sustainability. For resource rich countries this can lead to large spurious fluctuations in NNP, making it virtually useless for policy purposes. In contrast, when depletion is measured correctly, the link between NNP and sustainability is restored and there is no reason to expect NNP to be any more volatile than GNP. Oil data for Great Britain and Indonesia are used to illustrate the very significant impact that the treatment of capital gains and depletion can have on NNP. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2004
P44|Expectations, Capital Gains, and Income| A theoretical framework for the measurement of income under uncertainty is developed that addresses some long-standing controversies about the treatment of capital gains. The consequences for economic analysis and policy making are potentially serious, because the treatment of capital gains can significantly affect some major macroeconomic aggregates, including national income and savings, balance of payments deficits, government deficits, and depreciation. (JEL O47, P44, Q32) Copyright 2003, Oxford University Press.
P44|Issuing Policies In Currencies Denominated In Euros And Eurocents|Globalization and strengthening of integration processes have, among other things, also influenced some solutions relating to monetary sovereignty of particular countries. A great number of transition countries as well as some other underdeveloped countries are facing both inefficiency in their real sectors and problems in their financial sectors. This primarily refers to the instability of the exchange rate of their national currencies, frequent and high devaluations, mistrust of the users in domestic currency, inflation, and the like. Under such circumstances, some countries decide to give up their monetary sovereignty. Prior to such a decision, it is certainly essential to find answers to the following four key questions: a) what does the country win and what does it lose, b) what are the expenses of such activity and for whom is such change acceptable, and c) which form of abandoning monetary sovereignty should be chosen? Problems can also be significant regarding the possibility that the phases of economic development do not match. Hence, the measures of monetary policy adjusted to the economic cycles of the country whose currency has been chosen as reserve currency need not correspond with the phase of development of the economy in the country using that currency. In the case of Euro as the legal means of payment, the production of Euro coins will begin two years before they are officially put into circulation. In that period (of two years), each year the appropriate quantity of coins will be produced, with a value structure allowing normal functioning of the monetary market in the moment when Euros are put into circulation, which is very important in currency conversion. With respect to the long Croatian monetary history, but also to the recent issuing activity in the segment of circulation coinage, commemorative circulation coinage and numismatic coinage, all these activities should continue in the future as well. Commemorative coins are, as a rule, identical to regular circulation coins in all details, including the material of which they are made, with differences only in some details (indicating the occasion on which the coins are issued)or in their value in comparison to circulation coinage. At the moment, such coins are accepted as exclusive legal means of payment but only in the country that has issued them. Correspondingly, the amount of this money is determined by the ECB in keeping with its issuing policy. This money is a part of the monetary mass of the issuing country. Issuing policy of the EU member countries that have accepted the common currency and those countries that are not EU members but have their legal currency denominated in Euros regardless of the sort of coinage indicate: - the possibility to diversify the offer of all sorts of coinage following the said criteria, or introducing new criteria for their differentiation or their combinations, - currency denominated in Euros and Eurocents in each issuing country becomes, in a large part, the object of interest and collecting in other countries with the currency of the same name (and with one common/same side of the coins – reverse) because these are the coins with at least one common characteristic. - The selection of motifs at the national side of the coins (head) can itself be the reason for choosing this currency as the object of collecting, or it can become an additional reason for collecting in combination with the above section. - Collecting of these coins will in the future certainly be a part of a much wider process, so that later it will be very difficult if not impossible to secure certain coins at the quality level of coinage that have not been in circulation.-Despite the short issuing activity relating to the currency denominated in Euros and Eurocents, the trends in this field so far strongly suggest some regularity, such as: - There is strong interest for circulation coins of Euros and Eurocents as objects of collecting even among people whose motivation is not primarily numismatic. Even the most optimistic expectations regarding the new common currency have been absolutely surpassed (not only in the countries that have introduced Euro as their currency, but much wider). - As soon as Euros and Eurocents have appeared in circulation, a part of these coins were hoarded and became objects of trade at the numismatic market reaching very high prices. The object of collection has namely become much wider because in addition to national reasons for collecting, there are now other motives as well, since the Euro and Eurocent coins have one side (reverse) in common. - Speculative reasons for treasuring up these coins result from the above mentioned grounds but also from the fact that the beginning of circulation of these coins provides the opportunity to right at the start secure a certain quantity of the coins satisfying strict numismatic standards regarding the state of these coins (preferred quality is that of non-circulated coins). - Issuing commemorative circulation coins and numismatic coins additionally point at great interest for these monetary forms significantly broadening the field of numismatic interest. Croatia should therefore quickly design its own issuing policy in the segments of circulation and commemorative circulation coins, and especially in the segment of commemorative circulation coins and commemorative coins.
P44|Decomposing Wage Gaps between Ethnic Groups: The Case of Israel|Past investigations of the income gaps between Jews and non-Jews in Israel treat non-Jews as one group. In this paper we separate the non-Jewish group into three main religious minorities: Muslims, Christians, and Druze and focus on the northern part of Israel, where most minorities live. Using the latest Israeli census, we find significant explained and unexplained income gaps in favor of Jews. The unexplained gaps tend to be larger the more educated the individual. Jews have much higher representation in the more lucrative occupations, and earn significantly more in them. Muslims generally suffer from the largest income gaps, while Druze have the lowest income gaps, reflecting direct and indirect benefits reaped from serving in the army. Among minorities, Christians are the most educated and most concentrated in the top occupations, which explains why they have the lowest gaps in the highest percentiles of the income distribution.
P44|Inflation and Disinflation in Turkey|Based on its outward-oriented development strategy, respectable growth, increased integration into world trade and financial markets, and imperfect though vibrant and wide-based democracy, Turkey is often cited as a development model for other countries in the region and elsewhere. Countering this positive picture of the Turkish economy over the last two decades, however, is the incompleteness of its reform process: the boom-bust nature of its growth, persistently high inflation, delays in privatising state-owned enterprises, and high and persistent government budget deficits. In January 2000 Turkey embarked on an ambitious IMF-backed stabilization program designed to correct the weaknesses in its economy, and, in particular, to reduce inflation to single digits by the end of 2002. Since then, though, Turkey has experienced two financial crises and redesigned its stabilization program to bring inflation down more gradually. This collection analyzes the nature of Turkey's inflation and the likely costs and benefits of disinflation.
P44|A New Conceptual Approach to the Measurement of Capital Gains, Depletion and Net National Product|This paper establishes the theoretically appropriate definition and treatment of capital gains and depletion. Failure to distinguish capital gains on natural assets from depletion causes NNP to me mismeasured. For resource rich countries this can lead to large spurious fluctuations in NNP. In contrast, when depletion is measured correctly, NNP is no more volatile than GNP and provides a better indicator of both short term economic performance and long term sustainability.
P44|Evolución y racionalidad de las instituciones presupuestales en Colombia|“La independencia de los bancos centrales tiene un efecto sobre los resultados macroeconómicos de los países y finalmente sobre la inflación. Una relación similar existe entre las instituciones presupuesta les y el desempeño fiscal de los gobiernos. Dichas instituciones pueden afectar los resultados fiscales. En este trabajo se ha construido un índice de desarrollo de instituciones presupuestales, siguiendo la línea de pensamiento descrita en los párrafos anteriores. Se puede observar que muchas de estas normas y regulaciones están presentes en Colombia, y que el sistema se ha ido desarrollando desde mediados del siglo pasado, muy intensamente a partir de 1985. Probablemente estas instituciones y la política fiscal prudente que fomentan, han [hecho posible que Colombia exhiba un récord de estabilidad fiscal dentro del continente, que se refleja de forma similar en términos de crecimiento estable e inflación estable y predecibles. En la siguiente sección se analizará cómo estas instituciones entraron en vigencia dentro del contexto de la historia económica del país. Pero primero, es necesario explicar la naturaleza de estas instituciones colombianas y sus procedimientos. Como primera medida, el Banco Central no puede hacer préstamos al sector privado. Sólo puede financiar al gobierno cuando su Junta Directiva autónoma vota unánimemente en favor de este financiamiento. Desde 1991, cuando la nueva Constitución estableció el Banco Central como una institución autónoma, ni el gobierno ni el sector privado han sido financiados por el Banco Central, mientras que en el pasado este mecanismo de financiamiento era utilizado frecuentemente. La próxima sección examina el desarrollo histórico de las instituciones presupuestales y, la siguiente, intenta explicar cómo y por qué el particular patrón colombiano de comportamiento fiscal adquirió su desarrollo.”
P44|La Banca Central en Colombia: de la autonomía privada a la autonomía pública, 1923-1997|“En la década de 1920 un gran número de naciones crearon bancos centrales autónomos del gobierno. Se quería así reducir la injerencia de los gobiernos en el manejo de la moneda y, por lo tanto, conservar el poder de compra de la misma. El consenso era que, sin autonomía los bancos centrales, terminaban financiando el déficit fiscal y generando inflación. En parte por la razón anterior, pero tal vez más por el interés en atraer inversión norteamericana, cinco países andinos fundaron con la asesoría del economista Edwin W. Kemmerer, bancos centrales autónomos: Colombia (1923), Chile (1925), Ecuador (1926-1927), Bolivia (1927) y Perú (1931). En el caso de Colombia, por ejemplo, desde la década de 1950 se le dio gran importancia al crédito de fomento, por medio del cual se financiaban con emisión sectores que el gobierno consideraba estratégicos, como el industrial. Con la pérdida de la autonomía del banco central colombiano en 1963, cuando se creó la Junta Monetaria, se abrió la puerta institucional para la mayor inflación que ha vivido el país en toda su historia, si se ti ene en cuenta el número de años que ha perdurado. En todos los países andinos en la cual Kemmerer creó bancos centrales entre 1923 y 1931, con los años se perdió la autonomía con respecto al gobierno. En este trabajo estudiamos algunos de los antecedentes de la creación de un banco central autónomo en Colombia en 1923, bajo la orientación de un grupo de expertos financieros norteamericanos que dirigió Edwin W. Kemmerer. Luego, analizamos las etapas de la banca central colombiana hasta nuestros días y las interrelaciones de los distintos arreglos institucionales con los niveles de inflación.”
P44|Plan real: una segunda evaluación|"“Cuando el senador Fernando Henrique Cardoso se posesionó como presidente de la República el primero de enero de 1995, no había duda sobre el éxito inicial del Plan Real. El éxito inicial del Plan Real dejaba claro que las bases teóricas que lo sustentaban eran acertadas: que era preciso, ante todo, enfatizar que el gobierno podría equilibrar sus cuentas sin tener que recurrir a la reducción real de los gastos presupuestarios que propiciaba la inflación; que era posible la conversión de los salarios y de otros contratos, de cruzeiros reales a una unidad contable indexada diariamente; y que la inflación podría, a través de una reforma monetaria, reducirse inmediatamente a niveles cercanos a cero, tal y como se había anunciado, sin necesidad de confiscar activos financieros, ni de congelar los precios y los salarios. Uno de los principales problemas surgía de la desigualdad entre el aumento de los salarios nominales, determinado por la política salarial, y la revaluación de la moneda local, determinada por la evolución de las políticas cambiaría y monetaria. Adicionalmente, los salarios pasaron a ser pagados mes a mes en moneda de poder adquisitivo relativamente constante, cuando antes se deterioraban fuertemente entre los ""picos"" siguientes al reajuste cuatrimestral y los ""valles"" anteriores a dichos reajustes. Más importante aún, se mantuvo por un año la indexación anual de los salarios, basada en un nuevo índice de precios, el IPCr, que en los primeros seis meses del plan acumuló una variación del 23%, debido, en buena parte, a la combinación de un carry over de la inflación en cruzeiros reales de junio de 1994, con problemas estacionales en la oferta de alimentos y fuertes reajustes en los precios de los alquileres de vivienda.”"
P44|Veinticinco años de inflación|“La inflación en Colombia durante los últimos 25 años se ha caracterizado por su estabilidad, aunque a niveles relativamente elevados de acuerdo con patrones internacionales. La inflación promedio medida por el índice de precios al consumidor (IPC) alcanzó el 22.6% y su desviación standard tan sólo de 5.5%. El aumento de la inflación a principios de la década de los setenta fue bastante dramático, ya que su nivel casi se triplica en menos de un lustro. Esto tuvo sus raíces fundamentalmente en una mayor indexación de la economía colombiana, en el cambio en los precios relativos del petróleo y en el consiguiente deterioro de las finanzas públicas. Un segundo elemento que ayudó a la indexación fue el sistema Upac, ya que la corrección monetaria en un comienzo se basó principalmente en la inflación pasada. El índice de precios se estabilizó entre el 20% y 30%. Existe la hipótesis de que socialmente se llegó a la conclusión que incrementos superiores al 30% anual generaban una pérdida adquisitiva inaceptable de los salarios. A pesar de que en forma concomitante la política fiscal ha sido la más expansiva en los últimos 25 años, las condiciones están dadas para reducir la inflación a niveles de un dígito en un período de tiempo razonable. En la medida que la política macroeconómica sea más equilibrada en cuanto al esfuerzo que tenga que hacer respectivamente la política monetaria, cambiaria y fiscal, es más probable que se logren las metas de inflación con un mínimo costo en la actividad productiva en el corto plazo, maximizando sus beneficios futuros.”
P44|Algunas enseñanzas de casi medio siglo de las cuentas de la economía vasca|No abstract is available for this item.
P44|El comportamiento monetario en Colombia: 1980 - 1993. Una hipótesis cambiaria|“Aquí se muestra la evolución de los medios de pago en Colombia en términos de su tasa de crecimiento anual también se ilustra el stock de medios de pago en términos reales. Un hecho estilizado importante en la muestra está dado por el salto en el dinero real ocurrido en dos instancias. La primera, entre 1983/1984 y 1988, y la segunda, a partir de 1990. A la luz del comportamiento del dinero real, la tarea de un analista de la historia monetaria reciente es explicar cuatro fenómenos. El primero es la relativa estabilidad en el stock de dinero real entre 1980 y 1983 (crecimiento anual de -0.7%). Segundo, el salto que ocurrió entre 1983 y 1988, que elevó en 28% el saldo (4% anual). Tercero, la estabilidad, con ligera tendencia decreciente, observada entre 1989 y 1991 (-1.45% anual). Por último, el rápido crecimiento ocurrido en 1992 y 1993 (8.04% anual, 16.7% en el saldo). Este problema es el objeto del presente documento. En resumen, hay varios aspectos que se deben recordar al tratar el tema de la coyuntura monetaria en una perspectiva más amplia. 1. El stock de dinero real cambió fuertemente dos veces entre 1980 y 1993. 2. En ambas ocasiones hubo variaciones en las expectativas cambiarías, reflejadas en los diferenciales entre la tasa oficial y la paralela y éste es el determinante básico. Ello sugiere que la economía ha sido más abierta de lo que usualmente se cree, y lo ha sido por muchos años. 3. No obstante estos saltos, explicados por variaciones en las expectativas de devaluación, la velocidad de circulación en Colombia tiene una tasa de crecimiento de largo plazo que no implica inconsistencias.”
P44|Inflación y competitividad de la economía española|This work offers the definition and evolution of an aggregate index of spanish competitiviness in relation to the others E.E.C. countries. The index is constructed considering the unitary internal production costs and comparing them with external pricess expressed in pesetas. The conclusion is that between 1987 and 1990 the spanish economy has suffered an important loss of competitiviness as a result of a positive inflation diferencial and a bad mixture of restrictiva monetary policy and expansivo fiscal policy that has pushed up the exchange rate of the peseta. A consequence of this has been the destruction of part of the spanish industrial structure.
P44|Analysis of Short-Term Asset Concentration in Islamic Banking|In general the process of implementation of Islamic banking in the Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan appears to be proceeding with relative success. However, number of problems have surfaced during the transition period, among which is a tendency for short-term assets to dominate commercial bank portfolios. The negative effects on capital formation is one result of this portfolio behavior. The cause of this behavior is a set of regulations constraining profit-sharing activities of commercial banks. It is shown here that such regulations rather than reducing the risks of bankruptcies in the banking system may well increase them.
