P49|What Are the Benefits of Data Sharing? Uniting Supply Chain and Platform Economy Perspectives|Abstract Data as a resource and data sharing enable competitive supply chains and present-day digital platform business models. The recipe for these competitive supply chains will no longer be contingent on how different companies contract to share data in their existing business networks but how these companies make these contracts available for the others in multisided markets. Advancing the availability of data sharing contracts has led to novel internal and external operational efficiencies and to new types of strategic opportunities. Data sharing is nothing new. Approximately 49% of the companies already share data with other companies. How has data sharing emerged between companies? What types of benefits have companies reached by sharing data? Those are the two research questions we are answering in this study. Additionally, we map the trajectory of data sharing technologies and their benefits for companies. External strategic opportunities cannot be reached unless the product, service and software architectures are modular; in addition, the boundary resources are not being considered by the companies. Finally, the tools for evaluating the value capture of indirect network effects is missing from widely accepted business case valuation methods. The question remains – what type of data resources can companies treat as proprietary or as shared?
P49|What Drives the Institutionalization of Performance Measurement Systems in Indonesian Local Government?|Objective – The objective of this paper is to explore and understand the motivators of institutionalization of Performance Measurement Systems (PMS) in the Indonesian Local Government (ILG), particularly in the Batu municipality presenting the performance paradoxes. Performance accountability issues have been encouraging the Batu municipality to implement PMS since the beginning of the 2000s. Methodology/Technique – The theoretical framework and interpretation of this study are adopted from the institutional theory (coercive, mimetic, normative, and allomorphism) which is used to analyze the phenomenon. The researchers employ a single case study to scrutinize the motivators of institutionalization by elaborating on document analysis conducted from the interviews of 10 employees in a different range of management levels (top, middle, and lower). Findings – The results of this study reveal that exogenous (coercive, mimetic and normative) and endogenous (allomorphism) drivers encourage the institutionalization of PMS in the Batu municipality with coercive pressure as a major driver and allomorphism as a mere ceremonial driver (rather than an instrument). Novelty – The practical implications of this study can be used to improve the PMS process and the quality of performance reporting in the Batu municipality and in other local governments. This paper is also expected to fill the gap in existing literature on the implementation of PMS within a developing country (in this case, Indonesia). Type of Paper: Empirical Paper.
P49| La economía peruana en vísperas del bicentenario de la independencia| Presentamos una interpretación sintética de la economía peruana, desde una perspectiva histórica. Resaltamos su naturaleza dual, entre un sector de subsistencia y uno exportador, este último más pequeño demográficamente que el otro, pero más dinámico. Ambos están conectados, sin embargo, por el mercado de trabajo y algunos otros mercados que se activan esporádicamente. El Estado nutre sus finanzas, básicamente del segundo sector, por lo que tiende a favorecerlo con sus políticas e inversiones. El artículo reseña la instauración del modelo liberal en el Perú desde los años noventa y su consolidación en las décadas siguientes y explica cómo al compás del último auge exportador iniciado en la misma fecha, el Estado inició una nueva modalidad de conexión con el sector de subsistencia mediante programas sociales de transferencias de dinero condicionadas. JEL Classification-JEL: N16 , O54 , P49
P49|Book Review: Between Debt and the Devil: Money, Credit, and Fixing Global Finance. Adair Turner (Editor), Reviewed by: Ahmad Belouafi مراجعة علمية لكتاب: بين الدَّيْن والشيطان: النقود والائتمان وإصلاح النظام المالي - لآدير ترنر - مراجعة: أحمد بلوافي|"This expose presents a thorough review of the book titled “Between Debt and the Devil: Money, Credit, and Fixing Global Finance” written by Lord Adair Turner -the former chairman of the Financial Services Authority (FSA), and the current chairman of the Institute for new Economic thought (INET). تقدم هذه الورقة مراجعة علمية لكتاب ""بين الدَّيْن والشيطان: النقود والائتمان وإصلاح النظام المالي العالمي""، لمؤلفه اللورد آدير ترنر -الرئيس السابق لسلطة الإشراف المالي (financial service authority (FSA))) البريطانية (2008-2013م)، والرئيس الحالي لمعهد الفكر الاقتصادي الجديد (Institute for New Economic Thinking). تصنيف KAUJIE: Q21, Q22"
P49|Monetary Velocity in a Systemic Perspective: An Approach Towards More Accurate Currency Thinking|"The concept of velocity of money also called velocity of circulation of money is part of the Quantity Theory of Money. One intention of this concept has been to connect price-based equilibrium theories (where money is de facto left out) to money. The idea was a variable velocity, which describes how fast the existing money (thought in pieces of gold or in bills) would circulate. To question it allows an insight into the paradigmatic base in economic thinking and leads to a different approach of the flow of money, which might help to better shape the task of money in today’s economy. The author tries to reconsider the ""velocity-idea"" by considering very carefully the real money-flow-phenomena in a simple small-scale complementary currency. By changing from a market-centred-view to a money-centred-view it is his aim to focus on the construction of currency. The reciprocal quality of currency and the time bound qualities of payment are described and the money supply is defined. By a time slice method the dynamic money-flow phenomena can be visualized. The results are then merged into the velocity-equation and discussed again. This systemic approach allows a more accurate view on monetary flow phenomena of closed systems. Such a systemic approach could be further elaborated and might open some new perspectives for the understanding or simulation of monetary economies."
P49|Determinants of the Establishment of Islamic Micro Finance Institutions: The Case of Baitul Maal wa Tamwil (BMT) in Indonesia|As a country with the largest number of muslim population in the world, Islamic micro finance institutions have a large potential to playa greater role in the country's aspiration to poverty reduction. However, the determinants of theestablishment of Islamic Micro Finance Institutions, particularly in Indonesia, has not been extensively studied. This paper attempts to explore the determinants of the establishment ofBaitul Maal wa Tamwil (BMT), one of the main Islamic microfinance institutions in Indonesia. A probit model of BMT establishment is estimated using an Indonesian village-level data. The result suggests that the extent of economic activities particularly in agriculture sector, and high accessibility to market are strong determinants of BMT establishmentin Indonesian villages. It is also found that villages that experienced recent calamities particularly drought are more likely to have BMT established. This may indicate the role of BMT as a provider of financial service in the midst of hardship. Religion is among the strongest determinant of BMT establishment. Villages with Islam as the dominant religion is more likely of having BMT established. However, this effect is strong only in rural areas.In urban areas, this effect is weak.
P49|Management of the Formation of Rating Preferences of Economic Entities upon Collective Choice|The applicability of a set of methods in the case of obtaining mixed results of the final ranking of economic entities in the process of their rating assessment has been substantiated. A new method of the formation of rating preferences upon collective choice has been proposed. The methodology is based on the following: An information base in the form of a summary table of ratings of compared entities; a procedure for the formation of rating preferences based on a rank-sum (or arithmetic means of ranks); a procedure for the formation of rating preferences with the joint application of rating arithmetic means and position indicators; a procedure for the formation of rating preferences using the Kemeny median. The proposals for the calculation of weighting factors of the voting procedures and modification of the procedure for profiling the preferences using the Kemeny median have been made. An algorithm for the use of the proposed method has been developed. Methodology testing has been conducted upon the rating assessment of the financial and economic condition of industrial enterprises
P49|Measuring tourist satisfacction in Los Cabos|To see the view of tourist after having interacted with the various tourist services, is important. This allows you to improve the performance of the localities and receiving as well to attract future an increased influx of visitors. That is why the private sector and the public they are interested to know the opinion of the tourist and his rating of the destination.In this sense, the aim of this work was to analyze the level of qualification and satisfaction of the tourists in the destination of the ends during the second half of 2013. Analyzing its characterisation and potential future through the methodology used by Center for Tourist Studies (CESTUR). It is important to note that the results indicated that Los Cabos has competitive advantages in infrastructure, customer service and the natural environment. As well as challenges to resolve how to increase the range of tourist activities and the change of image in the historical center of the destination.
P49|Risk Management In Organic Farming|Considering organic production as a system of specific breeding or production of plants and animals, plant or animal products, processing and marketing, the paper discusses risk management in organic farming as a major task in sector development and management on different levels. The questions of risk management are concerned by the point of view that there should be a clear understanding of different sources and kinds of risks, as well as of the complexity of actions and responses. The study presents a summary of the risks in organic production, the relationship risk-profit and the process of risk management in organic farming.
P49|The economic efficiency of beef cattle in extensive system|In Romania there are large areas of unused pasture, which are well suited for the meat breeds and the geoclimatic conditions are favorable for beef. The beef breeds are more profitable than the milk ones. They have a yield of 65-70% cut, the meat quality is very good and the animals are not at all pretentious for food, they consume all plant debris. One advantage is that the growth rate of animals is faster, a calf, for example, can reach in 15-20 months at a weight of 550-650 kg.
P49|New Model of Social Policy in Bulgaria on Adaptation of the Military, Discharged from the Military Services|"The starting point of our research is the specificity of social work with the military discharged from military service. The need for transparency and equal treatment of users of social services and respect for the dignity of the military, presupposes the importance of the social work with them. This is supported also by the fact that hundreds of specialists from the army have been transferred to the public sector and are able to make a significant contribution to the reconstruction of Bulgarian society and add value but this is not the case in real life. There is often an impression that that their experience and knowledge is unnecessary. People who have committed themselves to military service at young age, as a rule, adapt to the conditions of civilian life with difficulty. Despite having a special military skills and knowledge they actually form a new ?risk group"", especially when they fall to the attention of the criminal world. There are various analyses and reports of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Defence on this issue that are very indicative. In confirmation of this, a third of them are offered ?a job"" in the security departments of various private organizations, banks and / or specialized licensed private security units.Practice shows that some of the reserve officers experience serious difficulties with the selection of civil profession. Although they are highly qualified, many of them cannot find a job for months, discontinue their works experience or lose their qualification. Finding the reasons for this is based on the analysis of materials from sociological and psychological research that allow defining the specifics of internal and personal adaptation. Accordingly, there are different age groups of military staff, leaving the armed forces and the Bulgarian Army, whose social adaptation is manifested differently. The importance of social work should be taken into consideration, when identifying the main issues of socialization and adaptation of the military leaving military service and transitioning to the conditions of civilian life, resulting from their economic, age, psychological and social characteristics, and their current social status. This determines the necessity of further development of existing and establishing new types of social work with them. Moreover, the social security system of the military has historically been developed as a part of the national policy."
P49|A New Bulgarian View on Social Adaptation of the Military, Discharged from Military Services|"This article reviews the social adaptation of the military as a social process. There is an overview of adaptation concepts adopted in science and practice. There is an attempt to classify the types of adaptation based on the nature of the interaction, the type of adaptive environments, adaptive environment structural components and based on the psychological content. Social adaptation process is presented in the following major stages: preparatory stage, stage of psychological tension before discharge; stage of acute mental reactions to entry into ""civilian life""; stage of acute mental reactions to exit out of ?military life? and stage of re-adaptation."
P49|The Social Adaptation Of The Military, Discharged From Military Service - Necessary Or By Request|"?o the modern globalized and dynamic world, the human is the crucial key factor, perceived as individual personality, the team and the relationships between people in this team based on self-awareness. Increasingly discussed topic is the predominantly social nature of its activity. On the agenda appears the problem of social adaptation and protection of certain groups of occupations. One of these professional groups are the social adaptation of the military at the end of their career and their preparation for proper realization in the public - private sector of economy. Moreover , unlike previous researches, refracted through the prism of the military institution social policy, with this article we aim to explore and argue ournecessity of social adaptation of the military leaving the system of the armed forces of the Bulgarian Army in compliance with the scientific rationalization of social work.The need for transparency and equal treatment of users of social services and respect for the dignity of the military, presupposes the importance of the social work with them. This is supported also by the fact that hundreds of specialists from the army have been transferred to the public sector and are able to make a significant contribution to the reconstruction of Bulgarian society and add value but this is not the case in real life. There is often an impression that that their experience and knowledge is unnecessary. People who have committed themselves to military service at young age, as a rule, adapt to the conditions of civilian life with difficulty. Despite having a special military skills and knowledge they actually form a new ?risk group"", especially when they fall to the attention of the criminal world. There are various analyses and reports of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Defence on this issue that are very indicative. In confirmation of this, a third of them are offered ?a job"" in the security departments of various private organizations, banks and / or specialized licensed private security units."
P49|Pojecie lichwy w ekonomii islamskiej/A Question of Usury in Islamic Economics|"The concept of Islamic economics as a coherent economic and financial system basically does not exist. Some authors take it, however, for simplicity, understanding by this description any entities and legal regulations, mainly in the financial markets, driven – either declaratively or in fact – on the principles derived from religious precepts of Islam. The emphasis is put on so-called interest-free banking, which involves the concept of usury (riba). By referring to the essence of Islamic economics, the author shows the differences and similarities between ""interest-free"" Islamic banking and conventional banking (Western-style). It turns out that the differences are almost exclusively at the level of declarations and similarities that arise from attempts to circumvent religious regulations, as in the riba, are much more numerous than it might seem. They result from the need to fuse Islamic finances with global financial markets, which at least at the point of contact eliminates the capability of maintaining the autonomy of the local banking system. In addition, interest-free Islamic banking development meets an obstacle in the shape of the market presence of conventional banks, which are its natural ideological competition. Thus, although the Islamic Development Bank estimates the size of the market of the Islamic system of financial services in 2015 at between 2 to 8 trillion dollars, one seems to be entitled to conclude that, in practice, between Islamic economics and capitalist economies of the West, at least in terms of banking services, the differences are purely semantic, and both Western and Islamic deposit, credit and investment products are in fact identical."
P49|Sustainable develoment of Ostrov area, Constanta county through rural and wine tourism|The purpose of this paper is to discuss the conceptual and solid dimension of the sustainable development of Ostrov area, Constanta county, regarding the rural and wine tourism and wine, and their correlation and determination of the relationship between them. The research is both a theoretical one, which exposes the ideas on this aspect, but also a practical one, which can show the efficiency and sustainability of applying a development plan. The ultimate purpose is to provide a theoretical and methodological, but also an applicative background for the development of Ostrov area. The suggested aspects have a relevant importance for development, because it determines the areas that are attractive and repulsive, managing to highlight proposals for the development strategy of the area. This approach is based on the use of some qualitative data, analyzing and forecasting the dynamics of the commune and area, and the tourism potential generating image, and finally ideas to improve and promote the existing situation through an integrative management. The main theme of this paper is to highlight and capitalize the importance of Ostrov area, for which, through the rural and wine tourism, the sustainable development becomes a certainty.
P49|The importance of traceability in certification the quality of animal products|Traceability in Productis system is an innovative approach to verify the origin of food, which will have a significant impact both on final consumers, legislators and producers from the food industry, involving large cost savings. With a food traceability system according to HACCP/ISO 22000, it can intervene and recall from market at any time, precise on lot and batch, entirely and from every point of sale, the product that of a reason or other requests this thing. The traceability is seen as a way of ensuring the control, quality and efficiency.
P49|Heterogeneity of Ambiguity Preferences|There is much interest in ambiguity-averse behavior under uncertainty, and many theories have been advanced to explain this. Empirical analyses of choices involving ambiguous options have typically used a representative agent model. We address the question of whether representative agent models are accurate approximations of reality or whether there is substantial heterogeneity in ambiguity preferences. In contrast to the representative agent model, we find that the vast majority of participants are not significantly ambiguity averse and that a significant proportion of participants are consistent with expected utility theory. This finding has important implications for the application of behavioral economics. © 2014 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
P49|Economic efficiency analysis of vegetable production systems during 2011-2014|Economic efficiency plays an important role in the foundation and farm level decisions, constituting a basic criterion in assessing the level of economic activity and development prospects. The study aimed to analyze the economic efficiency of crop production systems, measured through indicators that contribute to an overall picture of the actual conditions of economic efficiency for the analyzed period. For this study were quantified following indicators: income from operations, operating costs, labor productivity and rate of return on different types of farms of different sizes. The analysis concluded that indicators production year 2013-2014 has showed a lower level of economic efficiency compared with 2011-2012 production year; comparison of the two production systems that irrigated production system provides a rate of return of about 9-10% higher than non-irrigated system. Comparing labor productivity in terms of value (lei / Man-hour) the types of farms of different sizes that hourly labor productivity increases with economic size of holding and decreases as the number of man-hours to 1000 lei incomes increase.
P49|Interpretation of the results of the technical indicators of agriculture-specific economic”|The passage of a technological process is carried out only in circumstances where the process is efficient in economic terms. Assessment of technological processes can be done by means of indicators which can be: economic, technical, economic and technical. Technical-economic indicators used in assessing technological processes are scalars with or without dimensions, which characterizes a substance, a technical device, a system, or a technological process both technically and economically.
P49|Islamic finance revisited: conceptual and analytical issues from the perspective of conventional economics|After a brief recent empirical sketch of Islamic finance, the paper turns to its main theoretical and conceptual purpose. It seeks to relate the concepts of Islamic and conventional finance, and to examine certain important questions which arise from the interaction between these systems. The paper is written from the perspective of conventional modern economics, as the authors are students of the latter. The paper discusses the main tenets of Islamic finance, as well as those of modern economics, including the implications of zero interest rates and those of Modigliani and Miller theorems. The most notable finding of this paper is that John Maynard Keynes’ analysis of employment, interest and money provides, inadvertently, the best rationale for some of the basic precepts of Islamic finance. The paper concludes that there is no inevitable conflict between the two systems and cooperation between them is eminently desirable and feasible.
P49|Los modelos organizativos de traperos de emaús en el estado y su respuesta a la crisis<BR>[The organizational models of emaus rag pickers in the state and its response to crisis]|A pesar de su inspiración común en el movimiento impulsado por el Abbé Pierre en Francia en 1949, en la actualidad existen importantes diferencias entre los grupos de Traperos de Emaús. Este artículo pretende clasificar los diversos grupos presentes en el Estado español y analizar si sus características particulares les han llevado a plantear diferentes estrategias frente a la crisis. Para ello primero proponemos una tipología basada en el análisis de cinco variables (forma jurídica, existencia de vida en comunidad, liderazgo y participación, crecimiento, orientación de la acción) que ayuden a dibujar el modelo organizativo de los diversos grupos de Emaús en el Estado; lo que nos lleva a clasificarlos en cuatro categorías (Comunitaria, Fundación, Empresa Social, Mixta). En general, las diferencias entre estos modelos son previas a la crisis económica, pero hemos observado que también hay diferencias en las respuestas a la misma. Aunque todavía es pronto para poder establecer una tipología de respuestas a la crisis, sí podemos subrayar tentativamente algunas claves que parecen contrastar las diferencias entre los modelos propuestos. Creemos que es importante comprender estos diferentes modelos y sus estrategias de respuesta, ya que todas ellas están presentes en otras entidades o empresas sociales vinculadas a la Economía Social y al Tercer Sector, y por tanto, ayudan a comprender cuáles pueden ser las claves de futuro de este tipo de Economía Alternativa.
P49|Islamic Stock Markets in a Global Context|This study is a sequel to the 2012 Sheng and Singh article that identified and explained the significance of the two central tenets of Islamic finance: namely, its underpinning by a strong ethical system, and the absolute prohibition of the use of interest rates. That study also argued that the cooperation between the conventional Western system and the Islamic system is eminently sensible and will lead to a Pareto optimal increase in world welfare
P49|Guanxi: Personal connections in Chinese society|Guanxi is known to be an important feature of Chinese society, and while studies of the subject are voluminous, the present study attempts to explore two critical aspects that tend to be neglected. First, previous studies have mostly dealt with guanxi in business activities, but we analyze the meanings of guanxi in the context of ordinary people. More importantly, even though guanxi has routinely been attributed to Confucianism, it begs the more fundamental question of why Chinese society has developed Confucianism and why the latter has become the dominant ideology over the centuries. We provide a plausible account of this important question from both sociological and economic perspectives. Secondly, we illustrate the general implications of guanxi in Chinese society, in particular relating guanxi to the development of democracy and of the rule of law. Consequently, its significance in Chinese society is actually more important than what has been suggested in the literature. Finally, we present some preliminary empirical evidence, based on survey results, of the importance of guanxi in contemporary Chinese society. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media, LLC. 2013
P49|Measuring National Innovation Systems Efficiency - A Review of DEA Approach|"Take full free-available version of this paper on http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2304735 The paper reviews the application of the data envelopment analysis (DEA) method for measuring the efficiency of national innovation systems (NIS). The paper firstly visualizes the logic of DEA method and briefly summarizes the key advantages and main limitations of the DEA method. Further, this paper provides a comprehensive review of 11 empirical studies on cross-country analysis of NIS efficiency with DEA technique. In its main part the paper analyses the specifications of DEA models used in the reviewed studies, the content of the country samples, sets of input and output variables used and the resulting lists of efficient countries. The review detects general trends and differences in the sets of variables and the content of country samples. Moreover, this paper highlights the problem of ""small countries bias"" in the reviewed studies: situation when ""small"" (in terms of national innovation system scope and the level of development) countries (like Venezuela, Kyrgyzstan etc.) are included in the country sample, these ""small"" countries become the efficient ones. In general, empirical studies on cross-country analysis of national innovation systems efficiency using DEA method pay little attention to profound analysis of previous relevant studies. Therefore, this paper is among the first papers with deep review of such empirical studies."
P49|An Overview And Analysis Of Energy Challenges In The Republic Of Croatia|This paper examines the key energy challenges that Croatia faces, how those challenges are likely to evolve in the coming years, and some possible solutions to the issues presented. While there is a wide variety of issues that Croatia will need to address, this paper will address two of the most pressing: reliance on energy imports, and an inadequate power grid and energy infrastructure. After identifying current vulnerabilities that the country is facing, the analysis points out the trends and the ongoing challenges regarding the demand for energy in Croatia. Finally, this paper concludes with the recommendation that Croatia pursue a multi-pronged approach to renewable energy generation, emphasizing decentralized production as the most time and cost effective strategy until the national power grid can be sufficiently upgraded and integrated to support more centralized approaches. Its geographic location, immanent admission to the EU and potential for diverse domestic sources of renewable energy combine to set the stage for a bright future for Croatia’s economic development, as long as the Croatian authorities place a priority on a multi - pronged approach to energy sources on the one hand, while continuing to work to a unified energy infrastructure on the other.
P49|Measuring national innovation systems efficiency – a review of DEA approach|The paper reviews the application of the data envelopment analysis (DEA) method for measuring the efficiency of national innovation systems (NIS). The paper firstly visualizes the logic of DEA method and briefly summarizes the key advantages and main limitations of the DEA method. Further, this paper provides a comprehensive review of 11 empirical studies on cross-country analysis of NIS efficiency with DEA technique. In its main part the paper analyses the specifications of DEA models used in the reviewed studies, the content of the country samples, sets of input and output variables used and the resulting lists of efficient countries. The review detects general trends and differences in the sets of variables and the content of country samples. Moreover, this paper highlights the problem of “small countries bias” in the reviewed studies: situation when “small” (in terms of national innovation system scope and the level of development) countries (like Venezuela, Kyrgyzstan etc.) are included in the country sample, these “small” countries become the efficient ones. In general, empirical studies on cross-country analysis of national innovation systems efficiency using DEA method pay little attention to profound analysis of previous relevant studies. Therefore, this paper is among the first papers with deep review of such empirical studies
P49|The Exploitation of the Open Economic System’s Synergistic Relational Potential|This paper proposes and depicts certain aspects that we consider to be essential in the matter of the economic systems’ relational potential utilization for their functional synergism's turning up and synergic acting in the benefit of the concerned systems (with emphasis on the open ones) and in the purpose of avoiding undesirable results. It aims at highlighting, defining and outlining the main conceptual issues, including the formalizing and also showing of certain real examples. After a short introduction and a very synthetic review of the evolution of economic entities (from the angle of the managerial approach) to the open system form, a conceptual presentation of those systems’ potential to generate synergism by multiple connections and relations is made. The paper’s conception is based on the hypothesis that the concern and action for quantifying and exploiting the synergic relational potential of the active economic entities (including the case of complex entities, of regional or national level) would represent support and impulse for their success in competition; this specific advantage of those economic entities is perceived as being obtained out from of the conventional means. Further on, the factorial substantiation of the growth of an open economic system’s synergic potential is made and the benefits of its turning to good account are described, but also certain problems (and examples) concerning its accounting and finding in statistic records.The essential aspects (argumentative and to be followed to achieve synergy effects) are synthesized into a suggestive formula concerning especially the number and intensity of the established and functional links, as a result of trying to measure the exploitation degree of the synergistic relational potential that belongs to the active economic networks or systems. Objective arguments of empirical nature result, regarding the necessity of quantification and exploitation of relational synergistic potential of economic entities (including the complex entities at regional and national level).
P49|"Is Bible and Quran the true word of God, ""The Economist case against addictive substance"""|The use of addictive substances is one of the most critical issues facing humanity since time immemorial. The ground reality exhibits that there are direct relationship of drug use with violence, corruption, incest and numerous other immoral and corrupt activities. The present study therefore made an attempt to exhibit and highlights the policy prescription provided by economists and different religions. Towards addictive substances the policy prescription of economists are usually based on confusion and contradiction. One group of economists encourages the prohibition of addictive substances, while another influential group propagates the philosophy of lasses faire and market economy. This influential group of economist advocates that all addictive substances should be legalized on the basis of their strength and effectiveness. Like Judaism the Christian church also encourage the use of addictive substances through the ceremony of Eucharist, Sacred Meal, and Holy Communion. In sharp contrast Islam consider addictive substances as the mother of all evils and ills. In the philosophy of Islam, on one side the production and consumption of addictive substances are strictly prohibited, while on the other side through moral education the use of addictive substances are discouraged.
P49|La mujer indígena campesina en Bolivia y su objetivo de igualdad. Propuesta de aplicación de un mapa estratégico basado en valores cooperativos<BR>[The indigenous rural woman in Bolivia and the equality aim. A strategic map application based on cooperatives values]|Los condicionantes económicos y sociales presentes en el entorno rural de Bolivia han relegado a la mujer a un papel secundario y, en muchas ocasiones, injusto. El movimiento cooperativo y, concretamente su filosofía basada en una serie de valores, se presenta como una alternativa muy viable para cambiar la situación anteriormente comentada y conseguir que la mujer campesina indígena sea considerada en términos de igualdad en los contextos familiares y comunales. Sin embargo, necesitamos para ello una herramienta de aplicación, la cual ha consistido en una adaptación personal e innovadora del tradicional mapa estratégico propuesto por Kaplan y Norton (1992), a través del cual, la interrelación entre los objetivos correspondientes a diferentes perspectivas, contribuyen al alcance de la visión planteada.
P49|Le Rôle Des Ong Pour La Prise De Conscience De L’Importance Des Partenariats Publics-Prives Dans L'Économie Sociale En Roumanie|Les analystes économiques en Roumanie ont lancé en 2010 par l'un des plus importants fournisseurs de l'information générale et des affaires en Roumanie, l'agence Mediafax, la nouvelle en vertu de laquelle la crise financière et le freinage mondiale de la croissance économique ont changé le classement des plus grandes économies du monde selon le Produit Intérieur Brut (PIB) exprimé en dollars, et la récession a conduit la Chine au deuxième rang dans le monde au détriment de l'Allemagne et le Japon. Grâce à ce document, nous attirons l'attention sur certains aspects qui caractérisent la société contemporaine roumaine et nous proposons une nouvelle vision pour surmonter les limites des approches qui ont des influences sur la crise économique mondiale. Une première question concerne l'impact minimum sur l'économie roumaine que l’on a eu l’adoption du modèle utilisé par les pays développés du monde, à savoir la compétitivité fondée sur la connaissance. L'innovation continue, comme principal moteur de ce modèle, a apporté plusieurs avantages, mais aussi d'énormes risques. La deuxième question se réfère à l'adoption, en 2010, par le Parlement roumain de la loi 178/2010 sur les partenariats public-privé. Les conséquences immédiates de cette loi a été un bon argument pour lancer cette étude. Une autre question se réfère à l'économie sociale. Peut-il être responsable de l'obtention des résultats encourageants dans l'essai de la «crise économique»?
P49|El Talento Humano Y La Innovación Empresarial En El Contexto De Las Redes Empresariales: El Clúster De Prendas De Vestir En Caldas-Colombia|El estudio sobre redes empresariales y la innovación empresarial ha cobrado especial interés en la literatura reciente; en particular, el recurso humano como un aspecto vital que contribuye al desarrollo de redes de conocimiento e innovación dentro de las redes empresariales. El artículo estudia la relación entre el nivel de formación del recurso humano y los vínculos entre empresas dentro del clúster de confecciones en el departamento de Caldas (Colombia), como determinantes del desempeño innovador empresarial. Se presentan los referentes teóricos, el contexto regional y los principales resultados. Se concluye que la formación del recurso humano, la existencia de áreas especializadas, planes estratégicos de recurso humano y acciones conjuntas entre las empresas que involucran el recurso humano, influyen positivamente en la innovación empresarial.
P49|Social entrepreneurship: the new narrative for the practice of the social economy|In recent years, the notion of social entrepreneurship and its manifest linkage with the economic development and social change has quickly gained prominence in the general discourse of academics and policymakers. A social justification or motive is a key issue in the account for its existence. In this sense, the expression “social entrepreneurship” is being utilized to describe what has been traditionally known as practices of social economy. However, differences in what is understood as “social” can be observed in both areas. The purpose of this article is to examine and compare the ideas that underlie and operate in the current narratives of social entrepreneurship with those implicit in the traditional rhetoric in the context of social economy. The main results show a wider conception of the term “social” within the discourse of social entrepreneurship than in the social economy area.
P49|Critical Management Education as a Vehicle for Emancipation: Exploring the Philosophy of Jacques Rancière|This paper aims to contribute to the literature on Critical Management Education (CME) by drawing on the work of philosopher, Jacques Rancière, whose thinking provides a means of resolving the dilemma underlying CME. It raises fundamental questions regarding the position of authority and the expertise of the critical educator, while at the same time dispelling the illusion of collaboration and consensus with students and managers. By presenting equality as an assumption to be actualised, Rancière invites us to reject the appropriation harboured by expert knowledge and the assignation of positions that this implies. On this basis, we can restructure the place of management and management education as a fertile ground for the emergence of dissensus in order to politicise what was neutralised and to give voice to those who have no voice.
P49|Structures of knowledge in the Ottoman Empire and Turkish Republic, 1731­1980|It is argued that the historiographical approaches prevalent in the Ottoman Empire and then in the Turkish Republic, observable in both academic and cultural production and implemented in the education system, were closely related to material transformations in politics and economics. It is further shown, however, that these relations were not of a one-way causality in either direction, but rather part of a singular whole. Debates over the construction of the past and the modernization project survive today in discussions arising from Turkey’s possible candidacy for membership in the European Union.
P49|Rethinking Emancipation in Organization Studies. In the light of Jacques Rancière's Philosophy|The demand for emancipation was once something we only associated with oppressed social groups such as Women, Workers or the colonized who were seeking to escape from various forms of domination which they had long been subjected to. Today, some of the most privileged groups in our society such as middle managers and professions talk about their thirst for emancipation. They seek this precious and awe inspiring goal through participating in management courses (Gosling, 2000), reading various forms of management literature which promises to turn them into revolutionaries (Jacques, 1996), and engaging with various journeys to free themselves from the shackles of thought control and simply 'be themselves' at work (Fleming, 2009). Corporations routinely sell themselves as a route to emancipation for their consumers and employees. One only needs to think about the recent advertisement for Virgin which replaced the famous images of the revolutionary Ché Guevara with Richard Branson. The message seems to be clear - it is not just radical political movements that can provide emancipation, corporations can too! The fact that emancipation has lost its anchor in radical political movements and shocks and scandalizes some. For others, it is a kind of an indication of how endlessly flexible and omnivorous capitalism is insofar as it is able to adopt nearly anything - include forms of virulent anti-capitalism - to further itself. While these two explanations are certainly appealing, we think that the widespread adoption of this culture of emancipation actually underlines the increasing uncertainty and fragmentation that has taken place around the term. For us this is due to a shift in focus of understanding of emancipation. Previously, emancipation was understood as a form of wide-scale transformational change in society achieved through intellectuals enlightening people who find themselves dominated. This notion informed studies of emancipation for many years. The result was that research on emancipation tended to focus on either documenting large scale challenges to capitalism and management or agitating for emancipation through a progressive enlightenment of the audience. This approach to emancipation began to fall out of favour as it was accused of being too grandiose - subjects were positioned as victims of managerial knowledge which they could only escape from through the progressive enlightenment under the tutelage of critical intellectuals. Such disenchantment led researchers to turn their focus towards more minor forms of micro-emancipation whereby people momentarily escape from domination in their everyday life through minor activities (eg. Alvesson and Willmott, 1992). This focus produced a deep body of literature that documented the various ways individuals seek out micro-emancipation in the workplace (eg. Zanoni and Jensens, 2007). However, recently we have witnessed some important questions being asked around this research agenda. In particular, some are concerned that it has begun to fundamentally constrain how we think about forms of emancipation, creating a myopic focus on small-scale struggles and fundamentally ignoring many of the broader social struggles that challenge management. In this paper we seek to overcome these problems associated with macro as well as micro-emancipation by positing a new conception of emancipation offered in the recent thought of Jacques Rancière. For Rancière, emancipation should not be seen as an ideal to be reached, but as a postulate to be acualised in day-to-day practice. He points out that equality can be actualized by interrupting the order of sensibility (rather than through quotidian everyday acts), through creating a sense of dissensus (rather than collaboration and attempts to create consensus), and attempts to singularize the universal (rather than through fragmentary struggles). By focusing on these three processes, Rancière enables us to see a range of emancipatory struggles that we were blinded to by both accounts of marco-emancipation (which went looking for grand revolts) as well as micro-emancipation (which focused on everyday transgression). In particular it enables us to register the kinds of emancipation movements that have frequently been left out of accounts of emancipation in organization studies. These include the self-education movements, proliterian intellectual movements, as well as forms art. Rancière's account of emancipation allows us to extend how we think about processes of emancipation in and around organizations in three ways. First, it allows us to register activities in our theoretical gaze that we had previously ignored or discounted. Macro-emancipation focuses our attention on collective movements which are organised and micro-emancipation focuses our attention on often individual every-day activities which are not organised. In contrast, Rancière draws our attention to various emancipatory movements that are often collective, but are not formally organised. This broadens the range of forms of emancipation we can study. Second, Rancière allows us to rethink how exactly emancipation works. Instead of focusing on creation of new states of freedom (as studies of macro emancipation do) or attempts to seize fleeting forms of freedom (as studies of micro emanciption do), Rancière's work allows us to see how emancipation involves the transformation of the sensible. This re-orients our studies to how emancipation movements seek to change what and how we actually see the world. Finally, Rancière allows us to move beyond the assumption that contemporary resistance is fragmented and disorganised by registering how individual forms of resistance are experienced as an embodiment or singularization of universal struggles. Doing this allows us to recognise the link between the specific demands of many resistance movements and more universal claims such as dignity, recognition, and justice. By making these three contributions, we hope to move beyond either an elitist account found in studies of macro-emancipation and the banal account found in studies of micro-emancaiption. In order to make this argument, we proceed as follows. We begin by reviewing the two dominant conceptions of emancipation. First we look at three different modes of emancipation that have been successively pursued - political emancipation, economic emancipation and ideological emancipation. We then look at the ways in which organization studies has suggested these struggles take place - through 'macro-emancipation' or 'micro-emancipation'. In this review we highlight the shortcomings of these two existing conceptions of emancipation. We then introduce a third conception of emancipation inspired by the work of Jacques Rancière. After we have outlined this, we then draw out the implications of this for the study of emancipation in organization studies. We conclude by sketching out what new areas of emancipation this allows us to understand and perhaps engage with.
P49|Business Intelligence - The Standard Tool of a Modern Company|The present state of world economy is largely affected by economic crisis. Managers look for new ways and procedures which can start an economic growth. To support this, companies need much better systems providing the managers adequate and sufficient information. This type of information, which is usually multidimensional, can be provided by the Business Intelligence (BI) technologies. The paper briefly presents the benefits of BI technologies and shows the possibilities of BI in support of decision-making processes, e-commerce systems and corporate strategy development.
P49|Uzun Donemli Al-ve-Tut Getirileri: IMKB’de Halka Acik Sirketler Uzerine Bir Uygulama|Bu calýsma IMKB’de 1995-2004 yillarinda halka arz edilen sirketlerin hisse senetlerinin bes yillik uzun donemli performanslarini incelemektedir. Elde edilen sonuclar gostermektedir ki ortalama ilk gun getirisi %8,26’dir ve IMKB’de ilk gun getirilerinde dusuk fiyatlama olgusu tespit edilmistir. Getirilerin sektorlere gore dagilimi yapildiginda en fazla ortalama ilk gun getiri elektrik ve mali sektorlerinde olup, sektorler arasinda getiriler istatistiki olarak birbirinden farklidir. Calismada uzun donemli hisse getirilerini hesaplamak icin al-ve-tut getiriler yontemi kullanilmistir. Bu calismanin en onemli sonuclarindan birisi ilk gun getirisi yuksek olan hisse senetlerinin uzun donemli getirilerinin de yuksek oldugudur. Bu sonuc gostermektedir ki, IMKB’de ozellikle halka arzlarda yatirimcilar arasinda asiri iyimserlik olgusu yasanmamistir. Calismanin bir diger sonucu ise buyuk isirketlerin hisse senedi getirilerinin yatirimcilara uzun donemde diger sirketlere gore kazandirdigidir.
P49|Rethinking emancipation in organization studies. In the light of Jacques Rancière's philosophy|Emancipation in organization studies and Jacques Rancière's philosophy
P49|Introducing Anthropological Foundations of Economic Behavior, Organization, and Control|One of the rude awakenings for economists from the current recession is an emerging understanding that economics has gone wild with its highbrow mathematical models that bear little resemblance to reality. The failure of economics to predict and solve the current global recession, has restored the “dismal science” title to the profession. It stems from the cultish fascination with Adam Smith’s Invisible Hand, centered around the belief in the efficient market hypothesis. This fascination exposes analytical holes in the methodology that economics has followed lately, as economics itself has moved too far away from its key social foundations. This situation is incomprehensible and needs redressing. I compiled a book - Selected Readings on the Anthropological Bases of Economic Behavior, Organization, and Control - to help economists and others get back in touch with their genealogy. This current paper is a watered down version of the introduction to Selected Readings. It concludes that real life is neither as simple nor economic as economic theory sometimes suggests. In fact, and for much of human history, non-economic factors and forces have driven economic activities. Selected Readings provides an opportunity for reinforced focus on economics principles. Alone and detached from its social foundations economics has a future only as fiction. As serious non-fiction, economics cannot successfully divorce itself from its elemental foundations in the social sciences. To advance its theory in the past economics needed to borrow from mathematics and physics. Such learning must continue. However, to remain policy-relevant economics cannot wish away the very social bases upon which it is founded. Without social foundations one might as well kiss economics goodbye.
P49|Four generations of Islamic economists|The present discussion falls under the broad category of modern history of Islamic Economic Thought. The present classification of generations and sorting the features of their work is important to understand the development of modern Islamic Economics since its inception during the early 20th century. A time span of 25 years has been taken for one generation of Islamic economists. Including the present team of young economists, Islamic economists have been classified into four generations. The date of the first work by a scholar has been considered as a criterion for his place in a generation, not his age.
P49|Social Climate Perception By The Population In The Czech Republic (Almost 20 Years After The Velvet Revolution In 1989)| The article deals with the social climate perception by the population of the Czech Republic. It is written on the basis of a survey carried out in 2008 and it tries to interpret the opinion of the Czech population on the current development of the society from the economic, political and social perspectives. It tries to encompass the current atmosphere and certain intergenerational nuances of the views of the presented topic.
P49|El Desarrollo como Derecho Humano|Face to that kind of globalization, providing financial and human capital drain toward most priviledged social sectors and the richest, most powerful countries, humane and sustainable development link to other model of globalization not reduced to a mere commercial exchange. This would also implies respect, protection and promotion for the ensemble of Human Rights, for all groups and individuals, specially for most vulnerable and unpriviledged ones. Therefore, it is necessary that the current capital and human resource flow be invested in favour of poorer and less priviledged social sectors and underdeveloped countries. As well, basic needs fulfilling should be given preference over the external debt reimbursement, in the assignation of budget resources. putting forward, in case appropriate, the state of need or force majeure, toward to suspend such a payment.
P49|Public sector motivation and development failures|"This paper provides a theoretical analysis of the relationship between public sector motivation and development. In the model the public sector produces a public good and workers are heterogeneous in terms of public sector motivation (PSM). Wages in the private sector increase with the quality of the public good. In this context, public sector wage premia (PSWP) have two opposite effects: low PSWP helps screen workers with PSM into the public sector, while high PSWP helps motivate workers to be honest. Raising PSWP may not improve the quality of governance and multiple equilibria might arise. The model highlights that the relative importance of workers selection and provision of ""on the job"" incentives in the public sector varies in systematic ways with wages in the private sector. We provide anecdotal and original empirical evidence consistent with the theoretical predictions and discuss some policy implications for public sector reforms in developing countries."
P49|Rolul Comisiei Europene in politica de concurenta - European Commission’s role in competition policy (Romanian Version)|No abstract is available for this item.
P49|"The history of the economic thought in the test of the ""universalism"" of Othmar Spann"|"The Austrian economist Othmar Spann (1878-1950) proposes term ""universalism"" to qualify, in opposition to the ""individualism"", the doctrine and the method consisting in putting in first totality, society, in the logical order of ""functional"" analysis of economic facts. Spann applies then this universalist approach to his reading of the history of the economic thought. He sets so a lineage of universalist economists (Müller, Fichte, Baader, Stein, List, Thünen, Roscher, Hildebrand, Knies, Bernhardi, Schmoller) against the lineage of the individualistic economists (Smith, Ricardo, Rau, Say, Menger, Jevons)."
P49|Генезис Цивитальной Организации: Идеология Нового Мира<BR>[Genesis of the social organisation: ideology of the new world]|The monography considers laws and mechanisms of social development from positions of positivism, dialectic materialism and the theory of systems. The methodology of the author is based on causality in relations of a society and social institutes. Social development is considered as result of opposition of a society and the social systems. The author offers new methodology of the analysis of social processes in the conditions of crisis of traditional social philosophy.
P49|I fondamenti di principio di un’economia islamica|The Quran is the primary source for the teachings and beliefs of Islam. While the community may change the social and economic policies inspired by Islamic values ??in order to meet the changing socio-economic needs of society, the basic principles of Islamic economics and the social system, however, must be preserved. It is expected that freely elected representatives to work together with the society to develop policies in support of economic and social stability, economic prosperity, public education, health care, economic fairness, of a fair distribution of income and a network social security. All Muslims physically and mentally skilled are required to work for their living, and those who have a sufficient level of wealth have an obligation to pay taxes that contribute to the financing of state welfare programs and other social benefits. Our illustration of the Islamic economic system is supported by many modern scholars of Islam and Islamic economics, however, does not agree completely with those offered by religious leaders and equipment related to a state authority.
P49|Forms of Participatory Democracy: An Analytical Framework Based on the Experiences of Bolivia, Brazil and Colombia|Based on the experiences of Colombia, Brazil and Bolivia, the paper proposes a general analytical framework for participatory mechanisms. The analysis is oriented to detect the incentives in each system and the ethics and behavior sustaining them. It investigates about the sustainability of participatory democracy, in the face of tensions with representative democracy. The article presents a theoretical framework built from these experiences of institutional design and political practice, and confronts it against the theoretical conceptualizations of participatory democracy in Bobbio, Sartori, Elster and Nino, among others. In this context, different ways in wich those schemes can be inserted in the political systems become apparent, along with the variables that result from combinig elements of direct, representative and participatory democracy.********************************************************************************************************A partir de la experienca de Colombia, Brasil y Bolivia, el artículo propone un marco de análisis general de esquemas de democracia participativa. El análisis está orientado a detectar los incentivos presentes en cada uno de los sistemas y la ética y el comportamiento que sostiene estas instituciones. Investiga además su sostenibilidad al enfrentar tensiones en su interacción con la democracia representativa. El artículo presenta un marco teórico a partir de estas experiencias de diseño institucional y prácticas políticas, y su comparación con las conceptualizaciones teóricas de la democracia participativa de Bobbio, Sartori, Elster y Nino, entre otros. En este análisis se resaltan las diferentes maneras en que tales sistemas políticos son introducidos, así como las variables que resultan de la combinación entre democraica directa, participativa y representativa.
P49|Estimating the Value of a Statistical Life: The Importance of Omitted Variables and Publication Bias|In this paper we show that omitted variables and publication bias lead to severely biased estimates of the value of a statistical life. Although our empirical results are obtained in the context of a study of choices about road safety, we suspect that the same issues plague the estimation of monetary trade-offs regarding safety in other contexts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P49|"""Non-Profit"" Tauschsysteme: Ein Literaturüberblick"|No abstract is available for this item.
P49|Northeast Asian Dynamism: Ten Top Impediments & Countermeasures|Northeast Asia has had trouble developing regional interaction, cooperation and market synergies; this paper summarizes key impediments and proposes various countermeasures. Suggestions include improvements in administrative transparency and property law, building on EU and ASEAN organizing experiences through benchmarking, and offering free or low-cost land to boost migration & investment. A bilingual annotated appendix lists over fifty multilateral coordinating initiatives & key organizations involved with Northeast Asia regional development.
P49|Infrastructures de transport et co-développement|"L'aisance avec laquelle les marchandises se déplacent à travers les frontières participe activement à la structuration des activités économiques. Or, si les régions européennes appartiennent d'abord à des économies nationales, celles-ci tendent de plus en plus à conduire des stratégies de coopération économique transfrontalière dans le but d'accroître leur potentiel de développement. Dans ce contexte, l'agglomération dunkerquoise, avec son port, ses infrastructures de transport et ses réseaux fluviaux, ne gagnerait-elle pas à se rapprocher de la Wallonie (Belgique) pour optimiser son intégration aux axes commerciaux du Nord de l'Europe ? Réunissant quelques contributions au colloque « Infrastructures de transport et co-développement » qui s'est tenu les 14 et 15 janvier à Dunkerque et La Louvière, ce document livre un certain nombre de réflexions sur les perspectives qu'augurerait une coopération inter-régionale en matière d'infrastructures de transport. The easy moving of goods throughout boundaries contribute to structure economic activities. However, if European regions are first part of national economies, they increasingly tend to develop economic co-operation strategies crossing international borders to strengthen their development potential. In this context, should the Dunkirk area, with its port, transport facilities and fluvial networks make it up with Walloony (Belgium) to reinforce its integration in the trading range of Northern Europe ? Gathering contributions of the ""Transport facilities and co-development"" Conference which was held January 14th and 15th on Dunkirk and La Louvière, this paper gives some considerations about the outlooks of an inter-regional cooperationdealing with transport facilities"
P49|The hunt for S-shaped growth paths in technological innovation: a patent study|Since the works by the business cycle theorists in the 1930s, no attempts have been made to study empirically the long term evolution paths of individual technologies starting with long time series. This is an empirical exploration and confirmation of the now almost assumed image or metaphor of the way technology develops; that it follows an S-shaped growth path which is commonly associated with a similar shaped diffusion function of entrepreneurial activity. The paper also confirms the diversity of technology dynamics and explores how technological cycle takeoffs appear to be clustered within certain historical epochs. The results have implications for our understanding of the evolution paths of individual technologies, and of the evolution of technological systems and waves of innovation.
