P59|Intraday effect of news on emerging European forex markets: An event study analysis|We analyze the impact of euro zone/German and U.S. macroeconomic news announcements and the communication of the monetary policy settings of the ECB and the Fed on the forex markets of new EU members. We employ an event study methodology to analyze intraday data from 2011–2015. Our comprehensive analysis of the wide variety of macroeconomic information during the post-GFC period shows that: (i) macroeconomic announcements affect the value of the new EU country exchange rates, (ii) the origin of the announcement matters, (iii) the type of announcement matters, (iv) different types of news (good, bad or neutral) result in different reactions, (v) markets react not only after the news release but also before, (vi) when the U.S. dollar is the base currency the impact of the news is larger than in the case of the euro, (vii) announcements on ECB monetary policy result in stronger effects than those of the Fed, (viii) temporary inefficiencies are present in new EU country forex markets, (ix) new EU country exchange rates react differently to positive US news during the EU debt crisis compared to the rest of the period.
P59|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|Religious war and the separation of Church and state affairs in the global north contributed in the emergence and implementation of various ideologies. Instead of its positive impact these ideologies became a source of extreme violence and corruption across the planet. Liberalism, non-intervention in the socio-economic affairs of mankind is considered as an advanced state of mankind ideological evolution and End of History. In addition, it is believed that liberalism is free from internal contradiction and which can be settle by an alternate ideology. In sharp contrast, Muslims believes that beside other one of the unresolvable contradictions between liberalism and Islam is the gnosis of human being which the present study will undertake. Question to be explored that what concept of man has been held by economists (Liberals/Islamic) in their analysis of the behaviour of individual man, and to what extent they have universalized their concept of the individual to mankind?
P59|Liberalism, Islam and the idea of Mankind|After the defeat of Marxism and the triumph in the war in Iraq, pundit in the global north labelled neoliberalism as the End of History and last form of mankind ideological evolution. It is believed that neoliberalism successfully satisfied all the previous ideological contradiction. In contrast, Muslims believe that besides others one of the prominent and unresolvable contradictions between Neoliberalism and Islam is the gnosis of humanity which the present study will undertake. In this paper using the methodology of library research we will explore how the liberal and Islamic economists conceptualize man in their analysis of human behaviour and the degree to which the concept of man has been universalized.
P59|Exchange rate comovements, hedging and volatility spillovers on new EU forex markets|We analyze time-varying exchange rate co-movements, hedging ratios, and volatility spillovers on the new EU forex markets during 1999M1-2018M5. We document significant differences in the extent of currency comovements during various periods of market distress that are related to real economic and financial events. These imply favorable diversification benefits: the hedge-ratio calculations show all three currencies bring hedging benefits during crisis periods, but at different costs. During calm periods, most of the volatilities are due to each currency’s own history. During the distress periods, volatility spillovers among currencies increase substantially and the Hungarian currency assumes a leading role.
P59|The Role of Street-Level Bureaucrats in Implementing Renewable Energy Policy in Indonesia|"""Objective – This empirical paper aims to describe what action the Government of Indonesia is taking to provide alternative energy sources, such as solar cells, biomass, wind energy, ocean energy, and other renewable energy (RE) sources. Methodology/Technique – The method of analysis used in this study consists of an individual factor, a contextual factor, an external factor, an organizational factor, and a political factor. Findings – The results show that the role of street level bureaucrats in implementing RE policy in Indonesia is influenced by legal regulation and specific values in internal organizations, created by themselves. Novelty – The study highlights that street-level bureaucrats in Dirjen-EBTKE have a discretion when introducing and implementing new RE programs. The paper involves qualitative research by providing descriptive data through a case study"""
P59|Central And Eastern Europe’S Transition To A Market Economy And The European Integration: With Special Attention To Mitterrand’S Project Of European Confederation|In 1989 system changes occurred one after another in Central and East European countries. Immediately after the system changes there were two approaches to the problem of what the future of Central and Eastern Europe would be like. One was pan-European confederation proposed by French President Francois Mitterrand, and another was Jeffrey Sachs’ idea proposing a shock therapy and a breakup of the COMECON region. In practice Sachs’s idea, which was supported by the US government, was adopted. The USA, which played a shadow leading actor in the postwar European integration, again played the same role in the transformation of Central and Eastern Europe. Although not adopted, Mitterrand’s project included a grand plan of gradual changes of Central and Eastern Europe based on his historical insight and concern for ethnic problems. Peace has come to Central European and Baltic countries. In contrast, however, the shock therapy affected the Balkans negatively. In the former Yugoslavia the government succeeded in suppressing hyperinflation with the shock therapy, but its damage to the economy was very severe, intensifying conflicts among republics, leading to the breakup of the federation and ethnic conflicts.In South Eastern Europe exactly a Europe of “Sarajevo” that Mitterrand feared was revived.
P59|Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights agreements and the upsurge in foreign direct investment in developing countries|Globalization has brought about remarkable growth in worldwide foreign direct investment (FDI), especially in developing countries. Many previous papers have examined the drivers of FDI inflows to developing countries. Nevertheless, little attention has been paid to relationships between TRIPS (Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) agreement and FDI. This paper examines whether TRIPS have spurred a sharp rise in FDI in developing countries. The research presented in this paper addresses the 1985 to 2012 time period to comprehensively examine the impact of TRIPS on inward FDI in 23 developing countries via Ordinary Least Square (OLS), Fixed Effects (FE) and System Generalized Method of Moments (System GMM) techniques. The empirical results show that enforcement of the TRIPS agreement constitutes a driving force of FDI in host countries. In addition, such effects vary with host country characteristics.
P59|Thirty Years of Conflict and Economic Growth in Turkey: A Synthetic Control Approach|This study seeks to estimate the economic effects of PKK terrorism in Turkey in a causal framework. We create a synthetic control group that reproduces the Turkish real per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) before PKK terrorism emerged in the second half of the 1980s. We compare the GDP of the synthetic Turkey without terrorism to the actual Turkey with terrorism for the period 1955-2008. Covering the period of 1988-2008, we find that the Turkish per capita GDP would have been higher by an average of about $1,585 per year had it not been exposed to PKK terrorism. This translates into an average of 13.8 percent higher per capita GDP or a 0.62 percentage points higher annual growth over a period of 21 years. Our estimate is robust to country exclusion, sparse controls, various non-outcome characteristics as predictors of GDP, alternative specifications of the in-space placebo experiments and to other potentially confounding interventions to the sample units in the pre-terrorism period.
P59|Comparative Advantage Defying Development Strategy and Cross Country Poverty Incidence|This paper argues that poverty in a country is endogenously determined by the country¡¯s long-term economic development strategy. It empirically examines the effects of adopting a Comparative Advantage-Defying (CAD) development strategy - which attempts to encourage economic actors to deviate from the economy¡¯s existing comparative advantages in their entry into an industry or choice of technology - on its level of poverty. This paper also examines how this effect of CAD differs with the level of an economy¡¯s financial development, which is the most important channel for the effects of CAD on poverty to manifest themselves. Data for the period of 1963 to 1999 (cross-section average over this time period) and 1980 to 2000 (panel with 5 years interval) for 113 countries are used in the analysis. We find that the more aggressively a country adopts CAD development strategy, the higher the level of poverty incidence. But a high level of financial development reduces the poverty-increasing impact of adopting CAD. The policy recommendation by this paper is to adopt Comparative Advantage-Following (CAF) development strategy, which facilitates the actors¡¯ entry into an industry according to the economy¡¯s existing comparative advantages, by all the countries in order to reduce poverty incidence.
P59|Vérité sociale ou fausseté économique<BR>[Social truth or economic falseness]|The inspiration of this paper comes from the clear divorce between the eloquent economic growth and rampant poverty of Congolese people. The originality of this work is to get information from the economic structure for explaining this divorce. In the one hand, the predator government, the selling off natural resources and the lack of interaction between the below economy and the supra economy are the main causes of this divorce. In the other hand, the econometric estimations tell us that the rent of natural resources has a negative impact on GDP per capita to the point that of the rent increases of 1% of GDP, this leads to 23$ reduction of GDP per capita, while the physical capital stock increases of 0.62% when the natural resources rent grows of 1% of GDP. Therefore, the growth taken from the natural resources extraction has a negative impact on Congolese people social life.
P59|A comparative analysis of the impact of oil prices on oil-rich emerging economies in the Pacific Rim|This paper examines the relationship between raw materials prices and economic growth through two channels, the terms of trade (ToT) and energy efficiency (EF), in three emerging Pacific Rim economies, Russia, Indonesia and Malaysia. We demonstrate positive relationships between changes in output and oil prices and between changes in GDP and energy efficiency (EF). We examine the impact of oil prices on output growth through the ToT and EF channels. The effect of oil prices on ToT in Russia and Malaysia is positive but negative in Indonesia. Oil prices have a positive effect on EF in all three countries.
P59|Centralized institutions and cascades|Why do sudden and massive social, economic, and political changes occur when and where they do? Are there institutional preconditions that encourage such changes when present and discourage such changes when absent? I employ a general model which suggests that cascades which induce massive equilibrium changes are more likely to occur in regimes with centralized coercive power, defined as the ability to impose more than one type of sanction (economic, legal, political, social, or religious). Centralized authorities are better able to suppress subversive actions when external shocks are small, as citizens have little incentive to incur numerous types of sanctions. However, citizens are also more likely to lie about their internal preferences in such regimes (e.g., falsely declare loyalty to an oppressive government), entailing that larger shocks are more likely to trigger a cascade to a vastly different equilibrium. The model is applied to the severity of protests that followed austerity measures taken in developing nations since the 1970s.
P59|Nepal-Potential Projects in a New Model of Economy|Rising GDP level is aim of each economy in the world and in that respect Nepal doesn’t differ. Difficulties in obtaining better impulse in the growth creation shows signs of short and long term weaknesses in economic or political process. Some help in achieving better standards are presented by three projects as well as offering some new insight into possible model change. Building a new model or growing from existing one is not a matter of copy/ paste data from country to country, but necessity and recognition that numerous possibilities to improve exist by cooperation with region ,world but at the same time being aware of its own standards, limitations and strengths. This process is area of constant development, error recognition and correction what is also to be recognized and to further develop in a process of finding economic and social path to go.
P59|The system of indicators of estimation the economic efficiency in the production of goat milk|The analysis of economic efficiency is the main method of economic systems analysis. This concept is the most important qualitative indicator of the economic development, essential factor in accelerating the economic growth and is also one of the criteria for scientific substantiation of decisions. Applied in the milk production domain, represents the obtaining of maximum quantity of milk per animal, with minimal expenditure of manpower and materials. Regarding determining the economic efficiency of goat milk production, the most used indicators are: total physical production, average production, value of total production (total revenue), production costs, material costs, cost per unit, profit, rate of return, breakeven point etc. The paper presents the calculation method of indicators and their average values for 2014.
P59|Revisiting the national corporate social responsibility index|This research note relies on Gjølberg’s (2009) national corporate social responsibility (CSR) index while its purpose is twofold. First, it seeks to extend the methodological instrument for assessing national CSR and, second, it applies the new approach to a much larger pool of countries (n=86) in an attempt to provide a global CSR outlook. The emergent picture from the study is one of deficient CSR penetration and wide variation among countries where most of the assessed countries are still lagging in the endorsement of international CSR initiatives and schemes. Findings offer fertile ground to theorists and researchers for a deeper investigation of the national specificity of CSR and to further identify the institutional determinants that shape the social responsiveness and self-regulation of business entities.
P59|Cenové skoky během finanční nejistoty: od intuice k regulační perspektivě<BR>[Price Jumps during Financial Crisis: From Intuition to Financial Regulation]|In this paper, we employ the high-frequency data from Prague Stock Exchange (PSE) and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to analyse the variation in extreme price movements and market volatility around the period of fall of Lehman Brothers. The sample ranges from January 2008 to July 2009. We employ the price jump indicators optimal with respect to Type-I and Type-II errors. The former one shows an increase in market volatility and extreme price movements during financial distress, while the later one distinguishes extreme price movements and shows that they do not react in the long-run to fi nancial distress at PSE, while for the matured US market suggests a company/sector-specific reaction. We analyse behaviour of extreme price movements with respect to CDS. Our results suggest that both markets are different - extreme price movements at PSE are independent of CDS movements, while those at NYSE show a sector/company specific reactions to CDS.
P59|Dimensiunea Politicilor Culturale Ale Republicii Moldova În Contextul Relaţiilor Internaţionale|Prezentul studiu ia în discuţie probleme ce ţin de evoluţia politicii culturale a Republicii Moldova în contextul relaţiilor internaţionale, cooperarea țării noastre cu țările UE în domeniul culturii, participarea la programe culturale europene, semnalarea noilor tendinţe şi perspective în activitatea instituţiilor culturale din țară.
P59|Productivity spillovers among linked sectors|This paper estimates the impact of inter-sectoral linkages on productivity at the sectoral level. An exhaustive Chinese panel data set for capital, infrastructure and a sectoral agglomeration index is linked with an economic distance matrix derived from inter-sectoral transactions. The latter matrix can replace the conventional geographic distance matrix from spatial econometrics. The impact through spillovers is mixed—the direct impact passing to related sectors and back to the initial sector itself, and the indirect impact arising from changes in all sectors. The results suggest that (1) economic growth in a sector is driven by spillovers among sectors that are linked through flows of goods and services; economic distance plays a more important role in stimulating productivity spillover than spatial distance; a shorter economic distance transmits a larger productivity spillover between sectors; (2) infrastructure spillover improves labor productivity in linked sectors; (3) agglomeration diseconomies can be partially reduced by infrastructure investment.
P59|Litigation as a Measure of Well-Being|The common perception is that high or growing litigation rates in a country are a sign of societal pathology. Studies of litigation rates, however, consistently report that lawsuit filings per capita increase with economic prosperity, thus suggesting that litigation rates are a natural consequence of prosperity and not necessarily evidence of an overly litigious populace. India’s substantial interstate variation in litigation rates and in economic and noneconomic measures of well-being provide an opportunity to evaluate the relation between well-being and litigation rates. Using many years of data on civil filings in India’s lower courts and High Courts, we present evidence that more prosperous states have higher civil litigation rates. We also report the first evidence that accounting for noneconomic well-being, as measured by the education and life expectancy components of the Human Development Index, explains litigation rate patterns better than using a purely economic measure of well-being, GDP per capita. Despite India’s continuing economic growth, we present data that indicates India’s enormous and growing civil case backlog has discouraged civil case filings in recent years. These findings raise the question whether India’s future economic growth will be compromised if courts at all levels, particularly lower courts, do not resolve disputes more quickly.
P59|Political Economy of Arab Revolutions : analysis and prospects for North-African Countries|Several similarities explain the spread of the Arab revolutionary process : the polarization of economies to limited sectors, a rentier-based management of resources, very low employment rates and extremely high rates of skilled migration. Finally, a similar external pact with the Western powers, and an inner pact between elites that have both imploded. This article suggests new directions for these economies that would combine regional integration and a catch-up strategy via service activities.
P59|Price jumps in Visegrad-country stock markets: An empirical analysis|We employ high frequency data to study extreme price changes (i.e., price jumps) in the Prague, Warsaw, Budapest, and Frankfurt stock market indexes from June 2003 to December 2010. We use the price jump index and normalized returns to analyze the distribution of extreme returns. The comparison of jump distributions across different frequencies, periods, up and down moves, and markets suggests a possible relationship with different market regulation and micro-structure. We also show that the recent financial crisis resulted in an overall increase in volatility; however, this was not translated into an increase in the absolute number of jumps.
P59|The triangle of democratic interdependence and the media's role in contemporary society|The aim of this paper is to present a basic framework which takes into account the importance of political governance and the media in influencing the economy and determining its actual course. In particular, this framework may be of help in elucidating the complex role of the media in contemporary democratic societies. For this purpose, a simple diagrammatic model is constructed and used for explanation. Its basis is a distinction among four main elements with potentially different interests: The political governance personnel, the business class, the wider public as consumers and voters, and the media. The first three form the three corners of a triangle while the media play an intermediating role among them. The presentation of the model is illustrated with examples from Greece.
P59|Naming and War in Modern Germany|This paper analyzes naming behavior in Germany in the context of rapid social change. It begins with an overview of general developments in naming in Germany over the last one hundred years, based on data from the German Socio-Economic Panel Study (SOEP), which supplies us with almost 45,000 datasets. The paper focuses on the periods of World War II and the Cold War since we conclude that general developments in naming were disrupted by these two phenomena. Wartime brings accelerated social change in its wake and people react to this social change - often on an apparently individual level. Here, our findings are in accordance with established sociological theories.
P59|Foreign News and Spillovers in Emerging European Stock Markets|We characterize the price discovery in three emerging EU stock markets—the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland—by employing high-frequency five-minute intraday data on stock market index returns and four classes of EU and U.S. macroeconomic announcements during 2004–2007. We account for the difference of each announcement from its market expectation and we jointly model the volatility of the returns accounting for intra-day movements and day-of-the-week effects. Our findings show that real-time interactions on the new EU markets are strongly determined by matured stock markets as well as the macroeconomic news originating thereby. Monetary news has virtually no impact on stock returns while U.S. prices affect all three markets. The real economy announcements have varying effects but the news on the EU current account affects all three markets in a uniform manner. Only some EU economic climate and confidence announcements affect stock returns. In general, differences in results across markets are driven by differences in key market participants. Volatility of the returns is accounted for at the beginning and end of the trading session and it declines dramatically during the rest of the day. All three markets also show a decrease in volatility by the middle of the business week. Our findings yield insights into the process of stock market integration in the EU as well as portfolio allocation on the new EU markets.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P59|Shari’ah Governance Regimes for Islamic Finance: Types and Appraisal - I regimi di governance conformi alla shari’ah nella finanza islamica: tipologia e valutazione|Islamic financial institutions provide financial services that abide by the principles and goals of Islamic law (Shari’ah). To ensure the compliance of the operations and products with Islamic law, a Shari’ah governance mechanism must be established. To understand the scope of Shari’ah governance the stakeholders of the Islamic banking industry and Shari’ah requirements need to be identified. The type of Shari’ah governance framework for Islamic finance will depend on the legal and regulatory environment in different jurisdictions. At organizational level, the overall corporate governance framework in Islamic banks will define the role of Shari’ah governance. After identifying four Shari’ah governance regimes existing in different countries, the paper suggests an optimal Shari’ah governance framework that can reduce the Shari’ah complaint risks and ensure long-term growth of the industry. - Le istituzioni finanziarie islamiche forniscono servizi nel rispetto dei principi e degli obiettivi della legge islamica (la Shari’ah). Al fine di assicurare che le operazioni e i prodotti finanziari si conformino alla legge islamica devono essere adottati adeguati sistemi di governance. Per capire le modalità di tale governance è necessario identificare gli stakeholder del sistema bancario islamico e i requisiti necessari secondo la Shari’ah. Il tipo di struttura della governance dipenderà a livello legale e regolatorio da diverse giurisdizioni. Dopo aver individuato quattro regimi di governance che rispettano la Shari’ah applicati in diversi paesi, questo studio delinea una governance ideale in grado di ridurre i rischi e assicurare la crescita del settore nel lungo periodo.
P59|Time-varying synchronization of European stock markets|We study comovements between three developed (France, Germany, the United Kingdom) and three emerging (the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland) European stock markets. The novelty of our paper is that we apply the Dynamic Conditional Correlation GARCH models proposed by Engle (2002) to five-minute tick intraday stock price data for the period from June 2003 to January 2006. We find a strong correlation between the German and French markets and also between these two markets and the UK stock market. By contrast, very little systematic positive correlation can be detected between the Western European stock markets and the three stock markets of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as within the latter group.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P59|Were Stocks during the Financial Crisis More Jumpy: A Comparative Study|This paper empirically analysis the price jump behavior of heavily traded US stocks during the recent financial crisis. Namely, I test the hypothesis that the recent financial turmoil caused no change in the price jump behavior. To accomplish this, I employ data on realized trades for 16 stocks and one ETF from the NYSE database. These data are at a 1-minute frequency and span the period from January 2008 to the end of July 2009, where the recent financial crisis is generally understood to start with the plunge of Lehman Brothers shares on September 9, 2008. I employ five model-independent and three model-dependent price jump indicators to robustly assess the price jump behavior. The results confirm an increase in overall volatility during the recent financial crisis; however, the results cannot reject the hypothesis that there was no change in price jump behavior in the data during the financial crisis. This implies that the uncertainty during the crisis was scaled up but the structure of the uncertainty seems to be the same.
P59|Avance para una Arqueología del Capitalismo en Chile (1880-1930)|This paper presents a brief story about the initial development of the capitalism in Chile emphasizing on the structural conditions that would have given as a result new social and political actors (industrial bourgeoisie and proletariat). This process should have been the basis if a deep reconfiguration of the economy, social relationship, politics and culture in Chile during the beginning or the XX century. Following in that direction we express the necessity of the elaboration of an interpretative and methodological model about the study of the material remains of capitalist societies. We propose a reinterpretation of the industrial material culture from a perspective that takes in account the relationship (not only in one way) among production mode, social relationships and the ways of perception and construction of the space, where the relationship between work-capital and nature-capital would be the basis of this statement. From this point of view the constitution of industrial landscape and its connection with working enforcement and the development of the first way of class struggle in the modern world should be understood from a new theoretical frame according to the social practices and the experience of each historical individual.
P59|Tengri on Mars|What would happen if every individual knew what to do, and did, without prompting or expecting a reward? Is that not what the authors of Republic and Utopia had in mind? Is that not the primary justification of theocracies? The immediate objection to that postulate is that human nature is not suitable for team activities at all times. There is such a conception as individualism and that is the quality abetting creativity that marks humanism. Besides, the definition of human rights guarantees freedom of choice not to cooperate if one chooses against it.
P59|Exchange Rate Risk in Central European Countries|The authors address the issue of foreign exchange risk and its macroeconomic determinants in several Central European (CE) economies. The joint distribution of excess returns in the foreign exchange market and observable country-specific macroeconomic factors is modeled using the stochastic discount factor (SDF) approach and a multivariate GARCH-in-mean model. The authors find that real factors seem to lack significance in determining foreign exchange risk, while nominal factors (inflation and money) have a significant impact. The differences in the impact of nominal factors are related to the actual monetary policy regimes adopted in the countries examined. The authors´ findings have policy implications with respect to currency stability. The central banks in the CE countries should continue stabilization policies aimed at achieving nominal convergence with the core EU members, as nominal country-specific factors play a crucial role in explaining the variability of the risk premium.
P59|Diagnosing the “Russian Disease”: Growth and Structure of the Russian Economy Then and Now|This paper diagnoses the present Russian situation characterized as the “Russian Disease.” First, it shows that a key symptom of the Russian Disease is a strong positive relation between the country’s real growth and terms-of-trade-effects, which is different from the symptoms of the “Dutch Disease”. This paper also presents three variants (oil prices, terms-of-trade, and trading gains) of the concept of terms-of-trade effects using the SNA framework. Second, it shows a strong positive impact of terms-of-trade effects on the Russian manufacturing, which markedly differs from one of the major symptoms of the Dutch Disease (slower growth of manufacturing through the booming mining sector and real appreciation of exchange rates). This paper also suggests the significance of the manufacturing industry for the Russian economy. Third, this paper shows that the appreciation (depreciation) of real exchange rates of Russia’s rubles induced the boost (decline) of its imports. Fourth, this paper proves that the boost of imports, in turn, induced the GDP growth of the trade sector as one of the major sources of the Russian overall growth. We also present the impact of oil prices on two kinds of real exchange rates (CPI-based and GDP-based real exchange rates).
P59|Vliv vnitrodenních makroekonomických zpráv na akciové trhy nových států EU<BR>[Effect of Intraday Information Flow on the Emerging European Stock Markets]|We analyze effect of intraday information flow in three emerging EU stock markets-the Czech Republic, Hungary, and Poland. We use five-minute intraday data on stock market index returns and 15 types of EU and U.S. macroeconomic announcements during 2004-2007. We measure each announcement as its difference from market expectation. Mean and variance equations are jointly estimated. We bring evidence of strong spillovers from matured stock markets as well as effects of the macroeconomic news originating thereby. We find varying effects of the real economy news. Information on current account and prices has strong effect across all markets. We find limited evidence of the economic climate news and no evidence of the monetary announcements. Volatility of the returns is accounted for at the beginning and end of the trading session and it declines dramatically during the rest of the day. The three emerging markets react to information flow in a similar manner as matured markets.
P59|Capital natural, capital humano y participación de los factores. Una revisión de los métodos de medición del crecimiento económico|Este trabajo aporta dos elementos básicos para el análisis del crecimiento económico en Colombia: En primerlugar, para el cálculo de la participación de los factores en el producto, se separa el ingreso de capital físico del ingreso de capital natural y el ingreso del trabajo básico del ingreso de capital humano. Con esta metodología se comprueba que la participación de los factores reproducibles tiene una tendencia creciente como lo sugieren los modelos de innovaciones sesgadas. En segundo lugar, utilizando los nuevos cálculos de participación de los factores, se desarrolla un ejercicio de contabilidad de crecimiento, este procedimiento permite identificar con mayor precisión el comportamiento de la productividad total de los factores.***We provide two basic elements for the analysis of the economic growth in Colombia: In order to get the factor shares, we separate produced physical capital income from natural capital income and raw labor income from thehuman capital income. We find that the share of reproducible factors has an increasing trend (as suggested by biased innovations models). Second, using the new calculations, we perform an exercise of growth accounting. This procedure allows us to identify with major precision the behavior of total factor productivity.
P59|The reaction of asset prices to macroeconomic announcements in new EU markets: Evidence from intraday data|We estimate the impact of macroeconomic news on composite stock returns in three emerging European Union financial markets (the Budapest BUX, Prague PX-50, and Warsaw WIG-20), using intraday data and macroeconomic announcements. Our contribution is twofold. We employ a larger set of macroeconomic data releases than used in previous studies and also use intraday data, an excess impact approach, and foreign news to provide more reliable inferences. Composite stock returns are computed based on 5-min intervals (ticks) and macroeconomic news are measured based on the deviations of the actual announcement values from their expectations. Overall, we find that all three new EU stock markets are subject to significant spillovers directly via the composite index returns from the EU, the U.S. and neighboring markets; Budapest exhibits the strongest spillover effect, followed by Warsaw and Prague. The Czech and Hungarian markets are also subject to spillovers indirectly through the transmission of macroeconomic news. The impact of EU-wide announcements is evidenced more in the case of Hungary, while the Czech market is more impacted by U.S. news. The Polish market is marginally affected by EU news. In addition, after decomposing pooled announcements, we show that the impact of multiple announcements is stronger than that of single news. Our results suggest that the impact of foreign macroeconomic announcements goes beyond the impact of the foreign stock markets on Central and Eastern European indices. We also discuss the implications of the findings for financial stability in the three emerging European markets.
P59|Macroeconomic sources of foreign exchange risk in new EU members|We address the issue of foreign exchange risk and its macroeconomic determinants in several new EU members. We derive the observable macroeconomic factors--consumption and inflation--using the stochastic discount factor (SDF) approach. The joint distribution of excess returns in the foreign exchange market and the factors are modeled using a multivariate GARCH-in-mean specification. Our findings show that both real and nominal factors play important roles in explaining the variability of the foreign exchange risk premium. Both types of factors should be included in monetary general equilibrium models employed to study excess returns. To contribute to the further stability of domestic currencies, the new EU members should strive to implement stabilization policies aimed at achieving nominal as well as real convergence with the core EU members.
P59|An approximation to the digital divide among low income people in Colombia, Mexico and Perú: two composite indexes|This study examines the determinants of information and communications technology(ICT) use and access of low-income people in three developing countries: Colombia,Mexico and Peru. We focus on cross-country differences and similarities in ICTs use acrossgender, age, education and income, using two composite indicators of ICT. The mainsimilarity across the countries is that education is by far the single most important factorlimiting the digitalization of low-income people. The impact of income was low althoughpositive. There is not apparently a gender gap in Colombia and Mexico but one in Peru.Our findings also suggest that when using a composite indicator that only include the`advanced ICTs´, disadvantage people among the low-income people can be moreconstrained in the use and access of more advanced information and communicationstechnologies.****El estudio analiza los determinantes de uso y acceso a las tecnologías de información ycomunicación en personas de bajos ingresos en pasases como Colombia, México y Perú. Elpunto central esta en analizar las diferencias entre países de acuerdo a diferentes variablessocioeconómicas. Se encuentra que la variable que más explica el nivel de acceso digital esla escolaridad. De otro lado no se encuentra una brecha por género sino en Perú. Losresultados también indican que cuando solo se tienen en cuenta las tecnologías más`avanzadas´, las diferencias entre la población son más notorias.
P59|Fertility and schooling: how this relation changed between 1995 and 2005 in Colombia|We test the existence of changes in the relationship between fertility and schoolingin Colombia for women from 30 to 40 years old between 1995 and 2005. For ourpurpose, we use Poisson Regression Models. Our database is the Demographic andHealth Survey from 1995 and 2005. We found a reduction in the fertility during thisperiod and an increase in the educative level of the population. According to ourresults the total number of children a woman has, keeps an inverse relationship withher educative level, which may be explained by the effects of education on theknowledge of the fertility. We also find that the effect of an additional year ofeducation in 1995 is higher than 2005. Besides, we also find that there are significantrural-urban differences in the determinants on fertility for Colombia´s women in thelast decade.***En este trabajo se pretende evaluar la existencia de cambios en la relación entrefecundidad y escolaridad en Colombia para mujeres de 30 a 40 años de edad entre1995 y 2005. Para tal efecto se utilizan modelos de Poisson sobre la EncuestaNacional de Demografía y Salud 1995 y 2005. Se encuentra una reducción en lafecundidad durante el periodo y su relación inversa con la escolaridad, que puede serexplicada por el efecto de la educación sobre otras variables como el incremento enel conocimiento sobre los programas de control natal. Se encuentra además que elefecto de un año adicional de educación sobre la fecundidad es mayor en 1995 queen 2005. De otro lado, se encuentra que las diferencias entre zonas urbanas y ruralesson significativas en la explicación de la fecundidad en Colombia durante la últimadécada.
P59|¿A quiénes afecta el desempleo? Análisis de la tasa de incidencia en Colombia|Resumen: La tasa de incidencia representa un indicador compuesto que tiene en cuenta el volumen de desempleados y su persistencia (duración). Su análisis permite caracterizar de forma más completa a quienes tienen una mayor probabilidad de entrar o permanecer en el desempleo. En este estudio encontramos que en Colombia existen diferencias significativas derivadas del análisis de la tasa de desempleo y de la tasa de incidencia; lo cual sugiere que detrás de la duración del desempleo se encuentran importantes elementos que se deben considerar en el análisis de la tipología del desempleo y la formulación de políticas encaminadas a enfrentarla.
P59|Descentralización y política de vivienda de interés social en Colombia ¿Qué ha pasado?|Este documento busca dar respuestas a los interrogantes que surgen una década después dedefinida la Ley 388 de Ordenamiento Territorial y el desarrollo de los programas de vivienda deinterés social a nivel de las entidades territoriales. En Colombia, el proceso de descentralizaciónha sido visible en sectores como educación y salud, sin embargo, la vivienda no ha tenido undesempeño continuo que permita dar cuenta de la descentralización en vivienda. Esto teniendoen cuenta que aspectos como el mercado, el suelo y la voluntad política son decisivos paraprofundizar en este aspecto.*****This document seeks to provide answers to the issues that arise a decade after the statement ofLaw 388, and the development of social housing programs at the local level. In general, thedecentralization process has been visible in sectors such as education and health; however,housing has not had a continuing performance to give account of decentralization in housing;process that is affected by crucial aspects such as market, land and political wiliness.
P59|Use of informal mobile telephony in low income households in Colombia|Access to mobile telephony in Colombia exhibits rather interesting features compared to other countries. Colombia witnessed the beginning of a new alternative for communication consisting in the use of informal resale of minutes on the streets and small stores during the first years of this century. In this paper we are interested in analyzing the main factors that determine the utilization of this kind of service. We use a probabilistic model to explain the characteristics of the people that use `informal resale´ on the streets and we find that people in the modality of prepayment and people from small cities has a higher probability of using this alternative. It is also found that people in the firm-leader use more often this service. These results seem indicate that price differentials among on-net and off-net and between prepaid and postpaid are the causes of the rise of this economic activity.***El acceso a la telefonía móvil en Colombia evidencia ciertas particularidades con respecto a otros países. En Colombia surgió una nueva alternativa de comunicación que consistía en la venta de minutos de celular en las calles y en pequeños negocios durante los primeros años de ésta década. En este documento se analizan las principales características de quienes usan esta modalidad de comunicación con base en una encuesta dirigida a usuarios y no usuarios de bajos ingresos. Se usa un modelo probabilístico para explicar las características de las personas que lo usan y se encuentra que las personas que están en la modalidad de contrato prepago y que viven en ciudades pequeñas tienen una mayor probabilidad de usar esta alternativa de comunicación. De otro lado se encuentra que quienes están con el operador dominante tienden a usar este servicio también de una forma más notoria. Estos resultados parecen indicar que los diferenciales de precios entre las llamadas off-net y on-net así como entre prepago y postpago son los que alimentaron el surgimiento de esta actividad.
P59|Vers une convergence des modèles? une réflexion à la lumière des expériences européennes de réforme des systèmes d'enseignement supérieur|In this paper we compare the institutional evolution of the higher education systems in France and England from 1980 onwards. These two systems are interesting case-studies as they correspond to two topical opposite positions in terms of their elaborative structures :the French system was originally centralised whereas the English model was decentralised. The optimal way to reform higher education systems is different in both cases (and easier in a decentralised setting due to the noncooperative behaviour of higher education institutions). We show that England faced a centralising movement (especially since 1988) whereas in France a decentralising movement was a precondition for effective reforms. In a long run perspective there seems to be some convergence between the 2 models as well as institutional change.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P59|Sociedad de la información, neo-subjetividad posmoderna y modelos organizativos en la era de la globalización|Re-definitions happened in world capitalism imply a certain impact in organizational models defining the variety of social practices in informational society. Firstly, gnoseological approach reaches to the new accumulation model in a rationality framework, which focuses to the application of knowledge to knowledge itself (Drucker), starting from techno-economic change and its derivations in the field of IT an CT. Those, being a belt for a new world subjectivity. The rise of an ethical profile is highlighted, which implications (i.e., productivity, competitiveness and excellence) occupies a privileged place in a directional sense assumed by social wisdom in this context. Also structure-cojuncture adjustments happened are referred to, in entrepreneurial world, as well as labor and hole daily life fields. Secondly, a hypothetical framework is proposed in the sense that the (not so) new key factor for world economy (microelectronics) involves a trans-figurative subjectivity framework re-defining human dimension key scenarios. From a critical-interpretative approach, it is possible to understand that organizational model not only face the challenge of a growing competitiveness, but its gnoseological scaffolding --seen as a tension between forces-- involves a substantive re-definition of rationality in the seine of organizations, that directs its responsibility and social compromise in post-modern days.
P59|Varsovie, une nouvelle métropole|No abstract is available for this item.
P59|An Analytical Review of Different Concepts of Riba (Interest) in the Sub-Continent|The traditional concept of Riba (interest) is an excess amount on loan, which creditor receives from debtor on the repayment of loan. There is almost a consensus on the sprit of this concept that it is traditional thought or school; but along with that some other point of views also exist, which present Riba, in somewhat different ways, will be termed as non-traditional approach in this paper. Both of these schools are agreed on the point that, Riba is just restricted to debt, and the increment on it is Riba; but the main difference among these is that: former approach claims that, each and every addition on loan, regardless of purpose and time duration of loan is Riba; but, the later approach demand’s some room for that on different grounds. Actually both of them do not have any sound base. When the concept of unearned income (the income, which is not the result of human labor), is a recognized fact in Islamic economics in different forms, like: ijara (rent), Mudoraba and Mazara’a (Share Cropping); then definitely no logical reason is left to avoid excess income on loan. Both approaches are just unable to give a concrete concept of Riba.
P59|Socioeconomic, Institutional & Political Determinants Of Human Rights Abuses: A Subnational Study Of India, 1993 – 2002|We conduct an econometric analysis of socioeconomic, institutional and political factors determining government respect for human rights within India. Using time series cross-sectional data for 28 Indian states for the period 1993 – 2002, we find that internal threat poised by number of social violence events, presence of civil war and riot hit disturbed areas are strongly associated with human rights abuses. Amongst socioeconomic factors, ‘exclusive’ economic growth, ‘uneven’ development, poor social development spending, youth bulges and differential growth rates between minority religious groups explain the likelihood of human rights violations. Capturing power at the state and central level by Hindu national parties’ viz., Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena, further help understand the incidence of human rights violations within India.
P59|An Analytical Review of Different Concepts of Riba (Interest) in the Sub-Continent|The traditional concept of Riba (interest) is an excess amount on loan, which creditor receives from debtor on the repayment of loan. There is almost a consensus on the sprit of this concept that it is traditional thought or school; but along with that some other point of views also exist, which present Riba, in somewhat different ways, will be termed as non-traditional approach in this paper. Both of these schools are agreed on the point that, Riba is just restricted to debt, and the increment on it is Riba; but the main difference among these is that: former approach claims that, each and every addition on loan, regardless of purpose and time duration of loan is Riba; but, the later approach demand’s some room for that on different grounds. Actually both of them do not have any sound base. When the concept of unearned income (the income, which is not the result of human labor), is a recognized fact in Islamic economics in different forms, like: ijara (rent), Mudoraba and Mazara’a (Share Cropping); then definitely no logical reason is left to avoid excess income on loan. Both approaches are just unable to give a concrete concept of Riba.
P59|Knowledge Society And Transition Economies.The Bulgarian Challenge|This paper evaluates the Bulgarian positioning in the European knowledge-based economy. The analysis is mainly based on the Knowledge Assessment Methodology of the World Bank (2005). After an analytical framework, the analysis reveals an alarming situation for Bulgaria resulting from several negative factors, which reinforce one another in a cumulative process. Finally, the conclusion underlines that a necessary condition for the Bulgarian economy to become knowledge-based, is to set up good rules of governance but also to be able to mobilize human capital and to coordinate the interactions within citizens and organizations.
P59|Interdependence between Eastern and Western European stock markets: Evidence from intraday data|We analyze interrelations between three stock markets in Central and Eastern Europe and, in addition, interconnections which may exist between Western European (DAX, CAC, UKX) and Central and Eastern European stock markets (BUX, PX-50, WIG20). The novelty of our paper rests mainly on the use of the five-minute tick intraday price data from the mid-2003 to the early 2005 for stock indices and on the wide range of econometric techniques employed. We find no robust cointegration relationship for any of the stock index pairs or for any of the extended specifications. There are signs of short-term spillover effects both in terms of stock returns and stock price volatility. Granger causality tests show the presence of bidirectional causality for returns as well as volatility series. The results based on a VAR framework indicate a more limited number of short-term relationships between the stock markets. In general, it appears that spillover effects are stronger from volatility to volatility than contagion effects from return to return series.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P59|Exchange rate volatility and regime change: A Visegrad comparison|Exchange rate stability was defined as one of the prerequisites for monetary integration in Europe. In this paper, we analyze recent developments in the volatility of exchange rates of the Central European countries (the Visegrad Group) and a selected group of European Union countries (the Snake) participating in the former European Monetary System. We compare volatilities in the currencies of both groups under specific exchange rate regimes using two different approaches to modeling exchange rate volatility: squared returns parametric model and GARCH. Both methods provide identical results for the currencies of the Visegrad group: an increase in volatility after a floating exchange rate regime was introduced. The case of the Snake countries exhibits mixed results for two currencies and a concurring result for the others: a decrease in volatility. In one case we are left with an insignificant coefficient. We consider the results as robust and suitable for policy making decisions.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
P59|On Compulsory Voting and Income Inequality in a Cross-Section of Countries|This paper explores the link between compulsory voting and income distribution using a cross-section of countries around the world. Our empirical cross-country analysis for 91 countries during the period 1960-2000 shows that compulsory voting, when enforced strictly, improves income distribution, as measured by the Gini coefficient and the bottom income quintiles of the population. Our findings are robust to changes and additions to our benchmark specification. Since poorer countries suffer from relatively greater income inequality, it might make sense to promote such voting schemes in developing regions such as Latin America. This proposal assumes that bureaucratic costs related with design and implementation are not excessive.
