Q01|Greening monetary policy|Central banks look at climate related risks at the financial stability side. Should they also take carbon intensity of assets into account at the monetary policy side? After reviewing the central bank mandate, the paper proposes a tilting approach to steer the Eurosystem's asset and collateral framework towards low carbon assets. We find that a modest tilting approach could reduce carbon emissions in the Eurosystem's corporate and bank bond portfolio by over 40 per cent. It could also lower the cost of capital of low carbon companies in comparison with high carbon companies by 4 basis points. Our findings suggest that such a low carbon allocation can be done without undue interference with the transmission mechanism of monetary policy. Price stability, the primary objective, is, and should remain, the priority of the Eurosystem.
Q01|Understanding the emergence of an industry through the lens of Social Movements and Entrepreneurial Communities|Industry emergence is a complex phenomenon. Entrepreneurship literature has been characterized by individualistic explanations (‘hero’ entrepreneurs) that have been complemented by institutional approaches including the existence of functioning ecosystems. Sociology studies could offer alternative explanations for industry emergence. We draw from the concepts of Social Movements and Entrepreneurial Communities for framing the process of industry emergence in its initial phase. We synthesize the theoretical research on Social Movements, Entrepreneurial communities and industry emergence in an effort to develop a common conceptual framework that will help to better understand the pre-emergence of an industry. Our main contribution lies in understanding entrepreneurship and thus industry emergence as a community process in which multiple actors result eventually in a reduced number of early start-ups, which give rise to a new industry. In addition, we propose that the type of movement will lead to different enablers and barriers of industry emergence.
Q01|Bargaining with intertemporal maximin payoffs|"We present a new class of dynamic bargaining problems, called ""bargaining problems with intertemporal maximin payoffs,"" that may reflect sustainability problems having to encompass conflicting issues in the long-run. Each bargainer (or stake-holder) has a representative indicator, namely a function of the state and decisions, and aims at maximizing its minimal value over time. Bargaining on sustainability issues consists in defining the vector of stake-holder's payoffs. We are interested in defining the set of feasible outcomes of such problems. This set is interpreted as a support for a social choice of sustainability objectives. We introduce a MONDAI condition – Monotonicity of Dynamics And Indicators – consistent with many economic problems and, in particular, ""environmental economic"" sustainability issues. We characterize the set of feasible outcomes for problems satisfying these monotonicity properties, and the bargaining solutions under the axioms of Pareto efficiency and Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives. We also provide a ""satisficing"" common decision rule to achieve any given solution. We then examine the time-consistency of the solution under the axioms of Veto Power and Individual Rationality."
Q01|Greening monetary policy|Central banks have already started to look at climate-related risks in the context of financial stability. Should they also take the carbon intensity of assets into account in the context of monetary policy? The guiding principle in the implementation of monetary policy has been ‘market neutrality’, whereby the central bank buys a proportion of the market portfolio of available corporate and bank bonds (in addition to government bonds). But this implies a carbon bias, because capital-intensive companies tend to be more carbon intensive. The author first reviews the legal mandate of the Eurosystem. While the primary objective is price stability, the Treaty on European Union allows the greening of monetary policy as a secondary objective. He proposes a tilting approach to steer or tilt the allocation of the Eurosystem’s assets and collateral towards low-carbon sectors, which would reduce the cost of capital for these sectors relative to high-carbon sectors. This allocation policy must be designed so it does not affect the effective implementation of monetary policy. The working of the tilting approach is calibrated with data on European corporate and bank bonds. We find that a modest tilting approach could reduce carbon emissions in the corporate and bank bond portfolio by 44 per cent and lower the cost of capital of low carbon companies by 4 basis points. Our findings also suggest that such a low carbon allocation can be done without undue interference with the transmission mechanism of monetary policy. Price stability, the primary objective, is, and should remain, the priority of the Eurosystem.
Q01|Where Does the Fairtrade Money Go? How Much Consumers Pay Extra for Fairtrade Coffee and How This Value Is Split along the Value Chain|Fairtrade certification aims at transferring wealth from the consumer to the farmer; however, coffee passes through many hands before reaching final consumers. Bringing together retail, wholesale, and stock market data, this study estimates how much more consumers are paying for Fairtrade-certified coffee in US supermarkets and finds estimates around $1 per lb. I then assess how this price premium is split between the different stages of the value chain: most of the premium goes to the roaster's profit margin, while the retailer surprisingly makes smaller absolute profits on Fairtrade-certified coffee, compared to conventional coffee. The coffee farmer receives about a fifth of the price premium paid by the consumer, but it is unclear how much of this (quantity-dependent) benefit goes toward the payment of (quantity-independent) license fees.
Q01|Nuclear Power, Democracy, Development, and Nuclear Warheads: Determinants for Introducing Nuclear Power|This paper analyzes the nature of democratic development in a nation on the process of introducing nuclear power over the period 1960 - 2017 for an unbalanced panel of 171 countries. Given the involved political process of introducing nuclear power and its political importance, as well as the current tendency of about 30 countries to “go nuclear”, this question is both of historic and current interest. We apply a multinomial logistic regression approach that relates the likelihood of a country to introduce nuclear power to its level of democratic quality and nuclear warhead possession. The model results suggest that countries with lower levels of democratic development are more likely to introduce nuclear power. Our results moreover indicate that countries which possess at least one nuclear warhead are more likely to continue to use nuclear power instead of not using nuclear power at all. We discuss these results in the context of the public policy debate on nuclear power, yet beyond energy and environmental issues addressing international relations, conflict, and security issues connected to nuclear energy.
Q01|Life cycle assessment and life cycle costing in measuring the eco-efficiency performance of winter rape production|In the mitigation policy, agricultural activities are gaining growing importance. International and national regulations require the use of sustainable production methods. This means that the attention focused on the current recommendations shifts from a set of minimum requirements to recognize environmental effects throughout the life cycle of products. Farming and food production are also expected to comply with the second pillar of sustainability which is related to the economic aspects of production. Important operational dimension of sustainability assessment is a concept of eco-efficiency, which is defined as creating more value or generating less cost with less environmental impact. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Life Cycle Costing (LCC) are appropriate methodologies to investigate the eco-efficiency of production systems within the life cycle. The aim of the study was to perform the comparative analysis of cash crop production in different farming types by applying the LCA and LCC methods. Carbon Footprint (CF) was applied as a single most important measure of environmental impact of production. The study was conducted in 69 farms, located in the Wielkopolska and Lubelskie regions (Poland) during the period 2017-2018. The analysed farms represented key agricultural activities, according to the classification of the EU: a) milk production, b) pig production, c) field crops, d) mixed livestock production (pig and milk). The chosen types of production are represented by the largest number of farms in Poland. The selection of the study group, according to the set criteria, were based on the information of Wielkopolski and Lubelski Agricultural Advisory Centres. The LCA and LCC analysis were carried out in similar phases corresponding to LCA standard: goal and scope definition, environmental life cycle inventory, life cycle impact assessment and interpretation. In winter rape production average value of CF was equal to 1003 kg CO2 eq per 1 tonne of grain (functional unit). The highest value of CF was observed in milk farming in Wielkopolska region of 1254 kg CO2 eq. Average aggregated cost of production related to the functional unit was 1084 PLN, with the highest value of 1222 PLN found in the pig farming in Lubelski region. Preproduction phases linked with the direct inputs levels contributed mostly to a high overall cost of rape production in pig farming and to the CF value of winter rape in farms specialised in milk production. *This work is a part of a research project No. 2016/21/B/HS4/01963 financed by the National Science Centre, Poland.
Q01|Improvement of Regional Innovation Policy in Ukraine in the Sustainable Development Context|In the light of the Sustainable Development (SD) concept, the eco-innovation promotion becomes the central issue of innovation regulation. Given the strategic significance of SD goals for Ukraine and ongoing powers decentralization reform, it is desirable to study the capacity of regional and local authorities to form a proper incentive environment for the sustainable community’s development on innovation (eco-innovation) basis. The conducted analysis shows a limited capacity of regional and local bodies to set drivers of the eco-innovation development in motion. The need to extend the authorities’ powers in the field of resource prices and local tax rates setting and to strengthen the environmental orientation of existing innovation regulation tools is emphasized, in order to improve the regional innovation policy in Ukraine.
Q01|Social inclusion in an alternative food network: values, practices and tensions|This paper explores challenges a consumer food cooperative must address to combine social inclusion and embeddedness in its urban environment with the food quality standards it targets. While the difficulty in making alternative food networks (AFNs) socially accessible is well documented, little is known about organizational practices that foster inclusion in AFNs. Our research—based on over 100 participant observations of meetings held at the cooperative and on food activities with members of community organizations—has generated insight on how a participative process—through collective decisions, knowledge exchanges and workslot commitments—could facilitate or restrain social inclusion. Our results suggest that promotion of the value of equality for the largest number is hindered by differences in food, material and consumer cultures between cooperative members and non-members. The value of equality for the largest number is pragmatically applied through social inclusion regarding food supply and voluntary work participation.
Q01|The Circular Economy: Swings and Roundabouts?|In the last few decades the Circular Economy has increasingly been advertised as an economic model that can replace the current “linear” economy whilst addressing the issues of environmental deterioration, social equity and long-term economic growth with the explicit suggestion that it can serve as a tool for Sustainable Development. However, despite the individual prominence of the Circular Economy and Sustainable Development in the academic and wider literature, the exact relationship between the two concepts has neither been thoroughly defined nor explored. The consequent result is various inconsistencies occurring across the literature regarding how the Circular Economy can serve as a tool for Sustainable Development and an incomplete understanding of how its long-term effects differ from those of the “linear” economy. A literature review was conducted to interpret the current conceptual relationship between the Circular Economy and Sustainable Development. The review highlights numerous challenges concerning conceptual definition, economic growth and implementation that inhibit the use of the Circular Economy as a tool for Sustainable Development in its current form. The review concludes by providing suggestions for how research concerning the Circular Economy should proceed if it is to provide a potential approach for achieving Sustainable Development.
Q01|Fluch und Segen der Digitalisierung im Kontext einer Entwicklung zur Nachhaltigkeit|Digitalisierung bzw. digitale Transformation sowie Nachhaltigkeit zählen gegenwärtig zu den wichtigsten globalen Megatrends. Die zunehmende Digitalisierung bringt vielfältige positive Entwicklungen und zugleich auch zahlreiche negative Folgen im Kontext einer Entwicklung zur Nachhaltigkeit mit sich. Wie sind Fluch und Segen der Digitalisierung dahingehend zu verorten? Die positiven und negativen Auswirkungen der Digitalisierung auf die Nachhaltigkeit werden im Rahmen einer Literaturanalyse und Interviewstudie erfasst und zusammengeführt. Concept Maps zur Visualisierung von Schlüsselthemen im Hinblick auf Digitalisierung und Nachhaltigkeit sowie eine Gegenüberstellung von Flüchen und Segen ermöglichen einen umfassenden Blick auf Digitalisierung und Nachhaltigkeit. Um ganzheitlich-nachhaltige Konzepte zu schaffen, sind umfassende Analysen und Bewertungen von grundlegenden digitalen Entwicklungen unerlässlich. Die digitale Transformation resultiert in einer Vielzahl positiver Auswirkungen, dennoch sind adäquate Rahmenlegungen, Maßnahmen und Bewertungen notwendig, um zu verhindern, dass exponentielle Technologieanpassungen die Transparenz und Resilienz des Gesamtsystems schwächen. Digitalisation, digital transformation and sustainability are currently among the most important global megatrends. Increasing digitalisation has many positive developments and at the same time numerous negative consequences in the context of a development towards sustainability. What is boon and bane of digitalisation in the context of a development towards sustainability? The positive and negative effects of digitisation on sustainability are noted and combined by means of a literature analysis and interview study. Concept maps of key themes are chosen for visualization and enable a comprehensive view of digitisation in the field of sustainable development. In order to create holistic sustainable concepts, comprehensive analyses and evaluations of fundamental digital developments are indispensable. Digital transformation results in a multitude of positive effects, yet adequate frameworks, measures and evaluations are needed to prevent exponential technology adaptations from weakening the transparency and resilience of the overall system.
Q01|Degrowth in a neo-Kaleckian model of growth and distribution? A theoretical compatibility and stability analysis|Situated at the interface between post-Keynesian and ecological economics, this article investigates the theoretical possibilities for a degrowth transition to take place while preserving macroeconomic stability. More precisely, the objective is to find whether in a neo-Kaleckian model of growth and distribution an equilibrium with a zero or even negative rate of accumulation can coexist with the Keynesian stability condition being verified. Our results are threefold. First, we confirm that adding the rate of depreciation to the canonical model allows for such an equilibrium to exist, but argue in favor of considering animal spirits rather than the depreciation factor as a potential policy variable for the management of the degrowth transition. Second, other elements such as overhead labour, a tax on capital, an autonomous component in consumption expenditures and a budget deficit can all give this result and provide more 'space' for the equilibrium with a negative rate of accumulation. Finally, we use the mechanism of the Sraffian supermultiplier to illustrate that combined political action and adoption of a more ecological mode of living can be the drivers of a stable degrowth transition. After the transition is completed, the stabilisation of aggregate consumption maintains the economy in a stationary state, at an ecologically sustainable level.
Q01|Sustainability and Wellbeing: A Text Analysis of New Zealand Parliamentary Debates, Official Yearbooks and Ministerial Documents|Recent advances in natural language processing and semantic analysis methods are enabling scholars to analyse text extensively. These techniques have not only minimized the margins of error arising from missing data from a traditionally conducted discourse analysis but also permitted reproducibility of research results. In this paper, we use several text analysis methods to analyse the evolution of the terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘wellbeing’ (SaW) from parliamentary debates (Hansard), New Zealand Official Yearbooks (NZOYBs) and ministerial documents over 125 years. The term ‘welfare’ has existed in the NZOYBs and Hansard text since the start of our analysis (1893), with a steadily increasing trend until the mid-1980s. The term ‘wellbeing’ gained momentum in mid-1930s and has been linked strongly with ‘sustainability’ in the following decades. Our analysis re-emphasizes the importance of the Brundtland Report (‘Our Common Future’) which acted as a catalyst to the sustainable movement in late 1980s. ‘Sustainability’ and ‘wellbeing’ then began to appear in conjunction. Our analysis includes the finding that SaW differ significantly when political parties are considered.
Q01|Perspectives of smart meters' roll-out in India: an empirical analysis of consumers' awareness and preferences|This papers focuses on the smart meters' roll-out in India - third largest economy, one of the developing countries with the fastest economic growth rate and third largest power producing nation. The Indian power system is weak and experiences severe problems and challenges that could be solved by means of the smart grid approach and broader implementation of smart meters (SM). Within this study, we focus on the consumers' preferences regarding SM. An empirical study has been conducted among Indian social media users, who are predicted to be potential early adopters or innovators in case of SM further market penetration. By dividing the respondents into a few market segments, the study highlights differences between consumers already having SM installed at their household, consumers in the process of installing SM, consumers who would like to have SM in the future, and consumers' preferences based on potential benefits and information availability. The study also outlines the profile of consumers who currently have SM installed in their household. Results show that tech-savviness of India's consumers, common access to the Internet for citizens, possession of smart phones by most of the population and ambitious goals of the Indian government, are a very productive mix for a nation wide roll-out of SM in India in the coming years.
Q01|Ecological Limits and Hierarchical Power|Nowadays, it is commonplace to claim that the economy overuses our limited material and energy resources and that this overuse threatens both human society and the biosphere. Other than anti-science cranks, the only ones who seem to deny this claim are mainstream economists. In our view, though, this conventional condemnation of the economy is somewhat misleading. As we see it, the root of our ecological problems lies not in the ‘economy’, but in the hierarchical power structure of capitalism.
Q01|Advancing a global transition to clean energy: The role of international cooperation|International cooperation in support of a global energy transition is on the rise. Initiatives and venues for multilateral cooperation are complemented by growing bilateral engagement to foster international lesson-drawing and exchange. Official development assistance (ODA) in the energy sector is increasingly being directed to renewable energy sources. Despite these promising developments, it is widely acknowledged that investment towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 7 on clean and affordable energy is insufficient. A recent report by SE4ALL estimates annual investments in support of SDG7 at USD 30 billion. This is well below the USD 52 billion that would be needed (SE4ALL and Climate Policy Initiative, Energizing finance: Understanding the landscape 2018, 2018). Moreover, investment in clean energy remains heavily concentrated in a small number of frontrunner countries. In terms of technologies, investments in clean energy still overwhelmingly target grid-connected electricity generation. Despite their proven ability to provide rapid and affordable access to clean energy in many country contexts, off-grid technologies account for only 1.3 percent of investments (SE4ALL and Climate Policy Initiative, 2018). Worryingly, a significant share of international public sector financing, most notably by export-credit agencies, is still allocated to coal and other fossil-based technologies. Against this background, this paper makes three recommendations for strengthening international cooperation in support of a global energy transition: 1) Promote investment in clean energy and end support for coal-based energy infrastructure. 2) Tackle the socio-economic dimension of the global energy transition. 3) Provide early market support to promote challenge-based energy innovation.
Q01|Defining green bonds the danger of neglecting the issuer side: Looking at problems and solutions|The European Union is currently making significant strides to lead on green finance and align its financial system with its climate, sustainability and clean energy ambitions. To this end, the European Commission presented three legislative proposals on sustainable finance in May 2018. One of the EU's main efforts here is to establish a market for green bonds by introducing a common taxonomy. A technical expert group on sustainable finance is currently developing this taxonomy for sustainable finance. However, most experts are from the investor side, while the issuer side is underrepresented in the group. By defining which economic activities are green, the expert group also determines, which economic activities are non-green. Through the taxonomy, the green bond framework will thereby alter the financing conditions for green investments as well as for traditional investments. In our view, the framework on sustainable finance is unbalanced; it emphasizes mostly the investors' view and less the issuers' view. Two problems might arise from this: First, it does not adequately address the contribution of intermediate goods producers to green final products, and second, the contribution of non-green investments to CO2-reduction with the consequence that their financing costs might rise through a green bond framework. Our first recommendation is, that the expert group should shift its focus away from single green products towards the green value chain. This approach would allow intermediate good producers of non-green products to issue green bonds if they contribute to green final products. If the issuer of an intermediate product could prove that, for example, 20 percent of its sales contribute to a green final product, the issuer should be allowed to structure the issuance by distributing 20 percent of the issuance volume as green bonds and the remaining 80 percent as conventional bonds. Considering the green value chain is important, since the financing costs of intermediate products will contribute to the production costs of green final products. Our second recommendation is that businesses should at least in part be allowed to issue green bonds if they invest in technologies that reduce their CO2-emissions significantly. Their production does not fall under the definition of green products, but these firms could also contribute to greening the economy by investing in emission-reducing and energy-saving technologies. Embracing these issuers into the sustainable finance framework would set them incentives to invest into lowering their CO2-emissions.
Q01|Lebensmittelabfälle in Deutschland - Baseline 2015|Nach FAO-Angaben werden weltweit etwa ein Drittel aller produzierten Lebensmittel weggeworfen. Die Reduzierung dieser Lebensmittelverschwendung auf Einzelhandels- und Verbraucherebene um 50 % bis 2030 ist eine gesamtgesellschaftliche Herausforderung, der sich auch die Bundesregierung stellt und u. a. eine Nationale Strategie zur Reduzierung der Lebensmittelverschwendung beschloss sowie einen entsprechenden Indikator für die Deutsche Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie prüft. Der hier vorliegende Entwurf einer Baseline stellt eine Entscheidungsgrundlage für die Berechnung und Berichterstattung der Lebensmittelabfälle 2015 in Deutschland dar. Daten und Methoden sowie die daraus resultierenden Ergebnisse inklusive Qualitätsreport sind auch konform mit dem entsprechenden und ebenfalls im Entwurf vorliegenden Delegierten Beschluss der EU für die zukünftige Berichterstattung. Die Baseline-Berechnung erfolgt grundsätzlich auf der Datenbasis von 2015, wobei entweder die Erhebungen genau aus diesem Jahr stammen, oder von den zeitlich am nächsten liegenden Erhebungen anderer Jahre übertragen werden. Dies gilt besonders auch für die angewandten Koeffizienten, die sich meist aus Abfallanalysen und Befragungen oder Buchungsdaten und sonstigen Erhebungen herleiten. Die Gesamtabfallmenge 2015 für Lebensmittelabfälle in Deutschland beträgt fast 11,9 Millionen Tonnen Frischmasse, wobei die Primärproduktion einen Anteil von 12 % (1,36 Mio. t), die Verarbeitung von 18 % (2,17 Mio. t), der Handel von 4 % (0,49 Mio. t) und die Außer-Haus-Verpflegung von 14 % (1,69 Mio. t) ausmacht. Der Großteil der Lebensmittelabfälle entsteht mit 52 % (6,14 Mio. t) in privaten Haushalten, dies entspricht etwa 75 kg pro Kopf im Jahr 2015. Über alle Sektoren hinweg wäre nach den vorliegenden Hochrechnungen etwa die Hälfte der Abfälle theoretisch vermeidbar. Die Qualität der Daten und der Datenanalyse wurde ergänzend bewertet. Unsicherheiten in der Datenlage bestehen vor allem in den Bereichen Primärproduktion, Verarbeitung und Handel. Insbesondere beeinflusst der Handelssektor die Lebensmittelabfälle im vorgelagerten Bereich z. B. durch Qualitätsansprüche und Retouren sowie im Konsumbereich durch Kaufanreize. Eine koordinierte Zusammenarbeit mit Akteuren aus Primärproduktion, Verarbeitung und Handel sowie Konsum ist notwendig, um zukünftig die Datenlage zu verbessern und Schnittstellen zu optimieren. Die vorliegende Baseline berichtet die Lebensmittelabfälle in Tonnen Frischmasse, ohne deren Wertigkeit und die Trends zu berücksichtigen. Für eine Nachhaltigkeitsbewertung reicht dies nicht aus. Zukünftig müssten dafür ökologische, ökonomische und soziale Ableitungen aus der Baseline folgen, die dann auch z. B. den Klimaschutzplan 2050 unterstützen könnten. Signifikante Veränderungen im Zeitablauf geben darüber hinaus Aufschluss über positive oder auch negative Trends und sind somit ein Gradmesser für allgemeine Entwicklungen in Kombination mit Maßnahmen zur Reduzierung der Lebensmittelverschwendung.
Q01|Employment and performance effects of circular economy innovations|Circular economy (CE) describes an economic concept that aims at saving resources by minimizing the use of material and energy over the entire life-cycle or products, including repair, reuse and recycling. CE innovations help to realize the goals of a sustainable development and target both the environmental, economic and social dimensions of sustainability. This paper looks at the economic and social dimensions by investigating the performance and employment effects of CE innovations at the firm level. CE innovations such as the reduction of energy and material consumption or the recycling of waste, water or material may lead to cost savings which in turn can increase the competitiveness of the firm and raise demand for a firm's products. Our econometric analysis uses data of two waves of the German part of the Community Innovation Survey (CIS). The performance effects of CE innovations measured by the financial standing of a firm and by turnover growth tend to be positive. The results of quantile regressions show that this is also the case for employment effects.
Q01|Digital economy and development: an empirical study on motorcycle driver jobs in Uganda|This study investigates how the digital economy benefits motorcycle taxi drivers in Uganda. It focuses on three motorcycle related businesses connected the digital economy and studies the impact of the digital economy on drivers’ gross profit. The results show that the digital economy directly enhances the financial capability of motorcycle drivers and their work efficiency. Likewise, it indirectly creates greater demand for motorcycle drivers in the market, including for motorcycle taxi drivers connected to motorcycle taxi app platforms and e-commerce motorcycle delivery drivers. Another crucial point for the motorcycle taxi drivers to benefit from the digital economy is the enhancement of their employability skills.
Q01|The Greenium matters: evidence on the pricing of climate risk|This study provides evidence on the existence of a negative Greenium, i.e. a green risk premium, based on European individual stock returns and portfolios. By defining a green factor which is priced by the market, we offer a tool to assess a portfolio exposure to climate risk and hedge against it. We estimate that even in a rather benign scenario, there would be losses at the global level, including for European large banks, should they fail to price the Greenium. By halving the exposure to carbon-intensive sectors, losses would be reduced by 30%. These results call for the introduction of carbon stress tests for systemically important institutions
Q01|Sustainable Finance for Sustainable Development|The paper explores how ethical and sustainable oriented finance is key to reach sustainable development by tackling environmental risk through green finance and showing empirical evidence on the link between finance and inequality. The theory provided puts in the right mind frame to analyze markets, intermediaries and instruments with a sustainable lens to focus on the benefits that have brought to sustainable development. A discussion is presented between different intermediaries and highlights the benefits of cooperative banks especially the close relationship of customers and bank and the resilience it gives to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in difficult times. Different investments strategies are discussed walking through the evolution of Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) funds and diving into the ESG analysis to use as criteria to allocate investments based on environmental, social and governance principles. Microfinance is introduced as a different market that has reached the people at the bottom of the pyramid and highlights the key role it will play to bring financial inclusion. Islamic finance and Fintech are also discussed. Different instruments are presented to understand the current landscape of how different investors are using innovative products to attack social and environmental problems. Finally, five different ways are presented on how policies can strengthen and support sustainable development arguing that the most important is by promoting sustainable footprint certification.
Q01|The Greenium matters: evidence on the pricing of climate risk|This study provides evidence on the existence of a negative Greenium, i.e. a green risk premium, based on European individual stock returns and portfolios. By defining a green factor which is priced by the market, we offer a tool to assess a portfolio exposure to climate risk and hedge against it. We estimate that even in a rather benign scenario, there would be losses at the global level, including for European large banks, should they fail to price the Greenium. By halving the exposure to carbon-intensive sectors, losses would be reduced by 30%. These results call for the introduction of carbon stress tests for systemically important institutions.
Q01|The Effects of Decentralized and Video-based Extension on the Adoption of Integrated Soil Fertility Management – Experimental Evidence from Ethiopia|The slow adoption of new agricultural technologies is an important factor in explaining persistent productivity deficits among smallholders in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). Farmers delay in particular the uptake of technology packages. Since knowledge constraints are an important barrier to adoption, effective extension approaches are key. In recent decades, extension systems in many SSA countries have moved towards decentralized “bottom-up” models involving farmers as active stakeholders. In this study we assess the effects of a decentralized extension program and an additional video intervention on the adoption of integrated soil fertility management (ISFM) among 2,382 farmers in Ethiopia using a randomized controlled trial. ISFM should enhance soil fertility and productivity by combining organic and inorganic soil amendments. We find that both extension-only and extension combined with video increase ISFM adoption and knowledge. We further find evidence for increased adoption of ISFM practices among farmers in treatment communities that do not actively participate in the extension activities. The additional video intervention shows a significant complementary effect for these non-actively involved farmers, in particular regarding the combined use of the practices on the same plot. A causal mediation analysis reveals that increases in knowledge explain part of the treatment effects on adoption.
Q01|The Cost of a Carbon-Free Electricity System in the U.S|I calculate the cost of replacing all power stations in the U.S. using coal and gas by wind and solar power stations by 2050, leaving electric power generation in the U.S. carbon free. Allowing for the savings in the cost of fossil fuel arising from the replacement of fossil fuel plants this is roughly $55 billion annually. Allowing in addition for the fact that most fossil plants in the U.S. are already old and would have to be replaced before 2050 even if we were not to go fossil free, this annual cost is reduced to $23 billion.
Q01|Transition Finance: Introducing a new concept|In answer to the call expressed within the Addis Ababa Action Agenda to mobilise all available resources – domestic and foreign, public and private – in support of the Sustainable Development Goals, the Development Co-operation Directorate develops a new work stream on transition finance to explore the evolution and interaction of public (official development assistance and other official flows) and private (foreign direct investments and remittances) sources of finance across the development continuum – studying multiple stages of development: low income countries, middle income countries, fragile contexts, and different regions of the world. Its ultimate objective is to advise the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) in preparing countries for transition (outlining the optimal financial mix and offering policy recommendations) and in building resilience.This paper introduces the concept of transition finance and initiates research to advise the DAC on its role as a major provider of development assistance among other public and private providers of financing for the 2030 Agenda.
Q01|Population Growth And Industrialization|The role of population growth in the process of industrialization is studied in a general equilibrium model. It provides a formal presentation of Rostow’s insight of the role of a leading sector in industrialization. Population growth may lead to a shortage of food and a breakdown of the industrialization process. However, population growth may benefit the manufacturing sector in the adoption of increasing returns to scale technologies. Elasticity of demand for agricultural goods plays an important role in determining whether an improvement of agricultural technology or an increase of population is beneficial to the manufacturing sector. A comparison of China and Britain before the Industrial Revolution shows that research and development are necessary for sustained growth. Achieving industrialization independently requires a combination of a sufficiently large market size from the demand side and a sufficiently large supply of technologies from the supply side. (JEL O14, E10, N10, Q01)
Q01|Agricultural Growth and Environmental Quality in Cameroon: Evidence from ARDL Bound Testing Approach|The purpose of this study is to examine the two-way relationship between agricultural growth and the quality of the environment. Agriculture is considered a key sector and of great importance in the Cameroonian economy. But its sensitivity to climate fluctuations has created a great deal of concern about its ability to meet the food needs of the entire population as a result of climate change. Moreover, its contribution to the deterioration of the quality of the environment is far from being marginal. Thus, the analysis of the links between agricultural income and the quality of the environment was made in the framework of this study using the environmental curve of Kuznets and the Ricardian model. The results of the study show that there is a U-shaped relationship between agricultural growth and environmental quality (CO2). This shows that it is difficult to make agricultural production believe without having a negative effect on the quality of the environment. We finally show that rising temperatures have a U-shaped impact on farm income.
Q01|Decomposition analysis of air pollution abatement in China: Empirical study for ten industrial sectors from 1998 to 2009|This study analyzes air pollutant substances management in Chinese industrial sectors from 1998 to 2009. Decomposition analysis applying the logarithmic mean divisia index is used to analyze changes in air pollutant substances emissions by the following five factors: coal pollution intensity (CPI), end-of-pipe treatment (EOP), energy mix (EM), productive efficiency change (EFF), and production scale changes (PSC). We focus on the three pollutants which are sulfur dioxide (SO2), dust substance, and soot substance. We clarify SO2 emissions from Chinese industrial sectors have increased because of the increase in the production scale. However, the inducing EOP equipment and improvements in energy efficiency have prevented an increase in SO2 emissions commensurate with the production increasing. Second, soot emissions were successfully reduced and controlled in all industries except the steel industry between 1998 and 2009, even though the production scale expanded for these industries. This reduction is achieved because of improvements in the EOP equipment technology and in energy efficiency. Finally, dust emissions decreased by nearly 65% between 1998 and 2009 in the Chinese industrial sectors. This successful emissions reduction was achieved by implementing EOP and pollution prevention activities during the production processes, especially in the cement industry. We clarify that pollution prevention effect in cement industry is mainly caused by production technological development rather than scale merit.
Q01|Heterogeneous Consumer Preference for Seafood Sustainability in Japan|This study estimates Japanese consumers’ willingness to pay (WTP) for several components of seafood sustainability. A choice experiment via a web survey is conducted among Japanese seafood consumers. In order to estimate WTP, a latent class model is employed to treat heterogeneity of consumer preference in addition to a basic conditional logit model. The latent class model resulted in separating consumers into two characteristic groups: nature-oriented and human-oriented groups. Neither group was found to be willing to pay for seafood sustainability even though they are somewhat concerned about seafood sustainability. Specifically, the nature-oriented group, which comprised 51% of our consumer sample, negatively evaluated fisheries management and preservation of tradition and culture but highly evaluated the environment and ecosystems. Meanwhile, the human-oriented group, which comprised 49% of our consumer sample, positively evaluated fisheries management and regionality, but negatively evaluated the environment and ecosystems. The differences between the groups are unrelated to education or income, but are related to seafood expense, age, family structure, and knowledge of sustainability.
Q01|Long-run dynamics of sulphur dioxide emissions, economic growth and energy efficiency in China|This paper estimates the linkages among total Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions, total GDP and energy efficiency using China’s provincial panel data from 2002 to 2015. We investigate total emissions rather than per capita emissions or ambient concentrations, since it is total emissions that the environment cares about. Energy efficiency is estimated using stochastic frontier analysis and decomposed into both persistent and transient efficiency. We then investigate the long-run dynamics among SO2 emissions, economic growth and energy efficiency by employing the panel-based error correction model and taking the effects of cyclical variations into account. Our analysis shows that GDP has a positive impact on total SO2 emissions in the short run and gains in energy efficiency have a significant negative effect on emissions in the long run. By controlling the effects of business cycle, the effects of GDP on emissions remain positive in both short and long run. Cross-sectional analysis provides similar insights. We argue that economic growth itself is an emission generator. Therefore, the government needs to establish a long-run strategy to curb the emissions by improving energy efficiency.
Q01|National Accounts in the Anthropocene: Hueting’s environmental functions and environmentally Sustainable National Income: translation and relevance for ecosystem services|The UN System of National Accounts (SNA) calculates standard national income (NI) under the condition that owned capital is maintained. Roefie Hueting defined in 1969 environmental functions (state, stock) as the possible uses by humans of the environment. Their actual use (flow) nowadays are also called ecosystem services. Hueting defined in 1986 environmentally sustainable national income (eSNI) (flow) under the condition that the vital environmental functions are maintained for future generations. Then eΔ = NI – eSNI gives the national distance to environmental sustainability. Thus eΔ measures the level of ecosystem services concerning the part that infringes upon environmental sustainability, or the abusive part in the ecosystem services that are provided. This communication aspires at a translation of the terminologies by economist Hueting and ecologists in the research of ecosystem services.
Q01|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. A multivariate co-integration analysis|This paper applied the ARDL bounds test approach and the VECM test technique to examine the long run relationship and direction of causality between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Argentina. Quarterly time series data was employed in this study covering a period between 1990 and 2014. Trade openness, capital and employment were included in the study to form a multivariate framework. The results established that there is a long run relationship between the variables. The VECM test technique confirmed a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption. This implies that energy conservation policies may not harm the economic growth. The study, therefore, suggest that an appropriate and effective energy policy should be implemented in the long run.
Q01|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia
Q01|Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth in Turkey. An ARDL Bounds Testing Approach|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
Q01|The causal links between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
Q01|The role of natural resources in production: Georgescu-Roegen/ Daly versus Solow/ Stiglitz|"This paper proposes a historical and epistemological account of one of the key controversy between natural resources economics and ecological economics, lasting from early 1970s to the end of 1990s. It shows that the theoretical disagreement on the scope of the economy's dependence to natural resources, such as energy and minerals, has deep methodological roots. On one hand, Solow's and Stiglitz's works are built on a ""model-based methodology"", where the model precedes and supports the conceptual foundations of the theory and in particular the assumption of ""unbounded resources productivity"". On the other hand, Georgescu-Roegen's counter-assumption of ""thermodynamic limits to production"", later revived by Daly, rest on a methodology of ""interdisciplinary consistency"" which considers thermodynamics as a relevant scientific referent for economic theory. While antagonistic, these two methodologies face similar issues regarding the conceptual foundations that arise from them, which is a source of confusion and of the difficult dialogue between paradigms."
Q01|Mirage on the Horizon: Geoengineering and Carbon Taxation Without Commitment|We show that, in a model without commitment to future policies, geoengineering breakthroughs can have adverse environmental and welfare effects because they change the (equilibrium) carbon taxes. In our model, energy producers emit carbon, which creates a negative environmental externality, and may decide to switch to cleaner technology. A benevolent social planner sets carbon taxes without commitment. Higher future carbon taxes both reduce emissions given technology and encourage energy producers to switch to cleaner technology. Geoengineering advances, which reduce the negative environmental effects of the existing stock of carbon, decrease future carbon taxes and thus discourage private investments in conventional clean technology. We characterize the conditions under which these advances diminish - rather than improve - environmental quality and welfare.
Q01|The role of agriculture in global GHG mitigation|Agriculture is a major emitter of greenhouse gases. Its potential to contribute to limiting global warming to less than 2oC by the end of the century is substantial by reducing direct emissions in crop and livestock production, by reducing indirect emissions associated with changes in land use, and by increasing carbon sequestration. Technological advancements and changes in consumer preferences that result in land-sparing are particularly promising options given food security concerns. Gains in total factor productivity will also enhance the sector’s competitiveness. Changes in domestic and trade policies are essential to maximize mitigation potential. In the absence of global application of carbon pricing, international co-ordination is needed to ensure that national mitigation efforts result in carbon reallocation, i.e. shifts in the location of production to low emissions sources. Measures of emissions relative to the economic contribution of agricultural activities can be insightful for identifying national mitigation priorities.
Q01|Out of the Frying Pan into the Fire? Migration from Fragile States to Fragile States|Fragile states contributed 18 million migrants and 8 million refugees in 2000. More than 20% of these migrants and more than half of the refugees settle in other fragile states. Thus, migration is likely to be both a consequence and a possible cause of conflict and fragility. This paper asks why people from fragile states would want to move to another fragile state. Is it simply a question of jumping out of the frying pan into the fire – that migrants from fragile states have no other options than to settle in another fragile state? To investigate this question I analyse a new set of global data on the sources and destinations of migrants. This analysis generates genuinely new research for INCAF, and reveals that economic factors, such as the pull of higher incomes in destination countries, are important. The paper concludes by discussing how migration from fragile states in search of higher incomes and greater wellbeing is an important development strategy that should be supported. The research suggests that a new concept of development may be needed which looks beyond national borders to the countries where the migrants end up. This will require policies to ensure public acceptability in the host countries, however, such as bilateral agreements, temporary status for immigrants and restricting immigration to specific jobs or perhaps regions.
Q01|The 2030 Agenda and Development Co-operation Results|Providers of development co-operation can benefit from the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), targets and indicators for use in their results frameworks. The paper examines the SDG outcome and performance targets and indicators that fit with the goals of individual providers. It presents a menu of 60 SDG targets and indicators that can strengthen providers’ results frameworks, facilitate data collection and use, and offer improved platforms for dialogues on development co-operation results. The concept of “menu” recognises that individual providers and their partners prioritise different aspects of the 2030 Agenda. They can select and apply SDG targets and indicators to their existing results frameworks in accordance with their respective priorities. Results information is used for accountability and communication and hence tied to political goals for development co-operation. With clearer links to the SDGs, results information can also be used for strategic direction and learning by providers.
Q01|Child well-being and the Sustainable Development Goals: How far are OECD countries from reaching the targets for children and young people?|This paper summarises available evidence on the distance that OECD countries need to travel in order to reach the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) targets for children and young people. More than 50 indicators are included in this analysis, covering 43 of the 169 targets, and 11 of the 17 Goals. The analysis finds that, on average, OECD countries are still far from reaching the targets pertaining to Goals 4 “Quality education”, and 8 “Decent work and economic growth”. Goals 1 “No poverty”, 2 “Zero hunger” and 16 “Peace, justice and strong institutions” are also highlighted as priority areas. However, the results vary widely across OECD countries, and among specific targets within each of the goals. Yet, all of these findings need to be considered in light of what it is not currently possible to measure. In particular, there are large data gaps for Goals 1 (“No poverty”), 5 (“Gender equality”), 11 (“Sustainable cities and communities”), and 16 (“Peace, justice and strong institutions”).
Q01|Effects if Fertilizer Subsidies in Zambia: A Literature Review|Fertilizer subsidies are again part of the policy agenda in Sub-Saharan Africa since the 1990s. Governments spend large shares of their agricultural budgets and their means to fight poverty on such programmes, but economists formulated doubts whether these investments will pay off. This paper reviews the existing literature on effects of fertilizer subsidies in Zambia, presents an analytical framework on input subsidies and compares the empirical evidence to the goals of the fertilizer subsidy. Major findings are that the subsidy programme has failed to substantially reduce poverty and to improve food security via decreased maize prices. Farm incomes have increased moderately, but the overall costs exceed the benefits by far. Reasons for this are identified as poor targeting, diversion and leakage. The paper concludes with a review of policy recommendations, mainly focused on improved targeting and diversification away from pure fertilizer subsidies.
Q01|Renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Indonesia. Evidence from the ARDL bounds testing approach|This study serves to examine the effects of renewable energy consumption on economic growth in Indonesia. Quarterly time series data was used for the period 1990 – 2014. Applying the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds testing approach, the study established that there is a long run relationship between economic growth, renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment. It is established that renewable energy consumption has a significant positive effect on economic growth both in the long run and short run. The findings from the vector error correction model (VECM) technique suggest that there is a long run causality flowing from renewable energy consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, capital and employment to economic growth. The findings of this study suggest that the government, energy policy makers and associated bodies should act together to improve on the renewable energy infrastructure and lower carbon growth in Indonesia.
Q01|Investigating the linkage between Renewable Energy Consumption and Economic Growth: The case of Turkey|The study purposes to investigate the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in Turkey using annual data covering the period 1990–2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model is applied and the findings suggest existence of a long run relationship among the variables. The ARDL long run estimation results discovered that renewable energy consumption has a positive and significant effect on economic growth. The results from the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) reveals that there is a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption without feedback. This findings bring a fresh perspective for policy makers for long run and sustainable economic development in Turkey.
Q01|The causal linkages between renewable electricity generation and economic growth in South Africa|Knowledge of the direction of causality between electricity generation from renewables and economic growth is essential if energy policies which will support economic growth of the country are to be devised. This study explores the causal relationship between electricity generated from the renewables and economic growth in South Africa using carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital as the additional variables. The study uses the Johansen co-integration model to detect the long run relationship between the variables and the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) to determine the direction of causality. The findings from Johansen co-integration evidenced a long run relationship between electricity generated from renewables, economic growth, carbon dioxide emissions, employment and capital. The VECM revealed unidirectional causality running from electricity generated from renewables to economic growth. The findings indicate that electricity generation from renewables enhance economic growth. Therefore, the government should make appropriate efforts to select energy policies that do not negatively affect economic growth.
Q01|Cambodia's Oil and Gas Activities and Future Outlooks|This article aims to reveal studies on Cambodia’s current activities in the oil and gas industry. The paper will be divided into three parts: 1) Distribution of oil and gas resources 2) Current Operations in the oil and gas industry and 3) Conclusion and discussion of the future of the industry.
Q01|Agricultural irrigation of vine crops from desalinated and brackish groundwater under an economic perspective. A case study in Siġġiewi, Malta|Maltese agriculture faces great challenges due to the severe scarcity ofwater. Sufficientwater resources, in quantity and quality, are necessary to cover the demand in the production of wine grape, one of the most important crops in Maltese agriculture. But also, economic efficiency is essential in the grape cultivation. A Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) is defined for Maltese vineyards in the Siġġiewi region, considering two irrigation scenarios, irrigation with groundwater or “do-nothing”, comparedwith the “use non-conventional waters” from mixing water from a small desalination plant and groundwater. For the alternative ‘mixing desalinatedwater with groundwater’ it is possible to improve water availability and quality for vine crops, while increasing economic benefits for farmer. The results indicate a profitable project fromaminimumarea of 1 ha, but final benefit is highly dependent on the irrigated surface extension according to water price. Desalination, compared with other type of nonconventional water is considered the best option in this assessment with a small reverse osmosis (RO) desalination plant (120 m3 /day) for covering the irrigation needs.
Q01|Achieving Sustainable Development Goals in MENA countries: an Analytical and Econometric Approach|This paper assesses the achievements and disparties toward SDGs in MENA countries in two-stage performance analysis. First, we use a descriptive approach and then a composite indicator ‘SDG achievement index’ (SDGI) for the social develoment in the the region through Principle Component Analysis weighting. After that, the analysis examines the coherence between this index and income per capita. The descriptive analysis and the composite indicator confirm the existence of disparties between the countries of the region in all components of social development. Furthermore, the results reveal consistency between the SDGI and GDP per capita for some countries and inconsistency for others.
Q01|The eﬀects of migration and pollution externality on cognitive skills in Caribbean economies: a Theoretical analysis|Caribbean Small Island Developing States (SIDS) face speciﬁc social, economic and environmental vulnerabilities. This paper provides a simple overlapping generations model with migration and intergenerational transfers in an economy where production generates pollution. This pollution hampers the cognitive skills of the children and thus the eﬃciency of human capital accumulation in the economy. Therefore the model developped in this work introduces kea features of Caribbean SIDS in order to exacerbate the dynamics between demography – i.e. migration and human capital accumulation – and pollution. Results reveal that the usual gain from migration in terms of human capital was no longer possible because of the environmental externality. Indeed, in most of the cases, in presence of the environmental externality, per capita variables (utility, production and capital) are decreased by migration, while the aggregated production can be enhanced thanks to the demographic growth that occurs with migration. Moreover, it has been shown that the conditions to have a proﬁtable environmental tax depend on the pollution intensity of the economy. Finally, the interactions between the emigration rate and the form of intergenerational transfers – i.e. solidarity from the domestic area and/or from the diaspora – have an impact on the scale of the reduction of human capital due to migration. Thus, in this model a gain from an increase in the rate of emigration is still possible but only if migration is already very high.
Q01|South Asia’s March Towards Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals|This paper, prepared by ESCAP South and South-West Asia Office, is based on the report of the Second South Asia Forum on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) organized by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), in collaboration with the NITI Aayog (successor of the Planning Commission in India) and a premier Indian think tank Research and Information System for Developing Countries (RIS), on 4-5 October 2018 in New Delhi, India. Senior government officials, international and regional experts, civil society representatives, think tanks, academia and other stakeholders discussed key challenges, progress and priorities for implementation of the 2030 Agenda in South Asia and opportunities that South Asian member States could pursue to increase regional cooperation for achieving the SDGs. This paper summarizes the highlights of the discussion at the event and the key conclusions and policy lessons. South Asian countries have an opportunity to tackle many of their common development challenges, and accelerate their progress towards the SDGs, through enhanced regional cooperation for building up productive capacities, strengthening statistical systems, enhancing market integration, improving connectivity, climate action, and tackling shared vulnerabilities and risks. Among the key takeaways from the Forum was the identification of potential areas for greater regional cooperation and articulating the need for a regional framework for achievement of SDGs in South Asia that will be prioritized and implemented as a mandate of ESCAP-SSWA and its work in the subregion.
Q01|Early Lessons in Implementing the Sustainable Development Goals in India: The Example of Assam|Assam has made vigorous efforts since 2015 towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Cognizant of the state’s weak progress in development, its recent governments – irrespective of political affiliation– adopted the SDGs and Assam became the first state in India to do so. The paper discusses in detail the steps taken so far which include developing an overall vision of an SDG-fulfilled Assam in 2030; preparing a comprehensive strategy in a participatory fashion to achieve that vision; and steps taken to implement and monitor the strategy. The Assam experience has many important lessons. These include the criticality of motivating staff at all levels to instill the SDGs in every aspect of their work and the role of leadership in this respect; proactively forging partnerships with all stakeholders including the legislature and the judiciary and creating an environment for such partnerships to flourish; the general need for adopting a result and outcome-based development process that the SDGs represent abandoning narrow departmental and output-based activity and practice. These would require initiating institutional and organizational changes including to ensure that major improvements take place in project implementation processes. Also essential is inculcating a culture of innovation –including technological innovation–in every sphere of public service; and developing effective coordinating mechanisms to ensure that all concerned stakeholders work synergistically to achieve the SDG outcomes. Also, very critical is the role of national and global partners in supporting Assam’s earnest efforts as the resource, knowledge and capacity gaps that Assam faces are too large for it to fill through its own means –even with its best efforts.
Q01|Analysing Institutional Set-up of Forest Management in Pakistan|This study analyses the institutional set-up of forest management in Pakistan, focusing on the North West Frontier Province, which houses 40 percent of the total forestlands. These areas have faced significant deforestation in the past. It is feared that if nothing is done to check this process, these forests will soon disappear. The study argues for the Property Rights School of thought that the roots of environmental problems are to be traced to inadequate and ill-defined property institutions. The study develops a normative criterion, describing the conditions that are essential for optimal utilisation and conservation of a resource, to be used in assessing the present situation. The analysis indicates that there are problems in the ownership structure, in the enforcement of property rules, as well as in the management system. It is concluded that the present institutional set-up is inappropriate to achieve the objective of forest conservation, and changes in this set-up are suggested. The study puts forward ‘collective management’ as an alternative institutional set-up.
Q01|A preliminary assessment of the indicators for Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development”|The SDGs are intended to address sustainable development processes in both developed and developing countries, and to facilitate action at all levels and with all actors, including government, civil society, the private sector and the science community to strengthen the capacity of the State to achieve the desired outcomes. The SDG 14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development” covers, among other features, economic pressures on the marine environment, as well as the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and coastal communities since they are particularly impacted by the economic pressures and dependent on the oceans in socio-economic terms. This paper reviews the rational for the SDG 14, as well as the framework for the SDG 14 indicators including (i) the basic concepts, i.e. the role of uncertainty, irreversibility and thresholds in the marine context, the multidimensionality of the SDG 14 indicators, and how to ensure effective SDG 14 monitoring and implementation through SMART SDG 14 targets; (ii) synergies and trade-offs among the SDG 14 targets and between SDG 14 and other SDGs targets, and how to track progress on policy coherence at the national level; (iii) synergies between SDG 14 indicators, and ocean-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 7 and Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs) targets and indicators; and (iv) the role of non-traditional sources of data such as big data. In addition, some preliminary indicators for the SDG 14 at the global and national scales (France) are also explored. As a result of this analysis, some areas for future research in the framework of SDG 14 indicators are proposed, i.e. building on the frontiers of ocean science, the development of innovative approaches for data collection, the development of common approaches in valuing marine ecosystem services and national accounting, the provision of incentives for best practice and peer-learning, the harmonisation of measurement methodologies and the selection of SDG 14 indicators according to the geographical level of intervention.
Q01|Introducing Environmental Ethics into Economic Analysis: Some insights from Hans Jonas’ Responsibility Principle|This paper addresses how environmental ethics could be incorporated in economic analysis and more particularly how the Responsibility Principle of H. Jonas can provide useful insights into the analysis of sustainability issues. The challenges of environmental and social sustainability in terms of intergenerational fairness are analysed and involve a moral duty applicable to economic governance. The paper also explores to what extent responsibility, as an alternative to utilitarianism and as a principle facilitating the coordination of the agents involved, can be a first step towards the long-term and sustainable conservation of Nature.
Q01|The role of natural resources in production: Georgescu-Roegen/Daly versus Solow/Stiglitz|This paper proposes a historical and epistemological account of one of the key controversy between natural resources economics and ecological economics, lasting from early 1970s to the end of 1990s. It shows that the theoretical disagreement on the scope of the economy's dependence to natural resources, such as energy and minerals, has deep methodological roots. On one hand, Solow's and Stiglitz's works are built on a “model-based methodology”, where the model precedes and supports the conceptual foundations of the theory and in particular the assumption of “unbounded resources productivity”. On the other hand, Georgescu-Roegen's counter-assumption of “thermodynamic limits to production”, later revived by Daly, rest on a methodology of “interdisciplinary consistency” which considers thermodynamics as a relevant scientific referent for economic theory. While antagonistic, these two methodologies face similar issues regarding the conceptual foundations that arise from them, which is a source of confusion and of the difficult dialogue between paradigms
Q01|Sustainable regional development policy formation: role of industrial ecology and logistics|"The impossibility to define the clear and uniform operational guidelines for the implementation of sustainable development policy globally proves the necessity to consider the regional level as the key in terms of developing and implementing modern models of sustainable development, in particular, eco-industrial parks and circular economy projects. It substantiates the need to develop and use the modern innovative methodological approaches to the formation of the relevant regional policy. The circular economy proceeds from the flow-based understanding of the character of the production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of goods in the socio-economic system and, consequently, the turnover of resources and energy within this system. It determines the need for complex analysis and regulation of material and energy flows. These issues constitute the scope of research of industrial ecology and, at the same time, logistics. This causes the question of the integration of these disciplines within the system of scientific and methodological support of the processes of formation and implementation of the policy of sustainable region's development that is as yet little investigated. The article studies the theoretical and methodological foundations of the industrial ecology and logistics, such as objects, goals, methodological principles and approaches, methods, organizational forms, etc. On this basis the ontological unity of these disciplines is brought to light: they simultaneously study the different, mutually reinforcing aspects of the industrial system's performance through the accentuation of the flow form of the organization of the movement of resources, information, and energy as an object of regulation in such system. The integration of the ""environmental"" vision of material flows of the regional system, as is characteristic of the industrial ecology, with their ""economic"" content, which characterizes the structure of the regional economic system and constitutes the object of the logistics studies, should be considered as the basis for the formation and implementation of the policy aimed to achieve the region's sustainable development goals."
Q01|Pathways toward zero-carbon electricity required for climate stabilization|This paper provides pathways of the carbon content of electricity extracted from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s fifth Assessment Report scenarios database. It demonstrates three policy-relevant aspects of the carbon content of electricity that are implicit in most integrated assessment model results but under-discussed in academia and the policy debate. First, climate stabilization at any level from 1.5 °C to 3 °C requires the carbon content of electricity to decrease quickly and become almost carbon-free before the end of the century. As such, the question for policy makers is not whether to decarbonize electricity but when and how to do so. Second, decarbonization of electricity is still possible and required if some of the key zero-carbon technologies—such as nuclear power or carbon capture and storage—turn out to be unavailable. Third, progressive decarbonization of electricity is part of every country’s cost-effective means of contributing to climate stabilization. The pathways of the carbon content of electricity reported here can be used to benchmark existing decarbonization targets, such as those set by the European Energy Roadmap or inform new policies in other countries. They can also be used to assess the desirable uptake rates of electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, electric stoves and heat pumps, industrial electric furnaces, or other electrification technologies.
Q01|Managing the distributional effects of energy taxes and subsidy removal in Latin America and the Caribbean|Energy subsidies have been criticized due to their economic inefficiency and promotion of wasteful usage of energy and associated carbon emissions. Conversely, environmental taxes are advocated as efficient policy instruments. But removing subsidies and taxing energy can be politically challenging because vulnerable households rely on low energy prices. This study analyzes the impact of energy price hikes on different income groups using an energy-extended input-output approach. Our results show that higher-income groups benefit more from low energy prices than low-income groups when tracing both direct and indirect (supply chain) effects of energy price variations. Energy subsidies are a very expensive option to transfer income to poor households. For example, in Latin America and the Caribbean, using energy subsidies would cost about $12 to transfer $1 of income to households in the poorest quintile. Recycling a small fraction of fiscal revenues from energy subsidy removal or energy taxation could be sufficient to compensate vulnerable households from the effects of price hikes. Cash transfers to poor households and targeted subsidies for public transportation or food are the most effective measures to compensate households for welfare loss.
Q01|From Farm to Kitchen: Gender, production diversity and dietary intake| We estimated a two-step control function procedure on panel and four different models on the cross section data using the latest three round panel of the Ethiopian socioeconomic survey. The results from our cross section and panel estimates show a positive and significant relationship between production diversity and dietary diversity. In addition, we also see that production diversity has different outcomes between male and female headed household. Before the impact of production diversity is accounted for being in a female headed households does increase consumption diversity. However, there is evidence of a negative and significant interaction between gender and production diversity. This suggests that the mechanism through which production diversity affects consumption diversity differs in female headed households. As are result the overall impact of gender on consumption diversity is negligible (when estimated at mean values). Market access, access to extension services and the availability of a nonfarm business are also positively related with consumption of diversified diet. Key words: Production diversity, dietary diversity, gender, Ethiopia. JEL CODES: Q12 Q18 Q01
Q01|Decoupling of C02 Emissions and GDP: A Time-Varying Cointegration Approach|The relationship between CO2 emissions, the main gas responsible for global warming, and economic growth is among the most studied themes of environmental economics. Reducing overall emissions while keeping a high pace of economic development is at the heart of the notion of sustainable development. Economists refer to the case when emissions increase (resp. decrease) less rapidly than the pace of economic growth as relative (resp. absolute) decoupling. This requires the empirical analysis of the emissions-GDP relationship. The study of this relationship has special importance for developed countries, since they have been historically the main contributors of the global warming. Unlike the bulk of the literature, in this paper we allow the income elasticity of emissions – a critical metrics for the study of decoupling – to vary over time. The reason is that the elasticity might change through the time due to the factors affecting the drivers of the CO2 emissions. We use a time-varying coefficients cointegration approach to investigate the CO2 emissions-GDP relationship for 12 Western European countries over a long period ranging from 1861 to 2015. The main finding is that the income elasticities of CO2 emissions are found to be positive in all investigated countries. In addition, we find evidence in favor of relative decoupling – emissions increasing more slowly than GDP – in 8 out of the 12 European countries. The remaining 4 cases the income elasticity of CO2 emissions are in excess of unity. In nearly half of cases the analysis confirms a statistically significant time-varying pattern for the income elasticities.
Q01|The Impact of Economic Growth on CO2 Emissions in Azerbaijan|This paper examines the relationship between the economic growth and CO2 emissions in Azerbaijan.A cointegration analysis is conducted over the period 1992-2013. For getting more robust results, Johansen, ARDLBT, DOLS, FMOLS and CCR methods to explore cointegration and estimate longrun coefficients are employed. We use cubic, quadratic and linear specifications and conclude that the last one is an adequate representation for the impact of the economic growth on CO2 emissions in Azerbaijan. The results from the different cointegration methods are consistent with each other and show that the economic growth has positive and significant impact on the emissions in the long-run implying that the EKC hypothesis does not hold for Azerbaijan. Moreover, we find that any short-run disequilibrium can be corrected towards the long-run equilibrium path within less than one year. The paper concludes that increasing the energy efficiency can be considered as a relevant environmental policy in order to reduce the carbon emissions.
Q01|Characterizing Sustainability in Discrete Time|We examine the investment rule that must be satisfied by an efficient and egalitarian path in a discrete-time version of the Dasgupta-Heal-Solow model of capital accumulation and resource depletion. In the discrete-time model, competitive valuation of net investments in terms of early and late pricing differs. We redefine Hartwick's rule to require zero value of net investments at a valuation rule intermediate between these two. Using this definition, we show that along an efficient and egalitarian path, Hartwick's rule is followed in all time periods. We thereby establish the converse of Hartwick's result in discrete time, and we do so under weaker assumptions than those in the existing literature on how output varies as a function of capital and resource use. Our redefinition of Hartwick's rule follows naturally if discrete time is viewed as providing information at discrete points in time of an underlying continuous-time process.
Q01|Spotlight on Spatial Environmental Policy Spillovers: An Econometric Analysis of Wastewater Treatment in Mexican Municipalities|The objective of this paper is to analyze whether successful environmental policies spread across geographical space. We examine the existence of such environmental spatial policy spillovers using the example of wastewater treatment in Mexican municipalities. Untreated wastewater is a key pollution source in many developing and emerging countries, also in Mexico. However, wastewater treatment levels also differ greatly among the 2,456 Mexican municipalities. We apply spatial econometrics to explain differences in wastewater treatment. Our main finding is that a municipal administration is more likely to treat wastewater if neighboring municipalities do so. This insight seems of broader relevance to environmental policy-making. In developing and emerging countries, governments frequently lack capacities to solve environmental problems. Consequently, they may often rely on learning spillovers from nearby success cases. We recommend to implement environmental pilot projects which may then trigger domino effects.
Q01|Guyana’s REDD+ Agreement with Norway: Perceptions of and Impacts on Indigenous Communities|This report examines the impact of the REDD+ agreement between Guyana and Norway on indigenous communities in the country. Through literature review, analysis of secondary data, and interviews with indigenous chiefs and other informed stakeholders, it aims to understand the concerns, hopes, and fears of indigenous communities at the start of the agreement, and the effects, if any, that communities have faced from REDD+. Concerns at the inception of the agreement focused on long-standing issues with land rights, and a sense of lack of consultation. There were hopes, however, in the potential economic benefits that could accompany REDD+. Implementation of REDD+ in Guyana has proved slow, and the cash (or other benefits) received by communities has been small. Deforestation has risen—due to increased mining activity—and costs incurred by REDD+ have been minimal. This has created an overall air of scepticism regarding the future of the initiative. Future developments of REDD+ could be stronger through its indirect effect on changing donor actions, and broader policy thinking in Guyana; but major challenges exist in creating an opt-in mechanism that is fair for all indigenous communities, integrating REDD+ with the extractives industries such as mining, and keeping a focus on low-carbon development in the light of major new oil finds.
Q01|Competing or Complementary Strategies? Protecting Indigenous Rights and Paying to Conserve Forests|In 2007, the UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) endorsed the Bali Action Plan to pay for reductions in tropical deforestation. While many saw these initiatives as complementary, others considered the Bali Action Plan a threat to indigenous peoples’ rights. This paper reviews the history of efforts to protect indigenous rights and to pay for conserving forests and analyzes how they might be competing or complementary strategies. It then presents country experiences that show indigenous peoples have achieved tangible political benefits in many countries and internationally by using their leverage over and participation in Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation Plus (REDD+) negotiations. Nevertheless, these experiences also show that insisting on preconditions for REDD+ national performance payments may have inadvertently harmed indigenous peoples by contributing to delays in implementation. Today, the movements for indigenous rights and for slowing deforestation are inextricably entwined. Whereas critics fear implementation of REDD+ will harm indigenous peoples, it is the failure of REDD+ programs to influence national action to slow deforestation which represents the greater risk. In this way, the two movements face a common challenge to refocus attention on the national policies and actions that must change to protect both indigenous rights and tropical forests.
Q01|Retos asociados al uso del suelo: El dilema entre conservación y producción en los Bosques Andinos de Robles del Corredor Ecológico Guantiva-La Rusia-Iguaque|Preservar los Bosques Andinos de Robles es de gran importancia dado su valor intrínseco y los servicios ecosistémicos ofrecidos que favorecen el bienestar humano. No obstante, las prácticas de ganadería extensiva en el territorio nacional generan presión sobre su existencia. Aplicando un modelo de optimización dinámica que considera el valor del bosque por diversos servicios ecosistémicos, se busca entender el trade-off entre conservación y ganadería, así como las complejas relaciones entre los hombres y la naturaleza. De acuerdo a los resultados, debería conservarse entre el 62.7% y 99.4% del bosque dependiendo de la magnitud y valores de los parámetros. Finalmente, este documento busca aportar a la discusión sobre recomendaciones de política que favorezcan la conservación de los ecosistemas boscosos.
Q01|Crecimiento verde inclusivo e informalidad|El presente trabajo realiza un análisis de la informalidad y el crecimiento verde inclusivo, con énfasis en los sectores de minería, actividades agropecuarias, silvicultura, construcción y manejo de residuos. La informalidad se estima para las unidades productivas desde el punto de vista de la normativa laboral, empresarial, ambiental y de títulos. El crecimiento verde inclusivo, se mide mezclando las metodologías utilizadas para estimar el Índice de Crecimiento Sostenible del WEF, y el Índice EPI, de la Universidad de Yale. Además de hacer evidentes las altísimas tasas de informalidad en los sectores seleccionados, la conclusión principal de este trabajo es que predomina una relación positiva entre formalidad y buen desempeño ambiental y esta relación se muestra robusta y significativa, aún después de controlar por variables observables como el tamaño, el sector, la geografía y la educación (como proxy de ingresos). Aunque no es posible realizar un ejercicio de causalidad, nuestros resultados sugieren que la relación entre las dos variables se explica principalmente por determinantes comunes. Bajo este entendido y después de realizar un análisis de ecuaciones simultáneas para establecer los determinantes del desempeño ambiental y laboral, formulamos algunas recomendaciones de política.
Q01|A Framework for Sustainable Finance|To guide the transformation towards a sustainable and inclusive economy, the United Nations has developed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sustainable development is an integrated concept with three aspects: economic, social and environmental. This paper starts by reviewing the environmental and social challenges that society is facing. Why should finance contribute to sustainable development? The main task of the financial system is to allocate capital to its most productive use. Financial institutions have started to avoid unsustainable companies from a risk perspective, which we label as Sustainable Finance 1.0 and 2.0 in our new framework. The frontrunners are now increasingly investing in sustainable companies and projects to create long-term value for the wider community (Sustainable Finance 3.0).
Q01|Investing for Long-Term Value Creation|In the transition to a sustainable economy, companies are increasingly adopting the goal of long-term value creation, which integrates financial, social and environmental value. However, investors struggle to invest for long-term value and perform the social function of finance. Traditional investment approaches, based on the neo-classical paradigm of efficient markets and portfolio theory, only capture financial value in their financial risk and return space. Attempts at ESG integration are typically too shallow to overcome this problem. In this paper, we examine the set of issues that make this problem so stubborn and we outline the contours of an alternative paradigm that is better able to pursue long-term value creation. Its elements include short investment chains, active management that assesses companies' transition preparedness, concentrated portfolios, and deep engagement.
Q01|Overcoming sustainability barriers through Formalized Network Contracts (FNCs): the experience of Italian SMEs|The role of formal business networking in SMEs is receiving more attention from scholars and practitioners. However, several aspects remain unclear, including if and how, corporate sustainability approaches are implemented and aligned within such networks, mostly created for competitiveness and resource efficiency purpose. With the aim of filling this gap in the literature over Small Business Social Responsibility, an empirical investigation is proposed by analyzing 389 Formalized Network Contracts and their original legal document, following Bocken et al. (2014) business model archetypes and NBS (2012) studies on sustainable innovation and, normative-making perspectives. Findings include the addition of a new general aims for such FNC that is the creation and enablement of clusters, following the perspective of Creation of Shared Value. In addition, we demonstrate that FNC is a suitable tool for micro, SMEs, and individual entrepreneurs to meet sustainability issues introducing eco-innovations, eco-efficiency and shared value herein their products/services, business models and organizational changes as roughly half of these contracts include a reference to sustainability issues.
Q01|A Survey of Big Data Technologies and Internet of Things for Economic Growth and Sustainable Development|Big Data is a source of innovation that has captured the attention of citizens and decision makers in both the public and private sectors. Making use of the technology innovations in big data could contribute to economic growth and sustainable development and to capture the explosive growth of big data. For some time now, the world has stepped up in its focus on evidence based policy making and monitoring of development progress, hence the measurement and analysis of diverse sources of data, combined with advanced analytics, promise to create value for decision makers and society hence for economic growth and development. There are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 169 SDG targets and 230 SDG indicators, The 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 169 targets demonstrate the scale and ambition of this new universal Agenda of countries to collect and maintain relevant standardized data such that it will support domestic technology development, research and innovation in developing countries. This paper highlights the new technological innovations in big data and cloud computing which can lead to economic growth and sustainable development. Also, we present a comprehensive survey of the Big Data challenges, Big Data technology challenges, cloud computing and relevant technology landscape like Internet of Things (IoT) towards economic growth and technological innovation.
Q01|Fostering Green Finance for Sustainable Development in Asia|Placing the Asian economies onto a sustainable development pathway requires an unprecedented shift in investment away from greenhouse gas, fossil fuel, and natural resource intensive industries towards more resource efficient technologies and business models. The financial sector will have to play a central role in this ‘green transformation’. This study discusses the need for greening the financial system and the role of financial governance. It reviews the state of green lending and investment in Asia and provides an overview of green financial governance initiatives across Asia. It also identifies market innovations to increase green finance in Asia, barriers to green investments, and financial policy and highlights priority areas for policy makers.
Q01|Financing of Sustainability Investments at Green Key Awarded Hotels in Mu?la|As in all other areas, sustainability concept has become crucial in tourism sector. The Green Key award represents standard of excellence in the field of environmental and sustainable responsibility within the tourism industry. This eco-label is given to the tourism establishments according to the strict criteria determined by the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). These criteria include energy, water, waste and environmental management. The Green Key Award system is applied in 56 countries, more than 2600 tourism establishments all over the World. In 2017, Turkey, as one of the favourite tourism destination, is ranked as the 8th among the 56 countries with 86 tourism establishments having the Green Key award. Mu?la province, as the 3rd most popular tourist destination in Turkey, attracts millions of domestic and foreign visitors every year with its natural and historical spots in Fethiye, Marmaris and Bodrum. There are 17 hotels taking the Green Key award in this city. This study is about financing of sustainability investments at tourism sector in Mu?la. For this purpose, a research with Qualitative Interviewing Technique will be conducted in Hotels having Green Key award in Mu?la. The aim of this study is to examine the sustainability activities in tourism sector and explore the sources of finance for these activities. In addition, consciousness about special resource and incentives will be analysed.
Q01|Internet of Things in Health Care as an Opportunity to Ensure Sustainable Development|Using science to implement new technological solutions, easily accessible and adaptable to changing needs, shapes the future. Technological progress means that the basic health care services provided thanks to the development of digital services become cheaper and available to an increasing number of recipients. Digital health which includes i.a. remote services (telemedicine) is a response to the development of civilisation. However, in order for it to be implemented according to the principles of sustainable development, apart from the processes of digitisation of health care, a normal existence of digitally excluded persons must be ensured. Therefore, the health services can not be implemented only electronically, because it could lead to discrimination of digitally excluded social groups. When implementing new services, one must at the same time make sure that parallel solutions are developed for people who can not use new technologies for objective reasons. One can not neglect development of traditional methods of treatment, because only mutual interaction and balance of traditional methods and those using new technologies allow establishing and developing a proper relationship between the patient and the doctor ? the most important one, from the point of view of health protection and respect for the patients' rights.Digital services can eliminate the need to travel to far-away healthcare centres, which reduces waiting time and makes specialised and complex services available for an increasing number of patients. However, one should ask whether such service is always synonymous with the service of direct patient contact with a doctor? A good solution seems to be the introduction of hybrid solutions that combine electronic distance contact of a patient with a specialist doctor ? in the presence of a primary care doctor who, knowing the patient and his health problems, may draw the attention of the specialist to symptoms unrecognisable by the patient.With the development of digitalisation of health care there is a need to provide emergency systems. A possible transfer of healthcare to cyberspace may cause risks which can not be ignored. Introduction of Information and Communication Technologies in many areas of life, in particular in health protection raises a number of previously unprecedented threats. It should be emphasized that complete elimination of risk is not possible, and any willingness to do so will only result in the inhibition of the implementation of modern solutions ? which is neither desirable nor consistent with the assumptions of sustainable development.
Q01|Municipal Utility System of Telegeoprocessing (MUST) conception|The aim of the paper is the presentation of the Municipal Utility System of Telegeoprocessing (MUST) conception. The proposed service/system (MUST) is based on European (EGNSS) Galileo and will be used by citizens (C), local government (G) and local business (B). MUST's aim is to provide universal access to real-time technical infrastructure information in the current location with the use of satellite navigation (Galileo), geospatial data and WxS services with use of Augmented Reality and Smart Cities technologies. The proposed service will increase the digital interaction between citizens and local government (G2C) as well as local government and local business (G2B). In addition, the service will be able to provide information about the attractiveness of particular area, thus providing a valuable source of knowledge about the potential users of urbanized space for local government units. The main technical task is to develop a location-based system (based on Galileo) that will allow real-time identification of users/citizens, real estate (plots), technical infrastructure, and at the same time respond to plans for the deployment of new, EGNSS signal. The innovative and functional result of this project will be the mobile MUST service, which eliminates the biggest barriers to the use of e-government platforms and provides unique information on the cost of connecting to the infrastructure within a planned investment.
Q01|Greening Finance Industry In Hong Kong: The Role Of Partnership|This paper adopted a case study approach to explore the role of partnerships between government, industry and education in transforming Hong Kong into a green finance hub. Findings from several interviews with the bank and finance companies in Hong Kong are presented, adding a new dimension to the existing literature in terms of providing new theoretical understanding to current practices with the intention of introducing environmental, social and governance (ESG) or sustainability related programs in the banking and finance industry of Hong Kong. The paper conceptualized existing partnership patterns in the finance industry with the education sector and government across the industry and explored their skills needs for the green economy. The study reported in the paper highlighted that there is need to scale up green finance market development in promoting environmental sustainability in Hong Kong. This requires specific green finance developmental strategies from the government, finance and banking business community as well as the support of partnerships with universities. Our results revealed that vocational professional educational and training providers may not have a significant impact and neither will they share a significant role in greening the finance sector. A theoretical model adopted for the study (quintuple helix model) was used to illustrate the interaction and the flow of knowledge and innovation between different actors in support of sustainable development (Carayannis et. al., 2012). Based on this model, a framework to support effective partnerships for greening the finance industry is suggested. Such actions as the uptake of green bond and social responsible investment and improving disclosure standard of environmental, social and governance aspects in the field are proposed as important aspects for partnerships.
Q01|Promoting Metropolitan And Periurban Agriculture In Urban Climate: The Madre Project|The paper presents an approach to put forward Metropolitan and Peri-Urban Agriculture (MPA) in the framework of the MADRE Interreg MED project. The MADRE project, which stands for ?Metropolitan Agriculture for Developing and innovative sustainable and Responsible Economy?, is designing a methodological framework in order to identify and characterize best practices of MPA in Mediterranean urban conurbations. Aiming at promoting a change process in the metropolitan food supply model, the project will focus on identifying key factors that foster and hamper MPA development according to stakeholders actively involved in MPA, i.e. key players from the quadruple helix involving private actors (farmers, producers and SMEs), civil society (consumers? groups, NGOs), academia and research and public authorities. It should be noted that the MPA innitiatives started to be more and more considered as an important factor for supplying food to the city dwellers, not only in developing countries but also to the metropolitans of the Northern sphere. It can play a crucial role towards encountering climate change by backing up urban ecosystems and urban biodiversity. To address the challenges of MPA, the approach proposed by MADRE partners is to allow a technical and political empowerment of local food production networks of five countries (France, Greece, Italy, Albania and Spain) through the development of a transnational cluster of MPA stakeholders. Such a transnational organization and networking, will allow those actors to foster their eco-innovation capacity (i.e. producers? innovation, consumers? innovation, social innovation, territorial innovation, transnational innovation and academic research) and thus to increase their impact on national, regional and metropolitan policies. Although there are still gaps of knowledge and uncertainties in studying sustainability issues for the three pillars (environment, economy and society) the proposed approach provides a roadmap for decision-makers to put forward urban agriculture in an organized manner. (This paper has received funding from the ERDF through the MED Interreg Programme under Grant Agreement No. 1MED15_1.1_M3_138).
Q01|Environmental perception of resident farmers in agroforestry yards|The objective of this study was to investigate aspects related to the perception of sustainable agriculture, especially on agroforestry yards, on rural properties of family farmers. Considering the proposed objectives, the present research is methodologically characterized as quantitative, exploratory and descriptive. The work was carried out on rural properties of the family farmers of the Rural region of Ponte Alta, Gama Administrative Region, in the city of Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. The questionnaire used was composed of five blocks of questions, structured according to the objectives to be reached, in order to identify the profile of the family farmers, use of the yard, and environmental perceptions. The data treatment was performed through descriptive statistical analysis, using the R² software. We interviewed 99 people aged between 18 and 83 years with an average age of 49 years. Family farmers in the Ponte Alta - Gama region have little education. About 40% of the interviewees did not finish high school. Most farmers plant for the purpose of feeding, amounting to 96.97%. Then, the main reason is the trade, with more than half of the respondents, 57.58%. Finally, the other reasons were not so relevant, leisure with 14.14%, landscaping with 13.13%, occupational therapy and others with 8.08%. 45% of the informants refer to water as the main factor of the environment, while 75% have the perception that deforestation is the main source of aggression to natural resources. The agroforestry yards, in addition to ensuring a rich and diverse diet, both for self-consumption or to market surpluses in the local marketing channels, allows the planting and conservation of forest species important for the conservation of nature and softens environmental impacts on small farms. The study of perception in ethnobotanical and socio-forest relations can favor a more sustainable use of environmental resources.
Q01|Dynamics in the Extended Neoclassical Growth Model|Presentation deals with the expansion of the Neoclassical model of economic growth with the energy sector. Firstly, the current problems presented by declining quality and limited quantity of the fossil fuels together with the properties of the new renewable energy sources are presented within the framework of EROEI (Energy Returned On Energy Invested). Next, the relationship between economic growth and energy consumption is introduced. Follows a brief description of the used modelling method, system dynamics and its advantages for an extension and analysis of economic models. The main content of this contribution is the description of the proposed expansion of the Neoclassical model of economic growth with the energy sector. The impact of the varied quality of renewable energy sources (EROEI) on the future economic performance is being studied with the use of sensitivity analysis within the proposed model which covers the time period of 1965-2065.
Q01|Business ethics and corporate social responsibility as a tool to stimulate interest in the living environment|Business ethics, corporate social responsibility and environmental management in business largely overlap and are often the reason for the controversy over their effectiveness and real benefits for businesses and society. An elementary prerequisite for their effective functioning is the overall social interest. Specifically, it concerns the interest on the part of businesses management and, on the other hand, the interest of the citizens who are able to appreciate these practices and put a special emphasis on them. The constant pressure for the protection of the environment from interest groups and international organizations is of a fundamental importance in the development and application of ethical, social and environmental standards that are used in business practice. The information contained in this article presents the information from both primary and secondary surveys carried out in the Czech Republic. The aim of the information is to assess the attitudes of the respondents in the Czech Republic toward the issue of the overall social nature, which the business ethics and related areas such as corporate social responsibility and environmental management certainly are. In the light of the results of national surveys, it is possible to talk about a contradictory perception of these areas. The contradictory nature can be mainly seen in the positive attitudes toward the acquaintance with this issue and the real interest in the support through a financial compensation of such an approach to business. All interpretations are based on the data, which are derived from the questionnaire surveys carried out in the years 2015 - 2018.
Q01|The Smart City Block: another level of intervention|Increasing the rate of renovation for the existing building stock is a crucial challenge for EU’s energy policy. The Smart City Block (SCB) project proposes an innovative answer to this challenge. The underlying hypothesis is that introducing a collective dimension to renovation could result in increasing rates of renovation while also impacting positively the efficiency of the renovation and the social ties within urban areas. The collective dimension considered is the city block in Brussels. The first part of this paper describes the theoretical part of the project that was necessary to develop an adapted methodology. It describes the SCB offering, Brussels segmentation and some results of surveys. The SCB offering shows that many different options can be proposed to the city block dwellers, ranging from a collective insulation, efficient heating systems and shared photovoltaics to collective kitchen garden in the inner space of the block, shared vehicles or shared spaces. This is especially relevant for Brussels where city blocks often have an inner space that could be used. Besides, the segmentation of Brussels based on city block characteristics offers a typology that can be further used to target specific environmental or social deficit. However, the collective dimension introduced in the project is challenging for western individualistic minds. In order to evaluate the acceptance of households, a survey was conducted on 4 city blocks in Brussels, representing over 450 households. It shows a clear willingness to investigate the concept further but only if concrete proposals with estimations of energy and financial savings are provided. Sharing space, equipment and activities was more positively accepted than what we initially expected. Although the attitude-behaviour gap must not be underestimated, this opening can be viewed as an evolution of lifestyles in some segments of the population. Governance and institutional arrangements are expected to play a critical role in supporting this evolution. The second part of the paper relates to the practical part of the research. Our selection process aimed at locating two types of city blocks: a “fuel poor” city block - where the inhabitants face comfort and energy cost difficulties – and a so-called “early adopter” city block – where inhabitants have a positive attitude for the SCB concept. In the “early adopter” city block, located in Uccle, brainstorming meetings and coelaboration meetings were held as to elaborate an SCB model, with the inhabitants and in accordance with their aspirations and needs. Different solutions, including district heating, shared photovoltaics, shared vehicles and collective insulation were modelled both technically and economically. Financing solutions were also proposed. In the “fuel poor” city block, located in Saint-Josse, we conducted a survey on the needs of inhabitants, commercial activities and owners (occupants or landlords). The need for increased energy efficiency is clearly expressed but we also identified the important barriers related to the ownership structure of the block. Prior to the conclusions and proposal for further research on this topic, a section is dedicated to a discussion on the methodology and the hypotheses used during this research.
Q01|Developing a shared environmental responsibility principle for distributing cost of restoring marine habitats destroyed by industrial harbors|For decades, industrial harbor expansion has been destroying coastal marine ecosystems. Many estuaries are sites for industrial harbors and critical fish nursery habitat. Considering fish population decreases and the global biodiversity crisis, restoring these habitats is justified and supported by international institutions. However, restoration programs can be prohibitively costly, particularly when considering the Polluter Pays Principle. While harbors destroy nurseries, at the same time they generate benefits for society and contribute to the public interest. This raises questions of who is responsible for environmental degradation and who can afford environmental restoration costs? One way to allocate restoration costs is in proportion of those who have benefitted from harbor activities. This paper addresses these questions by calculating burden-sharing scenarios with inputoutput matrix equations. These scenarios are based on a shared producer and consumer responsibility approach to distribute restoration costs among stakeholders that use, either directly or indirectly, harbor services. The scenarios are applied to the Seine estuary, France, and calculated as a function of sectorial value-added as well as direct and indirect economic linkages between economic sectors and harbor activities. Economic linkages with final consumers (e.g. households) are also included. The shared environmental responsibility calculation developed in this paper shares restoration costs for previously damaged marine habitats between a wide-range of economic agents, thereby preventing industrial harbors from bearing expensive restoration costs alone, and making restoration more likely.
Q01|Genuine Savings as a Test of New Zealand Weak Sustainability|The key aims of this paper are to: i) to extend the World Bank’s (WB) measure of Genuine Savings (GS) for New Zealand by using a longer time-series of data, 1950 – 2015; ii) improve GS estimates for New Zealand by adding additional dimensions to GS i.e. forestry; iii) investigate the relationship between several GS measures and the discounted values of GDP per capita and consumption per capita, used to proxy well-being; iv) test a series of hypotheses which relate GS to the change in future well-being using the framework proposed by (Ferreira, Hamilton, & Vincent, 2008) and v) investigate the effects of a growing population on the availability of future capital stocks by considering the consequences of ‘wealth-dilution’ as defined by Ferreira, et. al., (2008). The paper makes a contribution to the literature on GS, particularly in the context of New Zealand, by considering patterns of GS and well-being over a longer time span of data than has been previously used and adds to a relatively small, but growing literature on tests of GS using long- or relatively long- time series data (see e.g. Greasley, et. al., 2014; Greasley, et. al., 2017, Hanley, Oxley, Greasley, & Blum 2016). We conclude, based on the data used here, that New Zealand’s GS has been positive (i.e. weakly sustainable), since the start of our data series, even without allowing for the contribution of technological advancement. However, we also conclude that the effects of a growing population and a savings-gap, have lead to a ‘wealth-dilution’ effect needed to maintain real wealth per capita, as we estimate that there was an average savings gap (GS as a percentage of Gross National Savings) over the period 1955-2015 of 0.5% per annum.
Q01|On the Axiomatic Foundation of Ecological Footprint Indices|The objective of this paper is to provide an axiomatic foundation to the concept of ecological footprint indices. For this purpose, we propose five axioms representing general properties which any ecological footprint measure should fulfill. It can be shown that there exists a unique index which is characterized by the given set of axioms. Its functional form is determined and an economic interpretation is given. We find that the proposed index may resolve or confirm some important issues discussed in the literature. First, it incorporates a trade component indicating the ecological footprint of economic activities embodied in the trade pattern of a country or region. Moreover, the productivity of land use in production as a means to mitigate the pressure on the ecological system is reflected. But most importantly, from a methodological point of view, there is no longer the need for designing ecological footprint indices ad-hoc, in particular for the sake of empirical application.
Q01|Fostering peaceful sustainable development in the Pacific under the 2030 Agenda|Often characterised as a region of relative peace due to the absence of inter-state conflicts, the Pacific island region is not immune to violent conflict. Episodes of violence, political unrest and instability have hampered development; a ‘business as usual’ approach to development does not guarantee that the Pacific will remain peaceful in the future. The link between peace and development is a central tenet of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) acknowledging the inter-connectedness between the drivers of poverty and conflict. This presents an opportunity to integrate and expand on traditional concepts of development and security. A holistic consideration of the social, economic, environmental and governance factors underpinning peaceful and prosperous societies sits at the heart of this transformation. Political and policy responses can either pave the way for peace and development—or build up tensions and, eventually, trigger conflict.
Q01|Sustainable Development Goals indicators: a methodological proposal for a fuzzy Super Index in the Mediterranean area|This paper provides a methodological proposal for the construction of a multidimensional index for sustainability assessment in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In particular, the paper proposes a new methodology to properly estimate the multidimensional nature of sustainable development and the SDGs introducing an innovative fuzzy approach. Specifically, we present a multidimensional methodology to build a Super Index to measure the performance of the Mediterranean countries towards the SDGs with a focus on the agro-food sustainability in line with the Partnership for Research and Innovation in the Mediterranean Area (PRIMA). For this purpose, drawing on the fuzzy approach developed by Betti et al. (2015), a step by step procedure is provided in the paper: first the underlying dimensions of a set of selected indicators for the SDGs are identified through an exploratory factor analysis and then an innovative weighting methodology is applied for the aggregation of the indicators to calculate the countries’ scores for each dimension and finally the overall index.
Q01|Energy for adaptation: connecting the Paris Agreement with the Sustainable Development Goals|Increased effort to cope with the rapidly emerging impacts of climate change is urgently needed. Whether adaptation bears the risk of inducing a negative feedback loop through its energy requirements has not been investigated. Here we examine the Nationally Determined Contributions submitted by world governments under the Paris Agreement with the aim of identifying the adaptation options associated with energy use and of defining energy use for adaptation. By linking the resulting options to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, through the related targets and indicators, we evaluate the extent to which energy use for adaptation facilitate progress towards sustainability. Drawing from the relevant literature on vulnerability and energy, we provide new evidence on the role that energy plays in the context of adaptation, proposing a framework that connects adaptation, mitigation, and sustainable development through the lens of the energy requirements of adaptation strategies. Results highlight priority policy actions to promote climate-development synergies and indicate where quantitative system models could focus in order to integrate adaptation energy needs in future energy scenarios.
Q01|Some Links between Sustainability and Well-Being|Sustainability aims to ensure that people live their lives without compromising the well-being of future generations. Increasing well-being by providing more goods and services to consume is a sustainability challenge. There are two opposing schools of thought on the consumption of natural resources: strong sustainability and weak sustainability. Proponents of strong sustainability emphasize the preservation of natural capital in each period because they argue that it cannot be replaced with any other type of capital. By contrast, weak sustainability scholars argue that natural resource can be consumed to build other forms of capital in which case sustainability requires that the aggregated monetised value of all capital stocks is non-declining or preferably increasing over the time. In this paper, we propose to adopt a balanced approach instead of taking either of these extreme positions where critical natural capital (CNC) limits are defined by strong sustainability and, within that limit, substitutability between various types of capital is allowed for economic efficiency and growth in total wealth. In such frameworks, weak sustainability indicates the minimum sustainability requirement for an economy in which all types of capitals are substitutable under the limits of CNC.
Q01|Relative prices and climate policy: How the scarcity of non-market goods drives policy evaluation|We study how the scarcity of non-market goods, such as environmental amenities, affects the economic appraisal of climate policy. To this end, we perform a comprehensive analysis of the change in relative prices of non-market goods in the widespread climate-economy model DICE. We show that DICE already contains relative prices implicitly and that the impact of the scarcity of non-market goods on climate policy evaluation is therefore more pervasive than previously suggested. We calibrate DICE based on empirical evidence and propose a plausible range for relative price changes. The uncertainty is substantial, with relative price changes ranging from 1.3 to 9.6 percent in 2020. For our central calibration, the relative price change amounts to 4.4 percent in 2020. Neglecting relative prices leads to an underestimation of the social cost of carbon in 2020 of more than 40 percent. Accounting for these changes is equivalent to a decrease in pure time preference by more than a half percentage point. Our findings support initiatives to consider relative prices in governmental project appraisal and offer guidance for the evaluation of climate policy.
Q01|Improving quality of life through sustainable energy and urban infrastructure in Africa|Focusing on critical aspects of infrastructure, such as energy, this paper argues that African countries, and African cities in particular, need infrastructure that advances both basic needs and industrialization, and avoids a lock-in of unsustainable, high-carbon technologies. G20 countries can promote and support quality of life in African countries by: (1) aligning and cementing the G20 Agenda for Africa with African initiatives, SDGs and the Paris Agreement, (2) mitigating economic risks of climate change through supporting low carbon development pathways in Africa, (3) creating and enabling a level playing field for low carbon technologies, which includes integrated strategies for derisking renewable energy investments, and (4) supporting smart and sustainable urban planning.
Q01|Circular economy measures to keep plastics and their value in the economy, avoid waste and reduce marine litter|"We live in the plastic age (the ""plasticene""), producing over 300 million tonnes (mt) of plastic every year globally, 5-15 mt of which flow into already polluted oceans. Plastic remains a key material in the global economy, but low rates of collection, reuse and recycling, emissions of microplastic from product wear and tear, and often insufficient disposal measures are leading to far-reaching environmental, health, social and economic impacts. The costs of inaction are unacceptably high. Globally there is a growing recognition of the need to address marine litter and rethink our approach to plastics and plastic packaging within the economy. Measures that enable a transition to a circular economy can avoid waste and reduce marine litter, and contribute to keeping plastics and their value in the economy."
Q01|Redirecting investment for a global food system that is sustainable and promotes healthy diets|More and better quality private sector investment in food systems will be needed if countries are to achieve their Sustainable Development Goals. The key challenge addressed in this paper is how investment in food systems can be redirected such that it is both adequate to drive dynamic food system development and has the quality of promoting inclusive and sustainable systems. Three areas of action are considered: instruments that translate growing consumer awareness of the sustainability aspects of food system development into SDG compliant investment; instruments that encourage investment in food systems in high-risk contexts; and improvements to food system governance. The paper articulates three key areas in which the G20 should take action: (i) to strengthen global platforms for the benchmarking and coordination of private sector sustainability initiatives; (ii) to provide support to the coordinated implementation of voluntary guidelines to foster SDG-compliant investment in higher risk contexts; and (iii) to promote greater coordination between multilateral fora to strengthen the global governance of complex and interlinked food system challenges.
Q01|The new urban paradigm|This policy brief argues in favor of a new urban model that harnesses the power that cities have to curb global warming. Such a model tackles fundamental management challenges in the energy, building and transport sectors to promote the growth of diverse and compact cities. Such a model is essential for meeting complex challenges in cities, such as promoting a cohesive social life and a competitive economic base while simultaneously preserving agricultural and natural systems crucial to soil, energy, and material resources. With most of the population living in urban areas, the G20 should recognize the key role that cities play in addressing global challenges such as climate change. Improved measures taken by cities should be an indispensable solution. The G20 Development Working Group, Climate Sustainability Working Group, and Energy Transitions Working Group should incorporate an urban approach to discussions related to climate change.
Q01|Does the European Union achieve comprehensive blue growth? Progress of EU coastal states in the Baltic and North Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean against sustainable development Goal 14|The Sustainable Development Goal for the oceans and coasts (SDG 14) as part of the 2030 Agenda can be considered as an important step towards achieving more comprehensive blue growth. Here, we selected a set of 18 indicators to measure progress against SDG 14 for EU coastal states in the Baltic and the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean since 2012. In our assessment we distinguish between a concept of weak and strong sustainability, assuming high and low substitution possibilities, respectively. Overall, we show that the majority of countries in our assessment fail to achieve comprehensive blue growth. Sweden, Spain, Ireland, and in particular Portugal experienced a considerable reduction in scores since 2012. The only exemption is Estonia which managed to improve its scores over time under both concepts of sustainability. The unsustainable development at the EU level is mainly driven by deteriorations in indicators related to fisheries.
Q01|Are green bonds a viable way to finance environmental goals? An analysis of chances and risks of green bonds|The European Union is currently making significant strides to lead on green finance and align its financial system with its climate, sustainability and clean energy ambitions. The Paris Climate Agreement, the G20 Green Finance Study Group and the G19 Hamburg Climate and Energy Action Plan have provided ongoing momentum for policy moves towards a green financial system. Including financial markets into a climate strategy is a logical step forward, because public funds are insufficient to finance the needed investments in green technology and because the financial sector shows interest in financing green technology. Given the long-term nature of green investments and the financial market's short-termism, the establishment of a liquid market for green bonds is the market solution to this maturity mismatch. However, for such a market to thrive, investors need a definition of green technology as well as a definition of what a green bond is. In addition to that, green disclosure rules are needed, so that investors can easily access information on how the proceedings of green bonds are invested. The EU's main efforts in establishing a market for green bonds are the legislation of a common taxonomy for green bonds and the stimulation of the demand for green bonds by a green supporting factor in bank capital regulation. While we agree that a common taxonomy will help investors to screen green projects, we are very sceptical about the green supporting factor, which causes lower equity capital requirements for green investments. We see the risk that this may give rise to an undercapitalisation of banks with respect to the default risks of green projects and an overinvestment of banks into these projects. Since the green bond market is a political project, there is the danger of privileging green bonds in financial regulation for achieving political goals. The emergence of a green bond bubble and the bursting of that bubble would be harmful to the financial sector and it would hinder reaching the climate goals, since investors will abstain from investments in which they have lost money before. We derive the risk of political interventions to stimulate the demand for green bonds from our estimates, which indicate that annual green bond emissions have to grow by the factor 45 in order to finance the potentially needed overall annual investments of up to USD 7 trillion making a higher indebtedness or significant portfolio shifts necessary. Looking only at incremental investments needs to reach the climate goal green bond issuance would also have to increase up to the factor 4.5 and to reach the Sustainable Development goals by the factor 15. Instead of pushing for a fast growth of the green bond market, the EU should strive for its organic growth. Therefore, it should rely on market intelligence, i.e. the market participant's risk assessments for the green projects' default risks together with the market participants evalua-tion of the greenness of green investment projects. To this end, the proposed harmonisation of the taxonomy within the EU is a necessary step, because different national taxonomies would hinder the emergence of cross-border markets for green bonds. The EU cared about the con-sistency of the green bond proposal with other regulations for financial institutions, but it would be necessary to guarantee consistency also in the future. Otherwise, unintended side effects could distort the investment decisions of financial companies.
Q01|Nachhaltiges Landmanagement vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels als Aufgabe der räumlichen Planung: Eine Evaluation im planerischen Mehrebenensystem an den Beispielen der Altmark und des Landkreises Lüchow-Dannenbergs|Die Ressource Fläche ist weltweit begrenzt. Ein nachhaltiges Landmanagement ist, nicht nur vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels, erforderlich, um den verschiedenen Interessen an der Fläche gerecht zu werden. Bestehende Funktionen auf der Fläche, beispielsweise die Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln oder Rohstoffen sowie die Sicherung von Gewerbe- und Siedlungsgebieten unter Beachtung des Schutzes der Biodiversität, sind unter Anbetracht des Klimawandels zu sichern. Klimaschutzmaßnahmen wie der Schutz und die Entwicklung von Treibhausgassenken, beispielsweise Moore und Wälder, müssen neben Klimaanpassungsmaßnahmen, wie Hochwasserschutzflächen, mit den bestehenden Anforderungen an die Fläche vereint werden. Die räumliche Planung, so der Ausgangspunkt der Dissertation, kann durch die sektorübergreifende Betrachtung bei einem nachhaltigen Landmanagement vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels eine zentrale Aufgabe übernehmen. Die vorliegende Arbeit definiert räumliche Planung als formelle Raumordnung und informelle Raumentwicklung. Demnach umfasst räumliche Planung neben formellen planerischen Prozessen im Mehrebensystem der Raumplanung auch informelle planerische Strukturen und Prozesse. Ziel der räumlichen Planung ist es, Abwägungsprozesse zwischen den verschiedenen Interessen an einem Raum durchzuführen und damit Flächeninanspruchnahmen zu koordinieren. Durch das Mehrebenensystem der räumlichen Planung werden auf den verschiedenen Verwaltungsebenen planerische Festlegungen getroffen und in die nächste Ebene übertragen, konkretisiert oder als Grundlage verwendet. In diesem Gegenstromprinzip arbeitet die räumliche Planung auf verschiedener Maßstabsebene. Die räumliche Planung strebt in ihrem Ursprungsgedanken eine interessensabgewogene Raumgestaltung an. Sie versucht, verschiedene Sektoren und Ansprüche an den Raum zu vereinen und die Schutzgüter sowie Ressourcen langfristig zu schützen und zu sichern. [...]
Q01|Institutional Design of Voluntary Sustainability Standards Systems: Evidence from a New Database|"Voluntary Sustainability Standards (VSS) have become a common attribute of international production and trade. Even though VSS are not mandatory (required by law), in practice they often are necessary for producers to participate in global value chains. This paper uses a new international database to shed light on specific institutional dimensions of VSS systems that directly impact on the costs of compliance borne by producers and identifies a number VSS-specific features that are associated with the ""producer-friendliness"" of different VSS systems. These include membership in meta-standard organizations and stakeholder engagement in VSS decision-making."
Q01|The impact of micro hydroelectricity on household welfare indicators|The use of small scale off-grid renewable energy for rural electrification is now seen as part of the sustainable energy solutions. The expectations from such small scale investment is that it can meet basic energy needs of a household and subsequently improve some aspects of the household welfare. However, these stated benefits remain largely hypothetical because there is data and methodological challenges in existing literature attempting to isolate such impact. This paper uses field data from micro hydro schemes in Kenya, and propensity score matching technique to demonstrate such an impact. The study finds that households connected to micro hydroelectricity consume 1.5 litres less of kerosene per month compared to households without any such electricity connection. Also, non-connected households spend 0.92 USD more for re-charging their cell phone batteries per month in comparison to those who were using micro hydroelectricity service. Finally, school children from households that are connected to micro hydroelectricity were found to devote 43 minutes less on evening studies compared to those in non-connected households. The findings provide interesting insights to some of the claims made for or against use of o grid renewable energy for rural electrification.
Q01|The effect of education on a countryâ€™s energy consumption: Evidence from developed and developing countries|Education has been regarded throughout history as one of the main drivers of economic development and innovation, and can be viewed as one of the means available to nations for encouraging energy education, implementation of renewable energy and reduced energy consumption. This paper analyses the causal and empirical relationship between primary energy consumption and education for a group of developed and developing countries, as well as an aggregate panel of the developed and developing country groups for the period 1980-2013. The results confirm a unidirectional relationship between energy consumption and education, flowing from education to energy consumption. Another interesting result, is the confirmation of a non-linear relationship between energy consumption and education: energy consumption is increased by higher education levels in developing countries, while energy consumption falls with higher education levels in developed countries. Lastly, this paper provides a brief description of the impact of these results on energy policy and recommends that developed countries implement pro-education policies to reduce energy consumption while developing countries should make use of education coupled with environmental awareness programs to reduce the effect increased education will have on energy consumption.
Q01|Energy Consumption in South African Hotels: A Panel Data Analysis|Addressing the large energy consumption of hotels requires an understanding of the factors that drive this consumption. This enquiry is crucial for South Africa which has experienced significant strain in meeting its domestic energy demand. This has occurred alongside increases in international tourists, adding to the pressure on already strained resources. This paper tests hypotheses on drivers of energy consumption in hotels using a novel panel dataset which presents daily consumption data for 22 hotels across South Africa. Findings from various specifications of the Dynamic Random Effects Model suggest that the number of rooms in a hotel, the services and facilities offered, and climatic conditions are strong drivers of consumption. While the role of occupancy could not be robustly ascertained due to severe data limitations, findings indicate that price regulation plays a significant role in curtailing electricity consumption, even in high-end hotels. Results further suggest that in the design of guidelines for energy efficiency in South African hotels, the energy consumption of the facilities and services offered should be the first point of call, and the strenuous impact of extreme weather conditions on energy consumption needs to be factored in at the phase of building design and construction.
Q01|Il Consumo di Suolo. Un Focus sull’Europa|Il contributo indaga patterns spaziali, drivers ed impatti del fenomeno consumo di suolo con un focus sul territorio europeo. Particolare attenzione è dedicata agli effetti del land take, che tendono a interessare tanto la scala locale (ad esempio, qualità delle acque di falda, dissesto idrogeologico, calo della produzione alimentare) quanto quella globale in modo diretto o indiretto (ad esempio, cambiamento climatico, land grabbing, sicurezza alimentare).
Q01|The Impact of Establishing a Village Library for Students in Wolobetho Village, District of Ende, East Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia|This study investigated the impact of establishing a library on students? study motivation in Wolobetho Village, District of Ende, East Nusa Tenggara, Indonesia. The targeted students consisted of all students from three different schools in Wolobetho village: Primary School Feoria (29 students), Primary School Fungapanda (74 students), and Vocational High School 6 (39 students). To identify the effects of the intervention, the modified ten questions pre-and post-intervention student surveys were used as well as the semi-structured interviews to all students in those three schools. The six-months intervention of the new library consisted of three projects with cooperative learning activities, purposeful tasks, and learners? self-determination. Although this study was limited in duration and scope, the results had positive effects of the library on learner motivation. The study revealed that access to the library impacted high school students? positive attitude toward learning writing and primary school students? positive attitude toward learning reading. Both primary and high school students increased in motivational intensity as well as their desire to learn English. However, it was found that the students need more guidance and supervision from the teachers. The students did not have a close relationship with their teacher as a motivating factor. It also showed obstacles in implementing some after school programs for the students. Based on these findings, some pedagogical recommendations for better results are discussed and some suggestions are included for the future research.
Q01|The Role of Clusters for Sustainable Development: Socially Responsible Practices, Limitations and Challenges. Case study of a Bulgarian Industrial Cluster|The concept of sustainable development as a global and long-term philosophy of development is directed towards achieving a balance and interconnectedness between economic activities, social aspects and the environment and offers an overall approach to solving the growing and complex global problems.This paper examines the possibilities that clusters? main characteristics ? spatial proximity, strategic collaboration and competition; interaction between stakeholders (businesses, educational institutions, non-governmental organizations) - can provide for the implementation of responsible business practices and joint corporate socially responsible activities which contribute to sustainable development.Based on publications in academic literature regarding the relationship between clusters and corporate social responsibility (CSR), known as the ?cluster? approach to CSR, as well as the results from a practical study of an industrial cluster in Bulgaria, we outline the potential of clusters to bring about not only economic benefits but also social and environmental improvements. The conditions for successful implementation of CSR actions in the cluster are studied, which for some industrial clusters can be prerequisites for improvement of their actual capacity for contribution to sustainable development and for others, they can turn into significant limitations. The results of the practical study show that in order for industrial clusters to use their potential for contribution to sustainable development, based on the main cluster characteristics (according to cluster theory), in addition to cluster activity, the social-economic and environmental context and the state of development of CSR and clusters in the respective country are also of defining importance.
Q01|Sustainable Development - The Premise of Economic Growth in Conditions of Globalization|Sustainable development is a relatively new concept applied to economic growth, in order to take into account, primarily, ecological aspects at the level of the Planet. This new concept was imposed because the conventional economy progress cannot ensure the needs of millions of people and undermining the possibility of future generations and ensure. Vision on sustainable development strategies starts from the understanding that a countryâ€™s economy is more than the sum of components, that changes into a subsystem or another is liable to changes, overview by virtue of interdependence existing between its dynamic components. We need to market values, to serve the interests of the people, finding that paths that contribute to sustainable development. A sustainable economy will reconsider the important activities, which should be supported at the level of markets, those profitable both for employees and for the economy.
Q01|Social Network Sustainability Metrics: A Study of Co-authoring Behaviors in the Social Sciences, Using 2008-2017 Scopus Data for Vietnam|The study examines the co-authoring behaviors of 412 Vietnamese social scientists over the 2008-2017 period via a new method – social network analysis – to determine if these researchers have formed sustainable scientific communities, using Scopus data. The dataset provides an insightful look into the predominant form of collaboration, i.e. co-authorship, within the Vietnamese social science research communities. Through basic network metrics such as density and clustering coefficient, the study hypothesizes that the socially sustainable research communities are those with low clustering and high density. As any scholar’s position in a network can be specified by three quantities: number of publications, connections, and years in research, the distance metrics from the most productive to the rest are computed and compared. The study hypothesizes that if the distance is too large; it reflects the socially unsustainable situation in the network. The results indicate that certain level of social unsustainability exists in social sciences groups in Vietnam. Though the results are only indicative, it has opened up a fertile space for future enquiry into this matter.
Q01|Demographic factors as determinants of social scientists’ productivity: SDC-based Scopus data, 2008-2017|As collaboration became widespread in academia and educational systems, and the number of authors per article increased, the count of publication is no longer an accurate indicator of scientific output in many cases. In order to overcome this limitation, the study defined and computed a relative count of publications called ‘CP’ (credit-based contribution point), based on the sequence-determinescredit (SDC) method, as a proxy for the output of authors taking into account their level of contribution of each author. Analyses were done on a sample of 410 Vietnamese social scientists whose publications have been indexed in the Scopus database during 2008-2017. Results showed that the average CP of Vietnamese researchers in the field of social sciences and humanities is very low: more than 88% of authors have CP
Q01|The evolution of consumption and its welfare effects|Abstract In this paper the evolution of consumption is explained on the basis of a theory that connects preferences over actions to the motivational forces driving actions. More specifically, the hypotheses about what motivates consumption activities draw on insights from biology, behavioral science, and psychology. With secularly rising income, the growing consumption opportunities and the expanding consumption alter the underlying motivational forces and induce a change of preferences. As a consequence, the structure of consumption expenditures is systematically transformed. In the light of this explanation, the paper analyzes the effects of the growth and transformation of consumption on individual welfare. As turns out, the motivations driving the growth of consumption do not necessarily imply that this growth indeed results in welfare increases, particularly when the ability to spend on consumption is already high. Moreover, when preferences change, the measurement of the welfare effects of the growth and transformation of consumption depends on the arbitrary choice of a reference point. This implies an ambiguity that raises further queries about the normative foundations of the ubiquitous calls for continued consumption growth.
Q01|Information and communication technology in green logistics: status quo and research gaps|Abstract The purpose of this paper is to determine the status quo of research on applications of information and communication technology (ICT) in green logistics (GL) and offer recommendations for future research. We determine that research about political interaction is needed to design new standards and regulations for GL. We also recommend that this work be extended by behavioural research to both identify factors that influence society’s sustainable behaviour and determine whether the current digitisation of society leads to more sustainable transport. In addition, this paper provides an overview of types of software applications that may be beneficial to GL. These benefits usually relate to the strategic management of freight transport and supply chains and the provision of software for executing or monitoring passenger transport. As such, further research on sustainability measures is also needed to identify important sustainable indicators in transport. Existing reviews mostly concentrate on either a specific logistics area or supply chain management; as far as we are aware, no studies focus on the use of ICT in GL at a superordinate level. This paper’s holistic evaluation of the state of research in this underexplored area and its propositions for future research help to fill this gap in the literature.
Q01|The impact of corporate sustainability performance on information asymmetry: the role of institutional differences|Abstract This paper empirically investigates whether corporate sustainability performance (CSP) affects information asymmetry (IA) for European firms listed in the STOXX Europe 600 from 2002 to 2013. We find a significantly negative effect of CSP on IA. By exploiting institutional differences between the European countries, we determine that the negative effect of CSP on IA is more pronounced in liberal market economies compared to coordinated market economies, thus pointing to a substitutive effect of CSP and economic coordination. Further, the impact is greater in countries with stricter disclosure requirements. In such countries, there is generally a greater appetite for company-specific information. However, disclosure requirements fulfil this need only partially because they concentrate on the corporate governance dimension of corporate sustainability. Hence, information on the social pillar especially matters to investors in a complementary manner and drives the overall effect. Our study contributes to the literature on the positive capital market effects of CSP by showing the proposed effect in European capital markets and the institutional determinants of its strength.
Q01|Using Genuine Savings for Climate Policy Evaluation with an Integrated Assessment Model|Abstract There has been a recent increase in efforts to develop broader models to assess the impact of climate change and climate change policies, both in terms of impact measures (beyond GDP) and in terms of modelling complexity (beyond DICE/RICE models). Climate policies aimed at reducing CO2 emissions can have impacts in multiple sectors of the economy, and can change consumption levels over time. We show how the sustainability indicator Genuine Savings can be endogenised within a general equilibrium model and used as a criterion for judging the impacts of such policies in terms of future well-being. Differences in Genuine Savings rates between CO2 emission reduction scenarios are discussed. We show how a broader, Genuine Savings-based assessment of climate change can result in a re-evaluation of the consequences and costs of inaction in terms of various climate change-related policies; and how multiple environmental and well-being outcomes can be analysed within a unified modelling framework.
Q01|Substituting Freshwater: Can Ocean Desalination and Water Recycling Capacities Substitute for Groundwater Depletion in California?|While the sustainability of resource depletion is a longstanding environmental concern, wider attention has recently been given to growing water scarcity and groundwater depletion. This study seeks to test the substitutability assumption embedded in weak sustainability indicators using a case study of Californian water supply. The volume of groundwater depletion is used as a proxy for unsustainable water consumption, and defined by synthesising existing research estimates into low, medium and high depletion baselines. These are compared against projected supply increases from ocean desalination and water recycling by 2035, to determine whether new, drought-proof water sources can substitute for currently unsustainable groundwater consumption. Results show that maximum projected supply of new water, 2.47 million acre feet per year (MAF/yr), is sufficient to meet low depletion estimates of 2.02 MAF/yr, but fails to come near the high baseline of 3.58 MAF/yr. This does not necessarily indicate physical limitations of substitutability, but more so socio-economic limitations influenced by high comparative costs. By including capacities in demand-substitutability via urban water conservation, maximum pre-dicted capacities reach 5.57 MAF/yr, indicating wide room for substitution. Based on these results, investment in social and institutional capital is an important factor to enhance demand-side substitutability of water and other natural resources, which has been somewhat neglected by the literature on the substitutability of natural resources.
Q01|Valuation of natural capital under uncertain substitutability|Natural capital is complex to value notably because of the high uncertainties surrounding the substitutability of its future ecosystem services. We examine a Lucas economy in which a consumption good is produced by combining different inputs, one of them being an ecosystem service that is partially substitutable with other inputs. The growth rate of these inputs and the elasticity of substitution evolve in a stochastic way. We characterize the socially efficient ecological discount rates that should be used to value future ecosystem services at different time horizons. We show that the inverse of the elasticity of substitution can be interpreted as the CCAPM beta of natural capital. We also show that any increase in risk of this beta reduces the ecological discount rate. If our collective beliefs about the elasticity of substitution of ecosystem services are Gaussian, the ecological discount rates go to minus infinity for finite maturities. In that case, a marginal increase in natural capital has an infinite value. We provide a realistic calibration of the model that is coherent with observed asset prices by using the model of extreme events of Barro (2006). The bliss maturity for infinite discount factors is less than 100 years in this calibration.
Q01|The Sustainable Development Goals, Domestic Resource Mobilization and the Poor|Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals will require fiscal resources to deliver the floors in social protection, social services and infrastructure embedded in them. A significant portion of these resources is expected to come from tax collection in developing countries. Raising additional revenues domestically, however, may leave a significant portion of the poor with less cash to buy food and other essential goods. The demand for additional resources must be balanced against the competing need to protect poor households from becoming poorer as a result of taxes.
Q01|Mapping the linkages between oceans and other Sustainable Development Goals: A preliminary exploration|This paper maps interrelationships among targets of the Sustainable Development Goal dedicated to oceans (SDG 14), as well as interrelationships between those targets and other SDGs. This is done using a large number of UN reports as well as scientific publications. The literature identifies many linkages among the targets of SDG 14; most of these targets are potentially synergistic with one another. Many linkages also exist between SDG 14 targets and other SDGs. Different targets under SDG 14 link to different SDGs. This has implications for policy discussions on how to achieve progress on SDG 14. The interrelationships that we highlight can be used as a tool for dialogue between policy and scientific communities working on oceans, in particular for assessing the status of knowledge on the various linkages, as well as identifying linkages that are likely to matter most for progress on SDG 14.
Q01|Regional analysis of sanitation performance in India|India bears a disproportionate burden of open defecation in spite of investing more and more funds and ushering in several institutional efforts including the Swachh Bharat Mission in the recent past. A large share of rural households still lack basic sanitation facilities in India and members practice open defecation. Thia study endeavours to examine the existing anomaly between meagre sanitation productivity and enhanced resource allocation in rural sanitation in India. The study attempts to develop an instrument to monitor the differential regional performances across India.
Q01|Sanitation challenges of the poor in urban and rural settings: Case studies of Bengaluru City and rural North Karnataka|Bengaluru city faces severe challenges in providing sanitation infrastructure for the urban poor. Similarly, we have villages in North Karnataka that encounter problems of toilet access and related challenges. This paper addresses concerns both in city and rural contexts. We surveyed 400 respondents across 20 slums and 500 respondents in six districts of North Karnataka through survey instruments and focus group discussions (FGDs) to understand the problems with respect to toilet access and usage. Open defecation (OD) prevails in spite of several interventions made. In the urban contexts, lack of usage was largely due to technical discrepancies, behavioural concerns, space issue, water scarcity and poor maintenance of toilets. In the rural contexts, apart from water scarcity, restricted space, poor maintenance, cultural habits and financial constraints dominated non-usage of toilets. This paper captures these issues in-depth and provides some options in technologies and improved governance based on study findings and review of case studies. In the urban areas too, the topography of the slum location, operation and maintenance and apt technology plays an important role while in the rural areas, promoting education and awareness creates a positive impact on usage of toilets. Also, institutionalising the process of construction with transparency and accountability at various stages matters to ensure proper construction of toilets.
Q01|Assessing the cost of supplying water for agriculture: the food supply cost curve|As part of a “Regional Initiative on Water Scarcity in the NENA Region”, the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has been proposing a practical tool for the assessment of investment projects, called the Food Supply Cost Curve (FSCC). This chapter illustrates the concept of the Food Supply Cost Curve, and which steps need to be taken to practically implement an FSCC evaluation exercise. It concludes by commenting on some preliminary findings obtained at the FAO when the FSCC has been employed in some countries in the Near East and North Africa.
Q01|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
Q01|Economic inequality and the value of nature|Understanding what influences the value of nature is crucial for informing environmental policy. From a sustainability perspective, economic valuation should not only seek to determine willingness to pay for environmental goods to devise an efficient allocation of scarce resources, but should also account for distributional effects to ensure justice. Yet, how economic inequality affects the value of non-market environmental goods remains understudied. Combining recently developed theoretical results with empirical evidence we show that more equal societies have a higher valuation for environmental public goods and that non-market benefits of environmental policy accrue over-proportionally to poorer households. On this ground, we identify a number of fruitful areas for future research and discuss implications for environmental valuation, management and policy-making. We conclude that environmental valuation should explicitly account for economic inequality, and that encompassing assessments of the distributional effects of environmental policies must consider the distribution of non-market environmental benefits.
Q01|Wachstumszwänge: Ressourcenverbrauch und Akkumulation als Wettbewerbsverzerrungen|Gibt es „Wachstumszwänge“? Wir definieren den Begriff relativ eng, strukturieren die diskutierten Mechanismen in sechs Gruppen und analysieren sie. Technischer Fortschritt erweist sich mit seiner Kostendynamik und „technologischer Arbeitslosigkeit“ als Hauptursache für das „grow or die“ des Kapitalismus sowie für staatliche Wachstumspolitik. „Bestehen im Wettbewerb“ bedeutet heute im Wesentlichen, teure menschliche Arbeit durch preiswerten Ressourcenverbrauch zu ersetzen. Akkumulation (Reichtum und große Unternehmen) als unwiderstehlicher Anreiz führt „fast zwangsläufig“ zu vergleichbaren gesellschaftlichen Defekten. Damit begründen wir zwei Politikmaßnahmen, nämlich die direkte gesellschaftliche Deckelung von Ressourcenverbrauch und von Vermögen. Diese Maßnahmen sind voll kompatibel mit den normativen Grundlagen und praktischen Erfordernissen von Marktwirtschaft.
Q01|Establishing an expert advisory commission to assist the G20's energy transformation processes|The ongoing transformation of the world's energy systems requires an international monitoring to evaluate the transformation processes and to identify transferable leading practice policies. For this purpose, an independent scientific expert commission should be established for the G20. By actively involving political decision-makers in the discussion of the final results a broad basis of support can be ensured. The Climate and Energy Action Plan for Growth agreed at the G20 Summit in Hamburg recognizes explicitly the main proposals of this paper. The paper provides a broader discussion how to assist the G20's energy transformation processes and describes steps towards implementation.
Q01|The sustainable development goals and the systems approach to sustainability|The authors explore the link between the systems approach to sustainability and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were formally adopted by the UN in 2015. The systems approach depicts sustainable development as the intersection of the goals attributed to three interlinked systems: environmental (or ecological), economic and social. The authors illustrate how each of the 17 SDGs can be characterized as a goal primarily attributed either to the environmental, economic or social system, and as suggested by the systems approach, there may be important tradeoffs in attempting to attain all these goals simultaneously. By adopting standard methods of the theory of choice and welfare under imposed quantities, the authors show that is possible to measure the welfare effects of an increase in the indicator level for one SDG by identifying the tradeoffs that occur with achieving another goal. They present a quantitative assessment of current progress and tradeoffs among the 17 SDGs, using a representative indicator for each goal. They then conduct a preliminary welfare analysis of these tradeoffs through employing the approach developed in this paper. Although this analysis focuses on the potential tradeoffs among SDGs, the approach could also be applied to show complementarities, or 'win-wins', in simultaneous progress among two or more SDGs. Such an analysis can help in the design of appropriate policy interventions to achieve specific SDGs, minimizing the potentially negative knock-on effects on some goals whilst capitalizing on the positive win-win impacts on other SDGs.
Q01|Human capital and sustainable development in Nigeria: How can economic growth suffice environmental degradation?|The motivation for sustainable development is universal but strides to achieve it have been mixed in the literature with some schools of thought's position that economic growth is anti-sustainable development. The crux of this study is to examine the coordinating role (as engine) of human capital among the three pillars of sustainable development in Nigeria from 1981 to 2014 with data from the World Development Indicators (WDI) 2014. Descriptive statistics is used to illustrate observed trend in human capital and the pillars of sustainable development (economic development, social development, and environment protection). Vector Auto-Regression (VAR) econometric technique was used to measure trade-offs, effects, interrelationships, and scenario analysis of these indicators and the prominent role of increased human capital scenario in achieving sustainable development. The analyses of the interrelationship and scenario effects of increased human capital formation showed that environmental degradation negatively affected human capital formation but increases with economic growth. A scenario of further increase in human capital development reduces environmental degradation and increases economic growth in Nigeria. Hence, human capital formation leads to sustained economic growth with reducing environmental degradation.
Q01|Supporting the UN SDGs transition: Methodology for sustainability assessment and current worldwide ranking|This analysis lies in the stream of research related to the quantitative assessment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations at the end of September 2015. We assemble a composite multi-dimensional index and a worldwide ranking of current sustainability. This makes it possible to assess the strengths and weaknesses of today's socio-economic development, as well as environmental criticalities worldwide. The methodology goes through the following steps: screening of indicators capable of addressing the UN's SDGs; data collection from relevant sources; organization into three pillars of sustainability (economy, society, and environment); normalization to a common metrics; aggregation of the 26 indicators into composite indices by pillars as well as in a multi-dimensional index. The final ranking includes 139 countries. Sweden, Norway and Switzerland are at the top of the ranking.
Q01|Approaches to the implementation of the sustainable development goals: Some considerations on the theoretical underpinnings of the 2030 Agenda|The paper discusses the theoretical underpinning of the concept of sustainable development, especially in relation to follow-up and review, including ex post evaluation of progress. The purpose is to explore methodological aspects of applied approaches to the implementation process, e.g. ways to unravel possible interactions among the numerous SDGs and targets, and to assess trade-offs between interventions. The aim is to go beyond various sustainable development interpretations, by exploring how they perceive and approach implementation of the goals, taking the complexity of this substantial task into account. The paper surveys the theoretical economic underpinning of the 2030 Agenda and the role of neoclassical economic theory in this context. Implementation routes for sustainable development interpretations based on other theoretical frameworks are briefly sketched for comparison. The analysis leads to the claim that it is questionable whether interpretations of sustainable development founded on neoclassical economic theory - as the 2030 Agenda - are applicable in relation to every aspect of sustainability.
Q01|Reputation, honesty, and cheating in informal milk markets in India|Sellers display astounding differences in their cheating behavior, even in developing countries with weak enforcement of rules. Using the context of informal milk markets in India, we examine the role of reputation and norms of honesty as potential explanations. Our results show that individuals cannot verify milk quality, which weakens the scope of reputation-based mechanisms. But a strong correlation exists between milk quality and norms of honesty, measured using a novel behavioral experiment. Price collusion allows for the coexistence of honest and dishonest milkmen within a market. Norms of honesty can mitigate market inefficiency under the right institutional environment.
Q01|The Optimal Use of Exhaustible Resources under Nonconstant Returns to Scale|The paper offers a complete analysis of the welfare-maximizing capital investment and resource depletion policies in the DHSS model with capital depreciation and any returns to scale. We establish a general existence result and show that an optimal admissible policy may not exist if the output elasticity of the resource equals one. We characterize the optimal policies by applying an appropriate version of the Pontryagin maximum principle for infinite-horizon optimal control problems.
Q01|How imperative are the Joneses? Economic growth between individual desire and social coercion|Worldwide, economic growth is a prominent goal, despite its severe conflicts with ecological sustainability. Are 'growth policies' only a question of political or individual will, or do 'growth imperatives' exist that make them 'inescapable'? And why do people consume ever more, even in 'rich' countries? These questions are of political relevance, discussed since long - and essentially contested, especially along the dimensions free will vs. social coercion, and 'socio-cultural' influences vs. 'economic' reasons. We carefully derive definitions of the key terms 'social coercion' and 'growth imperative', referring to the concept of methodological individualism. Based on the assumption derived elsewhere that an economic growth imperative actually exists, we analyze some socio-cultural influences on individual behavior, dividing the debate in three subgroups. On the demand side, we study why people seemingly consume beyond basic needs to compare with others for social and cultural reasons, or to increase opportunities, while on the supply side, we analyze why people work more than needed given their consumption plans. When socio-cultural influences are truly forceful, they are usually based on economic pressure. Also, accumulation and certain consumption decisions can be traced back to quite 'rational' motives, making an often demanded 'cultural transformation' towards sufficiency a difficult project. Reproductive considerations (mating) and technology as households' investment may be considerably underestimated as consumption motives, the second probably causing a positive feedback loop. We conclude that, with regard to inescapability, socio-cultural mechanisms are secondary, compared with economic pressure on individuals.
Q01|Fear of stagnation? A review on growth imperatives|Worldwide economic growth is fostered, despite its severe conflicts with sustainability and despite the tendency of secular stagnation. To study whether this fostering is 'only' a question of political and individual will or 'unavoidable' to maintain economic stability, we deliver a rather narrow micro level definition of a 'growth imperative'. We divide the many alleged growth imperatives into five categories and review them, thereby reducing several reasonings to few core arguments. We conclude that neither commercial competition, nor profit expectations, nor the monetary system are stand-alone growth imperatives. Instead, when technological innovations (based on resource consumption) are introduced, market forces lead to a systematic necessity to net invest due to the interplay of creative destruction, profit maximization, and the need to limit losses. Unemployment is substantially caused by productivity gains, and the societal and political necessity of high employment explains why states 'must' foster economic growth. This explanation is culturally and normatively parsimonious and empirically substantiated.
Q01|Incumbents' responses to innovative entrants: A multi-country dynamic analysis|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
Q01|Climate Changes in Africa: Does Economic Growth Matter? A Semi-parametric Approach|This study attempts to further examine the impacts of income on carbon emissions in the African continent through investigation of the existence of an environmental Kuznets curve (EKC). Within the stochastic impacts by regression on population, affluence and technology framework, this is the first study in Africa to explore the income-carbon emissions nexus; using panel data together with a semi-parametric panel fixed effects regression. Our data set refers to a panel of 54 countries in Africa; spanning the period 1990-2014. Our results show evidence in contrast to the EKC hypothesis. Our findings shed new light on the income - CO2 emissions nexus and supports implementation of certain policies.
Q01|Irreversibility and uncertainty cause an intergenerational equity-efficiency trade-off|Two important policy goals in intergenerational problems are Pareto-efficiency and sustainability, i.e. intergenerational equity. We demonstrate that the pursuit of these goals is subject to an intergenerational equity-efficiency trade-off. Our analysis highlights two salient characteristics of intergenerational problems and policy: (i) temporal irreversibility, i.e. the inability to revise one's past actions; and (ii) uncertainty of future consequences of present actions in human-environment systems. We employ a two-non-overlapping-generations model that combines an intragenerational production decision on the use of circulating capital and a non-renewable resource, with a negative intergenerational externality as an unforeseen contingency. If initially unknown problems become apparent and policy is enacted after irreversible actions were taken, policy-making faces a fundamental trade-off between ex-post Pareto-efficiency and sustainability. That is, one can achieve either one of these two goals, but not both.
Q01|Consistency and stability analysis of models of a monetary growth imperative|Is fostering economic growth ‘only’ a question of political will or ‘unavoidable’ to maintain economic stability? It is disputed whether such a ‘growth imperative’ is located within the current monetary system, creating conflicts with sustainability. To examine the claim that compound interest compels economies to grow, we present five post-Keynesian models and show how to perform a stability analysis in the parameter space. A stationary state with zero net saving and investment can be reached with positive interest rates, if the parameter ‘consumption out of wealth’ is above a threshold that rises with the interest rate. The other claim that retained profits from the interest revenues of banks create an imperative is based on circuitist models that we consider refutable. Their accounting is inconsistent, and a modeling assumption central for a growth imperative is not underpinned theoretically: Bank's equity capital has to increase even if debt does not. This is a discrepancy between the authors' intentions in their texts and their actual models. We conclude that a monetary system based on interest-bearing debt-money with private banks does not lead to an ‘inherent’ growth imperative. If the stationary state is unstable, it is caused by agents' decisions, not by structural inevitableness.
Q01|Generous Sustainability|I define “generous sustainability” as a combination of two conditions: neither instantaneous maximin utility nor attainable maximin utility should decrease over time. I provide a formal definition and study applications to a Climate Economy with bounded and with unbounded growth. Generosity is shown to require that GHG emissions are limited to levels that do not cause irreversible system damages if some group of people systematically value these systems.
Q01|The multi-factor energy input–output model|Energy input–output analysis (EIO analysis) is a noteworthy tool for the analysis of the role of energy in the economy. However, it has relied on models that provide a limited description of energy flows in the economic system and do not allow an adequate analysis of energy efficiency. This paper introduces a novel energy input–output model, the multi-factor energy input–output model (MF-EIO model), which is obtained from a partitioning of a hybrid-unit input–output system of the economy. This model improves on current models by describing the energy flows according to the processes of energy conversion and the levels of energy use in the economy. It characterizes the vector of total energy output as a function of seven factors: two energy efficiency indicators; two characteristics of end-use energy consumption; and three economic features of the rest of the economy. Moreover, it is consistent with the standard model for EIO analysis, i.e., the hybrid-unit model. This paper also introduces an approximate version of the MF-EIO model, which is equivalent to the former under equal energy prices for industries and final consumers, but requires less data processing. The latter is composed by two linked models: a model of the energy sector in physical units, and a model of the rest of the economy in monetary units. In conclusion, the proposed modelling framework improves EIO analysis and extends EIO applications to the accounting for energy efficiency of the economy.
Q01|Price volatility and residential electricity decisions: Experimental evidence on the convergence of energy generating source|The recent trend in most developed countries has been toward greater reliance on renewable or “green” energy sources. This paper investigates how price volatility in residential electricity rates impacts consumers' preferences for green power. Using a choice-based experiment, we present respondents with choice scenarios that feature two electric utility plans: (i) a conventional plan where electricity is generated from either coal or natural gas, and (ii) a green plan where electricity is generated renewably from either wind or solar. We then systematically vary the monthly price volatility of each plan across choice scenarios. Our results suggest that price volatility in monthly rates significantly impacts respondents' plan choices and, specifically, their decision to adopt the green power plan. In particular, increased volatility in the green power plan reduces the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan, while increased volatility in the conventional plan increases the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan. Moreover, the documented effects of price volatility are robust across different price premiums for the green power plan.
Q01|Assessing environmental performance in the European Union: Eco-innovation versus catching-up|This paper assesses environmental performance in the European Union (EU) using Luenberger productivity indicators, directional distance functions and Data Envelopment Analysis techniques. It considers four indicators of the pressures exerted by economic activity on the environment: global warming, tropospheric ozone formation, acidification and particulate formation. The change in environmental performance from the early 2000s onwards is decomposed at the levels of country and environmental pressure, and as the result of eco-innovations and catching-up with the best available environmental technologies; furthermore, we distinguish between the periods of economic growth (2001–07) and severe crisis (2007–13). Our main finding is that environmental performance improved in both periods, mainly fuelled by advances in environmental technology. Accordingly, environmental policies aimed at boosting catching-up are highly recommended, particularly in the newer member states that joined the EU from 2004 onwards, which perform further away from their respective environmental technological frontiers. In addition, re-establishing the pre-crisis eco-innovation investment levels would also be highly advisable in order to return to the rates of environmental technical progress registered in the expansion period.
Q01|The Relationship between Value Types and Environmental Behaviour in Four Countries: Universalism, Benevolence, Conformity and Biospheric Values Revisited|Using the social-psychological literature on the antecedents of environmental behaviour and comparative data from Germany, India, Israel and South Korea, we test four value types that correspond with environmental behaviour. Our cross-national context represents varying social, economic, cultural and environmental configurations, giving credence to the effects of values. The authors collected survey data among students on a variety of environmental behaviours and on questions that comprise Schwartz's value scale. The results show similarities between the countries in the effect of biospheric values and differences in the effects of the other values tested. We also find that biospheric value is the most important value type for explaining environmental behaviour, and that biospheric values, universalism and benevolence - three key values that we analyse - have different effects on environmental behaviour, and therefore should be treated separately rather than in a unified self-transcendence value orientation. We finally demonstrate the importance of conformity in the analysis of environmental behaviour. Our conclusions point to the importance of further exploring the mechanism that links values and environmental behaviour while contextualising it in different national and cultural settings.
Q01|Assessing the sustainability of optimal pollution paths in a world with inertia|Most formal optimal pollution control models assume a constant natural assimilative capacity, despite the biophysical evidence on feedback effects that can degrade this environmental function, as it is the case with the reduction of ocean carbon sinks in the context of climate change. The few models that do consider this degradation establish a bijective relation between the pollution stock and the assimilative capacity, thus ignoring the inertia mechanism at stake. Indeed the level of assimilative capacity is not solely determined by the current pollution stock but by the history of this stock and by the time the ecosystem remains above the degradation threshold. We propose an inertia assessment tool that tests the sustainability of any benchmark optimal pollution path when the inertia of the assimilative capacity degradation process is taken into account. Our simulations show a strong sensitivity to both the inertia degradation speed and the discount rate.
Q01|Towards a less vulnerable and more sustainable development: heritage tourism in island economies|The relationship between economic specialization in tourism and growth has been extensively explored, both theoretically and empirically. Although results are ambiguous, a general conclusion of nonlinear effects may be drawn. The originality of our work is to suppose the existence of similar nonlinear relationships between specialization in tourism, vulnerability, and sustainability, and to empirically investigate them for island economies. More particularly, beyond certain tourism specialization thresholds, economic growth slows (as shown in the previous studies) while economic vulnerability increases and sustainability decreases (as found in our empirical work). Our analysis is founded on the hypothesis that these thresholds relate to strategic differences in the development of tourism according to the existence and method of mobilizing the heritage resources of insular economies. The level of differentiation of tourist servicesÑevaluated using an indicator of the change in prices charged for tourist services in presence of world heritage sites (UNESCOÕs list) should moderate the impacts of specializing in tourism on vulnerability and sustainability. We built and explored an original dataset for up to 18 island economies during the period 1990-2008, which are systematically compared with up to 108 non-island countries. By using panel regression analysis, we show that the most suitable strategies for a less vulnerable and a more sustainable development, which may be naturally combined based on each islandÕs specificities, would be: high specialization in heritage tourism, low specialization in luxury tourism, high specialization in mass tourism when there is no valuable heritage, and low specialization in mass tourism in presence of world heritage sites. Illustrative case studies are discussed following a proposed typology of island economies based on their specialization in tourism and the differentiation of the services offered to visitors.
Q01|Combining rights and welfarism: a new approach to intertemporal evaluation of social alternatives|Abstract We propose a new criterion reflecting both the concern for rights and the concern for welfare in the evaluation of economic development paths. The concern for rights is captured by a pre-ordering over combinations of thresholds corresponding to floors or ceilings on various quantitative indicators. The resulting constraints on actions and on levels of state variables are interpreted as minimal rights to be guaranteed to all generations, for intergenerational equity purposes. The level of these rights are endogenously chosen, accounting for the “cost in terms of welfare” of granting them. Such a criterion could embody the idea of sustainable development. We provide an axiomatization of such a criterion and characterize the tension between rights and welfare in a general economic framework. We apply the criterion to the standard Dasgupta–Heal–Solow model of resource extraction and capital accumulation. We show that if the weight given to rights in the criterion is sufficiently high, the optimal solution is on the threshold possibility frontier. The development path is then “driven” by the rights. In particular, if a minimal consumption is considered as a right, constant consumption can be optimal even with a positive utility discount rate. In this case, the shadow value of the right plays an important role in the determination of the rate of discount to be applied to social investment projects.
Q01|Intergenerational equity under catastrophic climate change|Climate change raises the issue of intergenerational equity, as catastrophes may unfairly affect some generations. As climate change threatens irreversible and dangerous impacts (IPCC, 2014), possibly leading to economic collapse, the tradeoff is no longer between present and future consumption, but between present consumption and the possible future extinction of civilization (Weitzman, 2009). This paper aims at identifying public policies that can reduce unfairness and strike a compromise between present and future generations when the potential impact of catastrophic climate change on the economy is accounted for. It explores the impact of inequality aversion and the impact of the attitudes towards population size on optimal climate policy when that catastrophic risk is accounted for. We use an integrated assessment model which simulates the future joint evolution of the economy and the climate. The Response model is a dynamic optimization model (Pottier et al., 2015), which belongs to the tradition of compact integrated assessment models such as DICE. It combines a Ramsey-like macroeconomic module and a climate module, and can be used to determine the optimal climate objective by comparing mitigation costs and avoided climate damages. We account for the risk of extinction due to climate change, first by assuming an exogenous probability of extinction, then by assuming a probability of extinction that depends on the temperature and on the level of economic output. We assume that the states of the world where people are wealthy will show enhanced resilience to climate damages, and will therefore face a lower probability of extinction under a given level of climate damages. Integrated assessment models can reveal the policy implications of various normative choices through the use of social welfare functions. Ideally, social welfare criteria should (i) account for inequality aversion (it should thus differ from the utilitarian criterion, which does not account for the distribution of utilities), (ii) satisfy the Pareto principle (i.e. it should account for the preferences of individuals) and (iii) be separable (i.e. the situation of past generations should not impact the evaluation). The ‘Expected Prioritarian Equally Distributed Equivalent' (Fleurbaey and Zuber, 2014) accounts for the inequality aversion of the social planner and respects a weak form of Pareto, but is not separable under risky prospects (but we will not consider past generations in our analysis). This criterion includes a critical level of consumption which can be interpreted as the level of subsistence. In order to reveal the impact of inequality aversion on optimal climate policy, we consider various isoelastic functions φ, which translate the inequality aversion of the social planner, and various isoelastic functions u, which translate the risk aversion of the social planner. Inequality aversion here relates to the average consumption by individual at time t. Preliminary results using Response in the certain case (with no risk of extinction), and using the standard discounted utilitarian criterion, show that the optimal policy (i.e. the timing of optimal abatement) is identical for equal discount rates r = ρ + ηg, whatever the values of the pure time preference rate ρ and the degree of inequality aversion η. In the risky case, the degree of inequality aversion has a significant impact on the optimal climate policy. In order to reveal the impact of the attitudes towards population size N (which refers to the total number of individuals in all generations), welfare is weighted by the population size through αN, which is a bounded increasing sequence of N. In this case, the criterion gives priority to large populations.
Q01|Can a Repeated Opt-Out Reminder remove hypothetical bias in discrete choice experiments? An application to consumer valuation of novel food products|Recent papers have suggested that use of a so-called Repeated Opt-Out Reminder (ROOR) might mitigate hypothetical bias in stated Discrete Choice Experiments (DCE), but evidence so far has only been circumstantial. We provide the first comprehensive test of whether a ROOR can actually mitigate hypothetical bias in stated DCE. The data originates from a field experiment concerning consumer preferences for a novel food product made from cricket flour. Utilizing a between-subject design with three treatments, we find significantly higher marginal willingness to pay values in hypothetical than in nonhypothetical settings, confirming the usual presence of hypothetical bias. Comparing this to a hypothetical setting where the ROOR is introduced, we find that the ROOR effectively eliminates hypothetical bias for one attribute and significantly reduces it for the rest of the attributes. Our results further suggest that these reductions of hypothetical bias are brought about by a decrease in the tendency to ignore the price attribute.
Q01|Lenders and Risky Activities: Strict Liability or Negligence Rule?|The amendments made to CERCLA in 1996 reinforced the exemption of lenders that finance ultra-hazardous activities. Then, they become involved in liability only if they manage or own polluting activities. The paper compares strict liability and negligence rule in an agency model of vicarious liability type, and proposes to restore lenders as principal by applying negligence rules to them while operators would resort to a strict liability rule. This scheme leads the lender to propose to the borrower the most favorable loan level that induces the latter to provide the socially optimal security level.
Q01|Evaluating Public Participation Mechanisms in LA21 Programs in Malaysia|"""Objective – The role of local government in LA21 is important in order to harness local level participation. In Malaysia, as in many other countries, the need to engage the public in sustainable development issues has shifted the focus to more decentralized and bottom up approaches in harnessing public participation in achieving sustainable development. This means that local authorities as the leading partners in LA21 need to work with the local community and the private sector to develop community action plans for sustainability under Local Agenda 21(LA21). Thus, the overall goal of the study is to determine how participation can best be implemented in LA21 programmes in selective councils by evaluating the key participatory mechanisms that have been employed by the councils. Methodology/Technique – This is a qualitative study that was conducted on four specific councils in West and East Malaysia to determine the effectiveness of the participatory mechanisms used in LA21 programs. The main methods of data collection were through the use of semi-structured interviews, focus groups and document analysis. Findings – The overall conclusion is that the councils were still using the conventional methods to encourage public participation and hence were not able to enhance public participation in the LA21 program. Novelty – The study will not only create a framework for local councils intending to implement a bottom-up approach to participation but also establish a base-line description of participatory mechanisms in LA21 programmes to encourage further research in this area of evolving LA21 research."""
Q01|Entrepreneurial environment at regional level: the case of Polish path towards sustainable socio-economic development|Globalization process creates fovurable conditions for dynamic development of economic centers both at national and regional level. Yet, it may be an obstacle for growth for peripheral countries and regions. In the European Union one can confirm convergence process at national level. However, in Central European countries the convergence of national economies does not support sustainable growth at regional level and regional convergence process. This situation often leads to the problem of draining up of scarce resources from peripheral regions, which negatively affects their entrepreneurship potential and sustainable socio-economic development. In the longer run this unbalanced spatial growth can become a significant obstacle for welfare improvements. In this context, the purpose of the article is to analyze the quality of entrepreneurial environment in Poland at regional level within the context of sustainability framework. The research was done for NUTS 2 regions in the years 2010-2014. The quality of entrepreneurial environment is considered here as a multiple-criteria phenomenon that should be treated as a latent variable. Thus, in the research Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) analysis was applied. Values of the latent variable were assessed based on confirmatory factor analysis, which provided information on the socio-economic development of Polish regions, which determinates the entrepreneurial conditions. In order to group the regions to homogenous subsets natural breaks method was used. The conducted research confirms the process of improvement of entrepreneurial conditions in most of the NUTS 2 regions in Poland. From the perspective of regional convergence process, on the one hand, one can point some positive factors such as noticeable improvements in some underdeveloped regions. However, the dominance of the central region and significant disparities between the NUTS 2 are still relatively stable and extensive. From the methodological perspective the article shows the applicability of SEM methodology to national and regional analysis with application of data from national statistics.
Q01|Microfinance for poverty alleviation: Do transnational initiatives overlook fundamental questions of competition and intermediation?|Numerous microfinance initiatives around the world aim to alleviate poverty in developing countries. However, debate persists about their effectiveness and sustainability – a concern for transnational corporations and the international business community, which contribute about $9.4 billion to microfinance funding. In this policy-oriented article we aggregate findings from two studies in Indonesia that help explain why moneylending can still thrive when low-interest microfinance is widely available and why the poorest borrowers benefit less than the less-poor. To avoid methodological debates about validity, we interview market participants and triangulate the perspectives of borrowers with those of formal and informal lenders. Importantly, our research includes current and past borrowing from formal and informal sources, prompting participants to draw comparisons. We find that the importance to borrowers of key characteristics of informal lending is insufficiently recognized and that inappropriate human resource management and informal intermediation are significant problems. The latter can be an unintended consequence of formal microfinance: The availability of formal low-interest microfinance creates informal intermediation opportunities for entrepreneurs, often developing from casual intermediation into systematic deception. We discuss implications for microfinance policy with reference to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and offer suggestions for further research.
Q01|Human Resource Management In Hotels From Puebla (Mexico) And From Bogota (Colombia): A Comparative Analysis Using Migsa, Administracion Del Recurso Humano: Estudio De Caso En El Sector Hotelero De Puebla (Mexico) Y De Bogota (Colombia) Mediante El Modelo De Indicadores De Gestion Sostenible Y Asociatividad (Migsa)|This article undertakes a comparative analysis. The analysis involves application of the Modelo de Indicadores de Gestión Sostenible y Asociatividad (MIGSA) to two representative hotels. One hotel is in the city of Puebla Mexico and the other in Bogota Colombia. The aim is to assess the extent that practices and HR policies in the two countries are developed, to show how human resource are practiced. The results are the product of measuring 22 “indexes” and 5 “indicators” that make part of the MIGSA model. After obtaining different quantitative and qualitative results we find that the Colombian practices improve working conditions more than other alternatives.
Q01|Eco-Efficiency Of The Road Freight Transport Of The Region North America In The International Trade|This research aims at quantifying and analyzing carbon footprint as an indicator of eco-efficiency in the Mexican international road freight transport industry. We compare Mexican efficiency to the United States and Canada. This evaluation is done using GHG emissions (Greenhouse Gas) of Quantis in its Scope 3 version. We examine data series for the period 2003-2011. The carbon footprint of Mexico, USA and Canada was calculated and then a comparative evaluation of the emissions was performed for each of the 3 countries. The results show that Mexico and Canada generate a higher percentage of indirect emissions, without downplaying direct emissions generated. In the US the total emissions from the sector study (80.62%) refers to emissions generated directly by operating units of the sector. It concludes with alternative solutions to mitigate emissions
Q01|The acceptance of a protected area and the benefits of sustainable tourism: In search of the weak link in their relationship|Sustainable tourism is seen as a major development opportunity for regions with pristine nature and biodiversity hotspots, particularly in developing countries. The economic advantages of sustainable tourism are supposed to convince local persons that use restrictions and regulations set within a protected area (PA) are necessary and beneficial. Nevertheless, local persons are hardly found to positively assess PAs and their environmental protection efforts. This study combines earlier findings on the existence of PAs, their potential for tourism, their restrictions for economic development and the local populationï¿½s acceptance of environmental protection into a comprehensive model. Based on a representative survey of 686 people in the Hoang Lien National Park in Vietnam, we analyse the links in the suggested transmission mechanism. The results identify one major bottleneck for the acceptance of a PA: The people indeed acknowledge the economic advantages of a sustainable tourism sector, but do not see themselves as actual beneficiaries. Even if they are already involved in tourism, they feel the main benefits are generated for outside agents, while local persons have to deal with the restrictions imposed. This result has far-reaching implications for successful tourism policy and implementation of protected areas.
Q01|Building a Scientific Narrative Towards a More Resilient EU Society. Part 1: a Conceptual Framework|This report explains the main elements of a conceptual framework for resilience. The framework was developed in consultation with several Directorate Generals of the European Commission, participating in the Research Network on the Measurement of Resilience, which was jointly established by JRC and EPSC in 2016. The conceptual framework was designed to serve the policy DGs in their policy-making activities by creating a common understanding of the concept and paving the way towards a measurement and monitoring facility.
Q01|Crisis and Reorganization in Urban Dynamics: The Barcelona Case Study|"We use the adaptive cycle theory to improve our understanding of cycles of urban change in the city of Barcelona from 1953 to present. Most specifically, we explore the vulnerabilities and windows of opportunity these cycles for change introduced in the release (?) and reorganization (?) phases. In the two recurring cycles of urban change analyzed (before and after 1979), we observe two complementary loops. During the front-loop, financial and natural resources are efficiently exploited by homogenous dominant groups (private developers, the bourgeoisie, politicians or technocrats) with the objective to promote capital accumulation based on private (or private-public partnership) investments. In contrast, the back-loop emerges from Barcelona's heterogeneous urban social movements (neighborhood associations, activists, squatters, cooperatives and NGOs), whose objectives are diverse but converge in their discontent with the status-quo of conservation (the K phase) and their desire for a ""common good"" that includes social justice, social cohesion, participatory governance, and wellbeing for all. The heterogeneity of these social networks (shadow groups) fosters learning and social innovation and gives them the flexibility that the front-loop's dominant groups lack to trigger change not only within but also across spatial scale (local community-based, neighborhood, city) and time dimensions, promoting a cross-scale process of revolt and stabilization, also known as Panarchy."
Q01|Genuine output and genuine productivity of China's provinces : a multiregional input-output analysis|This paper recalculates value added, capital formation, capital stock, and related multifactor productivity for China's provinces by expanding on the genuine savings method proposed by the World Bank. Specifically, we construct China's time-series multiregional input?output tables to account for the natural resource depletion and environmental damage that affect genuine output when considering inter-provincial trade. The results show that although the loss of natural capital in China's provinces in terms of value added and investment has declined, the impact on productivity during the past decades is still significant and has even increased during the past decades.
Q01|Incumbents' Asymmetric Responses to Environmentally Friendly Entrants in the Automotive Industry|The influence of innovative entrants on incumbents is considered important for technological change. We analyze this influence for the global transition towards alternative technology vehicles (ATVs). Our results indicate that entrants' ATV-related knowledge accumulation stimulates average incumbent's ATV-related research. Regarding global entrants, incumbents with higher ATV patent stocks increased patenting stronger; supporting previous literature on competitive reactions to entry. Responding to domestic entrants, however, incumbents with low ATV patent stocks increased whereas incumbents with high stocks decreased patenting; suggesting that advanced incumbents outsource research or overtake entrants. Further, certain characteristics and not merely the quantity of entrants drive incumbents' responses.
Q01|Institutional arrangements governing wetland utilization and conservation in communal areas of Zimbabwe|Wetland degradation and loss has persisted in developing countries due to existence of poor institutional frameworks supporting wetland governance. Therefore, wetland ecosystem services that support the livelihoods of most subsistence populations in rural areas are concomitantly lost. This paper explores the nature and consequences of institutional arrangements governing wetland access, utilization and conservation in six communal wetlands in Zimbabwe. Data were collected through a household survey targeting one hundred and twenty-three household heads, sixty teenagers and key informant interviews. The results of the study indicate a complex, multi-institutional involvement and the roles and relationship of participating institutions often compromise wetland resources conservation as a result of conflicts, confusion and tensions exacerbated by divergent motives. There is no homogeny in the number of institutions determining utilization at each wetland nor their degree of influence on management decisions;a situation reflecting inconsistency in existing institutional structure at communal level. Given the proximity of traditional leaders and wetland committees to the people and wetlands and the poor participation of government agencies, an institutional structure which places local institutions at the core of the governance system should be formulated. This shouldbe complemented by a clear framework which promotes co-ordination of institutional roles and clarification of their relationships in order to minimize discord in execution of their duties; a situation that currently contributes todegradation of wetland ecosystems. The necessary policy and legal framework to support such institutional framework should be put in place and resources for its operations made available. Classification JEL: Q01, Q15, Q24, Q25, Q28
Q01|Electricity supply reliability and households decision to connect to the grid|"The 7th Sustainable Development Goal aims to ""ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all"". Because the cost to increase electrical capacity in Africa alone has been estimated at $800bn, this article investigates the extent to which electricity reliability could contribute to a reduction in the marginal cost of grid extension by attracting more customers. Using lightning as an instrument for outages severity, the article evaluates the assumption that less uncertainty about electricity availability would lead to a larger number of connected households. The article finds that a one percentage point increase in electricity reliability would yield a 0.67 percentage point increase in connections. Therefore, delivering fully reliable electrical power would allow an electricity company to achieve its targeted growth of customer base 15 months earlier than planned. The effect of reliability is highest for middle-rich households, which are the most reluctant to subscribe in the presence of total, severe or partial outages. A one-percentage-point upgrade in reliability increase the likelihood that these households will be connected by 1.28 percentage points. This article also finds that households are more sensitive to outages in areas where outages are less frequent. In addiction, the impact of reliability on households decision to connect could be at least 5% greater than the effect of poverty; if the frequency of outages is too high, the wealth or poverty effect might vanish and households would respond only to the excessively low reliability. These results confirm the uncertainty assumption, that is, regular and severe outages yield an uninsurable context that deters households from subscribing to the electric service"
Q01|A mixed-methods study of Bambara farming in Mtwara, Tanzania|Economic research tends to focus on a reduced set of crops, leaving a vast array of crops under-researched. However, these ‘marginal crops’ have typically been farmed for centuries and are better suited for the local environment in which they are grown than crops prioritized within existing research. As such, they can contribute towards a less intensive and productivist mode of farming while at the same time help achieving important sustainable development goals. Our mixed-methods study conducted in Tanzania contributes to advancing knowledge of one such marginal crop, the Bambara nut. On the quantitative side, we surveyed 270 farmers across 16 villages in the Mtwara rural district to gather socio-economic and agricultural data. On the qualitative side, we ran focus groups in four villages to enquire about village norms and constraints surrounding the farming of Bambara. We show that Bambara is often seen as a vital crop for food consumption and food security, as it is easy to grow and has a strong nutritional content. However, despite selling at a high price, its market is not well developed due to lack of availability of improved seeds and unreliable marketing channels. We argue that developing the economic potential of indigenous crops constitutes a path towards greater agricultural sustainability as these crops are suited to local environments, need little chemical inputs, are drought resilient and extremely nutritious. Doing so would constitute a first step towards changing the existing and highly problematic agricultural paradigm and reducing farmers’ dependency on input and output markets.
Q01|Analysis of the External Environment of Green Jobs in Bulgaria|Green jobs creation in general has a number of advantages associated with the ecologization of the economy, increasing employment, transfer of businesses to the green ones, raising the prestige of the organization etc. In the context of Bulgarian reality green jobs are an alternative to traditional employment, but the sector faces a number of challenges which must be overcome. The main aim of the paper is to analyze and evaluate the conditions of the external environment in Bulgaria which influence the creation and development of green jobs in the country. The methodological framework includes assessment of factors by using PEST methodology which divides the external environment into distant and near surroundings and also transformation of PESTEL analysis into SWOT analysis. Based on the collected and analyzed information the paper offers policy recommendations and general conclusions related to the improvement of consulting services, changing legal framework of green jobs, implementation of best European practices for projects creating and developing green jobs, implementation of different stimuli and financial support etc.
Q01|Green Jobs in Bulgaria – Problems and Perspectives|The aim of this article is to reveal the essential features and characteristics of green jobs as a means of solving problems with the economic slowdown and the loss of jobs and the continuing deterioration of the environment and degradation of ecosystems. On this basis is provided a definition of green jobs, are explored the problems of their distribution in Bulgaria and are offered directions for their development.
Q01|Red tape and administrative burden in aquaculture licensing|Concern that rates of aquaculture growth in OECD countries are below potential has resulted in environmentally sustainable production increase becoming a priority for policy makers. Growth in aquaculture production can be influenced by many factors. This report looks at the attributes of licensing and regulatory systems in OECD countries, the area over which policy makers have greatest direct control, and finds some suggestion they may be negatively related to aquaculture growth rates. Opportunities exist for reducing the administrative burden faced by enterprises, without sacrificing regulatory quality in the process. There is also a strong indication that quality governance, aided by having systems of evaluation and review in place, helps reduce overall administrative burden. Comparing the attributes of licensing systems with environmental performance was not possible due to the lack of suitable indicators. This highlights the need to measure environmental performance if regulatory effectiveness is to be evaluated further.
Q01|Exploring The Obstacles And The Limits Of Sustainable Development. A Theoretical Approach|The term “sustainable” or “sustainability” is currently used so much and in so many fields that it has become basically part of our everyday lives. It has been connected and linked to almost everything related to our living, to our lifestyle: energy, transport, housing, diet, clothing etc. But what does the term “sustainable” really mean? Many people may have heard about sustainable development or sustainability and may have even tried to have a sustainable living but their efforts might not be enough. The present paper is meant to bring forward a few of the limits of “sustainability” concept. Moreover, it is focused on revealing some arguments from the “other side” along with disagreements regarding some of the principles of “sustainable development” and even critics related to its progress, to its achievements. Another purpose of this paper is to draw attention over some of the issues and obstacles which may threaten the future of sustainability. The paper is also meant to highlight the impact that some stakeholders might have on the evolution of sustainable development due to their financial power, on a global scale.
Q01|Socio-economic and enviromental effects of bioenergy based on wood ine the development of remote areas|Traditional energy sources based on oil, coal, and natural gas have proven to be highly effective, but at the same time they have many negative environmental effects. Also by technical and economical points traditional energy sources are not available in many remote areas. In this paper, the authors have been discussed the alternative approach in energy supply, which also has positive social-economic and environmental effects. This paper provides a new solution for energy supply in remote areas by implementing bioenergy based on woodchips, which has multi-sector effects. Bioenergy generation based on woodchips has multi-sector effect that is why authors offer to combine forest cleaning cutting and forest thinning with bioenergy based on woodchips in one project which will have social, economic and ecological effects. The situation with forest fires makes the authors idea more attractive because after forest fires the problem of cleaning cutting in forest became very important and urgent by ecological and economical points: after cleaning cutting there are a lot of low quality wood which by author’s idea can be recycled into chips for bioenergy. This methodology has been applied to bioenergy and regional development decisions in remote areas which mainly have a problem with energy provision; it is suitable for applications to infrastructure development projects in any remote forested region of the world. Mobile bioenergy generation based on woodchips in remote areas settle the complex of environmental, social, economic problems and can become the driver of development of the region.
Q01|Value-based banking in CEE countries - ecological point of view|Banks play an important role connected with financing pro-ecological investments made by enterprises. They support pro-ecological activities of the entities applying for financing or offer saving/investment products relating to the environmental impact. In terms of their external pro-ecological activities there can be distinguished two groups of banks. The first group offers a wide selection of products and pro-ecological services as well as uses the tools of environmental risk management. The second group concentrates on offering selective products and services as well as is active in the area of pro-ecological marketing. The main objective of the study is to identify and assess some chosen aspects of ecological activities of the banks listed on Stock Exchanges in CEE countries and included in sustainable indices such as: RESPECT, CEERIUS and VONIX. The scope of this analysis encompasses selected dimensions illustrating banks’ activities in terms of environmental protection. The analysis of the investigated dilemma was based mainly on the desk research of digital and documentary sources. The results indicate relatively huge differences across environmental care in value-based banks compared to conventional banks, and small differences between value-based banks themselves.
Q01|Associations among employment and industries of Slovak economy|Urban areas are as important as rural ones for regional development. This paper observes especially the position of cities, urban areas in the context of global value chains – GVC. Global value chains reflect specialization and labour division of companies, mostly multinational enterprises – MNEs. MNEs can be considered for flagships of some industries. Such flagship influence suppliers and purchasers. MNEs are a part of networks or do have got an access to such networks that combine dispersion of the value chain the boundaries of the firm and across national borders and. The impetus of this humble work was to look at position of Slovak cities (Bratislava, Žilina) in order to look for sectors that can help to develop the city and its adjacent regions, particularly cross-border regions. The paper discussed how the attribute of the cross-border regions gives the cities more advantageous position in GVC. Applying method of location quotient allowed to shed a light on GVC, which cities participate in. Some cities were in a position to take advantage of participation in GVC. Examined cities are located in the western part of Slovak Republic. Discussion about the attribute of the cross-border regions can stimulate new ideas for finding causalities in city sprawl or in specialization patterns in industrial structure of the city. Discussion further fosters the comparison of two cities strengths and weakness of each of them that were summarized in terms of employment and industrial exploitation of GVC. It is the first finding and value added of the paper. Second one, method of location quotient is simple, but provides clear evidence on the regional development or decline in particular industries and time of observation.
Q01|Regional socio-economic determinants of the development of the bio-economy in agriculture|Bio-economy regional level is essential for the socio-economic impact, especially in sparsely populated peripheral areas. The positive effects of bio-economy in the agro-food sector can be regarded as an increase in em-ployment and incomes and security of supply. The purpose of the article was to define and determine the potential of bio-economy in the polish Voivodships. In addition, it attempts to define the role of bio-economy in the agro-food sector, including the environmental aspects. The study covered the period 2005-2015. In order to assess the influence of macroeconomic factors on the development of sustainable agriculture the article used method of panel analysis with fixed effects. The data for the analysis was taken from the statistical data from the Local Data Bank (BDL), the Central Statistical Office and the Chief Inspectorate of Trade Quality of Agricultural and Food (GIJHARS). In order to increase the potential of the region it is necessary to recognize the im-portance of local knowledge as a stimulant of competitiveness of regional devel-opment, while taking into account the diversity and complexity of local systems. In order to improve opportunities for bio-economy and green growth it is necessary to better understand the role of natural capital and related changes.The integration of cross-sectoral dimensions of ecological, social-cultural and socio-economic development in the process of regional management is becoming important. In this context, there is a need for further study of the so-cio-economic conditions to determine the regional conditions providing a perma-nently sustainable development with the use of bio-economy in agriculture.
Q01|Local development toward permanently sustainable low emission economy|This article presents issues of rational management of energy throughout the Lubuskie province. The starting point was the idea of permanently sustainable development. The authors focused on the problem of reducing emission of polluting gases in the context of sustainable development. The results obtained were collated with other provinces and a comparative analysis was made. The aim of the article is to evaluate the changes of emission of pollutants as well as the factor affecting emission and also to indicate the directions of its reduction. Such an approach is connected with both a long and short-term horizon, which follows from the necessity of securing clean air and “healthy atmosphere” at present as well as for future generations, taking into consideration , however , the economical, social and environmental context. In that sense, we are looking for an alternative which would secure permanent sustainability of development throughout the province. The paper analyzes different solutions to decrease the use of coal to achieve the aims of CO2 emission reduction throughout the Lubuskie province by means of an econometric model. The authors used a fixed effects model and selected statistical tests serving to evaluate and chose the right model. For evaluating the levels of penetration of different technologies considering their economical, technical and environmental characteristics, a probabilistic approach and historical data were used. Even though air pollution with gases has been dropping in the Lubuskie province since 2011, still the actions taken at the regional level are of great significance. The policy pursued by the region should include promotion of renewable sources of energy, spatial planning, or changes in the lifestyle. In the context of sustainable development, variables such as forestation, wages, number of plants, poverty threshold and population density have proven to be important.
Q01|Consumer attitudes in the light of the concept of sustainable consumption in Lubuskie voivodeship against the background of trends in consumption in Poland|Research background: The article has address the issue of sustainable consumption which is becoming increasingly important on account of the adverse social and environmental consequences caused by the development and growth of societies. Sustainable consumption encourages to make rational choices and take responsibility for one's choices. Consumers take a number of decisions every day that affect not only themselves, but also cause externalities. There are many studies that indicate that consumers when buying goods and services are driven by environmental and ethical considerations. Purpose of the article: Changes occurring in the environment affect consumer behavior leading to multiplicity of attitudes and changes in consumption trends. The article has shown consumer behavior in line with the concept of sustainable development against the background of trends in consumption in Poland. Methodology/methods: The basis for the discussion in the article will be: literature studies, available empirical studies and our own results of the survey among respondents in Lubuskie voivodeship. Surveys using questionnaires were directed at 541 respondents. The number of correctly completed questionnaires was 500, and the figures contained in them were subjected to further analysis. Findings: Respondents in their purchasing choices are not guided by the influence of the consumption on the natural environment. However, in their behaviors we can notice some environmental measures, which stem from different reasons, depending on the socio-economic conditions.
Q01|Rivalry and Excludability as Characteristics of Tools Aimed at Making Cycling in Cities More Attractive|Research background: Cycling is considered one of the most required ways of commuting, because it generates multiple benefits and low levels of external costs of transport. Many cities try to increase the share of cycling in the modal split by the way of various interventions. Effects of these efforts are different, depending on levels of rivalry and excludability of goods provided, what is influencing the attractiveness of cycling. Purpose of the article: The main aim of the paper is (i) to describe key elements of and some solutions for cycling systems in urban areas with focus on two characteristics of goods: rivalry and exclusion, and (ii) to examine, how different levels of rivalry and exclusion influence the attractiveness of cycling and contribute to required effects of cycling policy. Methodology/methods: The paper is based on the theory of private and public goods, as well as on some elements of the New Institutional Economics. The author uses secondary data and research results presented in scientific papers available in the Web of Science Database and Google Scholar, and other information available in online documents. Findings & Value added: A change in levels of rivalry and excludability can lead to an increased attractiveness of cycling. Further research on levels of rivalry and excludability in terms of the complexity of transport systems can contribute to a better understanding of transport behaviour, creating adequate solutions and predicting future effects.
Q01|Doing Well by Doing Good- CSR in a Global Context|Nowadays, there is a general understanding that stakeholders are crucial for the successful enterprise. There is also a need to think about Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in a global context. Never before corporations enjoyed so much power and authority. Corporations need to evolve, re-think their strategies and change their processes accordingly. However, as of now, there is no agreed way of measuring overall sustainability of actions of each company. There is a great need for holistic studies of CSR, analyzing in details the value created, from stakeholders point of view. This paper is an attempt to propose a way of looking at corporate social responsibility in line with current methodologies and frameworks focusing on value creation. Currently there is no one definition of global CSR to be used, nor there is one comprehensive methodology to describe it. Instead there is abundance of theories and frameworks. This paper proposes one definition and presents a method of analysis of the global corporate commitment to CSR approach. The main concern of this paper is to offer an insight into different ways companies can create value for various stakeholders groups. To narrow the scope of the conducted analysis, the authors identified 13 companies, potential sustainability winners, from products industry Analyzed were both, CSR execution capacity and CSR value creation assessed on basis of compliance with identified CSR basic actions catalogue. Conducted analysis indicated that products companies are aware of needs and expectations of various stakeholders and are good at meeting them. Although assessed companies managed to link sustainability with their strategies, they did not achieve transforming sustainability into core of their business.
Q01|Communicating the uncertainty of synthetic indicators: a reassessment of the HDI ranking|Composite indicators convert information about different facets of a given phenomenon into a single figure. Unavoidably, the conversion processE involves a high level of arbitrariness, which, in general, makes the results not robust. The approach to composite indicators used in this paper aims at mitigating this problem and makes final users more aware of the unavoidable uncertainty of the results (e.g. rankings) based on a given composite. We illustrate our approach by applying it to the Human Development Index.
Q01|A Review on Sustainable Building (Green Building)|scientific studies reported that different industries have huge roles to generate this condition. Specially, the construction industry has the most responsibility about these challenges on the earth. Doubtlessly, the utilization of inappropriate technologies, appliances, and materials in buildings have threatened the environment and human health today. So, there is a significant question, what is the appropriate way to solve these problems in construction industry? The engineers and technologists have realized the environmental problems are from using some technologies and materials in construction industry since over the past few decades. Scientists suggested the best way to overcome the aforementioned threats is to consider “sustainable” or “green” design for buildings. So, the main intention of sustainable building is to shift from harm to harmless technologies and materials in buildings. Thus, one of the main purposes of this study is to explore generally regarding sustainable technologies, standards, and materials, which help the buildings reduce consuming energy and resources, in order to generate the positive influences on people, nature, and society. Accordingly, “sustainable” buildings can be more friendly with environment and human, and use key resources, such as, energy, water, and materials more optimal than the conventional buildings. Furthermore, the study was to address the benefits of developing sustainability in buildings on different perspectives, based on the review and points out future directions of study.
Q01|Technical efficiency, productivity change and environmental degradation|This study deals with the nonparametric frontier analysis in the case of the EU 28 countries for a period spanning from 1993 to 2012. It provides statistical inference about the radial output based measure of technical efficiency under the assumption of Constant Returns to Scale (CRS) and it performs scale analysis that allows determining the nature of scale inefficiency of each data point. Furthermore, an order-α approach is developed for determining partial frontiers. Both traditional Malmquist-Luenberger and bootstrapped Malmquist productivity indexes between 1993 and 2012 are constructed. Analysis of productivity change by decomposing the Total Factor Productivity Index into Efficiency Change and Technical Change is performed showing respectively whether productivity gains derive mainly from improvements in efficiency or are mostly the result of technological progress.
Q01|Why do Portuguese Railways Languish? An Application of Internalisation of Transport Related Externalities|For the last ten years Portuguese railways has shown a gradual decrease in passengers’ annual figures; nearly 20 million. The major contributors are regional services and Lisbon’s commuting lines. Despite the number of passengers in the metropolitan area of Porto remains steady while the long-distance ridership market between the two major Portuguese cities, Lisbon and Porto presents a slightly growth starting in 2014, long-term perspectives for Portuguese railways are not optimistic. Lisbon and Porto, separated by a distance slightly greater than 300 km, are connected by the Northern Line, which was already competing with two parallel highways, is now facing a new threat in the form of an air-bridge launched one year ago with hourly airplane departures at very competitive ticket fares. There are clear indicators that this air-bridge will lure a large number of potential passengers away from long-distance rail therefore pressing up operator revenues over this important rail connection impacting its earning power: this line is responsible for more than 42% of the State-owned railways total earnings. Therefore, the aim of this article is to find why Portuguese rail languishes while air transport grows, increasing perverse results: climate change, health and non-health damages. Fuel exemption and the lack of excise duties produce enough market distortions to explain at some extent how aviation has seen such strong growth in demand at the expense of rail, but this market distortion do not tells the entire story. What is at stake is how to obtain a level playing field between the two modes. In that sense, it is necessary to internalise the social cost of carbon in a way to weight the real costs the society has actually to bear from each option because those costs are not borne by transport operators or users, but by society as a whole. After attach a money value to negative externalities, we identify as the root of the problem for the sustainability of Portuguese long-distance railways the lack of political will towards the internalisation of negative externalities.
Q01|An Investigation of Factors for Changing Land Use Pattern in Bihar with a Piercing Insight on Current Fallow Lands|In the present study, an effort has been made to analyze the factors responsible for changes in land use pattern especially increasing current fallow lands, shrinking net sown area and shifting of lands for non-agricultural purposes in the state. The categories of land such as barren land, culturable waste land and permanent pastures and grazing land have shown declining trend. Further, declining trend in net sown area and other fallow lands has been noticed. Current fallows reduced over the period till 2000s but it began to rise since 2000s afterwards. The rainfall and road length did have significant impact on the level of current fallows. Erratic monsoon and scarcity of labour during the study period of present century resulted/led to accumulation of current fallow lands. It was further observed that the non-agricultural use of land was identified as the dominant factor for changes in common lands as it affected the current fallows negatively. It is a challenging task for policy makers to maximize the income of farming community from continuous decline in net sown area, deteriorating climatic condition (erratic monsoon) as well as labour scarce conditions thus finally resulting in aggregation of current fallows. In order to discourage/ arrest the rising tendency in current fallows or put the current fallows under profitable cultivation, cheap source of irrigation is needed to be made available to cultivators.
Q01|Shrinking Net Sown Area and Changing Land Use Pattern in Bihar: An Economic Analysis|Land is vital natural resource for any developmental activity. The judicious use of land is an earnest demand of time as the increasing demand for food and shelter is rapidly increasing with the burgeoning population. Bihar shares about 8.63% of the total population in the country while the share in total land area of India is only 2.86%. There are about 1.61 crore farm holdings of which 91% is marginal still about 68 percent of population earns their livelihood from agriculture and allied sector. Agriculture holds a vital role in food and nutrition security of the state in addition to overall development. Land is an important input for the agriculture sector.Hence, any change or changes in land use pattern has significant implication in food security for the state in particular and nation in general. This paper is based on secondary data published by Government of Bihar. An attempt has been made to investigate agro-climatic zone wise land use of the state and state as a whole. The study reveals that the net sown area has declined both on zonal level and also at state level. Decline in net sown area in agro-climatic zone-III is more pronounced than that of zone-I & zone-II. Being centre of the state, urbanization has taken place in faster way in the zone-III. The other reasons for changes undergoing in land use pattern may be increasing population, fragmentation of land holdings and declining water table in this region. Zone-I & zone-II come under flood prone area, farmers put their land as current fallow due to devastating flood threat causing damage to their crops. Land under trees and groves have also witnessed positive percentage change over the decade and also in growth rate, this may be the other reason for decline in net sown area in the state. Shrinking of net sown area is of great concern to feed the up warding growth of population. Motivating farmers to increase productivity to protect growing population and serving their demand for food and nutritional security, we have to make such kind of strategies which may lead to enhance the income of the cultivators as well as fulfill the food demand of growing population, keeping in mind the fast changing climatic conditions all over the world and protecting wasteful and careless use of natural resources for betterment of coming generation.
Q01|"Европейският Съюз Се Нуждае От По-Голяма Социална Устойчивост В Книгата “Интердисциплинарни Изследвания”, Издателски Комплекс На Унсс, С., 2017<BR>[The European Union needs more social sustainability, in ""Interdisciplinary Studies, UNSS Publishing House, Sofia, 2017]"|"Over the last few years the European Union has experienced crises. It is sufficient to mention, for instance, Brexit or the defeat of Matteo Renzi in Italy’s referendum. Populism and Euroscepticism have been growing. One reason for this is social discontent. The question then arises - how is it possible to have social discontent in one of the most economically developed parts of the world with such a high GDP per capita? In order to understand this phenomenon, we need to approach the notion of ""poverty"" within the framework of Europe. It is true that the poor in the EU are not deprived of food and essential necessities, as is the case in some other regions of the world, but they consider themselves as poor and underprivileged because they are neglected by society, they cannot find realization, they are turned into passive users of social security benefits. To resolve this issue is not to increase social assistance but to develop policies and programs that are mainly oriented towards the needs of people - education, medicine, culture. In the EU, these policies remain within the exclusive competence of national states. This creates great inequalities. Four different social models have emerged in the EU – Scandinavian, Continental, Mediterranean, and recently the Globalization model, which is least related to the traditions of the European social market economy, but seems to be gaining ground. If the European Union wants to achieve greater sustainability, it has to focus more on the social aspect of its activities and expand its competences in the social affairs and to develop a single EU social model."
Q01|Enhancing Pulses Production in Bihar: Constraints and Strategies for Sustainable Growth|Food grains are the major agricultural commodity, produced on about 93 percent of cropped area, of which pulses share merely 7.06 per cent and the productivity of pulses ranges between 819 kg/ha in 2000-01 to 897 kg/ha in 2013-14. Bihar ranks 9th in terms of pulses production with a contribution of 0.52 million tons to the national pulse pool. Traditionally pulses have been considered important elements of cropping systems in the Bihar, but with the introduction of irrigation and high profitability of alternative sources of soil nutrients in the form of inorganic fertilizers in 1960s, pulses were replaced or relegated to marginal lands and were substituted by high- yielding varieties of rice and wheat. There has been an incessant decline in pulses area, production and productivity during last three and half decades accounting for about 437.24 thousand hectares, 428.93 thousand tons and 981 kg ha-1 respectively in 2014 - 15 against the corresponding figures of 717.2 thousand hectares, 620.7 thousand tons and 865 kg ha-1 in 2000-01 registering a compound annual decline of -2.5 percent in area and -0.41 percent in production but productivity increased by 2.15 percent per annum. Lentil is only crop which has performed well in Bihar whereas area and production of most of the major pulses have gone down. In Bihar 2.2 million ha rice fallow land is there which are most suitable for pulses cultivation where medium and long duration paddy is cultivated and after field vacating due to lack of irrigation facility and delay normally the field remains vacant. Pulse production is also adversely affected by a number of biotic and abiotic stresses which can be overcome by assembling the available components of integrated pest management like host plant resistance, cultural practices to disrupt the life cycles of pests, and need-based use of pesticides and to validate them in farmers' participatory on-farm trial and demonstration in farmers field, to deliver management components effectively to stabilize and increase the productivity of pulses. There is also need to strengthen extension efforts to disseminate available pulse technologies through on-farm demonstrations and farmers' participatory research.
Q01|Environmental sustainability of Bulgarian agricultural Farms – assessment, state, factors|The issue of assessment of diverse aspects of sustainability of agricultural farms is among the most topical in the last decades. In Bulgaria there are no comprehensive studies on environmental sustainability of farms in general or different types. This article applies a holistic framework for assessing environmental sustainability of Bulgarian farms. Initially the multiprinciple, multictiteria and mulriindicator framework for assessing environmental sustainability of farm in the country is outlined. After that a level of environmental sustainability of Bulgarian farms is evaluated in general and of farms different juridical type, size, production specialization, and ecological and administrative location. Sustainability assessment is based on a first large-scale survey on environmental aspects of sustainability of agricultural farms in the country carried out in 2016. Third, relations between environmental and socio-economic and integral sustainability of Bulgarian farms are specified. Finally, factors for improving environmental and overall sustainability of agricultural farms in the country are identified. Our study has found out that environmental sustainability of Bulgarian farms is at a good level. Nevertheless due to an inferior level of governance and economic sustainability the integral sustainability of Bulgarian farms is lower and the improvement of the latter two is critical for maintaining overall sustainability of Bulgarian farms at current stage of development.
Q01|Planning and Construction of Canop-E Networks for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth in Developing Countries (E.g.- India)|In the next few years, India will be the most populous nation on earth. This large population will need a huge increase in agricultural productivity. At the same time, agricultural activity is highly energy and resource intensive. Moreover, many places in India are facing water crisis. Therefore an integrated solution to cultivate food for the people by using water and resources in a sustainable manner is needed. A Canop-E is a large structure that has integrated harnessing of water, energy and food. I propose an idea to build a network of structures called Canop-E Network which will harness solar and wind power in an integrated manner in developing nations. Additionally it will provide water harvesting facilities also. Using the renewable energy and harvested water, we can grow food. The energy generated can also be used to desalinate water and used in arid areas. At the same time it will also protect the inhabitants of settlements in the structure from rain, sunlight and inclement weather. Thus an integrated solution to food, water and energy security can be obtained. This can be extrapolated to other developing nations to provide the people with inexpensive, inclusive and sustainable living.
Q01|Mars: Economic Analysis of Constructing Sustainable Open-Air Human Settlements in The Martian Environment|With a high surface radiation, very low and fluctuating temperature and a windy but thin atmosphere, Mars seems an inhospitable place. The dangers on the Martian surface entail that humans stay within indoors habitats on Mars. But it may be possible to build open air settlements on Mars where a direct connection to the Martian atmosphere is feasible. In such a scenario, humans may be able to inhabit Mars with minimal external protection like pressurized suits. For this to happen, humans need to be in atmospheric conditions similar to that on Earth. To achieve these results we need to excavate deep into the Martian crust to depths where air pressures will be sufficient to allow humans to survive without pressurized suits. The paper discusses about the various aspects and economic analysis of such an exercise. The hurdles for implementing this plan are also analyzed. The paper concludes by summarizing the feasibility, benefits and difficulties in undertaking such an activity.
Q01|The Effect of Inequality Aversion on a Climate Coalition Formation: Theory and Experimental Evidence|This chapter examines the impact of inequality-averse attitudes on the individual incentives of participating in international environmental agreements by a laboratory experiment. The experimental result shows that the inequality-averse attitudes have significantly positive impact on the incentives of participation. Particularly, when they are non-critical players, egalitarians are likely to give up the free riding benefit by joining a coalition. It helps us to understand the coalition formation in the international conventions.
Q01|Estimating Sustainable Development and Social Exclusion in Rural Pakistan|There are various aspects of sustainable development and social exclusion. Sustainable development commonly refers to the processes that meet the needs of individuals or groups without depleting social, political and economic resources. On the other hand, social exclusion refers to individuals or groups being deprived of participation in these processes. There is a vast body of international literature that defines these processes, but very little detailed empirical analysis available on rural Pakistan. This paper presents a situational analysis of sustainable development and social exclusion in rural Pakistan, using the Pakistan Rural Household Survey (Round 2) data1, set to compute the flexible multidimensional social exclusion index. This social exclusion index is based on various domains including material resources, education, health, living standard, financial hardship and food security, economic shocks, personal safety and societal and political participation. Each domain is defined by several indicators. A simple „sum-score‟ technique is used to estimate the depth of social exclusion at the household level. This social exclusion indicator is then aggregated to measure exclusion at the ethnic, regional and provincial level. These decentralized results can be used to formulate policies to help marginalized societies/ communities at the local and regional levels.
Q01|The evolution of chemical properties of soil under the influence of tillage systems and fertilization at the culture of wheat in the period 2007-2016 at ARDS Turda|"Through the experiment realized at ARDS Turda in 2007, was monitored in comparativ, the evolution the soil under the influence of the tillage system, the crop plant, and the level of fertilization. Increasing the reserve in the macro -elements is much more significant in the case of the conservative system compared to the classic system, especially at the depth of 0-20 cm. The production data registered at the variety of autumn wheat Ariesan in the period 2007-2016, indicates the suitability of cultivation in the ""no tillage"" system, the difference in production between the two systems, the classical (5535 kg/ha) - ""no tillage"" (5435 kg/ha) being only 100 kg/ha."
Q01|Sustainable rural development through tourism activities in Dobrugdea's rural area|The sustainable rural development of the Dobrudgean rural area requires reaching a balance between the need to preserve the rural economic, ecological and cultural space and the tendency to modernize the rural economic activity and life. The pleading for the promotion of tourism activities in the Dobrudgean rural area starts from the need for rural economical diversification. In general, no rural development program can be conceived in the absence of an essential role played by agriculture. The rural economy is more developed and more dynamic if it has a more diverse structure, and if the share of non-agricultural economy is higher. In this context, the paper presents the tourism potential of the rural localities from Dobrudgea and the development of a viable network of private small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector. The volume of information in this paper resulted from the investigation of relationships that exist between the environmental and social factors at local level, making it possible to define the necessary mechanisms for the sustainable development of tourism activities.
Q01|Research on the influence of the soil tillage system on soybean yield at ARDS Turda|The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the soybean yield obtained from the application of the minimum tillage system compared to the classical tillage system. Conservative tillage systems have become an important part of agriculture, and the need to apply these systems is justified by the growing area of land degraded by the erosion process. Experimental factors: Factor A - the tillage system: classical tillage system and minimum tillage system (chisel variant); Factor B - soybean varieties: Onix, Felix, Mălina TD and Darina TD; Factor C - experimental years: 2015 and 2016. Following the application of the conservative tillage system, there is a slight decrease in yield compared to the classical tillage system, and between the two years studied, in 2016 there are yields with significantly higher differences compared to 2015. The application of conservative tillage systems brings important long-term benefits to both the soil and the environment by reducing soil compaction and fossil fuels used in crop technology.
Q01|The influence of mineral fertilization upon production and quality of spring barley on agricultural research and development station Turda|In order to clarify some aspects of the spring barley reaction on the production and accumulation of the protein in grain, at different levels of fertilization, some estimates of this chemical component were made at 16 levels of fertilization with N: P: K in the period 2016-2017 . The increase in protein content was achieved at the highest levels of nitrogen and phosphorus, even when potassium fertilizers were not used, but the highest protein content in grain accumulating at the level of N60P80K0 was 11.78%. The highest yield can be attributed to the fertilization variant N120P80K40, which confirms the negative relationship between production and protein content.
Q01|Defining aspects concerning the rural household and the sustainable socio-economic development in Romania|Rural development has as main subject the rural space as a system in which the main components (natural resources, people) interfere and have a specific (economic, social, cultural, political, institutional) behaviour. The rural household is the main actor in the rural space, owner of the main (natural, human, economic, cultural) resources, which it uses at its own discretion and whose behavior is very important for the society where it belongs. The need for this study stems from the necessity of the Romanian rural household to get adapted to the new Romanian and European socio-economic development realities. Even though the modernization paradigm has been replaced by the rural development paradigm, the Romanian rural communities and agriculture must continue their modernization process, which had a sinuous evolution rather than a continuous constant evolution as in the case of the developed countries from Europe, taking into consideration the new orientations of the current rural development.
Q01|Mitigation vs. adaptation: a critical overview of EU climate change policies and their impact on agriculture|The paper does a qualitative assessment of the current European Union policies for dealing with climate change. In the EU mitigation policies are derived from the international agreements for reducing and limiting greenhouse gases emissions. Mitigation policies have a strict compliance regime using both positive and negative reinforcement. On the other side, adaptation measures, meant to increase nature’s and society’s resilience to climate change negative impact, are designed more as recommendations complementing sectoral policies. Agriculture has a relatively low potential of curbing GHG emissions but are some of the most vulnerable sectors to climate change. By examining the relative projected efficiency of EU’s mitigation efforts compared to the overall goal of stopping global warming, the paper finds that there is clear imbalance between mitigation policies and adaptation policies. It concludes that in the absence of matching binding commitments from other large emitters of GHG, the climate objective will not be met. This requires at European level a medium and long-term strategy for the societal and economic adaptation to the new climate conditions and, on short-term, more focus on adaptation policies in vulnerable sectors such as agriculture.
Q01|Fuzzy reporting as a way for a company to greenwash: perspectives from the Colombian reality|Drawing on the legitimacy theory framework, this study introduces an alternative means to spot “fuzzy reporting” signals as a way to detect greenwashing at the firm level. Its approach is based on the way the sustainability reporting process can mislead stakeholders after critical incidents take place. In order to do so, a single environmental incident, which took place in Colombia, is analyzed in light of what happened before, during and afterwards, with special emphasis on the corporate disclosure process performed by the company involved. Results obtained give support to the assumption that fuzzy reporting can be objectively detected not only through the analysis of annual sustainability reports, but also by tracking other forms of corporate messages when a specific concern is carefully followed. This study’s contribution is two-fold. First, it builds on the theoretical notions of greenwashing and fuzzy reporting by illustrating a practical and objective way to identify some deceiving corporate practices. Second, it empirically evaluates this approach in a sensitive context in order to obtain better illustration and prepare the groundwork for further studies.
Q01|Bolivia’s Green National Accounts through a Commodity Super Cycle|This paper explains the concept of integrated environmental-economic accounts, also called Green National Accounts. It then presents updated results for key indicators from Bolivia’s Green National Accounts during the period 1990-2015, which covers an entire Commodity Super Cycle. The first half of this period includes the Great Commodities Depression while the second half is characterized by an unprecedented commodities boom. Results show that the contribution of ecosystem goods and services to the Bolivian economy remain relatively stable over the cycle, while the contribution of non-renewable resources increases by a factor of four between the bottom of the cycle (1993) and the top of the cycle (2011). Similarly, the differences between conventional Net Capital Formation and Environmentally-adjusted Net Capital formation is small at the bottom of the Commodity Super Cycle (2.3% of GDP) but much larger at the top of the cycle (7.7% of GDP). These results were calculated following the United Nation’s SEEA 2003 framework.
Q01|Trading off nutrition and education? A panel data analysis of the dissimilar welfare effects of Organic and Fairtrade standards|Millions of smallholder farmers in developing countries participate in different types of sustainability standards. A growing body of literature has analyzed the welfare effects, with mixed results. Yet, there are important knowledge gaps. First, most existing studies have looked at the effects of one standard in one country. When comparing between studies it is unclear whether dissimilar outcomes are the result of different standards or different local conditions. Second, most studies have used cross-section data, so that selectivity issues remain a challenge. Third, existing work has primarily analyzed effects in terms of purely economic indicators, such as prices and income, ignoring other dimensions of household welfare. We address these shortcomings using panel data from small-scale coffee producers in Uganda and comparing the effects of two of the most popular sustainability standards, namely Organic and Fairtrade. Welfare effects are analyzed in terms of household expenditures, child education, and nutrition. Results show that Organic and Fairtrade both have positive effects on total consumption expenditures. However, notable differences are observed in terms of the other outcomes. Organic contributes to improved nutrition but has no effect on education. For Fairtrade it is exactly the other way around. We explore the mechanisms behind these differences.
Q01|From The Accounting of War to the Accounting of Peace: Putting Bricks for a New Environmental Accounting. A Critical Analysis|This paper critically examines the potential movement from accounting of war to accounting of peace. The 20th century capitalist economy developed in the war, and also stimulated the war. In contradiction with the current state of facts, some economists such as Vandana Shiva promote the idea of creating an earth democracy, which is intended to accept equality of rights between the humans and other species, and to organize life so that to protect the environment against any human aggression. Accounting, as a tool of evaluation and presentation of economic information, was involved directly in the manifestation of human aggression, under its various forms, in the capitalist society. By considering as main value the concept of profit, a whole range of issues related to the environmental preservation and the limitation of natural resource were neglected. Thus, the accounting presented the resources under the form of operating costs, and not as capital. Nature was considered as an unlimited resource, and not as a value that should be kept and maintained in the future. The new paradigm might be called accounting of peace. The paper discusses how accounting has to redefine its concepts to support earth democracy and the proposed natural sustainable economy. Accounting, as a tool of force for war, did nothing but stimulate the aggressive behaviour of the world leaders, and also of the multinational corporations.
Q01|A methodological note for the development of integrated aquaculture production models|Aquaculture production can yield significant economic, social and environmental effects. These exceed the financial costs and benefits aquaculture producers are faced with. We propose a methodology for the development of integrated production models that allow for the inclusion of the socio-economic and environmental effects of aquaculture into the production management. The methodology develops on a Social Cost-Benefit Analysis context and it includes three parts: i) environmental, that captures the interactions of aquaculture with the environment, ii) economic, that makes provision for the incorporation of economic determinants in the production models and iii) social, that introduces the social preferences to the production and management process. Alternatives to address data availability issues are also discussed. The methodology extends the assessment of the costs and benefits of aquaculture beyond pure financial metrics and beyond the quantification of private costs and benefits. It can also support the development of integrated models of aquaculture production that take into consideration both the private and the social costs and benefits associated with externalities and effects not appropriately captured by market mechanisms. The methodology can support aquaculture management and policies targeting sustainable and efficient aquaculture production and financing from an economic, financial, social and environmental point of view.
Q01|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
Q01|Determinants of Households’ Recycling Behaviour – Evidence from China|China’s rapid rates of urbanization and income growth have led to a rapid escalation of domestic solid waste accumulated in landfills. Various policies have been adopted by the municipal governments to improve incentives for recycling in an attempt to reduce solid waste accumulation, but the effects of these efforts appear to have been mixed. The aim of this paper is to gain further understanding of the factors that influence households’ recycling behaviour. We administered a survey to residents of Harbin city in the north-eastern China to measure their recycling frequency as well as their understanding of and attitudes towards household solid waste management. We find that knowledge and attitude about household waste management explain recycling behaviour well but that attitudes about government involvement and feeling of peer pressure do not. We find strong evidence that higher education is linked to higher frequency of recycling, weak evidence that age has a positive but diminishing effect on recycling and that income has a negative effect on recycling, and no evidence that gender affects recycling.
Q01|Private Capital, Public Goods: Forest Plantations' Investment in Local Infrastructure and Social Services in Rural Tanzania|With the rapid expansion of private forest plantations worldwide, their impacts on local development are under scrutiny by NGOs and researchers alike. This study investigates the impacts of private forest plantations on local infrastructure and social services in rural Tanzania. We take a comparative approach involving households living in villages adjacent to private forest plantations and households in villages adjacent to a state-owned plantation. We use survey data from 338 households to analyze their perceptions about the impacts of the plantations on the number and quality of roads, bridges, and health centers, as well as on school enrolment and quality of education. We triangulate the results from a logistic regression model with observations of the size and quality of infrastructure and social services in the villages and with findings from focus group discussions. The results show that the private forest plantations have positively affected local infrastructure and social services in adjacent villages. The results suggest that large-scale private forest plantations can contribute to rural development in developing countries. We highlight the importance of taking into account the perceptions of various groups in society when assessing the sustainability of forestry investments and their impacts on local communities.
Q01|The Sustainability Footprint of Institutional Investors|Institutional investors are the single most important class of shareholders in stock markets. Yet, knowledge about their motivations for embedding environmental and social — or more generally — sustainability considerations in their portfolio allocations is at best emerging. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to measure the environmental, social, and aggregate sustainability footprint at the institutional investor portfolio-level. We provide evidence that institutional investors with longer investment horizons — as measured by investors’ legal type or portfolio turnover — exhibit significantly better sustainability footprints. We also document that institutional investors with better sustainability footprints generate higher risk-adjusted performance, primarily through a reduction of portfolio risk. Overall, our results are consistent with the view that institutional investors choose sustainability oriented portfolio allocations with the objective of long-term value maximization.
Q01|Sustainability with endogenous discounting|We construct a dynamic competitive model with a stock of man-made capital and several stocks of natural resources and ask under what conditions consumption will be constant if in nitesimal households with heterogeneous preferences and endowments discount their utility ows at an endogenous rate that depends some macroeconomic variables. We show that for consumption to be constant, this function must be the marginal product ofcapital function. We demonstrate that Hartwicks Rule (that along the constant consumption path, resource rents must be invested in man-made capital) holds in a modi ed form that takes account of natural growth of resource stocks.
