Q19|Cows, cash and climate: Low stocking rates, high-performing cows, emissions and profitability across New Zealand farms|Using the New Zealand Monitor Farm Data (NZMFD), this paper explores the cost-effectiveness of two mitigation options to reduce biological greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on farms: reducing stocking rate (SR; the number of cows per effective hectare of dairy land); and increasing animal performance (AP; measured by production of milk solids (MS) per cow). These mitigation options have been defined as “no cost” because, if applied together, they could reduce the carbon footprint of farms while also maintaining or even improving profits (de Klein & Dynes, 2017). We evaluate the effect of these mitigation options on three main variables: milk profitability of the farm (cash operating surplus (COS)/ton of MS produced); emissions intensity (ton CO2eq/ton of MS produced); and the value of emissions (COS/ton CO2eq). The paper has two main findings: high-AP farms show significantly lower emissions intensities and higher milk profitability; and higher SRs on farms are significantly associated with lower emissions intensities while not being significantly associated with milk profitability or negatively associated with profit per hectare. These results imply that higher levels of AP reduce the GHG intensity of the farm and increase profit – a “no-cost” option – but unless either the SR or the area under dairy farming fall, an increase in AP will lead to an increase in absolute emissions. However, our results cast doubt on the idea that reducing SR is a no-cost way to achieve absolute emission reductions. The two options do seem to constitute a no-cost outcome when combined, but potentially the same mitigation could be achieved with lower loss of profit by reducing the area of dairy land while maintaining high SRs and increasing the performance of the animals.
Q19|Roles of Agricultural Transformation in Achieving Sustainable Development Goals on Poverty, Hunger, Productivity, and Inequality|This paper examines the role of the transformation of the rural agricultural sector in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1, 2 and 10 drawing upon the cross-country panel data over the past four decades for 105 developing countries. We define agricultural transformation by three different indices, namely, (i) the agricultural openness index – the share of agricultural export in agricultural value added of the country, (ii) the commercialization index - the share of processed agricultural products, fruits, green vegetables, and meats in all primary and processed agricultural products, and (iii) the product diversification index to capture the extent to which the country diversify the agricultural production. Drawing upon the dynamic panel model, we have found that transformation of the agricultural sector in terms of agricultural openness has dynamically increased the overall agricultural productivity and its growth and has consequently reduced national, rural and urban poverty significantly. We have also found that agricultural openness tends to significantly alleviate child malnutrition, namely underweight and stunting, and improve food security in terms of energy supply adequacy, protein supply, lack of food deficit and reduction of the prevalence of anaemia among pregnant women. The agricultural openness is found to be negatively associated with the Gini coefficient at both national and subnational levels (for both rural and urban areas). Except for Latin America, product diversification reduces agricultural productivity, implying the efficiency gains from economies of scale of fewer crops. On the other hand, we argue that the commercialisation does not generally increase the agricultural productivity and this may be related to a positive effect of the higher share of cereal production on productivity observed in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America. It has been suggested that policies improving the efficiency of agricultural production, for example through better rural infrastructure, or promoting agricultural exports, through regional economic integrations or reducing transaction costs such as tariff and non-tariff barriers, would help to achieve SDGs 1, 2 and 10 indirectly through the productivity improvement. However, a separate policy to support the poorest below the US$1.90 a day poverty line is also necessary for achieving SDG 1.
Q19|Identifying barriers to adoption of “no-cost” greenhouse gas mitigation practices in pastoral systems|New Zealand scientists have suggested that multiple pastoral farming practices could reduce on-farm biological greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while maintaining (and in some circumstances even increasing) farm profits (e.g. de Klein and Dynes, 2017). However, these win–win practices (which we define as “no-cost” mitigation practices) are reported to be under-adopted in New Zealand (Reisinger et al. 2018). The focus of this paper is to identify barriers affecting the adoption or expansion of no-cost mitigation practices by farmers in New Zealand. We define and categorize barriers to adoption using a typology of barriers developed by Jaffe (2017). This typology provides a comprehensive list and precise/accurate description of multiple barriers that might be present in farming contexts. First, we confront the typology with empirical evidence in the literature studying the barriers to the adoptions of technologies and practices in the context of pastoral farming. Although the evidence on perceptions and adoption of GHG emissions mitigation options in New Zealand is very limited, several of the barriers in Jaffe’s typology have been evidenced by researchers as affecting the decisions to adopt different innovative technologies and practices on farms. To complement the literature review and, more importantly, focus on no-cost GHG mitigation practices, we conducted interviews with 14 farmers in different regions of the country. In these conversations we discussed different managerial and practical implications of five different no-cost farming practices, with the aim of identifying barriers that affect their adoption or expansion. We describe in the paper more than 40 quotes obtained from farmers, from which we identified the occurrence of 16 different barriers. Among these, the “Unsureness about practicality”, “risk and uncertainty” and “complex interactions” barriers showed as the most frequent barriers identified as causing under-adoption of the evaluated practices. In addition, different types of perceived costs (financial barriers), such as “modelling mismatch” and “learning and adjustment”, have been pointed out as a limitation for adoption (which are captured by barriers category “arguably efficient” in Jaffe’s typology). We also found that in some cases non-financial barriers seem to be interconnected – in especial the case when the interactions’ complexity increases the riskiness of the outcome (the “risk and uncertainty” barrier) and makes it difficult to see whether the mitigation option is practical (a barrier of “unsureness about practicality”).
Q19|Transition Finance: Introducing a new concept|In answer to the call expressed within the Addis Ababa Action Agenda to mobilise all available resources – domestic and foreign, public and private – in support of the Sustainable Development Goals, the Development Co-operation Directorate develops a new work stream on transition finance to explore the evolution and interaction of public (official development assistance and other official flows) and private (foreign direct investments and remittances) sources of finance across the development continuum – studying multiple stages of development: low income countries, middle income countries, fragile contexts, and different regions of the world. Its ultimate objective is to advise the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) in preparing countries for transition (outlining the optimal financial mix and offering policy recommendations) and in building resilience.This paper introduces the concept of transition finance and initiates research to advise the DAC on its role as a major provider of development assistance among other public and private providers of financing for the 2030 Agenda.
Q19|Market awareness and profitability: case study of Mango production in Karnataka, India|This article presents a case study of mango farmers in the Kolar district of Karnataka to understand the determinants of profitability and constraints faced by the horticulture industry in India in general. The mango value chain is analysed in-depth to understand the market choices of farmers and the role of market intermediaries and is based on data collected from a primary survey of 131 farmers. The study uses an instrumental variable approach to model the profitability of farmers as a function of market awareness, distance from markets, farming practices, and control variables. It finds that in addition to age and education, distance to markets and farming practices are significant factors influencing the profitability of mango cultivators.
Q19|Hofnachfolgesituation in Österreich 2018 - Deskriptive Ergebnisse einer Befragung von Betriebsleiter/innen|In Kooperation mit der Sozialversicherungsanstalt der Bauern wurde im Jahr 2018 am Institut für nachhaltige Wirtschaftsentwicklung der Universität für Bodenkultur Wien eine österreichweite postalische Befragung zum Thema Hofnachfolge in bäuerlichen Familienbetrieben durchgeführt. Es ging darum die Hofnachfolgesituation in den Betrieben zu erheben und die Ruhestandspläne der BetriebsleiterInnen sowie die Integration der potentiellen Nachfolger/innen in betriebliche Arbeits- und Entscheidungsprozesse zu erforschen. Ein standardisierter Fragebogen wurde an 2000 BetriebsleiterInnen im Mindestalter von 45 Jahren ausgesandt, 572 wurden retourniert und für dieses Diskussionspapier ausgewertet. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass rund 70% der befragten BetriebsleiterInnen bereits eine/n Nachfolger/in festgelegt oder zumindest in Aussicht haben. In Familien mit Kindern sind diese potentiellen Nachfolger/innen vorwiegend eigene Kinder – fast viermal häufiger Söhne als Töchter. In Familien ohne Kinder soll die Nachfolge mehrheitlich ebenfalls eine Person aus dem Verwandtenkreis antreten. Zwei Drittel der potentiellen Nachfolger/innen verfügen über eine abgeschlossene landwirtschaftliche Ausbildung. Zum Zeitpunkt der Befragung befand sich ein Viertel der potentiellen Nachfolger/innen in Ausbildung, in Elternkarenz, beim Heeres- und Zivildienst, auf Auslandspraktikum oder war arbeitssuchend. Drei Viertel waren erwerbstätig, rund 45% arbeiteten haupt- oder nebenberuflich am Betrieb, den sie einmal übernehmen sollen. Was betriebliche Managementaufgaben betrifft, werden Entscheidungen umso häufiger von BetriebsleiterIn und Nachfolger/innen gemeinsam getroffen je langfristiger deren Auswirkungen sind. Bezüglich ihrer Ruhestandspläne geben rund 95% der befragten BetriebsleiterInnen an, am Betrieb wohnen zu bleiben, 86% möchten auch weiterhin mitarbeiten und zwar vorwiegend als Hilfe bei Arbeitsspitzen. Ihre Ruhestandpläne mit jemandem diskutiert haben aber erst rund 69% der Befragten und sogar nur rund 19% haben Informationsangebote im Zusammenhang mit der Hofnachfolge in Anspruch genommen.
Q19|Cost and Return on Investment from Rice RD41 Farming of the Farmers in Samchuk District, Suphanburi Province, Thailand|The purposes of this research study were 1) to study cost and return on investment from rice RD41 farming of the farmers in Samchuk district, Suphanburi province 2) to analyze cost and return on investment from rice RD41 farming of the farmers in this area. The sample of 10 farmers who were member of Samchuk Agricultural Cooperative having rice farms which the area between 10 to 50 rai, drawn by the method of purposive sampling because the management methods of rice farm did not different. The study was conducted by collecting data and analyzing the data obtained by in-depth interviews, the tool was interview questions. Quantitative data were analyzed using the following cost, profit, Net profit to cost ratio, Net profit to sales ratio, Return on investment and break-even point. Results of cost and return indicated that total average cost was 4,420.25 baht per rai, while average net profit was 1,209.86 per rai. Net profit to cost ratio was 26.37%, while net profit to sales ratio was 20.01%. Return on investment (ROI) was 22.54% and break-even point was 0.21 tons per rai. Cost of rice RD41 comprised 3 important costs which were 12.06% of raw material cost, 35.59% of labor cost and 52.35% of overhead cost.
Q19|Cost and Return on Investment from Laying Ducks Farming of the Farmers in Bangplama District, Suphanburi Province, Thailand|The purposes of this research study were 1) to study cost and return on investment from laying ducks Farming of the Farmers in Bang pla ma district, Suphanburi province 2) to analyze cost and return on investment from laying ducks Farming. The sample of 16 farmers drawn by the method of purposive sampling. The study was conducted by collecting data and analyzing the data obtained by in-depth interviews, the tool was interview questions. Quantitative data were analyzed using the following cost, profit, Net profit to cost ratio, Net profit to sales ratio, Return on investment and break-even point. Results of cost and return indicated that total average cost was 1,609.28 baht per duck, while average net profit was 325.68 baht per duck. Net profit to cost ratio was 20.24%, while net profit to sales ratio was 6.83%. Return on investment (ROI) was 19.97% and break-even point was 152 eggs per duck. Cost of laying ducks comprised 3 important costs which were 8.17% of raw material cost, 4.17% of labor cost and 87.66% of overhead cost.
Q19|Working Paper 295 - Politique de prix dans la filière coton au Cameroun|Cette étude cherche à apporter une réponse à une préoccupation actuelle des pouvoirs publics camerounais sur la modification des mécanismes de fixation de prix d’achat du coton graine au producteur et d’abondement du fonds de gestion risque prix du coton au Cameroun (FGRPC-C). Au regard de la théorie économique et des informations recueillies auprès de la SODECOTON et de la CNPCC (Confédération Nationale des Producteurs de Coton du Cameroun) pour le compte de la campagne cotonnière 2014/2015, nous avons trouvé que ces 2 instruments de gestion de risque prix actuellement mis en œuvre présentent un coût énorme pour les différents acteurs de la filière. Le mécanisme de fixation du prix d’achat du coton graine doit prendre en compte les coûts de production supportés par les cotonculteurs. L’État du Cameroun doit supprimer les subventions octroyées à cette filière et respecter les prix arrêtés par le nouveau mécanisme. Il faut supprimer le principe de plafonnement du fonds de gestion risque prix.Classification JEL : Q13, Q18, Q19, 013. Mots clés : mécanisme, fixation de prix, fonds de gestion risque prix, filière coton.
Q19|Does the Identifiable Victim Effect Matter for Plants? Results From a Quasi-experimental Survey of French Farmers|Numerous studies showed that people respond more generously to individual identified victims than to equivalent statistical victims, which is referred to as the “identifiable victim effect” (IVE). While the previous literature examined the IVE for human and animal victims, we focus on vegetal entities that can be threatened. Thanks to a between design allowing to increase the degree of plants' identifiability, we test whether IVE is likely to enhance farmers' participation in a conservation program, using mail survey data among a sample of French farmers located in the Vaucluse area. Unlike humans and animals, we found that IVE does not matter regarding plants, as farmer willingness to participate in the compensation measures was found to decrease as the (plant) victim(s) become more identifiable. Moreover, this figure is even stronger with respect to organic farmers compared to their conventional counterparts.
Q19|Remittances and Dutch Disease: A Meta-Analysis|Remittance flows are an important source of foreign exchange for various developing countries around the world. Given their growing importance in the last decade, their role in inducing Dutch disease symptoms in the developing countries has been extensively studied. However, the results of the analyses so far have been mixed. In this study, we conduct a meta-analysis of existing literature to estimate the over all effect of remittances on receiving countries’ real effective exchange rate (REER). We run fixed and random effect meta-analysis on studies taken from EconLit, Google Scholar and various working paper series and examine a total of 53 regressions taken from seven published and unpublished studies. We come up with evidence of a net appreciation of real exchange rate in the developing countries. Both the fixed and random effect models indicate a highly significant impact of foreign remittances on the REER. The results show also that the nature of the dependent variable, countries considered and the econometric technique used influence the impact of remittances REER, However the type of data (panel or times series) does not affect the results. Our investigations support the presence of selection bias. The findings support the view that in spite of their utility for the recipient households, remittances pose a challenge to the developing country on the macroeconomic level.
Q19|The Impact of Exchange Rate Dynamics on Agricultural Output Performance in Nigeria|Abstract The study investigated the possible asymmetric effect of real exchange rate dynamics on agricultural output performance in Nigeria over the period of 1981 to 2016 by collecting data from secondary sources. The study employed a combination of stationary and nonstationary variables as was found out through the ADF unit root test. Based on the Bounds test for cointegration, a long-run relationship was absent between real exchange rate and agricultural output, irrespective of specifications. Generally, the result of model estimation showed that the significant drivers of agricultural output are real exchange rate (log-levels), real appreciation and depreciation (after some lags), industrial capacity utilization rate, and government expenditure on agriculture (after some lags). ACGSF loan exerted positive and insignificant influence on agricultural output. In addition, though the effect of real appreciation was larger than that of real depreciation, the present study could not find any evidence in support of the asymmetric effect of real exchange rate dynamics on agricultural output performance in the Nigerian economy. It is therefore suggested that fiscal and monetary authorities in Nigeria should work in unison at ensuring that the full potentials of the agricultural sector are harnessed for the growth and development of the country.
Q19|The Impact of Exchange Rate Dynamics on Agricultural Output Performance in Nigeria|Abstract The study investigated the possible asymmetric effect of real exchange rate dynamics on agricultural output performance in Nigeria over the period of 1981 to 2016 by collecting data from secondary sources. The study employed a combination of stationary and nonstationary variables as was found out through the ADF unit root test. Based on the Bounds test for cointegration, a long-run relationship was absent between real exchange rate and agricultural output, irrespective of specifications. Generally, the result of model estimation showed that the significant drivers of agricultural output are real exchange rate (log-levels), real appreciation and depreciation (after some lags), industrial capacity utilization rate, and government expenditure on agriculture (after some lags). ACGSF loan exerted positive and insignificant influence on agricultural output. In addition, though the effect of real appreciation was larger than that of real depreciation, the present study could not find any evidence in support of the asymmetric effect of real exchange rate dynamics on agricultural output performance in the Nigerian economy. It is therefore suggested that fiscal and monetary authorities in Nigeria should work in unison at ensuring that the full potentials of the agricultural sector are harnessed for the growth and development of the country.
Q19|Digital Agriculture: Mobile Phones, Internet & Agricultural Development in Africa|This study examines the non-linear relationship between mobile phones, internet and agricultural development in Africa for the period 2001–2015 using system generalized method of moments. The empirical results show a non-linear relationship between mobile phones, internet and agricultural development. Mobile penetration and squared mobile penetration have significant positive effects on agricultural value added, implying that mobile penetration has an increasing effect on agricultural value added. In contrast, internet usage has significant negative effects on agricultural value added, but squared internet usage has significant positive effects. This suggests a U-shaped pattern and a quadratic relationship: as internet usage increases, agricultural value added decreases, but after a certain level of internet usage which is the turning point, agricultural value added starts to increase. The causality analysis suggests the existence of uni-directional causality from mobile penetration and internet usage to agricultural value added. However, there is bi-directional causality between squared mobile penetration, squared internet usage and agricultural value added. This indicates that mobile phones and internet stimulate agricultural development which, in turn, boosts mobile penetration and internet usage even further in these countries. The results therefore provide evidence that mobile phones and internet play significant roles in agricultural development, as agricultural development also plays important roles in the expansion of mobile phones and internet.
Q19|Актуальное Состояние И Проблемы Сельского Хозяйства Сербии<BR>[Actual Status and Problems of Serbian Agriculture]|Russian. В статье представлен дескриптивный анализ актуального общего состояния сельского хозяйства в Республике Сербия. Здесь собраны и представлены данные о региональном статистическом подразделении на территории Республики Сербия, данные о посевных площадях, земле и типах плодородных почв. В основной части статьи приводятся данные о сельскохозяйственном производстве, а особая часть о выращивании технических культур. Представлен также и критический обзор ситуации в сербском сельском хозяйстве с сопоставительными данными предыдущих периодов. В заключении представлены актуальные проблемы сельского хозяйства Сербии. English. The paper presents the descriptive statistics of the actual general status of Serbian agriculture. Here were collected the data about regional distribution on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then data on cultivated areas and the types of the soils for farm production. In the paper core the data about agriculture production are demonstrated, especially on technical crops. It is also shown the critique view on Serbian agriculture with comparative previous data. At the end it was introduced the actual problems of Serbian agriculture.
Q19|Improving Paddy Rice Statistics Using Area Sampling Frame Technique|Traditional sampling strategies for paddy rice statistics rely on outdated list frames, incomplete holding information, or administrative data that are prone to numerous biases. The objective of this study is to test the utility of an area frame developed using remote sensing data in three pilot provinces— Savannakhet (Lao People’s Democratic Republic), Ang Thong (Thailand), and Thai Binh (Viet Nam). Direct estimates of total paddy rice area and production are calculated from area frame using two methods––one involving measurement of plot size using a Global Positioning System instrument and the other utilizing a digitized map of farmer-identified plot boundaries on a high-resolution Google Earth image. A third method involving the calculation of ratio estimates using independent mesh-level measures is compared with the first two methods involving direct estimates, and with the estimates generated from administrative data from the countries. Our study finds that ratio estimation significantly improves the level of precision of paddy rice statistics. Substantial deviations are also observed between official statistics and the statistics generated through direct estimation.
Q19|Cost of Procuring Invasive Eastern Red Cedar Biomass for use as a Biobased Product Feedstock| Suppression of prairie fires enabled Eastern Red Cedar (ERC) to invade and thrive on more than 12 million infested acres previously dominated by native grasses. Feedstock procurement for a biorefinery designed to use ERC biomass, would be unique relative to energy crop production systems such as switchgrass that can be expected to harvest feedstock produced on the same unit of land each year. Density of ERC is heterogeneous. After cutting, ERC does not regrow and after ERC is removed landowners could be expected to take measures such as prescribed fire to control it. A mixed integer mathematical programming model is constructed to determine the cost to obtain the rights to harvest, harvest, and deliver a specified quantity of ERC biomass each year, for a period of 20 years, to a biorefinery location. The optimal strategy depends critically on several assumptions including the proportion of ERC biomass under contract enabling ERC harvest once during the 20 years; ERC growth rate; ERC density; discount rate; harvest and transportation cost; and quantity of biomass required per day. Optimal harvest strategy, optimal biorefinery location, and maximum daily biorefinery capacity, are sensitive to tree density and the proportion of ERC biomass in the region from which ERC can be removed. The expected cost of delivered biomass ranges from $41 to $92 per ton depending on the assumption of proportion of ERC biomass under contract, quantity of biomass required at the biorefinery, harvest cost, growth rate of unharvested trees under contract, and discount rate.
Q19|Identifying Phosphorus Hot Spots: A spatial analysis of the phosphorus balance as a result of manure application| In this paper, we analyze the phosphorus balance as a result of manure application on the parish level for Denmark and investigate its local geographic distribution. For our analysis, we determine phosphorus loads for the five main animal groups and the phosphorus demand of the fifteen major crop categories. To identify statistical significant local patterns of phosphorus over- and undersupply we apply Getis-Ord Gi* hot spot analysis. Our results show that there is a large variability in the phosphorus balance within Denmark. Statistically significant hot spots appear mainly along the west coast, while cold spots are predominantly present on southern and eastern coasts towards the Baltic Sea. The proximity of oversupply areas to water bodies and other environmental sensitive areas reinforces the need for further phosphorus regulation. These findings show the importance of a spatial targeted regulation, which allows different levels of phosphorus application depending on local economic and environmental circumstances, e.g., distance to an environmental sensitive region.
Q19|Cost-effectiveness of conservation payment schemes under climate change|Climate change is expected to be one of the key threats for biodiversity conservation in this century. Conservation literature has pointed to the inadequacy of current biodiversity conservation practices relying predominantly on static approaches and showed the need to develop “climate-proof” conservation strategies. However, this debate has taken place largely in the conservation planning literature so far and ignored incentivebased conservation policy instruments such as conservation payments. Our general understanding is thus poor about how should conservation payments be designed so that they can contribute to biodiversity conservation under climate change in a cost-effective manner. In this work we develop an ecological-economic model and investigate the cost-effectiveness of various payment design options involving varying degrees of payments’ differentiation and targeting in a landscape whose dynamics is driven by climate change, while considering the impact of changes in key economic and ecological parameters. We provide the first comparative cost-effectiveness analysis of conservation payment designs in a changing climate on a conceptual level. Our results demonstrate the significant cost-effectiveness gains enabled by payments’ differentiation and targeting for biodiversity conservation under climate change. Moreover, we demonstrate the existence of connectivity/area trade-offs under climate change. The cost-effectiveness performance of targeted payments compared to untargeted differentiated payments increase with a decreasing species dispersal ability but decrease with decreasing climate stability in the landscape.
Q19|A mixed-methods study of Bambara farming in Mtwara, Tanzania|Economic research tends to focus on a reduced set of crops, leaving a vast array of crops under-researched. However, these ‘marginal crops’ have typically been farmed for centuries and are better suited for the local environment in which they are grown than crops prioritized within existing research. As such, they can contribute towards a less intensive and productivist mode of farming while at the same time help achieving important sustainable development goals. Our mixed-methods study conducted in Tanzania contributes to advancing knowledge of one such marginal crop, the Bambara nut. On the quantitative side, we surveyed 270 farmers across 16 villages in the Mtwara rural district to gather socio-economic and agricultural data. On the qualitative side, we ran focus groups in four villages to enquire about village norms and constraints surrounding the farming of Bambara. We show that Bambara is often seen as a vital crop for food consumption and food security, as it is easy to grow and has a strong nutritional content. However, despite selling at a high price, its market is not well developed due to lack of availability of improved seeds and unreliable marketing channels. We argue that developing the economic potential of indigenous crops constitutes a path towards greater agricultural sustainability as these crops are suited to local environments, need little chemical inputs, are drought resilient and extremely nutritious. Doing so would constitute a first step towards changing the existing and highly problematic agricultural paradigm and reducing farmers’ dependency on input and output markets.
Q19|The use of IT tools for knowledge management in companies|Research background: Knowledge management is currently one of the most important factors determining the company's market position. It depends not only on the skilful use of resources, but also on obtaining a synergistic effect. To manage knowledge, managers must possess not only the appropriate resources of knowledge, but also must have determined management structure with the assistance of the IT tools. Purpose of the article: The purpose of the article was to present how the modern enterprise knowledge management process is supported by information technology. For this purpose, was summarized selected indicators characterizing the use of ICT in various types of enterprises in the country. It assumed that it is important not only the equipment the companies with information technology tools, but also the degree of use of these tools. Methodology/methods: In this paper was used data published by the Central Statistical Office (GUS), Eurostat, the World Data Bank and Gartner Group. The analyzed indicators of ICT usage are presented in Polish enterprises divided according to the type of activity and size (small, medium, large). National indicators were related to the values occurring in the EU. Findings: Usage of ICT in Poland reaches ratios much lower than the average for the European Union. Large differences in the use of information technology occurs in individual groups of companies. Larger companies have reached a much higher degree of saturation of IT tools than smaller objects. For example, the number of Polish enterprises with computers was 94.7%, in the case of large companies it is 99.8%. Even greater discrepancy relates to access to the Internet. You may also notice differences in each province. Introduction of modern technologies related to computer science and computers (eg. cloud computing, big data, social media, e-commerce etc) enables effective knowledge management in companies. The indicators show that the management team appreciates the importance of knowledge and consistently invests for its development.
Q19|An Investigation of Factors for Changing Land Use Pattern in Bihar with a Piercing Insight on Current Fallow Lands|In the present study, an effort has been made to analyze the factors responsible for changes in land use pattern especially increasing current fallow lands, shrinking net sown area and shifting of lands for non-agricultural purposes in the state. The categories of land such as barren land, culturable waste land and permanent pastures and grazing land have shown declining trend. Further, declining trend in net sown area and other fallow lands has been noticed. Current fallows reduced over the period till 2000s but it began to rise since 2000s afterwards. The rainfall and road length did have significant impact on the level of current fallows. Erratic monsoon and scarcity of labour during the study period of present century resulted/led to accumulation of current fallow lands. It was further observed that the non-agricultural use of land was identified as the dominant factor for changes in common lands as it affected the current fallows negatively. It is a challenging task for policy makers to maximize the income of farming community from continuous decline in net sown area, deteriorating climatic condition (erratic monsoon) as well as labour scarce conditions thus finally resulting in aggregation of current fallows. In order to discourage/ arrest the rising tendency in current fallows or put the current fallows under profitable cultivation, cheap source of irrigation is needed to be made available to cultivators.
Q19|The influence of european funds in visible development of rural areas - case study, place. Ciugud, Alba county|The situation in which the Romanian rural village presents itself is not at all happy, identifying a whole series of problems that may contribute to the worst phenomenon, namely the depopulation of the rural area, characterized by the migration of young people to the big urban centers and the birth rate To an extremely low level. This country-wide phenomenon, but with a more marked manifestation in rural areas, seems to be driven by poor living conditions, lack of jobs, including life perspectives, which make young people leave regions. Those who are involved in the development of these localities are almost non-existent, most often determined by the lack of funds necessary for the investments that could develop the locality or the region, which would then attract investors, thus creating jobs, which could facilitate Leaving young people in rural areas. With the involvement of local authorities by attracting European non-reimbursable funds, the conditions for a harmonious development of these settlements could be created, in which their youth would be the engine of their development.
Q19|Agriculture in the Danube Delta|This paper addresses the evolving nature of agriculture in the Danube Delta, since the 1950s and to the present day. The paper makes the inventory of the studies and programs aimed at increasing the share of the agricultural activities in the Delta, of the attempts to transform the Danube Delta into a significant segment of the Romanian agricultural economy. Over time, there has been a great competition between agriculture and the main Delta resources; in this regard, fishing has always been a key component of the Delta's economy. Between 1955 and 1965, particular importance was given to the industrial exploitation of the reed, as raw material for cellulose and paper. To this end, the Delta was divided and embanked, and a special machine system was implemented in order to harvest the reed. By destroying the reed’s biological bases (the rhizomes), the reed yield decreased; thus, by late 1960s, reed cultivation became unprofitable. Then, it was considered that the embanked areas could be drained and turned into agricultural polders. Successive programs assigned to agriculture larger and larger areas, ranging from 100,000 ha to over 200,000 ha; however, these were not materialized. In fact, agriculture was practiced on areas ranging from 60,000 to 70,000 ha, with a tendency to specialize in a biological system according to the requirements for the environmental protection of the reserve.
Q19|Technical efficiency of dairy farms in Uruguay: a stochastic production frontier analysis|The productivity of Uruguayan dairy farms has been consistently growing for the last 40 years. This process has implied the adoption of new technologies which have had significant effects on the production system. The efficiency with which available technologies are used influence output growth. Hence, assuring and enhancing dairy farms’ productivity and efficiency represent an important challenge to improve the competitiveness of the sector and achieve sustained economic growth. The overall objective of this study is to analyze the efficiency performance of dairy farms in Uruguay. Using a cross-sectional database, this study estimates a Cobb-Douglas stochastic production frontier and technical inefficiency model for dairy farms to determine the effect of each input on the production frontier and the principal factors that explain differences in farm efficiency. Results show that the number of milking cows has the highest effect on production, followed by the total consumption of feed, including concentrated feed, hay and silage. Although veterinary, agronomic and accounting assistance matter, the major determinants of efficiency differences are farmers’ specialization in dairy farming and the usage of artificial insemination. Overall, farm profiles indicate that those in the high efficiency group achieve a higher level of milk production than those less efficient; and they produce under a more intensive production system than farmers in low efficiency groups.
Q19|Diffusion of Farm Tractor in India from 1960 to 2012: Patterns and Prospects| India has one of the largest tractor industry in the world. However, the average tractor use in India is still lower by the world standard, and a huge disparity exists on its uses across states (regions) in the country. With a sharply declining trend in draft animal over the years increased use of farm tractors (and machinery) is inevitable in India now to increase crop productivity, sustain farm households’ income, and rural economic growth. In this context, the objectives of this study are a) to analyze growth pattern of tractor uses across India during the last four decades, then b) to evaluate process, speed of diffusion, and ceiling of diffusion of tractors across various. The study analyze diffusion of four wheel tractors in India using the diffusion study framework of Griliches (1957). This has been done taking data on tractor use across 14 major states of India during the last four decades. The study finds that state-specific ceiling rate and slope of diffusion of tractors hugely vary across the 14 states of India. The empirical analyses show that tractor uses have expanded tremendously in India, specially after liberalization of its economy in early 1990s, and the simultaneous liberalization of the tractor industry polices. At all India level, the ceiling level tractor will be more than double the number of tractors now, and it will be achieved only in late 2050s. This suggest that tractor uses will continue to grow in India even in the coming few decades, with a more widespread adoption across the states and regions of the country.
Q19|Proactive Risk Assessments to Improve Business Continuity|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|Patterns and Drivers of the Agri-Food Intra-Industry Trade of European Union Countries| This paper investigates the drivers of agri-food intra-industry trade (IIT) indices in the European Union (EU-27) member states during the period from 2000–2011. The increased proportion of IIT in matched two-way agri-food trade of the EU-27 member states is consistent with economic integration and economic growth. When export prices were at least 15% higher than the import prices, high-vertical IIT, increased for most member states. This finding suggests that quality improvements occurred when comparing agri-food exports to similar imports of agri-food products. The IIT indices for both horizontal and vertical IIT are positively associated with higher economic development levels, new EU membership and EU enlargement. Additionally, as higher levels of economic development decreases, the size of the economy and marginal IIT increases the effects of agri-food trade liberalization on the costs of the labor market adjustment. Understanding how improvements in agri-food trade quality impact agribusiness and managerial competitiveness reveal significant policy implications.
Q19|Cross-industry Collaborations in the Convergence Area of Functional Foods| Convergence processes are based on the activity of distinct industry sectors showing cross-industry collaborations. The aim of this paper is to analyze cross-industry collaborations between the food and pharmaceutical sectors in the convergence area of functional foods. Selected companies from food (Nestlé/Danone) and pharmaceutical (Martek/Bayer HealthCare) sectors are analyzed using the determinants of motivation and industrial scope. The analysis shows that food companies are more active in cross-industry collaborations than pharmaceutical companies. The latter are more active at the front-end of the value chain focusing on research and development, and delivering their ingredients to food companies that due to their higher expertise in consumer marketing launch the products. While the first cross-industry collaborations were based on an exploration motivation, those that follow focus on exploitation. Acquisitions and licensing agreements are dominant in inside-out and outside-in processes, whereas strategic alliances and joint ventures are based on a coupled process between the food and pharmaceutical sectors.
Q19|Big Data and Smallholder Farmers: Big Data Applications in the Agri-Food Supply Chain in Developing Countries| The potential of big data (BD) applications in agriculture is attracting a growing interest from food and agribusiness industry players, researchers, and policy makers. Possible gains in agricultural productivity and supply chain efficiency from BD-based solutions can help address the challenge of doubling the food supply by 2050. Most of the research in this area evolves around commercial agricultural production in developed countries with relatively limited attention to BD-based solutions focused on smallholder farms in developing countries. This paper provides an overview of the existing and emerging technologies that can potentially enhance the big data application in the agribusiness value chain in developing countries, and presents a discussion of four successful cases of big data applications targeting smallholder producers. This paper also highlights drivers and barriers for smallholder-oriented applications in the agri-food supply chain in developing countries and discusses related implications for policy makers, private industry, and NGOs.
Q19|Similarities and Differences of Animal Welfare Perceptions between U.S. Cow-Calf Producers and the Public| The U.S. livestock industry is increasingly faced with pressure to adjust practices in response to societal concerns. A specific area of growing concern surrounds how production practices impact the welfare of farm animals. The objective of this analysis is to use best-worst scaling to determine which practices the U.S. public and cow-calf producers view as the most effective and most practical practices to improve the welfare of beef cattle in the U.S., and to determine similarities and differences in the public and producer views. Results indicate that both the U.S. public and cow-calf producers view provide access to fresh, clean feed and water appropriate for the animal’s physiological state, and provide adequate comfort through the use of shade, windbreaks, and ventilation assuring clean, dry, sanitary environmental conditions for cattle as the most effective and most practical practices to improve the welfare of beef cattle in the U.S. The practices which were viewed as the least effective and least practical were castrate male calves either within the first three months of age or with pain control, and dehorn/disbud calves either before horn tissue adheres to the skull or with pain control.
Q19|Contributing to Economic and Social Development in Sub-Saharan Africa through Value-Added Agriculture| Primary commodity production and exports are the primary drivers of growth in SSA. Thus, value-added agriculture and the resulting market linkages to other sectors are limited. These limitations constrain the ability of SSA to lift its population out of poverty. To evaluate the contributors to growth, we apply the augmented Solow growth model using a system GMM approach. The two findings of this analysis are value-added agriculture contributes substantially to GDP and overall human development in SSA and the total effect of the agricultural sector exceeds that of the non-agricultural sector, suggesting the need for developing countries in SSA to promote market linkages for economic transformation.
Q19|Khapra beetle, Trogoderma granarium interceptions and eradications in Australia and around the world| The number of recorded intercepts and eradications of khapra beetle (Trogoderma granarium) have increased in Australia and the United States in recent years. Khapra beetle is one of the most destructive stored grain pests, and infestations can destroy the quality of grain and other commodities rendering the product unfit for human consumption. This pest can be easily transported from khapra beetle countries undetected as live beetles, eggs and larvae or in a state of diapause, with the transfer of people and goods around the world. Historically, discovery of khapra beetle post-border has generally resulted in costly eradication programs including methyl bromide fumigation and years of surveillance. Misidentification, failed detection or lack of preparedness has led to slow responses and at times the wide distribution of the pest prior to action. The United States spent over thirteen years (1953 - 1966) eradicating a large scale khapra beetle outbreak that involved fumigation of over 600 sites of infestation and undertaking approximately 97,000 property inspections at a cost of USD $96 – 130 million (2016 dollars). In a first, the United States demonstrated khapra beetle was eradicable, when all infestations are detected, progressively eliminated and reinfestation’s controlled. Later other infestations were detected and eradicated between 1978 and 1997, and the occasional domestic eradication program since. In this paper past khapra beetle incursions, intercepts and eradications in Australia and other countries have also been reviewed. In 2007, a post-border detection in Western Australia was eradicated. Factors contributing to the successful response strategy included the small scale infestation, limited distribution and technical feasibility of the fumigation. Prior preparedness and agreement and cooperation across government, industry and community also led to the rapid response to the incursion. The eradication programs described in this paper were found to be economically justified, although actual losses from pest damage were not that significant. For any exporting country where khapra beetle is endemic costly phytosanitary measures and trade implications come into effect. Therefore, eradication programs are worthwhile and likely to be the optimal response when costs are compared with expected damages avoided. In identifying the optimal response program an understanding of pest biology and behaviour is critical. In this paper we also compare response strategies to khapra beetle infestations with the Australian outbreak of the warehouse beetle (Trogoderma variabile) in 1977 – 1993. We explore the differences in pest characteristics that led to the successful eradication of one and not the other. Finally we consider the problems that are currently of most concern, which are the ability to eradicate khapra beetle in the absence of methyl bromide and the development of resistance to phosphine. Given the inevitability of future khapra beetle incursions, resolving these issues will be essential to maintaining global market access for grain exporting countries such as Australia, the United States and Canada.
Q19|Unorganized agromarkets in Bulgaria|The author analyzed the situation, mechanism of action and stakeholders of unorganized wholesale agricultural markets in Bulgaria. He examined the impact of the state (laws, regulations, infrastructure,control, etc.) on some traditional and well-developed subsectors in Bulgarian agriculture. The conclusion is that the unorganized agricultural markets can be used successfully by farmers when there are a sufficient number of buyers at a price, that covers the expenses incurred, and farmers have warehouses for storage and have the opportunity to wait for higher prices. It was found out that the simultaneous implementation of these conditions is difficult because they are seldom available.
Q19|Sustainable Development of a Dairy and Grocery Sub Complex in Novosibirsk Region|The research reviews the promising directions of sustainable development of a dairy and grocery sub complex of agribusiness in the region. As a result of the analysis and generalization of theoretical research by the scientists, the theoretical basis for sustainable development of a dairy and grocery sub complex of the region was refined, which is considered in the context of the processes of globalization and integration of the Russian economy into the world space in terms of labor productivity growth. The methods of calculation of parameters of milk production in the region were developed, taking into account the growth of labor productivity, as well as the mechanism of distribution of profits from the sale of dairy products. The proposed distribution mechanism will allow raising additional funds in the field of milk production, which currently does not participate in the distribution of profits from milk processing and sale of dairy products. Proposals on updating the departmental target program “Development of dairy cattle breeding in Novosibirsk region for 2014-2020” were submitted in order to ensure the necessary funding for the modernization of livestock farms and their equipment with modern machinery. The introduction of advanced technology and equipment will allow increasing milk production, improving its quality, and reducing the influence of the human factor due to growth in labor productivity. A milk production forecast through to 2020 in Novosibirsk region was developed.
Q19|On the use of palynological data in economic history: New methods and an application to agricultural output in Central Europe, 0–2000AD|In this paper we introduce a new source of data to economic history: palynological data or, in other words, information about pollen grains which are preserved in the bottom sediments of various water basins. We discuss how this data is collected and how it should be interpreted; develop new methods for aggregating this information into regional trends in agricultural output; construct an extensive dataset with a large number of pollen sites from Central Europe; and use our methods to study the economic history of Greater Poland, Lesser Poland, Bohemia, Brandenburg, and Lower Saxony since the first century AD.
Q19|Agriculture and Structural Transformation in Developing Asia: Review and Outlook|Relative to other developing regions, developing Asia has experienced a slower decline in employment share in agriculture, compared to its output share; a rapid growth in labor and land productivity; and a shift from agricultural output from traditional to high-value products. The most successful Asian economies have pursued an agricultural development-led industrialization pathway. Nevertheless, agriculture remains the largest employer in many large Asian countries, hence future structural transformation must take into account agricultural transformation. Extrapolating from past trends, and taking to account emerging conditions, many countries of developing Asia will be expected to move on to the next phase of agricultural development; however even in the long term, agriculture’s employment share will continue to be sizable relative with the output share. To expedite transformation, many Asian countries will still need to promote long term productivity growth in agriculture and facilitate upgrading of their farms and agroenterprises within the global value chain.
Q19|Theoretical Aspects of Socio-Economic Orientation of Agrarian Economy|In a globalized market environment, socio-economic orientation of the agrarian economy is becoming less significant. Focusing only on profit escalating economic entities in the agricultural sector are neglecting the need to ensure the social impact of agricultural activities. This is one of the reasons for the growth of social tension in society. The aim of the article is disclosure of main principles of socio-economic orientation of development of agrarian economy. On the basis of the basic postulates of social market economy theory the necessity of state participation in the provision of social orientation of the agrarian economy is proved. Outlined main principles of social responsibility of business entities according to international standards. Characterized in details the components of the social function of the agrarian economy. It is revealed that the indicator of socio-economic orientation of the agrarian economy is the level of social responsibility of business entities, describing their response to the satisfaction of certain socio-economic needs of the people.
Q19|Cap Direct Payments As The Main Tool To Support The Eu Farmers: An Analysis Of Their Implementation Based On Spain Experience|Direct payments are the main tool of the EU Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and the main objective is to support EU farmers incomes. They benefit from a particular attention during the new 2014-2020 reform. For the first time direct payments were introduced in 1992 after MacSharry reform and known as coupled payments (payments per hectare and animal head). In 2003 were introduced the decoupled payments focused at encouraging farmers and enhancing the competitiveness and sustainability of the EU agriculture. The aim of this paper is to analyze the application of direct payments as main support instrument to the EU farmers based on Spain experience. In Spain the new changes in the Single Payment Scheme (SPS) were first introduced in 2006, beginning with the regime of partial decoupling, until 2012, when the coupled payments disappeared, being integrated under the SPS or transformed into additional payment. In this analysis, secondary data provided by the Spanish Agrarian Guarantee Fund (FEGA), Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment of Spain (MAGRAMA) and Farm Accountancy Data Network (FADN. The analyzed data refers to the amount of allocated direct payments in Spain and EU countries, number of beneficiaries and its distribution on territorial aspect. So far, the distribution of direct payments in Spain, similar to other EU member states, is unequal, as a result of various factors, as the CAP development and diversity of production, the use of historical references to fix the decoupled payments per farm and others.
Q19|Can expert knowledge compensate for data scarcity in crop insurance pricing?|Although there is an increasing interest in area yield insurance in many developing countries, crop data scarcity hinders its implementation by imposing higher premiums. Expert knowledge has been considered a valuable information source to augment limited data in insurance pricing. This article investigates whether the use of expert knowledge can mitigate model risk arising from insufficient statistical data. We adopt a Bayesian framework that allows for the combination of scarce crop data, expert knowledge and weather information, to estimate the loss distribution. We find that expert knowledge reduces the parameter uncertainty and changes the insurance premium in the correct direction.
Q19|Methodological challenges in building composite indexes: Linking theory to practice|Composite indicators are emerging in several fields and disciplines as appealing method to synthesize a multitude of information, in a compact, single, and unique way. The process of aggregating heterogeneous information is itself very challenging and exposed to numerous threats. The chapter deepens on the methodological challenges that scientists, analysts, and final users must be aware of for a correct interpretation of the composite indexes. By mean of a worked example on the construction of composite indicators for food security, the chapter concludes that while different normalization and weighting approaches do not alter composite indicators, data imputation and aggregation methods are the most crucial steps: different methods convey very different results. For instance, the adoption of different aggregation procedures may largely alter the rankings based on composite indicators. In sum, the analysis shows that the index construction decisions matter and comment on policy and practical implications for the construction of composite indicators.
Q19|Croissance agricole, transformation locale des ressources naturelles et industrialisation au Togo<BR>[Agricultural growth, local transformation of natural resources and industrialization in Togo]|This article aims to test empirically the relationship between agricultural growth, local natural resources transformation and the industrialization in Togo. The methodological approach is based on autoregressive distributed lag suggested by Mohammad H. Pesaran and al. (2001), using cointegration techniques. The data cover the period 1976 – 2014. The empirical results show a positive and significant correlation in the long-run between agricultural growth, the part of the value added of the industrial production due to local natural resources transformation by agriculture value added and the interaction between local natural resources transformation on the value added of the industry.
Q19|Agricultural Fires and Infant Health|Fire has long served as a tool in agriculture, but this practiceâ€™s human capital consequences have proved difficult to study. Drawing on data from satellites, air monitors, and vital records, we study how smoke from sugarcane harvest fires affects infant health in the Brazilian state that produces one-fifth of the worldâ€™s sugarcane. Because fires track economic activity, we exploit wind for identification, finding that late-pregnancy exposure to upwind fires decreases birth weight, gestational length, and in utero survival, but not early neonatal survival. Other fires positively predict health, highlighting the importance of disentangling pollution from economic activities that drive it.
Q19|Contract Farming: An Innovative Approach For Risk Management By Small Farmers|Contract farming has been in existence for many years as a means of organizing the commercial agricultural production of both large-scale and small-scale farmers. The approach has considerable potential in developing countries like India where small-scale agriculture continues to be widespread, as small-scale farmers can no longer be competitive without access to the services provided by contract farming companies. The present study was conducted in four districts of Karnataka viz., Tumkur, Kolar, Hassan and Koppal to study the economic status of farmers in contract farming and to know the problems and suggestions. Majority of the farmers practicing contract farming in the study were small and medium farmers with less than 5 acres of land and 5-10 acres of land holdings respectively. It is often difficult for small-scale farmers outside the contract-farming context to gain access to input and risk in quality production but the contractual arrangements involve considerable production support in addition to the supply of basic inputs and assist in risk management. Sponsors may also provide land preparation, field cultivation and harvesting as well as free training and extension, primarily to ensure proper crop practices in order to achieve projected yields and required qualities. Further, the results indicated that there was maximum per cent of increase in economic status of farmers from Hassan (12.12%), Tumkur (14.85%), Kolar (29.13%) and Koppal (18.34%) districts after adopting the contract farming in their fields respectively. Benefit-cost ratio of the four districts viz., Hassan (3.05), Tumkur (2.37), Kolar (2.76) and Koppal (6.18) gave positive signs towards the improvement of farmer?s economic status. Results also showed that majority of the farmers faced financial and situational constraints rather than technological and extension constraints. Financial constraints involve lack of financial assistance in agriculture for initial investments and situational constraints involve non-availability of inputs in time.
Q19|Views And Attitudes Of Farmers/Livestock Breeders And Local Community Concerning Conservation Of The Lesser Ke|The Lesser Kestrel (Falco naumanni) is classified as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List and the Red Data Book of Greece and listed in Annex I of the EU Wild Birds Directive. The species is a migratory small falcon wintering in Africa, south of Sahara and breeding from south Europe, through Balkans and Turkey, to central Asia. It breeds colonially in buildings inside the villages and feeds on insects (mainly large Orthoptera) in farmland, grasslands, meadows and fallow land. The main part of its population in Greece breeds in the villages of Thessaly plain. It interacts with inhabitants in the nesting sites and farmers and livestock breeders in farms and grasslands/meadows, receiving the effects of applied farming practices. Species ecology depends on the activities of the local population, so their actions and opinions are critical to its conservation and survival. Purpose of the study was to investigate the awareness and attitudes of farmers, livestock breeders and local people regarding practices affecting the conservation of the species. The study took place in villages hosting the most numerous colonies of the species. A number of 250 farmers, livestock breeders and local people were interviewed through a questionnaire structured on 25 questions, 5 of which were asking personal information, while the rest 20 the following data: a) awareness about the species protection status, b) adoption of particular rules on agricultural and livestock practices set by the Life Project concerning the Lesser Kestrel, c) voluntary contribution to conservation activities for the species. Out of 250 questionnaires distributed, 210 were valid. The general conclusion was that the majority of the people interviewed was aware of the species breeding and feeding needs and has a positive attitude to the presence of the species in their farms and buildings. Moreover, they are willing to apply practices that contribute to securing further favourable conditions for the species.
Q19|Searching of community in urban territory. In the example of growing crops in community gardens|This report is focused on problems of community creation in urban territory. There is very often process on individualisation and social isolation in the city territory. Community gardens bring people together in pursuance of different motivations and in order to reach their personal needs. From this point of view we can see community gardens as a factor that supports creation and strentght of the communities and interpersonal relationships amont citizens. Through alternative way of obtaining food in the urban environment to attempt to identify opportunities for sustainable food self-sufficiency. These gardens are trying to foster healthy crops in an urban environment, in particular the principles of permaculture. The aim of this paper is to describe the phenomenon of community gardens in Slovakia through cultivation within the collective efforts of the resulting communities and how to organize gardens.
Q19|European Organic Food Consumers: Motives, Actions and Implications (Charakterystyka europejskich konsumentow zywnoœci ekologicznej – motywy, dzialania i implikacje)|The aim of the study was to analyze the motives and to characterize the profile of European organic food consumer using available literature data. According to the research published so far, organic food consumers are, e.g., better educated and more physically active compared to those who declare no interest in organic foods. They also exhibit nutritional patterns more closely adhering to current dietary guidelines, and show lower probability of overweight and obesity. Most of them do not smoke. Among the reasons to buy organic food, most of the consumers mention health in the first place, followed by the environmental aspects, animal welfare and taste.
Q19|Productivity Growth in U.S. Agriculture: 1948-2013|It is widely reported that productivity growth is the main contributor to output growth in U.S. agriculture. This article provides estimates of output growth over the postwar period and decomposes that growth into the contributions of input growth and productivity growth. The analysis is based on recently revised production accounts for agriculture. Our findings are fully consistent with those reported in the literature. Productivity growth dominates input growth as a source of output growth in the sector.
Q19|Impact of value chain governance on the development of small scale shrimp farmers in Vietnam|Purpose of this paper is to identify the tendency of shrimp value chain development and impact of its governance on the small scale shrimp farmers in Vietnam. Design/methodology/approach - Data from the shrimp farmers surveys in Mekong delta, Vietnam from 2008-2010 with the update information in 2014 were taken to analyse by the value chain analysis method. Findings – Traditional governance type of the shrimp value chain in the early state (before 2004) showed the different levels of coordination of farmers with collectors, among collectors, and collectors with processing plants. In this type of governance, trust and linkages are inextricably linked. However, they are not strong. The processing plants determine shrimp prices and quality requirement in the market while many collectors do not seem to be highly responsible for the quality of their products. To avoid this limitation, with the governmental support policy to improve farmers’ income, the processing plants set up a direct buying from farmers under contracts. These contracts led to a new governance type with an expectation of improving farmers' position. However, this model was broken due to several reasons including un-controlled shrimp raw material from small scale and individual farmers. Consequently, processors now tend to establish their own raw material zone to comply shrimp quality assurance, and eject the existence of farmers. This will lead small scale farmers to very difficult problems in finding the market. Poverty and social problems of small scale farmers might appear. The result recommends a greater strengthening and tightening of the value chain. Re-organizing shrimp farmers into legal teams or groups that help farmers to re-participate in the game with others actor in the chain is crucial. Research limitations/implications - The research mainly follows inductive approach in which qualitative methods are dominant due to the difficulties of data collection for the quantitative analysis.
Q19|Agricultural Transportation by Rail: Consolidation, Competition and Fuel Prices|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|The UK public’s perceptions on the issue of the dog overpopulation problem and people’s willingness to pay (WTP) for a humane stray dog management| The present study surveyed a UK representative sample of 500 individuals and employed the Choice Experiment (CE) to elicit the UK public’s views on the management of stray dogs and people’s willingness to pay (WTP) to reduce the current euthanasia rate. The results revealed that people have an emotional bonding with companion animals and are willing to pay to reduce the current euthanasia rate. According to the findings the UK public believes that the current stray dog management of euthanizing unhomed dogs is of grave or moderate concern and appears to be keen on the imposition of welfare-improving policies such as dog licensing, compulsory micro-chipping, etc. In addition, the CE investigated people’s willingness to pay (WTP) on a monthly basis to extend the current stray dog seven day statutory period in order to reduce the euthanasia rate. By constructing two payment methods, those of a Voluntary Contribution and of a Mandatory Council Tax Charge the study revealed that people are willing to pay £5.83 per month for small cross/mixed breed dog under the Voluntary Contribution regime and £2.14 per month for a young dog under the Mandatory Council Tax Charge regime.
Q19|Why the Norwegians do not drink Organic Milk – An analysis of differences in the consumption of organic milk in Germany and Norway| Numerous studies have examined the consumption of organic products in various European countries and found a higher consumption of organic products in the northern European countries as opposed to the southern countries. While Germany is taking a pioneering position in Europe with the largest European market, Norway is falling out of this pattern. Based on a model determining organic consumption from a cross-national perspective developed by Thøgersen (2010) this study analyses, why significant differences in organic consumption of organic milk occur between Germany and Norway. Furthermore, it is discussed whether organic farming is a viable option for Norway since conventional farming in Norway is already considered as very environmentally friendly. The results of this study point to the weaknesses of the Norwegian organic market and give policy suggestions to resolve this. They contradict the widespread opinion among Norwegian consumers that Norwegian agriculture is almost organic. Norwegian agriculture is of no degree less industrialized than German agriculture; their problems are simply perceived to be of a lesser extent by consumers.
Q19|Sustainable food consumption in China and India| This study examines sustainable food consumption in China and India, based on online consumer survey data. It explores which factors influence sustainable food consumption in these countries, based upon a model related to the Theory of Planned Behaviour. Structural equation modelling is used for the analysis and comparison of both countries. Among the similarities found are the significant influence of subjective norms on intention towards sustainable food consumption and the influence of perceived consumer effectiveness on sustainable food consumption behaviour. Price is identified as a barrier to sustainable food consumption. Based on these findings policy and marketing implications are given.
Q19|Napelemes rendszerek alkalmazása tehenészetekben| Tanulmányunkban a tehenészetek energiafelhasználási jellemzőit tekintettük át és a kapott eredmények alapján a fotovillamos napenergia-hasznosítás lehetőségeire kerestünk megoldást kisméretű, 10-100 tehén és szaporulatából álló gazdaságoknál. Számításokkal igazoltuk, hogy a zöldenergia-felhasználás arányainak növeléséhez a kisméretű tejtermelő tehenészetek is képesek hozzájárulni. A napenergia hasznosításával a tehenészetek villamosenergia-igényének 100%-át lehetséges fizikailag fedezni. Kutatásunkban arra a gazdasági kérdésre keressük a választ, hogy érdemes-e, és ha igen, akkor mekkora méretű napelemes rendszert telepítenie egy hazai tehenészetnek. Eredményeink alapján a napelemes rendszer beruházása megtérül, azonban a kockázati tényezők elemzésére kiemelt figyelmet szükséges fordítani. A napelemes rendszerek 15 éves üzemelési idejük alatt a hazai 10-100 tehénből álló gazdaságoknál összesen mintegy 1,4 milliárd Ft költségmegtakarítást eredményezhetnek, ami jelentősen növelhetné a 10-100 állománylétszámú tehenészetek versenyképességét. -------------- The characteristics of dairy farms have been studied in this paper and a solution has been sought for photovoltaic energy use on small dairy farms (10-100 cows). The calculations in this study show that the small dairy farms can really produce green energy. Solar energy can meet 100 per cent of energy needs of these farms. This solar system project is profitable. During 15 years of use of solar systems about HUF 1.4 billion could be realised in cost savings. This amount of money could increase the competitiveness of the dairy farms with 10-100 cows.
Q19|Régi intézmények, új kihívások – a mezőgazdasági tudásrendszer (MTR) Magyarországon| Jelen tanulmány célja a mezőgazdasági és vidékfejlesztési tudásteremtés és tudásátadás, azaz a Mezőgazdasági Tudásrendszer (MTR) magyarországi intézmé¬nyeinek elemzése. Az elmúlt néhány évtizedben a szektorban szükséges tudás szer¬kezete és tartalma is megváltozott. Ezek a változások, különösen a mezőgazdaság fenntarthatóságával összefüggésben, jelentős kihívást jelentenek a hagyományos MTR-intézmények számára, amelyek fejlődése több területen elmaradt az új igé¬nyektől. Cikkünkben áttekintjük a magyar MTR intézményeit, elemezzük a köztük lévő viszonyrendszert, kommunikációt, valamint a mezőgazdaság fenntartható fej¬lődéséhez szükséges tudás létrehozásával és továbbításával kapcsolatos problémákat. Röviden kitérünk a LINSA (tanuló és innovációs hálózatok a fenntart¬ható mezőgazdaságért) elnevezésű, alulról építkező (bottom-up), a formális MTR-t kiegészítő tudáshálózatokra, melyek megfelelő támogatást kapva jelentős fejlődést hozhatnának a vidékfejlesztés számára.-------------- This paper explores and analyses the Hungarian institutional system for the creation and the transfer of knowledge in the field of agriculture and rural development. We consider the constitution and operation of the Agricultural Knowledge System (AKS) in Hungary, focusing on formal institutions, and suggest that both the structure and content of the knowledge needed in the sector have significantly changed in recent decades. These changes, especially in relation to the sustainability of agriculture, pose significant challenges to traditional AKS institutions, which often have failed to change in line with the new requirements. We offer an analysis of Hungarian AKS institutions, their co-ordination, co-operation and communication with each other and with Hungarian rurality, and of the emerging issues and problems concerning the creation and the flow of knowledge needed for sustainable agriculture. We also briefly explore some characteristics of newly-emerging bottom-up structures, called LINSAS (learning and innovation networks for sustainable agriculture), that, if properly considered and supported, could bring significant improvement for Hungarian rural development.
Q19|Crude Oil Contamination And Plants| The objective of this study is to investigate the physiological mechanisms of plant adaptation under crude oil contamination of soil. Different plant species used in the study sedge (Carex hirta L.), bean (Faba bona Medic.), alfalfa (Medicago lupulina L.) and clover (Trifolium pratense L.) showed various biochemical and morphological reactions under oil pollution. The effect of crude oil on root elongation, shoot growth and dry matter accumulation of the four species was evaluated. All investigated plant species under oil contamination formed powerful root system, however the growth of plant aboveground part was diminished. Results of phytohormones content investigation in C. hirta confirmed that the morphological growth reactions occurred due to changes in phytohormonal balance of plants. Crude oil reduced amount of main growth activator auxin in sedge leaves and stimulated the increase of abscisic acid amount. In sedge roots auxin accumulation occurred under oil contamination. We studied antioxidant system of C. hirta and F. bona plants under oil pollution. Results of our investigations show that for adaptation under oil pollution sedge plants accumulate low molecular weight antioxidants, e.g. polyphenols and maintain reduced cell status due to high reduced/oxidized glutathione ratio in root system. In roots of F.bona activation of antioxidant enzymes catalase and peroxidase under oil effect occured. It was shown that crude oil effects nitrogen metabolism in alfalfa and clover plants. The amount of non-protein and amine nitrogen in plants increased, while the proportion of protein nitrogen decreased under oil contamination. To improve soil nitrogen supply we inoculated the seeds of alfalfa and clover with 348a, BN9 and A91 strains of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii for intensification of nodulation in oil contaminated soil. Although the number of nodules on plant roots in oil contaminated soil decreased, their weight was greater than in the control. Improvement of plants nitrogen nutrition in oil contaminated soil requires further investigations.
Q19|One Possible Way Of Applying Information Systems In Agriculture| In recent decades a number of revolutionary change has taken place in the international and domestic IT market substantially affecting almost all areas of information technology. One of the most significant changes is the widespread use, the rapid development and the domestic and international spread of integrated management information systems which feature a wide range of functions and are highly integrated, standard, ready to buy but can be “customize” easily. The IT technology has a very important role in the development of enterprises. This is indicated by the fact that most companies now spend as much on the information technology and information systems as on research. Information technology can contribute to the development of a company at least as much as research activities which, on the other hand, can prove useful only by relying on efficient and global ERP systems. A successful company can retain its competitiveness and profitability only if it is able to renew itself, adapt its organizational structure, and replace its less efficient technological processes, technology, and IT tools with new ones that meet current requirements and expectations. We believe that the application of modern management information systems is a strategic element for businesses to create and retain competitiveness. Unless this system works well, it is utterly difficult to monitor the costs and responses to the customer needs and development expectations are delayed. These statements also hold true for agricultural enterprises on the understanding that owing to the special characteristics of production and environmental factors and the excessive caution of the software developers the introduction of information systems in the sector is in early stages. The earliest implementation and adoption of information systems in the sector is important because a modern, science-based information system can facilitate operational decisions and strategic planning thus boosting competitiveness. --------------------------------------------------------- Az elmúlt évtizedekben több forradalmi változásra került sor a nemzetközi és a hazai informatikai piacon, amelyek az információ-technológia szinte valamennyi területét lényegileg érintették. Az egyik legjelentősebb változást az integrált vállalatirányítási információs rendszerek széles körű alkalmazása, a funkciók skáláját felölelő, magas fokon integrált, standard, készen megvásárolható, majd „testre szabható” információs rendszerek rohamos fejlődése és elterjedése jelentette, szerte a világon és Magyarországon is.A számítástechnika alkalmazásának kiemelten fontos szerepe van a vállalatok fejlődésében. Ezt jelzi az is, hogy a cégek jelentős része ma már ugyanannyit költ az informatikára, az információs rendszerekre, mint kutatásra. Az informatika ugyanis legalább ugyanannyira képes hozzájárulni a vállalat fejlődéséhez, mint a kutatás, amely viszont általában csak a hatékony és globális vállalatirányítási információs rendszerre támaszkodva viszi előre a céget Egy sikeres vállalkozás csak akkor őrizheti meg versenyképességét és jövedelmezőségét, ha képes megújulni, szervezeti struktúráját átalakítani és a kevésbé hatékony technológiai folyamatait, technikai-, informatikai eszközeit lecserélni olyanokra, amelyek a mai kor követelményeinek, elvárásainak megfelelnek. A korszerű vállalatirányítási információs rendszerek alkalmazása véleményünk szerint a vállalkozások számára ma már egyértelműen a versenyképesség megteremtésének, megőrzésének stratégiai eleme. Amennyiben ez a rendszer nem működik jól, nem lehet figyelemmel kísérni a költségek alakulását, késik a reagálás a vevők igényeire és a fejlesztési elvárásokra. Ezek a megállapítások igazak a mezőgazdasági vállalkozásokra is azzal a kitétellel, hogy a termelés, a környezeti tényezők specialitása és a szoftverfejlesztők túlzott óvatossága miatt az információs rendszerek ágazatban történő bevezetése kezdetleges. Az információs rendszerek mielőbbi teljes körű bevezetése és adoptálása az ágazatra azért is fontos feladat, mivel egy korszerű, tudományosan megalapozott információs rendszer megkönnyítheti az operatív döntéseket, illetve a stratégiai tervezést, ezáltal segíti a versenyképességet.
Q19|Agrárpolitika És Piacszabályozás A Mezőgép-Kereskedelemben – Nemzetközi Áttekintés| Egyes országok az élelmiszerbiztonság megteremtése céljából a kereskedelempolitika eszközeivel befolyásolják élelmiszertermelésüket, a termelés egyes szakaszainak-, és az ellátási lánc elemeinek támogatásával, illetve az export és import ügyletekre történő intervenciókkal. A más-más történelmi háttérrel, gazdaság-politikai környezettel rendelkező országok eltérő szabályozási rendszerekkel, rendelkeznek. A cikkben áttekintjük a világ jelentősebb agrártermelő országaiban, napjainkban érvényben lévő, az agrártermelést és a gép-, az input anyag- és termény-kereskedelmet érintő piacbefolyásoló tényezőket, mezőgazdasági támogatásokat. Ismertetjük az Európai Unió Közös Agrárpolitikájának céljait, struktúráját, valamint eszközrendszerét. Bemutatjuk az USA agrártámogatási rendszerét. Kitérünk Oroszországban, a WTO tagság elnyerésével egy időben végbemenő változásokra, majd Dél-Amerika meghatározó országainak agrárpolitikáját, mezőgép-kereskedelemmel kapcsolatos piacszabályozását vizsgáljuk meg. Áttekintjük Kína agrártermelési és gépgyártási potenciálját, valamint India mezőgazdaságának szabályozását. A nemzetközi kereskedelem liberalizációja hosszan tartó folyamat. Nemzetközi tekintetben gyakorlat, hogy egyes országok, illetve térségek kölcsönös előnyszerzés céljából, kétoldalú egyezmények által, a kereskedelmi akadályok lebontásával engedményeket biztosítanak egymásnak. Magyarországot kifejezetten érinti a ratifikáció előtt álló EU-Kanada, illetve az előkészületben lévő EU-USA szabadkereskedelmi megállapodás, amely jól példázza mindezt. ---------------------------------------------------- The ensuring of the food safety is an important economic-political task. Because of this the countries through the trade policy would like to keep their food production under their own management or influence, supporting the sections of the production and the elements of the supply chain, or by interventions to the exports and import transactions. These systems of regulation are varying in different continents, countries, by different historical background, economic and political environment. The aim of this presentation to review the todays situation in the world more considerable agricultural producing countries, concerning the most important market influencing factors and agricultural supports of the agricultural production, machine-, inputs- and product trade. We outline in the article, the aims of European Union's CAP, his structure, and his systems of asset, the changes happening with Russia WTO membership's gaining, and we present the USA agricultural support system. Then we show the agricultural policy of South America's significant countries, by examinations of the related market regulation with agricultural machine trade, we review China agricultural production and his machine producing potential, and the regulation of India's agriculture.
Q19|Comparison Of The Recycling Performance And The Waste Legislation In Hungary And Germany| The European waste management principles are laid down in EU documents. They also include specific targets that Member States have to fulfil within a certain period of time. The three most important documents in this field are the Waste Framework Directive, the Landfill Directive and the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive. The provisions for municipal waste are defined in the Waste Framework Directive that sets the tasks to be completed by 2020. The comparison of performance indicators of Member States shows that there are significant differences. Having examined the relevant statistics, it is visible that the Central European countries (Visegrad4 countries) have similar performance. Their indexes are considerably below the top performers' ones. Therefore, it is useful to compare the public service waste management system of two groups above (top performers and V4 countries), because the municipal solid waste produces the most significant quantity and the most complex waste stream. The national waste management systems must conform to EU legislation; however there is a possibility for a free choice in the detailed rules. Through the comparison of the respective waste management systems the similarities and differences are analyzed in this paper.
Q19|A Talaj És A Növények Kadmiumtartalmának Összefüggés Vizsgálata Nehézfémterheléses Tartamkísérletben| A Károly Róbert Főiskolán 1994 őszén beállított nehézfémterhelési tartamkísérlet (Al, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Pb, Zn) hetedik évében őszi árpát (Hordeum vulgare L.), nyolcadik évében fehér mustárt (Sinapis alba L.) termesztettünk. A talaj és a növények kadmiumtartalmának összefüggés vizsgálatához mindkét kísérleti évben meghatároztuk a jelzőnövények és a talaj szántott rétegének kadmiumtartalmát. A talaj vizsgált nehézfémkoncentráció tartományában a talaj „oldható” (NH4-acetát + EDTA oldható), illetve „összes” (cc. HNO3 + cc. H2O2 oldható) Cd-tartalma az őszi árpa szalma és a mustár esetén lineáris, az őszi árpa szemnél logaritmikus kapcsolatot mutatott a növényi Cd-tartalommal. Mindkét növény esetén szoros összefüggés volt kimutatható a talaj és növény Cd-tartalma között. A 6/2009. (IV. 14.) KvVM-EüM-FVM együttes rendeletben a kadmiumra megadott talaj szennyezettségi határérték az őszi árpánál megfelelő védelmet biztosít, hiszen a kadmiumra vonatkozó szennyezettségi határérték (1 mg/kg) esetén a szalma számított Cd-tartalma 0,21 mg/kg, a szem esetén pedig a modell szerint nincs Cd-akkumuláció. A modell szerint a mustár esetén a 6/2009. (IV. 14.) KvVM-EüM-FVM együttes rendeletben a kadmiumra megadott talajszennyezettségi határkoncentráció (1 mg/kg) nem biztosít megfelelő védelmet, hiszen a szennyezettségi határérték esetén a mustár számított Cd-tartalma 1,3 mg/kg. A kísérleti eredmények a kadmium vonatkozásában a 6/2009. (IV. 14.) KvVM-EüM-FVM együttes rendeletben meghatározott szennyezettségi határértékek felülvizsgálatát indokolják. A kísérletek alapján a javasolt talajszennyezettségi határkoncentráció 1 mg/kg helyett 0,5 mg/kg. ----------------------------------------------------- In the seventh year of the long term heavy metal load (Al, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Pb, Zn) experiments set in the autumn of 1994 at Károly Róbert College, we planted winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and in the eighth year we planted white mustard (Sinapis alba L.). For the correlation test of the cadmium content of the soil and the plants we determined the cadmium content of the indicator plants and the plowed layer of the soil in both experimental years. In the examined range of heavy metal concentration of the soil, the solute (NH4-acetate + EDTA solute) and the total (cc. HNO3 + cc. H2O2 solute) cadmium contents are linear in the case of winter barley straw and white mustard, while there is a logarithmic relationship with the plant’s cadmium content in the case of winter barley grains. In the case of both plants, there was a strong relationship between the cadmium content of the soil and the plant. In the case of winter barley, the limit value regarding the cadmium content of the soil, determined in the 6/2009. (IV.14.) Regulation of the Ministries of Environment- Rural Development, Health and Agriculture-Rural Development, provides sufficient protection; since the pollution limit values regarding cadmium (1mg/kg) result in 0.21 mg/kg cadmium content in the case of straw, and there is no accumulated cadmium content concerning the grain. According to the model, in the case of white mustard, the limit concentration regarding the cadmium content of the soil (1mg/kg), determined in the 6/2009. (IV.14.) Regulation of the Ministries of Environment- Rural Development, Health and Agriculture-Rural Development, does not provide sufficient protection; as the calculated cadmium content of mustard is 1.3 mg/kg at the given limit value. The results of the experiments would require the review of the cadmium limit values provided in the 6/2009. (IV.14.) Regulation of the Ministries of Environment- Rural Development, Health and Agriculture-Rural Development. According to the experiments a limit concentration of 0.5 mg/kg is suggested, instead of the previous value of 1mg/kg.
Q19|A Talaj És A Növények Kadmiumtartalmának Összefüggés Vizsgálata Nehézfémterheléses Tartamkísérletben| A Károly Róbert Főiskolán 1994 őszén beállított nehézfémterhelési tartamkísérlet (Al, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Pb, Zn) hetedik évében őszi árpát (Hordeum vulgare L.), nyolcadik évében fehér mustárt (Sinapis alba L.) termesztettünk. A talaj és a növények kadmiumtartalmának összefüggés vizsgálatához mindkét kísérleti évben meghatároztuk a jelzőnövények és a talaj szántott rétegének kadmiumtartalmát. A talaj vizsgált nehézfémkoncentráció tartományában a talaj „oldható” (NH4-acetát + EDTA oldható), illetve „összes” (cc. HNO3 + cc. H2O2 oldható) Cd-tartalma az őszi árpa szalma és a mustár esetén lineáris, az őszi árpa szemnél logaritmikus kapcsolatot mutatott a növényi Cd-tartalommal. Mindkét növény esetén szoros összefüggés volt kimutatható a talaj és növény Cd-tartalma között. A 6/2009. (IV. 14.) KvVM-EüM-FVM együttes rendeletben a kadmiumra megadott talaj szennyezettségi határérték az őszi árpánál megfelelő védelmet biztosít, hiszen a kadmiumra vonatkozó szennyezettségi határérték (1 mg/kg) esetén a szalma számított Cd-tartalma 0,21 mg/kg, a szem esetén pedig a modell szerint nincs Cd-akkumuláció. A modell szerint a mustár esetén a 6/2009. (IV. 14.) KvVM-EüM-FVM együttes rendeletben a kadmiumra megadott talajszennyezettségi határkoncentráció (1 mg/kg) nem biztosít megfelelő védelmet, hiszen a szennyezettségi határérték esetén a mustár számított Cd-tartalma 1,3 mg/kg. A kísérleti eredmények a kadmium vonatkozásában a 6/2009. (IV. 14.) KvVM-EüM-FVM együttes rendeletben meghatározott szennyezettségi határértékek felülvizsgálatát indokolják. A kísérletek alapján a javasolt talajszennyezettségi határkoncentráció 1 mg/kg helyett 0,5 mg/kg. ---------------------------------------------------- In the seventh year of the long term heavy metal load (Al, As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Pb, Zn) experiments set in the autumn of 1994 at Károly Róbert College, we planted winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and in the eighth year we planted white mustard (Sinapis alba L.). For the correlation test of the cadmium content of the soil and the plants we determined the cadmium content of the indicator plants and the plowed layer of the soil in both experimental years. In the examined range of heavy metal concentration of the soil, the solute (NH4-acetate + EDTA solute) and the total (cc. HNO3 + cc. H2O2 solute) cadmium contents are linear in the case of winter barley straw and white mustard, while there is a logarithmic relationship with the plant’s cadmium content in the case of winter barley grains. In the case of both plants, there was a strong relationship between the cadmium content of the soil and the plant. In the case of winter barley, the limit value regarding the cadmium content of the soil, determined in the 6/2009. (IV.14.) Regulation of the Ministries of Environment- Rural Development, Health and Agriculture-Rural Development, provides sufficient protection; since the pollution limit values regarding cadmium (1mg/kg) result in 0.21 mg/kg cadmium content in the case of straw, and there is no accumulated cadmium content concerning the grain. According to the model, in the case of white mustard, the limit concentration regarding the cadmium content of the soil (1mg/kg), determined in the 6/2009. (IV.14.) Regulation of the Ministries of Environment- Rural Development, Health and Agriculture-Rural Development, does not provide sufficient protection; as the calculated cadmium content of mustard is 1.3 mg/kg at the given limit value. The results of the experiments would require the review of the cadmium limit values provided in the 6/2009. (IV.14.) Regulation of the Ministries of Environment- Rural Development, Health and Agriculture-Rural Development. According to the experiments a limit concentration of 0.5 mg/kg is suggested, instead of the previous value of 1mg/kg.
Q19|Nontariff Measures and Standards in Trade and Global Value Chains|We assess the literature on public and private quality standards and their impact in food markets, international trade, and global supply chains. We focus on their effects on welfare, trade, industrial organization, and labor markets and with special attention to the North-South context. We also attempt to better characterize when these measures constitute protectionism, a complicated task. We look at studies investigating public and private standards and across various quantitative approaches and countries. These standards have complex effects. The evidence is mixed regarding standards as catalyst for or as impediment against trade and development, reflecting the complexity of these effects and their specificity to industries and countries. The analysis of standard-like non-tariff measures and their impacts does not lead to sweeping prescriptions for policy reforms. We identify more modest prescriptions and make some recommendations for fruitful research directions.
Q19|Nontariff Measures and Standards in Trade and Global Value Chains|We assess the literature on public and private quality standards and their impact in food markets, international trade, and global supply chains. We focus on their effects on welfare, trade, industrial organization, and labor markets and with special attention to the North-South context. We also attempt to better characterize when these measures constitute protectionism, a complicated task. We look at studies investigating public and private standards and across various quantitative approaches and countries. These standards have complex effects. The evidence is mixed regarding standards as catalyst for or as impediment against trade and development, reflecting the complexity of these effects and their specificity to industries and countries. The analysis of standard-like nontariff measures and their impacts does not lead to sweeping prescriptions for policy reforms. We identify more modest prescriptions and make some recommendations for fruitful research directions.
Q19|Comparative Analysis Of The Number Of Sheep In Fyr And Some European Countries| Sheep farming in Serbia, from year to year, notices a descending course in number of sheep, as well as in production of milk and meat. The main objective of this paper is the analysis of the number of sheep in Serbia and the surrounding countries (FYR). By comparing the current state of the total number of sheep (in 2011) with the state in the former Yugoslavia, the result shown is that there are 66% less sheep in Serbia compared to the total number seen in 1967 (base year). Compared to the last census from 2012, there is an increased number of sheep in Serbia, compared to previous year (2011) by 18.4%. Other former Yugoslav republics (FYR) also have a decrease in the total number of sheep: in Bosnia and Herzegovina by 76.5%, in Montenegro by 64.3%, in Croatia by 41.3%, in Macedonia by 63.5% compared to 1967 (base year), except for Slovenia, which has an increase in the total number of sheep by 83,000 head of cattle. In paper is given overview of the number of sheep for some European countries and for some part of world, in purpose of comparison with sheep state in FYR.
Q19|The Effect Of Rural Development Policy On Domestic Violence| Rural development policy deals with achieving goals for rural areas and a wide range of socioeconomic activities are included within it. This work intends to connect rural development policies with the occurrence of domestic violence in rural areas. The area of research is the territory of Tuzla Canton, which is, by definition of OECD (less than 150 habitants/km2), a predominantly rural area. Domestic violence is a wide spread form of violence and a discrimination against women. Domestic violence includes all forms of violence occurring in the family, expanding the possibilities that perpetrators of violence and victims of violence may even be persons who do not live in the family but are related to family members, e.g. former partners, relatives, etc. Research results show that victims of domestic violence are in 90% of the cases women (wives, mothers, daughters, sisters, etc.) and that domestic violence is constantly increasing each following year. All forms of violence over women come stem from a principal discrimination towards women which results in coerce or use of force. For that reason, violence over women is a manifestation of a fundamentally unequal position of women and men, and it represents a form of discrimination against women. This paper uses data acquired from Federal Office of Statistics of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and statistical data from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Tuzla Canton. On the basis of the gathered data, we employed the descriptive method, the method of analysis and synthesis, as well as the comparative method of analysis. The hypothesis of this paper was the assumption that “women in rural areas are more frequently victims of domestic violence than women living in urban areas“.
Q19|The Use of Electronic Payment Machines at Farmers Markets: Results from a Choice Experiment Study| The use of electronic payment machines offer vendors an alternative payment method which can increase farmers markets’ sales and customer base. In this study, we elicited the value that managers and vendors assign to different machines’ features. Also we estimated customers’ values on different markets’ features, including access to electronic payment machines. Managers were willing to pay for user-friendly machines, excellent customer service, and excellent quality machine technology. Customers were also willing to pay for excellent quality food, for vendors that are local farmers, and for an entertaining atmosphere. We found no evidence of customers willing to pay premium prices for having access to electronic payment machines at farmers markets. Findings from this study should be useful to those designing ways to implement electronic payment machines at farmers markets in order to increase adoption rates.
Q19|Food Movements in Germany: Slow Food, Food Sharing, and Dumpster Diving| The study investigates the motivation to participate in food movements, as well as the activities and knowledge regarding food waste of active food movement members in Germany. The study builds on theories of social movements. A total of 25 in-depth interviews with activists of the Slow Food organization, the Food Sharing organization, and with dumpster divers were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed through qualitative content analysis. Participation in the movements rests upon instrumental, ideological, and identificational motivations. The knowledge of food waste differs between the three movements. Sharing, food waste, and tendencies of anti-consumerism play a strong role in all movements.
Q19|Determinants of Profit Efficiency Among Smallholder Beef Producers in Botswana| The livestock sector is vital to Botswana’s rural economy comprising nearly two-thirds to the national agricultural sector. The goal of this research is to measure competitiveness and identify the factors affecting it, so as to advocate change in Botswana’s smallholder livestock systems. The study examines a cross section of farm-level data gathered from 556 randomly selected livestock producers to investigate the profit efficiency and competitiveness of three farm size categories of small holder livestock farmers. Results found a considerable capacity to improve beef profitability. Scale effects on profit efficiency are generally positive, but the results indicate a number of interactions between scale and other variables such as off-farm income and the use of credit. Policy analysis and commercial decisions using models that assume efficiency are therefore presenting a misleading picture, particularly on the elusive subject of Botswana smallholders’ beef supply response.
Q19|The Livestock Roles in the Wellbeing of Rural Communities of Timor-Leste| The livestock species play very important economic and socio-cultural roles for the wellbeing of rural households, such as food supply, source of income, asset saving, source of employment, soil fertility, livelihoods, transport, agricultural traction, agricultural diversification and sustainable agricultural production. The aim of this work was to identify and characterize the different roles that livestock and livestock species play in rural communities of Timor- Leste, highlighting the importance of animal production for the wellbeing and rural development, and relate the functions performed by livestock production with economic, social and cultural attributes of the communities. The data used in this study were collected in 2011 through a questionnaire survey in three rural communities in the district of Bobonaro, namely in a mountain area, an irrigation plain and a coastal zone, and were complemented with secondary data. Livestock production in Timor-Leste is predominantly familiar being chickens, pigs, goats, cattle, horses, buffaloes and sheep the main species. Beyond the economic function, each livestock species also performs social and cultural functions.
Q19|Factors influencing the purchase and consumers’ willingness to pay for ground bison| A consumer preference study that included willingness to pay and consumer sensory experiments was conducted for ground bison versus ground beef. A total of 82 subjects completed the study. The initial statistical analysis suggest that there is consistent consumer behavior with respect to consumer preference and frequency of consumption within species consumption options, but consistent consumer behavior appears to weaken when across species consumption preferences is compared to across species frequency of consumption patterns.
Q19|A Chronological Study of Total Factor Productivity and Agricultural Growth in U.S. Agriculture| This paper estimates the Total Factor Productivity (TFP) index for the U.S. agricultural sector from the period 1970 to 2004 and decomposes the resulting TFP estimation in the Trans-logarithmic production function for U.S. agriculture for the same period to determine the residual measure that explains variation in output aside from land, labor and capital inputs. The objective is to identify the major sources of agricultural productivity in the U.S. from the period mentioned and furthermore estimate the residual in the production function that the Neoclassical production function does not explicitly explain.The results indicate a collective contribution of intermediate inputs such as pesticides use and energy inputs and infrastructural development spending such as overall federal disbursement on highway on TFP and consequently on agricultural output growth for the time period under consideration.
Q19|A Chronological Study of Total Factor Productivity and Agricultural Growth in U.S. Agriculture| This paper estimates the Total Factor Productivity (TFP) index for the U.S. agricultural sector from the period 1970 to 2004 and decomposes the resulting TFP estimation in the Trans-logarithmic production function for U.S. agriculture for the same period to determine the residual measure that explains variation in output aside from land, labor and capital inputs. The objective is to identify the major sources of agricultural productivity in the U.S. from the period mentioned and furthermore estimate the residual in the production function that the Neoclassical production function does not explicitly explain.The results indicate a collective contribution of intermediate inputs such as pesticides use and energy inputs and infrastructural development spending such as overall federal disbursement on highway on TFP and consequently on agricultural output growth for the time period under consideration.
Q19|Wodurch wird die Arbeitszufriedenheit landwirtschaftlicher Arbeitnehmer beeinflusst?|Im Zuge von Änderungen der Agrarpolitik und des Strukturwandels entwickeln sich landwirtschaftliche Familienbetriebe zu erweiterten Familienbetrieben mit familienfremden Arbeitskräften und müssen sich in der Folge vermehrt personalwirtschaftlichen Fragestellungen widmen. Angesichts des zunehmenden Fachkräftemangels erlangt die Arbeitszufriedenheit von landwirtschaftlichen Arbeitnehmern eine wichtiger werdende Bedeutung. In dieser Studie werden die Einflüsse verschiedener betrieblicher Aspekte sowie der Lebens- und der Gesundheitszufriedenheit auf die Arbeitszufriedenheit landwirtschaftlicher Arbeitnehmer untersucht. Die Ergebnisse einer multivariaten Analyse mittels eines Regressionsmodells zeigen, dass besonders die Gesundheitszufriedenheit und die Tätigkeit selbst einen großen Einfluss auf die Arbeitszufriedenheit landwirtschaftlicher Arbeitnehmer haben. Die Ergebnisse zeigen somit Möglichkeiten auf, wie Betriebsleiter die betrieblichen Aspekte positiv beeinflussen können, um die Arbeitszufriedenheit ihrer Arbeitnehmer zu steigern. In response to changes in agricultural policy and structural changes in agriculture, family-run farms are developing into extended family-run farms with non-family employees. As a consequence, farm managers frequently find themselves having to deal with issues of personnel management. Due to the increasing shortage of skilled labour, farm workers’ job satisfaction has taken on growing importance in acquiring and retaining workers. This study investigates the influence of various farm-related factors, as well as lifestyle and health satisfaction, on the job satisfaction of agricultural employees. The results of a multivariate regression analysis show that two factors – health satisfaction and the work itself – play a particularly large role in farm workers’ job satisfaction. These results suggest options for farm managers looking to increase job satisfaction among their non-family employees.
Q19|Efectos Del Capital Humano En El Sector Agrícola: Análisis De 12 Países De La Ocde|La literatura empírica tiene dificultades para medir el efecto del capital humano en el sector agrícola. Esto puede deberse a la baja calidad de las variables de capital humano utilizadas tradicionalmente. El presente trabajo elabora un indicador de capital humano más complejo que los que se vienen utilizando, y que tiene en cuenta las dimensiones cuantitativa y cualitativa del concepto. Nuestros hallazgos, medidos con el nuevo indicador, confirman un efecto positivo y significativo del capital humano sobre el valor agregado y la eficiencia del sector agrícola. Aún más, el nuevo indicador confirma que el capital humano altamente cualificado presenta un impacto positivo para el sector agrícola, y que el capital humano de cualificación media posee una importancia fundamental en el sector, dando cuenta de un aporte aún mayor que el del trabajo de baja cualificación, lo que supone un hallazgo novedoso en el análisis del sector agrícola. The empirical literature has difficulties in measuring the impact of human capital in the agricultural sector. This may be due to the low quality of human capital variables traditionally used. This paper develops an indicator, more complex than those that have been used, which takes into account the quantitative and qualitative dimensions of human capital concept. Our findings, measured with the new indicator confirms a positive and significant effect of human capital on the added value and efficiency of the agricultural sector. Furthermore, the new indicator confirms that the highly skilled human capital has a positive impact on the agricultural sector, and that the medium-skilled human capital is of fundamental importance in the sector, showing an impact even greater than the contribution of labor low qualifications, which is a novel finding in the analysis of the agricultural sector.
Q19|Intellectual property protection in plant varieties: A worldwide index (1961–2011)|In this paper, we construct a new index measuring the strength of intellectual property (IP) protection for plant varieties in 69 countries over the period 1961–2011. We examine the statistical properties of the index and compare it with other indicators of IP protection. We conclude that the index provides a reasonable synthetic assessment of the relative strength of IP protection in plant varieties across countries. In addition, we study the main determinants of the evolution of the index and examine the patterns of correlation between the index and agricultural production.
Q19|Utilization Of An Agricultural Land As A Basic Capacity For Corn And Wheat Production In Serbia And Ex-Yu Countries|Analysis of collected data from 2011, in structure of used agricultural land in Serbia shows that dominated plough land and gardens and meadows and pastures, until in smaller percentage are orchards and vineyards. Almost the same relation is noticed in other republics of former Yugoslavia (meadow and pastures are the most prevalent view of using the agricultural land in Slovenia, Macedonia, B&H and Montenegro). Share of area under wheat notice smaller oscillation in all republics in the period 2008-2010, until yield per hectare is equalized for the same observed period. Share of area under corn in correlation with sown areas, for the period 2008-2012 is almost equalized for all republics. The average yield of corn per hectare records declining trend from 2008-2012, and it shows that by production Serbia is behind Slovenia and Croatia. Also, it was stated that world production of cereals grow in 2012 and in 2013, contributed by corn and wheat production in China, North America, European countries and former Soviet Union. Analysis of used land capacities is emphasized importance of land as a limited factor in production and base on that has given recommendation for alleviating problems in agriculture and food production. Conclusions are given based on calculation of percentages and their mutual comparisons for every country included in the research.
Q19|Climate change in agricultural areas from Muntenia. Scenarios for Romanian plain and piedmont plain|Climate change is a global challenge not only for the future but also for our present. The development of global warming phenomena, decreasing rainfall and soil erosion are counterproductive for agriculture - these elements are directly harming the quality of crops. Rainfall, average-temperatures, maximum and minimum air temperatures are the main climatic indicators (parameters) to be observed, analyzed and interpreted, qualitatively and quantitatively, in order to find optimal solutions for agricultural production within a culture basin. By performing this study we aimed to process, analyze and interpret the climatic parameters of rainfall and temperature, measured throughout the period of time 1961-2013 by four weather stations of reference for the agricultural territory of Wallachia, respectively in Pitesti, Targoviste, Stolnici and Fundulea areas. The results were used in forecasting medium term climate scenarios, i.e. for the purview of future years 2020 and 2030 and we hope these will be useful for agronomical research. Based on the conducted studies, there have been noticed changes of climate parameters within this area, i.e. changing of average and extreme temperatures, of quantities of rainfall during the vegetation and dormant periods of time â€“ these changes might affect (from the aspect of quality and quantity) the value of agricultural production within the studied area. Climate change effects are negative elements for agriculture, which are propagating within the agricultural territories. As a short-time-effect we can notice the reducing of soil water reserves which are necessary for agricultural crops and as a middle- and long-time-effect we can notice soil quality depreciation.
Q19|Modern man, a potential victim of information warfare?|Usually, when discussing the impact of social, economical or technological changes, local, national or international entities are taken as reference. In particular, when considering such an important subject as the relationship between technology, security and information warfare, collectivities are the main focus, also or especially when it is about â€žan information attackâ€ exerted with the purpose of manipulating through verbal or visual stimuli.
Q19|Market of agricultural products before and after economic crisis|The paper aims to present Romania's agricultural market situation before and after the economic crisis. The interpretation of results was based on statistical data from the National Institute of Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Eurostat. In processing the data were taken into account the following indicators: production of agricultural products, consumption and self-consumption of population and economic factors that influence consumption.
Q19|New technologies for monitoring the damage of composite structures in aviation|Man has been concerned throughout its evolutionary history surrounding the use of materials in order to facilitate and improve activities. From making hunting weapons, agricultural tools to the development of complex machines, man has taken and processed the materials around. The current concern is to create its own materials. A composite material is composed of at least two constituents with different mechanical properties through the combination of which results in a material with elastic properties and strength superior to constituents. Composite materials, anisotropic by nature, has a number of advantages over conventional isotropic the materials, such as fatigue strength, corrosion resistance and specific stiffness (relative to weight) of benefit. The most important aspect of composite materials is that can be shaped, for a known applications condition, so as to provide maximum rigidity in the direction of highest solicitation. The upward trend in the use of composite materials in the aviation industry not only requires a thorough knowledge of the behavior of these materials, of their way of breaking. Questions like when, how and why composites fails need an answer as well-founded by theories and experimental determinations. New materials involve new techniques in their exploitation, often with high costs. How composite materials have been taken to reduce costs in the long term, it requires the development of these technologies to their efficiency form the economic and operational point of view.
Q19|Common Agricultural Policy Reform and the New Priorities for Financing Rural Development in the European Union|This article proposes a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the new funding priorities of rural development in the Member States during 2014-2020. The central goal of our research aims to highlight the impact of Common Agricultural Policy reform on its main financing instruments: direct payments and rural development programs. Also, our research will assess, through a SWOT analysis, which are the main funding opportunities for Member States adapted to their specific national circumstances, but convergent with Common Agricultural Policy strategic objective: financing the sustainable rural development in European Union.
Q19|The dynamics of Organically Certified Operators in Romania Between 2012 and 2014|The land area that is organically certified increased constantly in the last six years serves as proof that the organic agriculture system becomes more popular in Romania. This study aims to present a clear picture of the dynamics of the organically certified operators between 2012 and 2014. To the best knowledge of the author, this research is unique as it analyses in dynamic the evolution of the certified operators, their geographical distribution in the country and the market share of the certification bodies in the analyzed period, based on the data collected over a three year period from both certification bodies and the Romanian Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The main results refer to the trends of migration of certified operators from one certification body to another and the number of operators that entered in the system of organic agriculture and of those that decided to exit.
Q19|Modeling tourism flows through gravity models: A quantile regression approach|Gravity models are widely used to study tourism flows. The peculiarities of the segmented international demand for agritourism in Italy is examined by means of novel approach: a panel data quantile regression. We characterize the international demand for Italian agritourism with a large dataset, by considering data of thirty-three countries of origin, from 1998 to 2010. Distance and income are major determinants, but we also found that mutual agreements and high urbanization rates in countries of origin are associated with larger flows of incoming tourists.
Q19|The structure of authorized spaces for the storage of agricultural production in Romania 2014|This work aims to present a study that consisted of researching, interpreting of statistical data, combined with theoretical aspects that allowed a brief but pragmatic analysis of storage spaces existing in Romania at present and assessing the deficit storage space of the total vegetal production of the main categories of vegetal crops in 2014. Thus, knowing these matters there can be developed national strategies to prevent imbalances and distortions which can appear in the correct formation that prices of crop production, representing a real advantage for agricultural producers in Romania. Thus, at the end of 2014 in Romania for a total of 25,602,657 tons of total agricultural production of the main crops and a total storage capacity of 20,817,496 tons, according to the working hypothesis mentioned, it follows a deficit of 4,785,161 tons of storage.
Q19|Inter-sectoral Productivity Differentials in India|This study estimates the total factor productivity growth across broad economic sectors in India with an aim to explore the possibility of achieving convergence. While analyzing inter-sectoral productivity differentials, it investigates the role of human capital in enhancing productivity and also examines the sources of output growth. Broad findings from 1993â€“1994 to 2011â€“2012 indicate large variations in the sectoral employment and output shares, as do the rate of growth in income and capital stock. Productivity has grown in manufacturing and in a few services, but its contribution to growth has increased in almost all the sectors to more than 50 per cent of that of labour and capital. The impact of education is visible, albeit mildly, in augmenting employment and productivity growth. Nevertheless, catching up of agriculture with non-agricultural sectors appears to be remote in the near future. The article highlights a need to accelerate investment and productivity in agriculture, more so in view of large gaps in ruralâ€“urban income and poverty.
Q19|The Effect of Microinsurance on Economic Activities: Evidence from a Randomized Field Experiment|We report results from a large, randomized field to study how access to formal microinsurance affects production and economic development. We induce exogenous variation in insurance coverage at the village level by randomly assigning performance incentives to the village animal husbandry worker who is responsible for signing farmers up for the insurance. We find that promoting greater adoption of insurance significantly increases farmers' sow production, and this effect seems to persist in the longer run; moreover, the increase in sow production in response to the sow insurance does not seem to be the result of the substitution of other livestock. © 2015 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Q19|Productividad de la tierra agrícola en el sudoeste bonaerense|The objective of this paper is the analysis of the evolution of agricultural land productivity in the southwestern region of Buenos Aires (SOB) during the period 1970-2010, as well as a comparison with the same indicator at country level, that uses Divisia indices in its discrete version (Index Tórnqvist - Theil). In this version only Agricultural Land Productivity could be obtained because of the lack of complete information needed in order to calculate Total Factors Productivity. The results at regional level show a slightly decreasing trend in productivity of regional agricultural land
Q19|A Food Demand System Estimation for Rural Malawi: Estimates Using Third Integrated Household Survey Data| In contrast to the myriad of empirical work on food demand in other countries, very few studies have considered zero expenditures on some food groups. Those which have attempted have been based on techniques which result in endogeneity and inefficient estimates which in turn may misinform policy calibration. Improving on methodological flaw of previous studies, the present study censors zero expenditures in the first stage using simulation based maximum likelihood multivariate probit. In the second stage, Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand System which allows for a more realistic assumption of curvature in Engels curve is estimated. In turn, food expenditure and price elasticities are derived. In view of the high expenditure elasticities, considering a policy option that would enhance rural consumer income is desirable, since it will result in high consumption thereby providing more incentives for food production.
Q19|Adoption of greenhouse gas mitigation in agriculture: an analysis of dairy farmers’ preferences and adoption behaviour| Greenhouse gas mitigation in agriculture implies changes in farm management practices. Knowledge on farmers’ current adoption of management practices aimed at reducing emissions, and their preferences regarding these, is important to inform the development of robust climate change mitigation policies in the agricultural sector. In the context of Scottish dairy farms, this study combines information on current adoption of mitigation practices with preference information based on Best-Worst-Scaling to facilitate the choice of mitigation practices to support via policy mechanisms that encourage and incentivise change. We find that current adoption plays an important role in understanding preference rankings of mitigation practices, and identify promising mitigation practices based on their potential for additional emission reduction, their perceived contribution to the farm’s financial and environmental performance and information on their cost-effectiveness.
Q19|A Rövid Ellátási Láncban Rejlő Lehetőségek És Veszélyek Magyarországon| Az elmúlt évtizedek egyre inkább modernizálódó vásárlói szokásai és ennek következtében koncentrálódó kiskereskedelem rohamos térhódítása után, az utóbbi években újra növekvő igény mutatkozik a szorosabb termelői-fogyasztói kapcsolatok kialakítása iránt. Ezt igazolta az Eurobarometer (2011) felmérése is, miszerint az Európai Unió országaiban - köztük Magyarországon - a válaszadók jelentős többsége vélte úgy, hogy az Uniónak támogatni kellene a rövid ellátási láncok (REL) megerősödését. Magyarországon jelenleg a REL-en belül elsősorban a közvetlen értékesítés hagyományos formáinak (pl. piacok) alkalmazása elterjedt a termelők és a vásárlók körében, az innovatív, modern formák jóval ritkábbak (pl. közösség támogatta mezőgazdaság, doboz rendszer, házhozszállítás). A REL hazai fejlesztése nem könnyű feladat, hiszen a kínálat oldalán jellemzően a legkisebb (egyéni, vagy mikrovállalkozások) termelők találhatók, akiknek együttműködési és érdekérvényesítő képességük is gyenge. Ugyanakkor számukra lenne a legfontosabb az értékesítési lehetőségeik és piacképességük javítása. A kereslet oldalán a REL részvételének erősítése mellett a fogyasztói bizalom növelése, illetve a korlátos hazai vásárlóerőt figyelembe vevő REL megoldások kialakítása lenne kedvező. A tanulmány elsősorban a REL hazai helyzetét vizsgálja, kiemelve azokat a lehetőségeket és veszélyeket, amely szempontok figyelembevétele feltétlenül szükséges az értékesítési csatornák e típusainak fenntartható működéséhez. ------------------------------------------------------------ The customers’ habits have changed and the retailers gained ground in the past decades. Recently there is a growing need for direct consumer-farmer relationship. It was also verified by the evaluation of the CAP of Eurobarometer, where the majority of participants from the EU (including Hungary) thought that the EU should support the short supply chains (SSC). At present mainly the traditional ways of direct marketing are popular within the short supply chains amongst Hungarian farmers and customers such as markets. The innovative, modern forms are rare, i.e. box scheme, home delivery, community supported agriculture. Developing SSC in Hungary is not an easy task, as small farmers can tipically be found at the supplier side such as single or micro entrepreneurs, whose co-operating and lobbying skills are not too strong. At the same time, it would be most important for them to develop their marketing possibilities and food safety. On the side of demands it is important to strenghten the consumers’ trust as well as the participation of SSC. It would also be useful to form new SSC solutions taking the limited local spending power into account. The study mainly examined the local status of SSC, highlighting the possibilities and dangers of such channels in Hungary.
Q19|Farm Management Information Systems: A Case Study On A German Multifunctional Farm| Accurate and easy to use Farm Management Information Systems (FMIS) are of fundamental importance for a successful operational farm management. However, still today many farmers do not use FMISs for various reasons, like lack of knowledge and the complexity of many available FMISs. In particular for small to medium-sized farms and for multifunctional farms appropriate FMISs hardly exist. This paper aims on the deduction of a concrete FMIS from a general FMIS. The concrete FMIS has to focus on the needs of medium-sized and multifunctional farms. This means that the farmer has to be empowered to allocate the scarce resources of the farm. Therefore, we picked a German farm from the state North Rhine Westphalia as a case-study to apply a system analysis. The case study farm helps to identify and to analyze relevant material and information flows, production processes, and their interconnections and synergies.
Q19|Production And Economic Specificities In Growing Of Different Garlic Varieties| Importance of garlic is enormous for both human health and cookery. Garlic is a crop whose production does not endanger the agro-system and the eco-system, which is of special significance for organic food production. Considering that growing garlic is based on the application of agro-ecological and agro-economic principles, this paper describes the soil preparation process for planting, planting technology, application of agro-technological measures. It also gives an account of the basic characteristics of the planting material, its extraction and storage. The subject of research of this paper is to determine yield of different garlic types on two different locations in Serbia. It also aims to determine costs and calculations based on variable costs, as well as to compare economic results of production of different garlic types on family-own small-scale farms.
Q19|Financial Benchmarking The Example Of Confectionery Industry Companies| Being a managerial tool of proven efficiency when it comes to managing companies in crisis periods, benchmarking concept is still insufficiently known and applied in the Republic of Serbia. The idea of this paper was to reveal its possibilities through the aspect of financial benchmarking, showing its simplicity and benefits even from the point of an external analyst. This was achieved through the analysis of two biggest competitors on the market of confectionery products of the Republic of Serbia, using secondary data analysis. Through multidimensional set of performance measures based on profit as the ultimate goal, but also including value for shareholders, liquidity and capitalization, we have confirmed the leader’s market position and found its sources, which are the key learning points for the follower to adopt in order to improve its performance.
Q19|Bottlenecks and Opportunities for Quality Improvement in Fresh Pineapple Supply Chains in Benin| This study mapped and diagnosed the fresh pineapple supply chains in Benin to identify bottlenecks in pineapple quality improvement for different markets. A research framework was defined that comprised all relevant aspects to be researched. After 54 semi-structured interviews with key informants, 173 structured interviews were held with actor groups. The chain diagnosis showed there was no concordance between actor groups in which quality attribute they valued most. Moreover, pineapple quality was found to be highly heterogeneous. Key bottlenecks identified were lack of training of primary producers in production practices, unconditioned transport, and unavailability of boxes for export.
Q19|Livestock Markets and Buyers' Perspectives on Voluntary versus Mandatory Disclosure of Information: Evidence from Cattle Markets in Uttar Pradesh| Using data from buyers and sellers of livestock in three markets in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh this study examines the functioning of livestock markets with focus on disclosure of information and constraints faced by buyers and sellers. In traditional markets voluntary disclosure has been reported to exist for quite long, but it restricts itself to information on search and experience attributes of the animals which may lead to lack of transparency in the markets. The findings of the study clearly indicate that the livestock market may work well to induce self or voluntary disclosure of information for search and experience attributes, the mandatory disclosure is important for credence attributes of the animal and thereby efficient functioning of markets. The study suggests strengthening of infrastructure in livestock markets
Q19|Value Chains for Livestock Products in himalayan Mountains: Studies from Jammu and Kashmir| This paper examines value chains for milk, mutton, wool and pashmina fibre in the mountainous state of Jammu and Kashmir using survey data collected from livestock producers, market functionaries including institutional and non-institutional buyers. Vendors dominate the milk market, but for dairy farmers selling milk to them is not as remunerative as to the institutional buyers. The state is deficit in mutton and imports almost half of its requirements from neighbouring states. Most of the wool produced in the state is exported. Butchers and traders of Ladakh are important market functionaries in market for pashmina fibre. The study has also identified institutional failures in livestock markets, and suggests strengthening integrated value chains for livestock products as to enable livestock producers capture benefits of expanding demand for livestock products.
Q19|Economic Analysis of Leaf Rust Management by Chemical Controls: Evidence and Implications for Household Coffee Farmers in India| Coffee Leaf Rust (CLR) is a disease that affects the production of Arabica coffee. Its management is essential to improve the production, income and livelihood of household Arabica coffee farmers. This paper develops a simple methodology to calculate the economic costs, gross returns and net economic gains of CLR management by adopters of chemical controls at the national, state and district levels in India. Chemical controls are distinguished by application of recommended and non-recommended combinations and spray schedules of Bordeaux mixture and Systemic fungicides. The methodology is implemented by using a newly collected sample survey data of 575 household Arabica coffee farmers in the traditional coffee growing regions (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala) and comprising more than 90 per cent of small farmers. In general, empirical results offer evidence for higher gross returns and positive net economic gains for all adopters of chemical controls with remarkable inter-state and inter-district variations. Though total cost shows remarkable variations between chemical controls and across regions, the composition of total cost shows higher chemical input cost than labour cost for all chemical controls and in all regions. These results have implications for design of a public promotional policy of CLR management by chemical controls for small farmers on empirical economic grounds. Subject to the comparability of CLR by chemical controls, the methodology, empirical results and policy implications are applicable and relevant for other coffee growing and developing countries of Asia and Africa.
Q19|A Distribuição Normal-assimétrica como Modelo para Produtividade de Milho Aplicada ao Seguro Agrícola| The crop insurance sold in Brazil is estimated using the average of the municipal agricultural productivity of the last four or five years. Many researchers believe that using a probabilistic model for the distribution of agricultural productivity is a better methodology for this purpose. This study advocates using the skew-normal distribution as an alternative to the normal distribution to model the distribution of agricultural productivity in Brazil. We analyzed series of corn yield from 1981 to 2007, in 30 counties in Paraná State, Brazil. The skew-normal distribution showed better fits than the normal distribution for the vast majority of the counties, and, consequently, led to better estimates for the expected payment of crop insurance.
Q19|O Campesinato Brasileiro: uma história de resistência| The representation of Brazilian agriculture, associated with large monocultures and agroexport farms is the result of a “social amnesia” that denies the contribution of the peasantry to society. Defined as a social production form, the peasantry represents a way of life and a culture. It is necessary to understand agrarian, productive and familiar strategies that favored, in Brazil, the occupation of precarious and temporary spaces or the effective creation of rural communities with greater durability. The modernization of agriculture in the twentieth century led to the expulsion of residents and squatters. With democratization, rural social movements re-inscribe the debate about the relevance of the land issue and the pertinence of land struggles. The recent theoretical and political debates about the categories “peasantry” and “family farm” confirmed the formation of a sector of non-employers and non-landlords’ farmers, who exercise their own ways of living and working, confirmed by data from the last Agricultural Census (2006). The most economically disadvantaged establishments were initially considered as a “peripheral fringe”, while territorial programs have incorporated them in the condition of “rural poor”. The inclusive production that corresponds to this type of farmer should consider its historical resistance like peasants.
Q19|The Grains Industry: An overview of the Australian broad-acre cropping| This report gives an overview of physical, socioeconomic and financial characteristics and best management practices of broadacre farming in several Australian Agroecological zones (WA Northern, WA Central, QLD Central, NSW ne/QLD se, SA-Vic Mallee and SA Midnorth – Lower Yorke Eyre zone). Average grain yields tend to be highest in Queensland Central and NSW ne/QLD se Agroecological zones. Lowest yields are found in the SA-Vic Mallee zone. Farm business profits highly vary between zones. During the period 2006-07 to 2008-09, highest business profits were realized in the Queensland Central zone. Average yearly farm business profits for WA Northern, SA-Vic Mallee and SA Midnorth Lower Yorke Eyre zone were estimated to be negative for this same period. Next to grains production, beef cattle is an important source of income in the northern regions (Queensland Central Zone, and to a lesser extent NSW ne / QLD se). In the southern and western regions, sheep and wool production is a more common source of income on broadacre farms (next to grains). Information about on-farm management practices that are considered to achieve enhanced productivity and environmental management is provided in this report. The most important best-management practices are no-tillage and stubble retention, which are widely adopted across Agroecological zones. We also briefly review corporate farming in Australian broadacre agriculture, showing that only 1.8% of all broadacre farms were considered to be corporate farms in 2013.
Q19|A summary of four Australian bio-economic models formixed grain farming systems| This report describes four models used to analyse Australian broadacre mixed-grain farm systems. The models that are included in this report are: IMAGINE, STEP, LUSO and APSfarm. For each model, we include a brief description of how they work, their data requirements and model outputs. IMAGINE is a bio-economic model that focuses on the impacts of tree belts on crop yields. The model accounts for the interactions between herbaceous and woody crops in terms of water and nutrient competition. Its financial analysis includes cash flow reporting. The STEP model simulates the transition from one farm system to another (mainly land-use sequence), and gives a full financial analysis of the change. LUSO simulates the impact of diseases, weeds and break crops on crop yields. LUSO reports discounted cash flows for different management strategies. The APSFarm model focuses on operational decisions. It simulates how the allocation of production and factor inputs affect farm business performance and the environment.
Q19|Aspects On Consumers Attitude Toward Genetically Modified Foods Among Youth|Advances in food biotechnology and food science in the early 1990s have opened the gates of new markets for genetically modified foods. A broad dispute over the use of foods derived from genetically modified organisms and other uses of genetic engineering in food production in terms of key scientific researches, their impact on health and eco-systems, food safety and food security, labelling and regulations, traceability is still lasting. Beside the scientifically, technical, ethical and regulators arguments, the economical aspects of the genetically modified food market is influenced by the social acceptance of it. Consumers' perception and their attitudes are different and depending on many factors. A survey of youth as undergraduate students of Constantin Brancoveanu University from Romania revealed certain differences in attitudes regarding the genetically modified foods that may be partially explained by the consumers' information. Referring the consumer behaviour, this study showed rather a tacit attitude of acceptance of the genetically modified food goods than a vehement rejection.
Q19|Directions of the State Effect on the Development of Communication Systems of the Agrarian Sector Enterprises|This article analyzes the problems and perspectives and formulated the basic directions of state motivation of the development of communication systems of enterprises of the agrarian sector of Ukraine. The mechanism of state motivation of the development of communication systems of enterprises of the agrarian sector of the country was represented. The necessity of forming the complex of measures of the state effect on the development of innovations, where communication systems play the role of the information distribution environment, required for provision of the innovative activity of the enterprises of the agrarian sector, was actualized.
Q19|Benchmarking an optimal pattern of pollution trading: The case of Cub River, Utah|This paper employs a recently developed, dynamic trading algorithm to establish a benchmark pattern of trade for a potential water quality trading (WQT) market in the Cub River sub-basin of Utah; a market that would ultimately include both point and nonpoint sources. The algorithm accounts for three complications that naturally arise in trading scenarios: (1) combinatorial matching of traders, (2) trader heterogeneity, and (3) discreteness in abatement technology. The algorithm establishes as detailed a reduced-cost benchmark as possible for the sub-basin by distinguishing a specific pattern of trade among would-be market participants. As such, the algorithm provides a benchmark against which an actual pollution market's performance could conceivably be compared. We find that a benchmarked trading pattern for a potential Cub River WQT market – where each source, point or nonpoint, would be required to reduce its pollution loadings – may entail some point sources selling abatement credits to nonpoint sources.
Q19|Do organic farmers feel happier than conventional ones? An exploratory analysis|We examine the relationship between organic farming and subjective well-being or life satisfaction. Applying an ordered probit model to a sample of French farmers located in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur (PACA) area (Southeast), we find that organic farmers report higher levels of life satisfaction, compared to the conventional ones. Moreover, this positive relationship holds for both recently-converted and earlier-converted farmers. Our findings also show that subjective well-being is positively associated with income, profitability, satisfaction at work, social recognition, and good health.
Q19|Agriculture in Portugal: linkages with industry and services| We investigate the links between agriculture and non-agricultural sectors in Portugal by assessing the existence of long-run relationships and causality among the three main sectors of activity in terms of value added and labour productivity using a VAR model for the period 1970-2006. Agricultural value added is found to be both weakly and strongly exogenous so it exerted no influence in the other sectors expansion nor was it influenced by their growth. The results with labour productivity show that productivity gains in services and industry feedback into productivity growth in agriculture, although the link is weaker in the industry case. Portuguese decision makers believe that restoring agricultural production plays an important role in overcoming the country’s current difficulties. However, they need to pay more attention to the potential synergies between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, and provide agriculture with the necessary technological and organizational capabilities to benefit from industry and services expansion. Our results indicate that this does not seem to have happened in the past, a situation that should be improved in order to restore agricultural production and promote overall growth.
Q19|Agriculture in Portugal: linkages with industry and services|We investigate the links between agriculture and non-agricultural sectors in Portugal by assessing the existence of long-run relationships and causality among the three main sectors of activity in terms of value added and labour productivity using a VAR model for the period 1970-2006. Agricultural value added is found to be both weakly and strongly exogenous so it exerted no influence in the other sectors expansion nor was it influenced by their growth. The results with labour productivity show that productivity gains in services and industry feedback into productivity growth in agriculture, although the link is weaker in the industry case. Portuguese decision makers believe that restoring agricultural production plays an important role in overcoming the country’s current difficulties. However, they need to pay more attention to the potential synergies between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, and provide agriculture with the necessary technological and organizational capabilities to benefit from industry and services expansion. Our results indicate that this does not seem to have happened in the past, a situation that should be improved in order to restore agricultural production and promote overall growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q19|Agriculture in Portugal: linkages with industry and services|We investigate the links between agriculture and non-agricultural sectors in Portugal by assessing the existence of long-run relationships and causality among the three main sectors of activity in terms of value added and labour productivity using a VAR model for the period 1970-2006. Agricultural value added is found to be both weakly and strongly exogenous so it exerted no influence in the other sectors expansion nor was it influenced by their growth. The results with labour productivity show that productivity gains in services and industry feedback into productivity growth in agriculture, although the link is weaker in the industry case. Portuguese decision makers believe that restoring agricultural production plays an important role in overcoming the country’s current difficulties. However, they need to pay more attention to the potential synergies between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors, and provide agriculture with the necessary technological and organizational capabilities to benefit from industry and services expansion. Our results indicate that this does not seem to have happened in the past, a situation that should be improved in order to restore agricultural production and promote overall growth.
Q19|Milk Chain In The Context Of The Common Agricultural Policy Reform – Productivity Gaps Between Romania And The Eu-27 Countries|Considering the new Common Agricultural Policy (2014-2020) for the milk sector, which will have as main component the removal of milk quotas after 2014, the paper makes an analysis of the links in the milk chain (agriculture, processing, trade, consumption) in Romania and the EU-27 countries in the period 2009-2012, based on the comparative analysis of some sets of specific indicators for each link in the chain, in order to indicate the performance level and position held by Romania among these European countries, as well as the modalities to narrow the productivity gaps on the Romanian milk chain compared to the European Union, aiming at improving the domestic supply and meeting the consumers’ needs. In this context, an investigation was made on each link in the chain, at the level of milk production, of raw milk collection for processing, milk distribution and consumption, strictly linked to the evolution of its quality and price, variants and measures being elaborated to narrow the productivity and institutional organization gaps of the milk chain in Romania.
Q19|Agri-Food Trade Flows And Economic Integration In The European Union|After the approval of the Declaration of Independence (August 27, 1991), Moldova has been striving to strengthen its place among the democratic nations of the world and to reform the national economy. The appearance of the new socio-economic system opened to the world, the process to join our own efforts with the international community have produced significant changes not only in the nature, but also in the background, of the trade flows of agricultural products. Naturally, the trade with food products must be directed towards the markets ensuring the free movement of products through the progressive removal of restrictions on trade between countries and/or groups of countries, meeting the interests of producers and consumers. In the present paper, the authors focus on the market of food products, investigate the import and export of food products, the operation of the CIS market and Common Market, pursuant to which the authors come up with some proposals that would change the situation on the domestic food market for the better, and would accelerate the integration of the national market of agricultural goods into the EU Common Market.
Q19|Agriculture and Child Under-Nutrition in India: A State Level Analysis|The literature review on agriculture-child nutrition linkage indicates that the evidence base is weak and inconclusive (Kadiyala et al., 2013). This paper explores the possible linkages between agricultural prosperity with rural child nutrition at the macro level, controlling for sanitation and safe drinking water, using panel data fixed effects and random effects models. The four alternate indicators of agricultural prosperity viz., agricultural growth, worker productivity, land productivity and food grain production per capita used alternatively enable us to conclude that negative influence of agricultural prosperity on child undernutrition exists, though the influence of various aspects of prosperity on underweight and stunting differ. Other aspects of agriculture considered, such as female agricultural wages help to reinforce the negative influence of agricultural prosperity on underweight in children and the land operational inequality dampens the impact of agricultural prosperity as it increases the incidence of stunting. Water and sanitation help reduce child undernutrition albeit differently on stunting and underweight. The same set of variables seems to influence stunting and underweight differently. Their trajectories seem to differ. The present study enables us to conclude that Indian agricultural growth through higher food grain production and through higher land productivity, when percolates through, labour productivity and higher wages, can reduce child undernutrition in rural India. However, public policy has to promote social provisioning of sanitation and health and make sure that agricultural growth is consistent. Public policy should ensure that growth translates into higher labour productivity and higher wages.
Q19|Methodological Basis For Calculating The Optimal Sizes Of Agricultural Organizations|The article presents different approaches of a number of authors how to determine the optimal size of agricultural organizations and their nature. There are different methods that were used while searching, including statistical, monographic, constructive and others. The article also presents the contribution of various scientists and researchers in solving optimization problems with the sizes of enterprises in agriculture, as well as proposed efficiency criteria of chosen methods.
Q19|Fodder Production Scenario and Strategies for Revitalizing Fodder Production Technologies|Livestock production is the backbone of Indian agriculture and also plays a key role in providing employment especially in rural areas. This sector has been the primary source of energy for agriculture operation and major source of animal protein for masses. Therefore, India has been the home of major draught, milch and dual-purpose breeds of cattle. Indian dairy production system is complex and generally based on traditional and socioeconomic considerations. However, there has been a rapid change in way of agriculture (i.e. cropping system, water resources, diversification of crops, intensification of agriculture), increasing use of mechanical power, transformation from sustenance farming to market oriented farming, changing food habits etc., All these factors have their impact on animal husbandry practices. Livestock rearing in India is changing fast and there has been a rise in demand of milch cattle as compared to dual or draught breeds. The paper tries to deal with the issues and strategies for revitalizing fodder production in India.
Q19|Lentil in India: An Overview|Traditionally pulses have been considered important elements of cropping systems in the Indo-Gangetic Plains. They were popular because of their importance as a source of protein and ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen (N) and thus improve soil fertility. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, a large area under pulses in the Indo-Gangetic Plain (IGP) was substituted by high- yielding varieties of rice (Oryza sativa) and wheat (Tritium aestivum). Lentil production in India has always been important as it is the one of the most important rabi crops in the country. In fact, India was the largest producer of the Lentil crop in the world until recently Canada took over the lead leaving India at the second place. The new technology of rice and wheat substantially changed the agricultural scenario and largely contributed to increase in agricultural production in the IGP. Indian subcontinent has a reputation of being an important player in the world’s pulse scenario. The present article tries to analysis the current scenario of lentil, its uses, and constraints to increasing production of lentil in India
Q19|Comparative study regarding the edilitar fund in Romanian village between the interwar period and communist period|The archaic Romanian village was and still is ontological mentioned, if not as a human place, than as a safe and beauty place. We forgot a fundamental truth, proved by time and space: „many peasants, high misery”. Making such a mistake, the Romanians reached to praise and idolize the misery which the providence will remunerate. Us the Romanians we did not have the ability, and based on this not even the calling to modernize the agrarian structures. In 1901 England had only 9% of the population involved in agriculture, while we lament about the depopulation of the Romanian villages after the Second World War, when 80% of the population was living in the country side. At the beginning of the XVI century, Thomas Morus stated that England is the country “where sheep are eating the people”. The depopulation of the English villages had happened in that time. That had specific consequences, but at the same time leaded England to become the most powerful industrial country. The truth is that during the communist period the Romanian villages suffered the most major modernization from their entire history. For the total number, 70% of the dwelling stock of the Romanian villages went into use during 1948-1989. Exceptions from this fact are the Swabians and Saxon Villages, part of the Hungarian Villages and some villages from Mărginimea Sibiului, Ţara Făgăraşului and Bucovina de Nord.
Q19|Conceptual approaches of the rural space|This paper is a bibliographic study of the rural space concept, from its establishment and until now. In this respect, the following works from the dedicated literature have been studied: scientific works, doctoral dissertations, case studies, books and websites dedicated to this topic. The used method was the bibliographic research and the synthesis of conceptual approaches in own manner. The conclusions that may be drawn from the performed research reveal certain concept dynamics in time, as the functions and services of the rural space were better understood, leading to the conceptual development of the rural space. Also, the approach of the development of the rural-urban dichotomy has outlined the rural space concept more clearly.
Q19|Impact of the National Economy restructuring on the Rural Development|The study is intended as a brief foray into the issue of economic restructuring effect of the matrix on rural development and failed to show that it is favorable to human primary role in human resource of entrepreneurial role assumed, being the main driver of competitive advantage of Romania. In Romania the labor force employed in agriculture is steadily decreasing, there is a danger of abandonment areas, unless urgent action is taken and powerful multifunctional development of agriculture, creating an integrated economic activity, entrepreneurial culture. But we must look at this in terms of resources focusing on the long-term impact, which will result in small rural training centers including in the context of developing infrastructure links and economic interdependence.
Q19|Influence factors of economic growth in the romanian agrofood sector|The determinants of economic growth in a national economy or in an activity field were the subject of many disscusions between specialists, starting from identifying the indicators considered to be the engine of economic growth, but also to the correlations between them, and to the interpretation of the results. The aim of the present approach is to identify some factors with direct influence on economic growth in the Romanian agrofood sector. Our research used common statistical methods, on the basis of public information, from the National Institute of Statistics and National Commission for Prognosis. Regarding to the agricultural sector, were identified as indicators/factors with influence on the economic growth the following: final consumption, the value of exports, the value of production for market, variation of stocks, the value of taxes on products. Analysis of the data series of the indicators mentioned above and correlations between them reveal their involutions in terms of efficiency and productivity levels, being still far from ensuring sustainable economic growth in the agrofood sector.
Q19|Cereal market in Romania-regional competitiveness|The article analyses the Romanian cereal sector in the last decades. The analysis gives a special attention to the sector development level and its evolution by regions. We analyze areas, productions, yields and the trade with cereals, at national and regional level. We try to identify how competitive the sector is and the main factors of influence, based on some quantitative indicators. Moreover, we identify the negative factors which influenced it. The statistical analysis is based on long data series and concentrates on the years before and after Romania’s accession into EU. We use data provided by the National Institute of Statistics. The results presented show the evolution of the cereal sector after 1989, its decline for about ten years, but also the recovery, especially after the EU accession. The article opens new discussions about the role of the cereal sector in the Romanian economy and the ways of development in the context of a high level of competitiveness among European Union countries and other countries in the world. At the same time, by the present analysis we want to show how the regional performances can contribute to the development of the cereal market in Romania.
Q19|Influence of non-saccharomyces yeasts on white dry wines|It was demonstrated a positive action of the non-Saccharomyces yeasts on the organoleptic properties of wines. Also, their participation in fermentation process did not involve an excessive accumulation of volatile acidity or other taste and aroma defects. The involvement of the non-Saccharomyces yeasts in practical oenology that keeps on recent achievements in oenological biotechnologies allow an increase of aromatic intensity (floral, fruitful etc.) in varietal wines and preserve the varietal identity of obtained wines.
Q19|Physiological proprieties from corn influenced by the differentiate application of nitrogen and phosphorus|The paper enumerates several physiological processes that take place at the Campion corn hybrid and the interaction between the hybrid in the irrigated and un-irrigated culture, as well as the appliance of NP fertilizers. To obtain performances at this type of corn culture, soil analyses were made before the establishment of experimental parcels and it was aimed the moment when the corn plants had already formed eight leaves to emphasize the results better. The determinations and the laboratory analyses emphasizes the most important physiological processes from plant life, where the water and fertilizer dosages had a crucial role in obtain of positive results.
Q19|The price trend and their impact on profit margin and safety of the protein for feed in Romania|"Because modern sophistication in the trade, transport, handling, blending and distribution system that makes the feed to reach farmers in the formula ""just in time"" protein sources are now in difficulty. The paper follows two main objectives: to understand farmers’ perception of safety and quality of protein for stock breeding and to identify communication levers in order to improve the protein self-sufficiency for animal production. This paper conducted a questionnaire survey of Romanian farmers’ perception toward safety and quality of protein for feed. The empirical study with brands indicated that farmers are different awareness to safety and quality of protein for feed."
Q19|Study on the importance of credit as financial leverage in agricultural development|"Romanian agriculture is closely related to Romanian village life and is defined as the creatures and the whole of eternity. To think that there is little work to invest in land fertility, agricultural durability invest without having in mind that in Romania the whole eternity of mankind was born in the country. I forget a fundamental truth, proven time and space. Under state law defining Roman in all investments are taken into account the principle of Corpus en Animo where body is the earth that is more stable investment. The study examined a mistake exercised due modernism and of which we Romans have come to praise and idolism mess. It is said that we Romans did not have the capacity, nor the call to use and to modernize agricultural structures. At the beginning of the sixteenth century, Thomas More was a descriptive statement of England considering it as ""country where sheep outnumber people."" Somewhere in England in 1901 when industrial explosion occur only 9% of the farming population has chosen to respond to migration of rural population to urban areas. It is true that later happened industrial expansion and depopulation of villages in England, but the agricultural sector did not happen to be neglected and fall in disuse time. Structural changes in the agricultural sector have been made with specific consequences, but the same sector at a time proved to be a key ally of England leading the way to becoming the most powerful industrial countries. Romanian agriculture required to adapt perpetual metamorphoses upgrades, misuse, dismantling disuse and writing his own history as the volume and whole chapters."
Q19|Analysis of the importance of the Merei Parish in the tourism and agrotourism in Buzau County|The paper is analysing the evolution of the main indicators that characterize tourism and agrotourism in Buzau County, emphasizing the contribution that the Merei Parish has in attracting tourists in this area , by calculating the weight held by the number of the touristic structures, of the housing capacity, the arrivals and overnights of the tourists from the registered total in Buzau County. The Merei Parish represents one of the key points of attraction for both Romanian and foreign tourists, benefiting from many views, a treatment resort, an area that is favorable to the development of the majority of types of tourism, including agrotourism, also being an area where agrotouristical activities can take place and high quality products can be produced in order to trade them in boarding houses.
Q19|Studies on the present situation of agricultural heritage the Archdiocese of Bucharest|The Romanian Orthodox Church, founded as Patriarchy in 1925, performs alongside the pastoral and missionary works specific to the orthodox cult and administrative works. The cult units of the Archiepiscopate of Bucharest, as part of the Metropolitanate of Muntenia and Dobrogea, own agricultural, horticulture and forestry land. The agricultural and horticultural lands are cultivated under own regime or under a lease. For the areas with forest vegetation the cult units have forest service contracts with private or state Forest Districts, specialized inspectors of the Archiepiscopate of Bucharest participating in the sustainable forest management. Vineyards are subject to the reconversion program (by APIA programs) with noble varieties of vineyards and for producing wine it was built a section of vinification , by accessing European funds, with modern technology. The cult units participate in improving the quality of life in rural areas by implementing programs for accessing European funds (job creation, efficient exploitation of land, economic development, strong correlation between the creditworthiness of agricultural land and infrastructure).
Q19|Livestock Policies and its Impact on India and Bihar, State|In an economy like Bihar, dependence of population on livestock as an alternative source of income is significant. Acceleration in the availability of livestock to marginal and small farmers can offer significant opportunities for household income augmentation and employment generation in Bihar. In this context, an analysis of performance of livestock sector in Bihar has been carried out. The growth of livestock sector has been found slower in the Bihar than at the national level. The share of Bihar in India's livestock sector income has not changed significantly. Besides, low milk productivity, decline in the Bihar’s share in India's egg and meat sector income is a major factor responsible for insignificant changes in livestock sector of Bihar. Several demand and supply side factors have been identified for the above trends. Availability of health infrastructure, grazing land and immunisation are significantly affecting livestock across the districts of Bihar. The study has also shown policy initiatives for the improvement of livestock sector resources and outcomes of Bihar.
Q19|Organic farmers facing the processes of institutionalization and conventionalization. A longitudinal study in Belgium|In this paper, we examine how professional practices of organic farmers and their justification of it have evolved over the past 8-10 years. We interviewed thirty Belgian organic farmers, the first time, in 2001-2003, and again in 2010-11. We draw on theories of institutionalization and conventionalization of organic agriculture and complete them with the theory of justification, especially by referring to an ecological order of justification. We adopt a longitudinal device and proceed by abduction. The research results show that for the majority of the interviewed farmers, the effects of the processes of institutionalization and conventionalization are relatively limited. For these subjects, the ecological references do not diminish in importance, but are transformed. More specifically, those farmers innovate by “accommodating” the ecological order with the industrial and commercial. A minority of the interviewees benefit from the processes of institutionalization and conventionalization and another minority is excluded from organic farming.
Q19|Análisis financiero y percepción de los servicios ambientales de un sistema silvopastoril: un estudio de caso en los Tuxtlas, México|A través de un análisis financiero, se verifica que la implementación de un sistema silvopastoril es más rentable económicamente que un sistema tradicional para productores de leche en la Reserva de la Biósfera de los Tuxtlas, Veracruz, México. Aproximadamente, deben pasar cuatro años para que un sistema silvopastoril sea más rentable y entre dos a tres años para recuperar la inversión económica inicial. Aunado a ello, en el corto plazo los productores indican un aumento de sus ingresos brutos derivados de la actividad. Un sistema silvopastoril, además de incrementar la producción de bienes mercadeables como la leche, genera otros bienes y servicios ambientales mismos que son identificados en este estudio por los productores.
Q19|Influence of European Funds on Farm Management in Romania|European funds are a breath of oxygen for Romania in its attempt to obtain similar results to EU Member States. This paper aims to analyse and highlight at the same time, the importance of implementing European funds on farm management for Romanian agriculture. In an attempt to demonstrate and analyse the positive impact of the funds on farms and on their management public and official data were used. The scientific study outlines how the absorption of EU funds influences farm productivity and how European measures have influenced farmers managerial decisions. The paper refers to the management system applied in farms in Romania and how it has changed when European funds were introduced. A secondary outcome of this article is benchmarking the agricultural sector on Romania's position in the rankings compared with other European Union member states.
Q19|What Type Of Social Capital Is Engaged By The French Dairy Stockbreeders? A Characterization Through Their Professional Identities|The paper outlines the role played by several professional identities belonging to the dairy stockbreeders in Picardy region, France in redefying the social networks in these rural areas. The social capital, seen as a valuable resource for the French rural areas is developed by different local professional identities and organized itself in networks. In our case, the dairy stockbreeders are seen as one particular typology of professional identities which are redefined and transformed today. The transformation of regional and global context determines these networks to position themselves differently at local level.
Q19|Methodology and conversion factors to estimate the net primary productivity of historical and contemporary agroecosystems|This methodological manual provides basic information to estimate the net primary productivity (NPP) of historical and contemporary cropland, in terms of fresh and dry matter, and gross energy. The methodology and the proposed conversion factors can be applied to any region of the planet, with some exception to be noted in the text. The biomass produced in agro-ecosystems by transforming energy flows (solar and, currently, fossil) and mobilizing nutrients and water are the operational basis of traditional and, to some extent, industrialised societies. The quantification of NPP of agroecosystems, and biomass flows that are configured from this, is essential to build metabolic profiles and to inquire in agrarian sustainability of traditional agrarian and industrial societies. The provided information herein may be useful for researchers working in Agrarian Social Metabolism, Greenhouse Gas Balances of agroecosystems and Climate Change, and Energy Return on Investment (EROI’s) in agro-ecosystems among other methodological approaches.
Q19|On Productivity: The Influence of Natural Resource Inputs|The production function underlying standard estimates of multifactor productivity (MFP)typically restricts the list of explicitly measured inputs to capital, labour and intermediate inputs (energy, materials and services). These inputs are measured in the national accounts, and in most industries are the most important or significant inputs to production. All other influences on output are captured by the MFP ‘residual.’ However in some industries – mining, agriculture, and utilities – output can also depend significantly on unmeasured inputs of natural resources. Rainfall in agriculture is an obvious example, but so too is the issue of mineral resource deposits in the mining sector, particularly where mining is a mature industry and the richest and most accessible deposits have already been developed. In this article we attribute a substantial part of recent large negative changes in MFP growth in the mining, agriculture and utilities industries in Australia to unmeasured natural resource input changes. As MFP growth estimates derived from the application of the usual production function are generally interpreted as measuring improvements in the ‘technology’ used to convert standard inputs into output, where there are significant changes in natural resource dependent industries this interpretation of MFP needs to be adjusted.
Q19|Certification of agricultural popular knowledge by using a competency-based training curriculum for universities|This article aims to design a knowledge system model for certifying agricultural popular knowledge, by using a competency-based training curriculum for universities. Thus, relevant relationships between structural components of non certified knowledge systems at the farm level (popular) and certified knowledge systems (competency-based curriculum) were examined. This research is based on diachronic and synchronic structure of the Variability of Scientific Research model, proposed by Padron (2013). Main findings show that certifying non scientific knowledge systems can be reached through university curriculum, to the extent that Collectivist University Model (proposed by Padron, 2006, and that integrates extension, research and teaching functions in articulated way), is applied.
Q19|Global cities' Competitiveness factors among the Asian countries|Global cities' competitiveness factors among the Asian countries This article identifies the factors of global cities' competitiveness, focusing on Asian countries. First, it describes the importance of global cities in the economy, particularly those competiveness factors, which are originated from spatial concentration, which can be implemented in the development strategy, or considering the negative externalities, which should be avoided or at least handle them to reach sustainability. In the next phase we describe the various methodologies applied for measuring competitiveness. The third part of the study covers the detailed description of the Asian global cities' competitive characteristics. We focus on the globalization, the economics growth and competitiveness; we also mention key factors, like tourism. Considering history cities have always played a determining role in the economy of a country, so do they in nowadays society. The world population in cities keeps on growing, the metropolis areas have become the centers of innovation and development, that is why their analysis is appropriate. Regional economics has been dealing with the question of cities for a long time, which has become an emphasized research field. The focus is on the spatial concentration, their integrated economy, the capital and the information. In our century a determining part of the population is townsman, where the service sector is dominant. The concentration of consumer - and labor market can be experienced in megacities: the local extern effects generate economic advantages, while the transportation costs shrink. The competition between cities has become fierce: the biggest cities try to attract transnational companies and FDI. A complex analysis of the cities' competitiveness contributes to the establishment of economic, social and environmental sustainability. As there is a pattern of global cities the network of cities has divided into two parts: the global cities spatial relations are integrated into the world economy and loose contact with the local and traditional smaller cities in their region. The smaller cities tend to be smaller, they are out of the economic circulation, and they are endangered by depletion. This road leads to social and economic inequality, the differences between the cities in and out of the global network grows dramatically. The goal of our study is to describe the various methodologies applied for measuring competitiveness, and to bring awareness to the challenges of the near-future caused by the developing, emerging Asian cities. Key words: competitveness, Asian global cities, urban externalities JEL codes: R11, Q19, Q56
Q19|Technological Advances in Soybean Yields: A Disaggregated Approach| ABSTRACT Increasing row crop productivity—as measured by yields per acre—is an important topic from a number of perspectives. On a global scale, increased output per unit of land is needed to meet growing world food demand. On a regional scale, investments in yield‐enhancing basic research need to result in improved yields for producers. In this research we set forth to quantify the impact of technology, precipitation, and temperature on soybean yields. Specifically, a disaggregated approach is used to model Illinois soybean yields across the nine state crop reporting districts. The results show that weather impacts are similar across the crop reporting districts; however, technology benefits accrue at statistically different rates across regions. The results provide no evidence that soybean yields in Illinois are plateauing [JEL Classifications: Q130, Q160, Q190].
Q19|Attitudes Toward Risk in a Changing Agricultural Marketing Environment|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|Theme Overview: Developing Local Food Systems in the South|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|Designing Regulatory Policies for Complex Externalities: The Case of Agricultural Pollution| The paper examines the issue of designing and implementing policy measures to control complex agricultural externalities. Complex externalities refer to the situation where a production (firm on firm) externality coexists with a detrimental (firm on society) externality. The paper identifies the optimal solution for complex externalities, which is a combination of spatially differentiated taxes. However, severe information requirements render the first-best policy infeasible. Finally, a likely voluntary scheme based on firm self-report is examined which may enforce firm compliance with the optimal policy.
Q19|About The Causes Of Agriculture Crisis In The Republic Of Serbia| Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia is in the long-term and the multiple crisis: crisis of management, organization crisis, financial crisis, crisis of competitiveness, investment crisis, market crisis, crisis of agricultural policy, crisis of confidence and other forms of crisis. The aim of this paper is to investigate many causes of the limitations of agricultural development of the Republic of Serbia, where the authors specifically point out the following: unfavourable agrarian structure and the lack of organization of farmers; unregulated market of agricultural products; lack of competitiveness; inadequate role of the state; deagrarisation and depopulation of villages. A qualitative method of analysis, synthesis and comparison, as well as supporting quantitative statistical methods were used. Authors concluded that systematic and radical measures and actions are needed at the macro and micro level, in order to overcome a difficult situation in which our agriculture is, as a strategic activity of the Republic of Serbia.
Q19|Models Of Partnerships And Organisational Forms In Short Food Supply Chains In The Slovenian Mountains| An important condition for the efficient production and marketing of local food products in mountainous regions is broadly recognised in cooperation between different partners along the food supply chain. Cooperation between different actors, organisational forms and sectors is especially important in mountains and less favoured areas characterised by limited conditions for agriculture and, consequently, where few raw materials are produced. This article presents a study aimed at identifying the positive effects of cooperation between actors, organisational forms and sectors in the production and marketing system of local food products in the Slovenian mountains. Ten products were included in the study. The results indicate that the presence of the private sector both in the production and marketing system is an important condition for creating a successful and solid food supply chain.
Q19|European Agricultural Clusters: How Can European Agricultural Clusters Be Measured And Identified?| This article contains a research into the agricultural clusters of the EU. The clusters are identified on the level of NUTS1 regions. The agricultural clusters are identified by main type of farming and by their contribution to the regional gross value added.
Q19|Multiplex Uses of Food-Product Standards| Food-product traceability systems have been developed to achieve seamless electronic connectivity to assure food safety through the use of information technology. This is determined by legislation. While achieving customer value through quality, food supply is the core logistical purpose. Food-product traceability as such is seldom regarded as a core purpose. Food-product standards are a key resource in developing connectivity between information systems operated by different firms in a supply network using numerical product codes. This study couples the technical characteristics of a food-product standard with the organizational characteristics of a supply network. The common purpose is to achieve customer value in the supply network. Alderson’s (1965) marketing-channels (transvection) model of product supply is applied to analyze potential multiple uses of the TraceFish product standard in its supply network. The case study of North Sea herring supply involves following raw material from in Norway to finished product in the Netherlands. Analysis of this empirical data exposed variation in TraceFish standard use, including coupling it with GTIN product codes. This facilitated seamless electronic information exchange between firms for a range of supply-network purposes, including tracing food. This perspective is possible when multiple functions and professions that are equally involved in operating and managing business processes are allowed to handle not only operation, but also develop information systems.
Q19|The Global Competition for Talented People| This article discusses “people challenges,” and is gathered from the authors own research working with both public and private sector businesses. It is divided in two sections: the first addresses the new environment of “doing more with less” and how this affects labor. The second part focuses on the personal and professional characteristics valued by public and private organizations. These characteristics include: tuned, simplified, adaptive, innovative, investor, related, broad, dreamer, results-driven and communicative. A brief description follows.
Q19|Quantity and Value of Milk Losses Due to Technical Constraints - A Case of Crossbred Cows in North-Eastern States of India| The crossbred cows occupy an important place in milk production system of North-Eastern States (N-E States). In majority of the states except Assam and Tripura, crossbred cows produced more than 50 per cent of the total milk (2007-08). However, milk production from crossbred animals in the region is affected by a number of technical constraints. The present study estimates the value of milk losses due to important constraints in order to quantify the loss and set priorities for their removal. Data for the study were collected from N-E States for crossbred cows. Based on the estimates, mineral deficiency appeared to be the most important constraint causing maximum economic losses, i.e., Rs. 55.28 crores followed by repeat breeding (Rs. 36.62 crores) and worms infestation (Rs. 12.91 crores). These three constraints account for 94 per cent of the total value of milk loss where mineral deficiency alone accounts for approximately 50 per cent losses. While, foot and mouth disease, mastitis, haemorrheric septicaemia, black quarter and milk fever placed in decreasing order in terms of their rank based on economic losses were found to be the minor constraints accounting for only six per cent of the total value of milk loss (Rs. 112.08 crores). All the constraints had lowered milk productivity of crossbred cows by 0.862 L/day. Tackling the constraints will increase milk production of the region by six per cent and will improve milk productivity and generate surpluses.
Q19|U.S. Agricultural Producer Perceptions of Climate Change| This study examines U.S. crop producers’ perceptions of climate change, its effects on crop agriculture, and likely ways farmers would adapt to weather extremes. Based on a survey of crop producers in four states, we find that a significant proportion of farmers do not perceive that climate change has been scientifically proven and do not believe that it will adversely affect average crop yields and yield variability. Farmers are likely to diversify crops, buy crop insurance, modify lease arrangements, and exit farming in response to extreme weather caused by climate change.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q19|U.S. Agricultural Producer Perceptions of Climate Change| This study examines U.S. crop producers’ perceptions of climate change, its effects on crop agriculture, and likely ways farmers would adapt to weather extremes. Based on a survey of crop producers in four states, we find that a significant proportion of farmers do not perceive that climate change has been scientifically proven and do not believe that it will adversely affect average crop yields and yield variability. Farmers are likely to diversify crops, buy crop insurance, modify lease arrangements, and exit farming in response to extreme weather caused by climate change.
Q19|Management of Coffee Leaf Rust Disease in India: Evidence for Socio-economic and Locational Determinants| Coffee leaf rust is a major disease affecting the production of Arabica coffee. This paper presents an estimation of socioeconomic and locational determinants of CLR management as they relate to the application of fungicides (Bordeaux mixture and systemic fungicides) in India. Using survey data from 575 growers (comprising 90% small and poor growers), estimates of binary logit models offer evidence on the significant impact of altitude, rainfall, age of household head, economic status, social caste, and size of bearing area of the Arabica coffee cultivation on CLR management. Given the socioeconomic and estate variables, the estimated probability of adoption is highest for Bordeaux mixture. These results offer new insights into CLR management practices beyond the known cultural and cultivation practices. They imply a need for public policy on recommended CLR management practices and subsidy for chemical inputs to improve production and productivity of small and poor Arabica coffee growers. Further, the framework and results are relevant and applicable to other Arabica coffee growing countries in Asia and Africa.
Q19|Uma Nota Sobre “Teste da Convergência do PIB per capita da Agropecuária no Brasil”| This note discusses the contradiction between β and σ- convergence tests of agricultural per capita GDP, which was recently presented by Spohr and Freitas (RESR, vol. 49, No. 02, p. 341-368, April / June 2011). While the first type of test supports the hypothesis of convergence, the σ- convergence test does not validate this hypothesis. It is argued that this contradiction probably arises from nonlinearities in the convergence process, which can characterize the formation of convergence clubs. The convergence test was done again in a more rigorous way, according to the methodology proposed by Caselli, Eesquivel and Lefort (1996) and, subsequently, the formation of convergence clubs is tested using the methodology proposed in Phillips and Sul (2007), which has the advantage of accommodating various types of heterogeneity. The formation of three convergence clubs is confirmed and these results try to clarify the contradiction previously reported.
Q19|Agropecuária Brasileira: desempenho regional e determinantes de produtividade| This study aims to measure the labor and land net productivity in Brazil, major regions and federation units. It also identifies the factor that affects productiveness based on data provided by the Census of Agriculture 2006, from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). Thus, the productiveness may not be uniform in Brazilian agriculture due to the diversity in each region and differences related to the structure of productivity. The multiple linear regression models were used to identify factors that affect agriculture production and performance in Brazil. As a result, the best production index, which is related to labor and land productivity, is located in the South and Southeast Brazil. Some of the highest values are mainly concentrated only in some regions. Afterwards, an overall analysis of the figures indicated that the agricultural input and mechanization have presented a positive agricultural participation in most Brazilian states.
Q19|Using choice experiments to improve the design of weed decision support tools| The potential for computer-based decision support tools (DSTs) to better inform farm management decisions is well-recognised. However, despite considerable investment in a wide range of tools, the uptake by advisers and farmers remains low. Greater understanding of the demand and the most valued features of decision support tools has been proposed as an important step in improving the impact of DSTs. Using a choice experiment, we estimated the values that Australian farm advisers attach to specific attributes of decision support tools, in this case relating to weed and herbicide resistance management. The surveys were administered during dedicated workshops with participants who give weed management advice to grain growers. Results from various discrete choice models showed that advisers’ preferences differ between private fee-charging consultants, those attached to retail outlets for cropping inputs, and advisers from the public sector. Reliably accurate results were valued, but advisers placed a consistently high value on models with an initial input time of three hours or less, compared to models that are more time demanding. Results from latent class models revealed a large degree of personal preference heterogeneity across advisers. Although the majority of advisers attributed some value to the capacity for DST output that is specific to individual paddocks, approximately one quarter of respondents preferred generic predictions for the district rather than greater specificity. The use of a novel non-market valuation approach can help to inform development of decision support tools with attributes valued by potential users.
Q19|Systemic Weather Risk and Crop Insurance: The Case of China|The supply of affordable crop insurance is hampered by the existence of systemic weather risk which results in large risk premiums. In this article, we assess the systemic nature of weather risk for 17 agricultural production regions in China and explore the possibility of spatial diversification of this risk. We simulate the buffer load of hypothetical temperature-based insurance and investigate the relation between the size of the buffer load and the size of the trading area of the insurance. The analysis makes use of a hierarchical Archimedean copula approach (HAC) which allows flexible modeling of the joint loss distribution and reveals the dependence structure of losses in different insured regions. Our results show a significant decrease of the required risk loading when the insured area expands. Nevertheless, a considerable part of undiversifiable risk remains with the insurer. We find that the spatial diversification effect depends on the type of the weather index and the strike level of the insurance. Our findings are relevant for insurers and insurance regulators as they shed light on the viability of private crop insurance in China.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q19|The Economic and Sociocultural Role of Livestock in the Wellbeing of Rural Communities of Timor-Leste|The livestock species play very important economic and socio-cultural roles for the wellbeing of rural households, such as food supply, source of income, asset saving, source of employment, soil fertility, livelihoods, transport, agricultural traction, agricultural diversification and sustainable agricultural production. The aim of this work was to identify and characterize the different roles that livestock and livestock species play in rural communities of Timor-Leste, highlighting the importance of animal production for the wellbeing and rural development, and relate the functions performed by livestock production with economic, social and cultural attributes of the communities. The data used in this study were collected in 2011 through a questionnaire survey in three rural communities in the district of Bobonaro -mountain area, irrigation plain and coastal zone, and were complemented with secondary data. Livestock production in Timor-Leste is predominantly familiar being chickens, pigs, goats, cattle, horses, buffaloes and sheep the main species. Beyond the economic function, each livestock species also performs social and cultural functions.
Q19|Assessment of the Swiss Farm Accountancy Data Network target populations|This study assesses a new standard-output-based approach for the target population of the Swiss Farm Accountancy Data Network. The analysis depicts that the standard output per farm is an appropriate measure for delimiting the target population. It is shown that a major fraction of the summed census livestock and crop area is covered by the target populations. It is demonstrated that the threshold value significantly impacts on statistical measures of structural variables. Furthermore, the new scheme was compared to three other concepts for the target population. The investigation reveals substantial differences among the four different concepts for the target population, regarding both the coverage of structural variables and the number of farms per farm type.
Q19|The value of agricultural water rights in agricultural properties in the path of development|This paper estimates the value of water rights in a rapidly urbanizing semi-arid area: Phoenix, Arizona. To do this we use hedonic pricing to explore the impact of water rights on property values in 151 agricultural land transactions that occurred between 2001 and 2005. We test two main hypotheses: (1) that the marginal willingness to pay for water rights is higher in more developed urbanizing areas than in less developed rural areas, and (2) that the marginal willingness to pay for water rights in urban areas is increasing in the value of developed land. We find that the marginal willingness to pay for water rights is highest among properties in urbanized or urbanizing areas where a significant proportion of the land has already been developed. Additionally, we find that the marginal willingness to pay for agricultural water rights is greatest in cities where developed land is most valuable.
Q19|Ecological Agriculture – Engine Of Sustainable Development In Romania|The development of ecological agriculture it is seen as an alternative for the third millennium, since agriculture is a determining economic activity in the national economy and its evolution have effects upon the economic development. The goal of ecological agriculture is to ensure sustainable development as this sector of the economy is based on long-term use of locally available resources. Ecological agriculture minimizes global environmental problems such as acid rain, global warming, reduction of biodiversity and desertification. Organic farming has a great contribution to a lasting economic development and plays an important role in the improvement of the environment, preservation of soil, improvement of water quality, biodiversity and protection of nature and may contribute to the expanding of economic activities with high added value and to generating new jobs in rural areas. This paper aims to present the actual situation of the ecological agriculture in Romania taking into consideration its ascendant evolution in the l.ast years, both in the plant and animal production sector.
Q19|Capitale umano e capitale sociale nell’agricoltura multifunzionale: un’analisi delle esperienze di filiera corta nella Campania interna|The attention to business networks, therefore to the business relationships among companies, supply chain operators, manufacturers and consumers, aimed at commercial transactions, exchange of information, sharing of norms and associations of resources become an asset in the definition of modern strategies of competitive advantage for agribusiness companies. In this perspective, the short chain represents an interesting business model network, rooted in the specific territorial context, which, through specific organizational characteristics and diversified multi-functional activities, is enhanced by human and social resources, internal and external (at the company), and able to act on the local aggregation process and territorial value creation. Share capital and human capital become, therefore, the determining factors for the effectiveness of the short food supply chain experiences, especially in the inland areas, and for wider dissemination and sharing of the value created. Aim of this work is an analysis of the functional relationships between social capital and human capital in farms, diversified and multifunctional, which have taken paths of short chain. For this purpose, the empirical verification aimed to investigate how the quality of human capital affects the effectiveness of relational networks and how it could lead to have impacts on the performance of short chain, improving its ability to create value for the enterprise and for the territory. The results of the study made possible to understand the mechanisms and the strategic variables of this innovative mode of direct governance of transactions between producer and consumer-citizen, in specific territorial rural systems, and to indicate useful policy implications.
Q19|Approcci integrati e governance locale nelle strategie di sviluppo rurale: un framework per la futura programmazione|Within the scope of the last two stages of rural development programming, the Campania Region has introduced significant innovations in the field of integrated intervention strategies in rural areas by implementing an Integrated Rural Project (IRP). This programme led to a new organizational model for public intervention in rural areas. This key it has given the opportunity of trying out participatory/integrated development processes in rural areas (Leader method) which have now become an integral part of routine programming (Leader Axes and Collective Action Projects 2007-2013), through the management of integrated rural development policies by local partnerships. The strategic mission of IRPs has been that of intervening, by means of a partnership approach, in the main issues which limit competitive capacity within regional rural areas. The IRPs act as models for collective and integrated action for programmed intervention on a territorial basis. Their dual aim is to endorse a system of local governance and to promote integration and coordination between rural development policy and other policies. In light of what has been stated above, this paper aims to develop an impact assessment of integrated rural policy in the Campania region with the objective of evaluating: the overall levels of efficiency reached compared to ‘traditional’ programming models; the ‘quality’ of negotiation processes and of the new relationship networks which derive from them; models and best practices, in terms of financial/implementation efficiency and programmatic effectiveness, with a view to their transfer into the 2014-2020 programming period; the effective possibility that the model represents a concrete and effective opportunity for the promotion of selfgovernance on an intra-regional scale. Each of these elements has allowed us to evaluate the effectiveness of the method on a territorial level and, consequently, the impact on the enhancement of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of locally implemented rural development strategies, on the reconfiguration of the local governance system and, more generally, on the involvement of rural communities in development processes. The methodological framework took the regional administrative databases as a starting point and carried out qualitative investigation through focus groups (constituted in each territorial reference environment of the 15 regional IRPs), made up of members of the local partnerships and beneficiaries of the Programme who were requested to express their opinion with regard to specific topics of discussion. The results of this study have allowed us to gain useful insights into the efficiency of expenditure and the effectiveness of rural development policies in terms of territorial readjustment and socio-economic impact. In the context of the present-day crisis, such results provide useful consideration for worthwhile scientific debate together with normative guidance for decision makers with a view to the next stage of rural development programming (2014-2020).
Q19|Impact of Microcredit on Agricultural Farm Performance and Food Security in Bangladesh|Microcredit is assumed to be likely to contribute both directly and indirectly to agricultural farm performance, farm output, poverty reduction and food security in Bangladesh. In this research, we study the impact of microcredit on farm performance, output and food security using farm level survey data from Rangpur, Dinajpur, Bogra and Rajsahahi districts of northern Bangladesh. The survey is conducted on 682 farms of which 450 are microcredit receivers and the rest 232 are microcredit non-receivers. We apply the Cobb-Douglas stochastic frontier and data envelopment analysis (DEA) along with inefficiency effects model and propensity score matching (PSM) techniques to assess the effects of microcredit on farm performance, output and food security. Results from the stochastic frontier model indicate that farms are operating at decreasing returns to scale and inefficiency effects are significant in explaining total variability in output. Inefficiency effects model reveals that microcredit, as well as experience and education of farmers help them utilise inputs more efficiently. Level of efficiency of microcredit receiving farms is, on an average, one per cent higher than the microcredit non-receiving farms. Farms could, on an average, reduce their production cost around 19 per cent if they could operate at full efficiency levels and hence increase farm output. This contributes to the increase in farm output which increases food supply on the one hand and increases purchasing power on the other hand and thus, strengthens food security. We compare the average income of farms that received microcredit to that of control group to find the impact of microcredit using propensity score matching (PSM) technique. Results show a positive impact of microcredit on farm income which subsequently could contribute to strengthening food security. The average income of microcredit receiving farms is 9.46 per cent higher than that of microcredit non-receiving farms. Policy suggestions that follow include expansion, timely and fair distribution of microcredit to marginal and small farmers could lead to improvement of farm performance and farm output. This would in turn contribute to the reduction of poverty and to the betterment of food security.
Q19|Agrico-Industrial Sector Development Modeling Under Uncertainty And Risc|Macroeconomic modelling of the agro-industrial sector proposed in [1] is done. For this purposes production function dependent of three production factors: capital, land and labour was estimate. Fourteen more perspective branches were selected for examination, Gross Domestic Product values and volume values for examined sector and branches, supposed to stochastic shocks, were calculated.
Q19|Food Consumption As An Indicator Of The State Of The Domestic Food Market|The problem of food consumption as an indicator of food safety of the state is considered in the article. Special attention is paid to the study of the balanced diet of the average citizen of Ukraine. Ways to raise purchasing power of the population are offered.
Q19|The role of agriculturein economy of middle and eastern Croatia|Croatian Republic is a land of rich and quality natural resources – highly fertile soils, favorable climate and abundance of water resources. Importance of agriculture is not only in its primary role to ensure food for population, but as well in preservation of rural space, ecological balance and keeping of traditional values. Apart from producing crops and livestock products for human consumption, agriculture participates in development of other industries whose products are needed in performance of agricultural activity, such as machinery industry and agricultural equipment, industry of mineral fertilizers, industry of reproductive material, construction industry and others. By using information’s from Central Bureau of Statistics about rural population, indicators of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employment in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, the role of agriculture in economy of Middle and Eastern Croatia has been analyzed. In the analysis Croatian Republic has been classified in three NUTS2 regions (Northwestern Croatia, Middle and Eastern (Pannonia) Croatia, and Adriatic Croatia). The share of agricultural production (in which hunting, forestry and fisheries are included) in Gross Value Added of Middle and Eastern Croatia is registering constant growth from 7,768 mill. of kunas in 2005 on 10,484 mill. in 2008 – increase of 25.91%, while in year 2009 decrease of 2,833 mill. kunas or 37.03% has been recorded. According to information’s of Central Bureau of Statistics number of employed in Middle and Eastern Croatia in period from 2008 till 2011 fell for 28.413 employees, while number of employees in agriculture, forestry and fisheries in same period fell for 1.030 employees. The share of employed in agriculture, fisheries and forestry in overall rate of employed grows and in 2008 amounts 5.64%. Considering the connection with supplementary activities, from producing agricultural inputs till traffic processing and marketing of agricultural products, the importance of agriculture in economy of Croatia is higher than listed shares showed.
Q19|Gender Issues in Agriculture|Agriculture occupies a key position in the Indian economy providing a source of livelihood for a majority of the population. Successes in agricultural front with high production levels, especially in food grains have indeed been achieved. But more energy in the form of mineral fertilizers, chemical pesticides and farm machinery are required every year to produce the same quantity of farm products. Historically, women have been the managers of natural resources as they are dependent on them for their livelihood and their family’s needs. The consequences of over exploitation of these resources have rendered them scarce. The rural women collect over 28% of all energy consumed in India in the form of firewood. Most of the 140 million tonnes of firewood burnt annually come from forests. Poverty and unemployment in rural areas have resulted in large-scale migration to urban areas. Women are being forced to take up more drudgerous jobs as a source of livelihood as most of the migrants are absorbed into the construction sector. Women form the largest work force in agricultural sector. Caring for livestock comes naturally to women. The most drudgerous jobs in livestock production like cleaning of the cattle sheds, feeding the cattle, collection of fodder etc. always fall on the woman. Care for young animals and backyard livestock is also largely done by women. In caring for sick young animals women have evolved several ethno veterinary practices. Despite recent agricultural innovations there is no respite for rural women. While agricultural innovations leads to the reallocation of family labour and the assignment to men of complete control over output and income, without associated changes in the allocation of obligations, welfare and nutritional status of the family may actually decline
Q19|Mudança estrutural e a relação entre os setores em Cabo Verde<BR>[Structural change and the sectoral linkage in Cape Verde]|The aim of this article is to investigate the relationship between sectors of activity in a small economy, exemplified by the case of Cape Verde, in order to analyze the impact that each one has on the others. Using the vector autoregressive (VAR) approach, the short-run and long-run relationships were estimated among the three main sectors of activity in the Cape Verdean economy, namely agriculture, industry and services, from 1980 to 2010. The main results showed that the services sector is the only exogenous sector in the Cape Verdean economy, and it has a positive effect on the variation of the added value of industry sector and negative effect in agriculture sector, unlike industry that is correlated positively with all others sectors.
Q19|Coping with Risks in the Mediterranean Countries? Let the experts explain|A decade of major political, institutional, economic and societal changes is challenging the Mediterranean Area: in a more and more globalized Europe the primary sectors of Mediterranean Partner Countries (MPCs) are largely influenced by recent trends. The resulting exposure of Mediterranean Countries’ agriculture to risks has called great attention on risk management strategies and public intervention. We explore their role in three selected Countries, namely Syria, Tunisia and Turkey with a view to a unified policy framework. The analysis is conducted through a field activity that has allowed to understand the key issues. The experts’ opinions draw a clear picture of retrospect and prospects and stimulate a comparative analysis that widens the current knowledge of risk management in the Mediterranean Countries.
Q19|Consumer behavior in the economy|This paper aims to carry out an analysis of the disparities between urban and rural economic environment in Romania, which have negative effects over time for the entire country. The key imbalances between the two areas will be identified and a chronological analysis of figures obtained from the two areas over the years will be presented. A comparative analysis of urban / rural consumption behavior of households in the period 2005-2012 is showcased. The rural population is still heavily dependent on agriculture, while consumption characteristics are specific to relatively poor populations. Reducing disparities between urban and rural incomes and improvement of the quality of household consumption are priorities in regional development policy.
Q19|The role of agriculture in economy of middle and eastern Croatia|Croatian Republic is a land of rich and quality natural resources – highly fertile soils, favourable climate and abundance of water resources. Importance of agriculture is not only in its primary role to ensure food for population, but as well in preservation of rural space, ecological balance and keeping of traditional values. Apart from producing crops and livestock products for human consumption, agriculture participates in development of other industries whose products are needed in performance of agricultural activity, such as machinery industry and agricultural equipment, industry of mineral fertilizers, industry of reproductive material, construction industry and others. By using information’s from Central Bureau of Statistics about rural population, indicators of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), employment in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, the role of agriculture in economy of Middle and Eastern Croatia has been analyzed. In the analysis Croatian Republic has been classified in three NUTS 2 regions (Northwestern Croatia, Middle and Eastern (Pannonia) Croatia, and Adriatic Croatia). The share of agricultural production (in which hunting, forestry and fisheries are included) in Gross Value Added of Middle and Eastern Croatia is registering constant growth from 7,768 mill. of kunas in 2005 on 10,484 mill. in 2008 – increase of 25.91%, while in year 2009 decrease of 2,833 mill. kunas or 37.03% has been recorded. According to information’s of Central Bureau of Statistics number of employed in Middle and Eastern Croatia in period from 2008 till 2011 fell for 28.413 employees, while number of employees in agriculture, forestry and fisheries in same period fell for 1.030 employees. The share of employed in agriculture, fisheries and forestry in overall rate of employed grows and in 2008 amounts 5.64%. Considering the connection with supplementary activities, from producing agricultural inputs till traffic processing and marketing of agricultural products, the importance of agriculture in economy of Croatia is higher than listed shares showed.
Q19|Management of Coffee Leaf Rust Disease in India: Evidence for Socio-economic and Locational Determinants|Coffee leaf rust is a major disease affecting the production of Arabica coffee. This paper presents an estimation of socioeconomic and locational determinants of CLR management as they relate to the application of fungicides (Bordeaux mixture and systemic fungicides) in India. Using survey data from 575 growers (comprising 90% small and poor growers), estimates of binary logit models offer evidence on the significant impact of altitude, rainfall, age of household head, economic status, social caste, and size of bearing area of the Arabica coffee cultivation on CLR management. Given the socioeconomic and estate variables, the estimated probability of adoption is highest for Bordeaux mixture. These results offer new insights into CLR management practices beyond the known cultural and cultivation practices. They imply a need for public policy on recommended CLR management practices and subsidy for chemical inputs to improve production and productivity of small and poor Arabica coffee growers. Further, the framework and results are relevant and applicable to other Arabica coffee growing countries in Asia and Africa.
Q19|Remittances and Dutch Disease: A Meta-Analysis|Remittance flows are an important source of foreign exchange for various developing countries around the world. Given their growing importance in the last decade, their role in inducing Dutch disease symptoms in the developing countries has been extensively studied. However, the results of the analyses so far have been mixed. In this study, we conduct a meta-analysis of existing literature to estimate the over all effect of remittances on receiving countries' real effective exchange rate (REER). We run fixed and random effect meta-analysis on studies taken from EconLit, Google Scholar and various working paper series and examine a total of 53 regressions taken from seven published and unpublished studies. We come up with evidence of a net appreciation of real exchange rate in the developing countries. Both the fixed and random effect models indicate a highly significant impact of foreign remittances on the REER. The results show also that the nature of the dependent variable, countries considered and the econometric technique used influence the impact of remittances REER, However the type of data (panel or times series) does not affect the results. Our investigations support the presence of selection bias. The findings support the view that in spite of their utility for the recipient households, remittances pose a challenge to the developing country on the macroeconomic level.
Q19|Is Small Better? A Comparison of the Effect of Large and Small Dams on Cropland Productivity in South Africa|We estimate and compare the effects of small and large irrigation dams on cropland productivity in South Africa. To this end, we construct a panel data set of South African river basins. The econometric analysis reveals that although large dams increase cropland productivity downstream, they have a negative effect on cropland within the vicinity. However, their existence can enhance the relatively small positive impact of local small dams. Although a cost-benefit analysis of irrigation benefits shows that small dams may be more viable than large ones, large dams can play a potentially important role within a system of both types of dams.
Q19|Effect of Menu Labeling on Caloric Intake and Restaurant Revenue in Full-Service Restaurants| In an effort to help Americans make healthier food choices, U.S. lawmakers recently mandated certain restaurants to add calorie labels to their menus. In this study, we implement the same numeric calorie labels in two different full service restaurants using two different experimental designs. Ultimately, both field experiments lead us to the same conclusion: the numeric calorie label (as currently proposed by the FDA) had little effect on total caloric intake. Our results do reveal, however, that the effectiveness of the numeric label could be enhanced with the addition of a traffic light symbol identifying low-, medium-, and high-calorie items.
Q19|Adoption and Nonadoption of Precision Farming Technologies by Cotton Farmers| We analyzed data obtained from the 2009 Southern Cotton Precision Farming Survey of farmers in twelve states (Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia) to identify reasons for adoption/nonadoption of precision farming technologies. Farmers provided cost, time constraint, satisfaction with the current practice and other as reasons for not adopting precision farming technology. Profit, environmental benefit and to be at the forefront of agricultural technology are main reasons for adopting precision farming technology. Results from a nested logit model indicated that formal education, farm size, and number of precision farming meeting attend by farmers have positive effect on adoption of PF technologies. Moreover, spatial yield variability increases probability of adopting precision farming technologies for profit reasons.
Q19|Agricultural Impacts of Texas’s Driest Year on Record|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|The Impacts of the Global Financial Crisis on Agriculture in Central and Eastern Europe and in Central Asia| The number of financial crises has been growing in the world according to the International Monetary Fund. The recent global financial crisis caused a considerable slowdown in many countries in the world. The results have included the collapse of housing prices, massive unemployment, and the spread of distress throughout financial markets and economies around the globe. The economic slowdown hit the agricultural sector as well. The purpose of the presented article is to evaluate the impacts of the global economic and financial crisis on the agri-food sector and to present solutions for the existing problems.
Q19|Yield trend estimation in the presence of non-constant technological change and weather effects| The application of yield time series in risk analysis prerequisites the estimation of technological trend which might be present in the data. In this paper, we show that in presence of highly volatile yield time series and non-constant technology, the consideration of the weather effect in the trend equation can seriously improve trend estimation results. We used ordinary least squares (OLS) and MM, a robust estimator. Our empirical analysis is based on weather data as well as farm-level and county-level yield data for a sample of grain-producing farms in Kazakhstan.
Q19|Creation and governance of value in agricultural cooperation: the role of policies| The paper focuses on a new theoretical-methodological approach to interpreting functional transformation processes of farms located in rural areas and marked by a delay in development. We have defined a theoretical paradigm of value portfolio (VP) which considers -in a new light- multifunctional agricultural farms as an ensemble of governance structures optimizing the creation of value. The need to validate the OVP functionality has led us to identify a new methodological approach referred to as the Value Portfolio and Multifunctional Governance Analysis (VPMGA). This analysis embeds value chain analysis and governance value analysis and at the same time attempts to overcome the “sectoral” limits representing also a new and further development. We deem, in fact, that the VPMGA best responds to the specificities of multifunctional agricultural farms participating in cooperatives. Through the VPMGA we have identified four determining family variables which are internal and external to the farm (internal resources, market, territory, policies). We have also assessed the functional links with the boundary shift processes and the mechanisms governing transactions and the creation of an optimal value portfolio. In this way, the VPMGA can be a tool to inform policy makers, especially in the light of the new challenges facing rural development.
Q19|Attitudes Of Macedonian Farmers Towards Eu Accession|" Macedonia is a candidate-country for EU membership since 2005. The EU integrative process, without doubt, will have impact on the Macedonian economy and particularly on the agricultural sector, as being one of the most significant in terms of GDP contribution and workforce employer. So far, farmer's attitudes and intentions with regard to the EU integration and accession were not much investigated. In this sense, the objective of the paper is to provide understanding of the Macedonian farmers' attitude and behavioural intentions in the context of the EU accession and the potential policy and market changes. Furthermore, another issue is to observe whether there are significant discrepancies among farmers and their attitudes towards EU accession. The results revealed that the farmer community in the country is rather heterogeneous in terms of farm and farmer’ profiles and farm management practises. The cluster analysis suggests four clusters between which the variables explaining attitudes were significantly different, provisionally labelled as ""optimist "", ""moderate"", ""restrained"" and ""sceptic""."
Q19|How Important Are Cultural and Environmental Objectives for Rice farmers in South Senegal?| This paper explores farmer-specific cultural, social and economic objectives within the extensive rice system in the Kolda region (south of Senegal). We classify and characterize farmers according to the relative importance of their multifunctional goals. The empirical analysis uses farm-level data collected through a face-to-face questionnaire to a sample of rice farmers. The Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) is used to measure farmers’ primary and secondary objectives importance in planning their activities, and Cluster Analysis (CA) to classify and characterize farmers according to their priorities. Results suggest that within the “economic” role, the most important goals are “maximization of total farm income” followed by “improving rice quality”. Farmers are willing to “minimize fertilizers use”, both to reduce cost and to preserve environment. They recognize their potential role in “minimizing illegal immigration”. Results can be useful in guiding policy makers by considering farmers’ priorities at local level
Q19|Welfare Effects of Herbicide-Tolerant Rice Adoption in Brazil| The study provides the welfare implications of IPRs for the rice growers, and private innovators developing and introducing non-transgenic herbicide tolerant (HT) rice in southern Brazil. The results revealed that under strict IPR enforcement, both producers and innovators would realize larger economic gains. Farmers will continue to capture a substantial share of the total benefits. Sensitivity analysis showed that the benefits from higher yields due to introduction of HT rice technology are primarily captured by producers. It was concluded that IPRs enforcement is more likely to create an adequate economic environment for the private sector to conduct research and to introduce new technologies in Brazil.
Q19|Preferences Of Wine Consumers On Serbian Market| Wine, as worldwide known beverage left deep traces in tradition of many nations, and way it is consumed, very often reflects culture, customs and lifestyles of local communities. Beside health benefits, wine is very often symbol and sign of prestige, especially within wealthy consumers, and its’ consumption is influenced mostly by tradition, confession, habits and level of life standard. General recognition of wine initiated poll research survey during 2011 with basic goal to perceive factors that determine demand and consumption of wine in Republic of Serbia. In other words, survey tried to establish what are the preferences, motives, and consumer attitudes when buying a wine in domestic market. Gained results could represent useful database to wineries and wine importers who can based on that estimate current market potential and their products niche in domestic market.
Q19|Cattle Stock And The Analysis Of Total Meat Production In The Republic Of Serbia| Over the last few decades cattle stock has been greatly reduced and therefore the production of all kinds of meat has been reduced as well, as a result of those changes. This work shows, based on the data of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the results of cattle stock and total meat production variability in Serbia for the period from 2000 to 2009. In 2009 the production of all kinds of meat was 457.000 tons which was 1,5% less than in 2008 and 3,4% less than in 2000. However, in 2009 the production of beef was 1% higher than in 2008, as well as the production of mutton and lamb – 8,7% and the production of poultrymeat – 5,3% higher than in 2008. The biggest fall – 5,3% was recorded in the production of pork. If compared to the production in 2000, the production of mutton and lamb was 31,6% higher, the production of poultrymeat was 19,4% higher, while the production of beef was 2,9% less and the production of pork was 11% less. Thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia measures for stimulating cattle breeding, cattle breeding has slowly been taking the place that it deserves in the economy again.
Q19|Intellectual Property Related To Traditional And Modern Agriculture In Serbia| Agricultural progress has been the most important factor which leads to humans’ civilization. The world has progressed in such a rapid manner that traditional agriculture has aggressively been replaced by modern agricultural approaches and methods. Traditional knowledge and innovations relating to food and agriculture are widespread, viable and sustainable. The subject matter of protection traditional knowledge may include agricultural, environmental and knowledge associated with genetic resources. Protection of the traditional knowledge and results of the modern agriculture, under existing models of intellectual property rights could involve: copyrights, patents, plant varieties, trademarks, geographical indications and appellations of origin. While patents protect new and inventive products and processes, geographical indications protect traditional knowledge and skills associated with certain products which are typically passed down through generations, and have a strong link with the underlying geographical territory.
Q19|Agricultural Land In Vojvodina As Roe Deer Habitat – Hunting - Tourism Aspect| This paper is aimed at the acquisition of scientific data on the dynamics of development and actual status of roe deer populations on agricultural lands in Vojvodina (which occupy about 90% of its territory), and their utilisation for the advancement of hunting-tourism activities. The research is based on the following scientific methods: field research (monitoring and questionnaires), content analysis, measurement and evaluation of roe deer trophies, comparison and statistical method (descriptive statistics). The observed increasing trend in roe deer density and shooting in the field hunting grounds in Vojvodina (excepting the period 1992-2000), proves that this big game species is adapted to habitats with dominant arable crops. Despite the attained results, which are at the level of the European average, the potentials of roe deer, as the important hunting-tourism resource of Vojvodina, have not yet been sufficiently exploited, therefore an additional improvement of hunting management and hunting-tourism marketing is still required.
Q19|Capitale umano e capitale sociale in agricoltura: un’analisi delle esperienze di filiera corta della Campania interna| In light of the problems that characterize the modern agri-business in the definition of competitive strategies, based on internal, tangible and intangible resources, it becomes necessary to pay attention to business networks, or inter-company relations aimed at commercial transactions, exchange of information, shared norms and associations of resources. All this constitutes an asset for which the company needs to improve its competitive advantage. The structure of relations that allows access to these resources is the social capital, it is in the business network and it is able to create competitiveness and value for the companies. Starting from the data made available by the Census of Agriculture 2000 (ISTAT), it was decided to define and quantify specific indicators of Human Capital and Social Capital in agriculture, in order to obtain a regional characterization of Italian agriculture. These indicators were analyzed with multivariate techniques: principal component analysis (ACP) and cluster analysis. In detail, the ACP has made it possible to synthesize the original variables into a smaller number of new variables (principal components) that can be identified as variables of synthesis of the phenomenon under analysis and allowed us to develop a mapping of land areas (regional, provincial ), with similar characteristics, in relation to the principal components extracted. Then, using the cluster analysis it was possible to identify groups of regions according to different levels of human capital and social capital. Once realized the national mapping and, therefore, after having obtained a characterization of the Campania region, we proceeded with an empirical analysis of the functional relationships between social capital and human capital in agriculture in the wineries firms that have taken courses in the short chain in the inner part of Campania region. The main results come from the mapping and the identification of groups of Italian regions according to different levels of human capital and social capital. Once the national mapping was carried out we try to characterize the inner part of Campania with a detailed study of the organization of the short chain of wine and livestock companies, considering the structural, cognitive and relational components of social networking. The results have allowed us to identify the relationships between associations, cooperatives and human capital factors.
Q19|Tall Fescue Toxicosis Mitigation Strategies: Comparisons of Cow-calf Returns| Tall fescue toxicosis adversely affects calving rate and weight gains reducing returns to cow-calf producers in the south–central United States. This grazing study estimated animal and economic performance implications of endophyte-infected fescue and calving season. Establishing novel endophyte-infected tall fescue on 25% of pasture acres resulted in improved calving rates (87% vs. 70%), weaning weights (532 lbs vs. 513 lbs), and partial returns per acre ($257 vs. $217). Additionally, fall-calving cows had higher calving rates (91% vs. 67%), weaning weights (550 lbs vs. 496 lbs), and partial returns per acre ($269 vs. $199) than spring calving cows.
Q19|Woods, The Most Complex Terrestrial Ecosistem|"A forest ecosystem is a terrestrial unit of living organisms (plants, animals and microorganisms), all interacting among themselves and with the environment (soil, climate, water and light) in which they live. The environmental ""common denominator"" of that forest ecological community is a tree, who most faithfully obeys the ecological cycles of energy, water, carbon and nutrients. A forest ecosystem would be considered having boundaries and would include a forest of trees out to the limit of tree growth. Remember that forests are not the only ecosystems. There are hundreds of thousands of defined and undefined ecosystems that can cover the broadest to the tiniest of areas. An ecosystem can be as small as a pond or a dead tree, or as large as the Earth itself."
Q19|Nineteenth Century US Black and White Physical Activity and Nutritional Trends among the Working Class|Much has been written about 19th century African American and white statures and body mass index values. However, little is known about their physical activity and calories required to sustain height and weight. This paper considers two alternative measures for biological conditions that address physical activity and available calories: basal metabolic rate and energy accounting. African-Americans had greater BMRs and required more calories per day than whites. Farmers and unskilled workers were in better physical condition and required more calories per day than workers in white-collar and skilled occupations. Nineteenth century BMRs and calories were greater in rural locations where greater physical activity was required and more calories were available.
Q19|An eco-sustainable forest management model for the Mediterranean forests - a multiple criteria approach|The forest management of the areas in the Mediterranean basin is a problem that needs a careful solution, accounting and valorising all the economical activities that exist there and considering the fire risk decrease and the biodiversity preservation. In order to overcome this problem, this paper proposes a model that allows designing several scenarios of economical result maximization, producing biodiversity and fires risk indicators, but also achieving the best compromise result between these issues using compromise programming. The model was applied in the Forest Intervention Zone Arade-Alte/ S. B. Messines. The results were promising and provide important information, creating a complete management plan, and simulating the best compromise solution among fire risk, economical result and biodiversity, providing an added background for the analysts.
Q19|Coltan from Central Africa, international trade and implications for any certification|The exploitation of coltan in Central Africa can be considered a case of conflict minerals due to its nature. Many international organizations and bodies, national governments and private sector organizations seek to address this conflict, in particular via transparency, certification and accountability along the material supply chain. This paper analyses the international trade dimension of coltan and gives evidence on the dimension of illicit trade of coltan. The authors start from the hypothesis that illicit trade of coltan sooner or later will enter the market and will be reflected in the statistics. The paper is structured in the following manner: first, a short section gives a profile of coltan production and markets; second, an overview of the mining situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and related actors. The third section addresses mechanisms, actors and measurement issues involved in the international trade of coltan. The final part draws lessons for certification and conflict analysis and offers some guidance for future research.
Q19|A Graphical and Statistical Analysis of the Judgment of Princeton Wine Tasting|The wine ratings from the a wine tasting comparing wines from a young wine region, New Jersey, to wines from Bordeaux was held June 8, 2012 in Princeton, NJ. Graphical analysis revealed substantial differences in the use of the rating scale between judges, both in the centroids of their scores and the variability in their scores. Analysis of variance failed to detect any significant differences in the white wines regardless of data transformation or statistical model. Analysis of raw data from the red wines suggested significant differences, but severely violated ANOVA model assumptions and was invalid. Rank transformation, standardization, a model with heterogeneous variances, and Friedman's test all indicated no significant differences among red wines. Based on the confidence interval on the difference between all New Jersey and all Bordeaux wines in each flight it was estimated that differences larger than 1.5 on the 20-point scale would have been declared significantly different for either white or red wines. Therefore, the tasting was powerful enough that any meaningful differences between the wines from the two origins would have been detected. (JEL Classification: C19, Q19)
Q19|Land-based mitigation in climate stabilization|This paper evaluates the role of land in long-run climate stabilization mitigation scenarios. The details of land modeling for common stabilization policy scenarios are, for the first time, presented, contrasted, and assessed. While we find significant differences in approaches across modeling platforms, all the approaches conclude that land based mitigation – agriculture, forestry, and biomass liquid and solid energy substitutes – could be a steady and significant part of the cost-effective portfolio of mitigation strategies; thereby, reducing stabilization cost and increasing flexibility for achieving more aggressive climate targets. However, large fossil fuel emissions reductions are still required, and there are substantial uncertainties, with little agreement about abatement magnitudes. Across the scenarios, land mitigation options contribute approximately 100 to 340GtC equivalent abatement over the century, 15 to 40% of the total required for stabilization, with bio-energy providing up to 15% of total primary energy. Long-run land climate modeling is rapidly evolving with critical challenges to address. In characterizing current capability, this paper hopes to stimulate future research and the next generation of land modeling and provide a point of comparison for energy and climate policies considering bio-energy, reduced deforestation and degradation, and cost containment.
Q19|Strategie e strumenti per la valorizzazione delle produzioni nella filiera bovina: il fattore genoma|The aim of the project was to examine the features involved in product quality and animal health for the purposes of genetic selection in order to achieve the best quality in each of the species and/or breeds under consideration. Among the tasks carried out the working group had to verify the socio-economic development of the most satisfactory end results as determined by the working set of genetic selections in the light of continuous advances in knowledge regarding the bovine genome. The analysis was limited to cattle as they were considered the most representative species for the purpose of the study. The study started with an analysis of the sector to investigate the proactive dynamics concerning the use of technology in the cattle industry The approach used is one which has become customary in studies examining issues in this sector related to the system of farming/livestock and which allows us to detect not only the most crucial quantitative but also qualitative aspects that exist and have been established among the various components of the system, with particular reference to the types of productive performance which are determined by the use of different technical patterns, especially those related to improvement and genetic selection. The study’s aim was to follow the analytical framework of the supply chain in order to highlight important conditions that contribute to an interpretation of the key economic characteristics for the selective breeding industry under analysis. All this is due to the gradual revelation of the genetic basis of biodiversity by means of genome sequencing. Thanks to genomics, subjects to be used for propagation can be selected in terms of the target characteristics to be achieved, such as greater energy efficiency, resulting in the ability to produce better cattle feed, more resistance to disease, or a reduction in environmental impact by reducing emissions of methane gas. Regarding the methodology adopted, an examination of the context is followed by an evaluation of the most suitable production factors for the enhancement of the cattle population and the article concludes with some suggestions for possible future interventions.
Q19|Value portfolio in the multifunctional farm: new theoretical-methodological approaches|"La creazione di valore e stata oggetto di significativa attenzione nel dibattito economico- agrario, nazionale e internazionale, degli ultimi anni, portando allo sviluppo di nuovi approcci teorici che hanno permesso di reinterpretare i processi di riposizionamento funzionale dell’impresa agricola (multifunzionale). In quest’ottica, percio, la multifunzionalita permette all’azienda di rispondere alle nuove istanze sociali, consapevoli e responsabili, produrre benessere collettivo, integrare il reddito, individuare percorsi di creazione di valore socialmente responsabile. In questo senso, si rinnova la tradizionale visione della multifunzionalita, la quale da strumento di giustificazione dell’intervento pubblico in agricoltura assume valore di vero e proprio fattore strategico di vantaggio competitivo. Il paper propone un modello teorico che consente di analizzare come i processi di boundary shift portino alla creazione di un ""portafoglio di valori"" (PV) (Marotta, Nazzaro, 2010; 2011a, 2011b), e a nuovi modelli di impresa agricola multifunzionale e multi-valore. Sul piano metodologico, l’utilizzo della Value Portfolio and Multifunctional Governance Analysis (VPMGA) (Marotta, Nazzaro, 2010; 2011a, 2011b), ha permesso di validare empiricamente il modello del PV, in specifiche filiere agroalimentari e sistemi rurali della Campania, secondo un approccio che, integrando e completando la value chain analysis e la governance value analysis, si pone come innovativo e meglio rappresentativo delle specificita dell’impresa agricola multifunzionale. I risultati hanno permesso di verificare come il boundary shift e, quindi, il PV, consentono di diversificare il rischio, in situazioni di crisi, rappresentando una strategia competitiva per le imprese multifunzionali rispetto alle imprese che conservano il solo core business tradizionale."
Q19|Sistemi locali multifunzionali per lo sviluppo rurale|The aim of the research is to contribute to the knowledge of multifunctional local systems. The survey was conducted on a case study: a consortium of social cooperatives and other organizations with the common goal of social integration and employment of disadvantaged people through the implementation of different activities, including agriculture. The purpose of the research was to identify the characteristic elements of the organizational model analyzed and to point out its role in the development of the territory, i.e. the associated farms, other enterprises, different rural actors and the territory at large.
Q19|Modelling farm structural change: A feasibility study for ex-post modelling utilizing FADN and FSS data in Germany and developing an ex-ante forecast module for the CAPRI farm type layer baseline|The present study aims to develop a prototype analytical tool to assess structural changes at the farm level in EU-27 using the Farm Accountancy Data Network (FADN) combined with the Farm Structure Survey (FSS). For the purpose of this study, farm structural change is related to the change in production systems, therefore a change in farm size and farm entry/exit into one sector/farm typology. In the ex-post analysis of structural change two methodologies are presented, one in which structural change is analysed from a discrete perspective using a Markov approach, whereas the second uses the continuous perspective to evaluate the type of farming over time using MCI (Multiplicative Competitive Interaction) models. The methodolgies are applied in selected German regions and the goodness of fit in the out of sample prediction is compared. In the ex-ante methodology, the existing farm module of CAPRI (Common Agricultural Policy Regionalised Impact System) is expanded by considering the findings of the statistical ex-post-analysis when projecting farm-type structural change in the baseline trends. Results show that the Markov prediction may outperform naïve prediction methods but that the quality of the prediction is critically dependent on the model specification. A higher in-sample fit does not necessarily lead to better out-of-sample prediction, which potentially indicates that the effects of specific explanatory variables may change over time. In addition, introducing structural change into the CAPRI farm type baseline improve policy impact assessment and hence a more reliable and consistent farm grid for simulations is constructed.
Q19|Imputing censored data with desirable spatial covariance function properties using simulated annealing|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|Experimental designs for estimating plateau-type production functions and economically optimal input levels|No abstract is available for this item.
Q19|The Impact of Gypsum Application on Groundnut Yield in Rainfed Pothwar: An Economic Perspective|This study presents an economic analysis of experimental on-farm data on the yield effect of gypsum on groundnut production in Pakistan’s Pothwar region. The data indicates that groundnut pod yield increases significantly with the application of gypsum at 500 kg/ha for both local and improved (chakori) varieties of groundnut. The higher net benefits generate a marginal rate of return of up to 132 percent for local and 202 percent for improved varieties of groundnut. We carry out a sensitivity analysis and minimum returns analysis, and find, respectively, that the recommended application is capable of withstanding price variability and variability in yield. Since price structure changes more rapidly than technology, recommendations should be based on an analysis of returns under varying input and output prices.
