Q20|Adoption Gaps of Environmental Adaptation Technologies with Public Effects|The global nature of the climatic challenge requires a high level of cooperation among agents, especially since most of the related coping strategies produce some kind of externalities toward others. Whether they are positive or negative, the presence of externalities may lead the system towards Pareto-dominated states. In this work, we study under and over-adoption of environmental adaptation technologies which enhance environmental quality for the individual while transferring externalities to other agents. We distinguish adaptation technologies between maladaptation and mitigation ones, depending on the sign of the externalities. In particular, we show that over adoption may occur for maladaptive technologies, whereas under-adoption may occur in case of mitigation. We study a model with two regions at different stages of development, which allows us to draw considerations on well-being consequences of environmental dumping.
Q20|¿Las diferencias importan? Heterogeneidad y dilemas sociales en recursos naturales, aportes desde la Economía experimental y del comportamiento|Resumen: En el presente artículo se hace una revisión desde las ciencias comportamentales sobre la cooperación y los dilemas sociales en el contexto de la heterogeneidad. En primera parte se conceptualiza este fenómeno y se plantean algunos elementos que dan cuenta de su influencia en el logro de la cooperación desde una perspectiva experimental. Aunque la evidencia sobre la existencia de un efecto positivo de las diferencias de los individuos o de las comunidades en la superación de los dilemas sociales es mixta, se reconocen los distintos equilibrios alcanzados por un grupo homogéneo y uno no homogéneo. Una vez enmarcado este contexto general de los dilemas sociales, la discusión se centra en la heterogeneidad presente en los usuarios y comunidades gestoras de los recursos naturales. Así, se analiza la literatura que da cuenta de la influencia de los elementos contextuales cuando usuarios y comunidades buscan superar dilemas colectivos, tales como el sobre uso y el agotamiento de los recursos. / Abstract : This paper is a revision of the contributions at the behavioral sciences about cooperation and social dilemmas in a heterogeneous framework. At the first part, heterogeneity is conceptualized, and I show some elements related to their influence over cooperation in an experimental perspective. Even though there is mixed evidence about the positive effect of individual or collective differences in the overcoming of social dilemmas, the literature identifies that diverse equilibriums are reached in the homogeneous and not homogeneous groups.After the presentation of the general context about social dilemmas, the document focuses the discussion on users and community’s heterogeneity in the use of natural resources. So, I analyze the literature related to the influence of contextual elements when people want to solve collective problems, as resources overuse and depletion. To recognize heterogeneity as a cooperation factor is relevant at public policy context because aid to focus the government intervention effectively to achieve the conservation of common-pool resources.
Q20|Sub-Lethal Concentrations of Neonicotinoid Insecticides at the Field Level Affect Negatively Honey Yield: Evidence from a 6-year Survey of Greek Apiaries|We used data from a 6-year survey of 60 apiaries in Greece and economic modelling to assess at the field level the effects of neonicotinoid insecticides on honey production. Based on production function estimates, we found that sub-lethal concentrations of two widely used neonicotinoid insecticides (imidacloprid and thiamethoxam) detected in the nectar of flowers resulted in substantial losses in honey production for commercial beekeepers in our sample.
Q20|Adoption Gaps of Environmental Adaptation Technologies with Public Effects| The global nature of the climatic challenge requires a high level of cooperation among agents, especially since most of the related coping strategies produce some kind of externalities toward others. Whether they are positive or negative, the presence of externalities may lead the system towards Pareto-dominated states. In this work, we study under and over-adoption of environmental adaptation technologies which enhance environmental quality for the individual while transferring externalities to other agents. We distinguish adaptation technologies between maladaptation and mitigation ones, depending on the sign of the externalities. In particular, we show that over adoption may occur for maladaptive technologies, whereas under-adoption may occur in case of mitigation. We study a model with two regions at different stages of development, which allows us to draw considerations on well-being consequences of environmental dumping.
Q20|Optimization of age-structured bioeconomic model: recruitment, weight gain and environmental effects|More and more fishery researchers begin to acknowledge that one-dimensional biomass models may omit key information when generating management guidelines. For the more complicated age-structured models, numerous parameters require a proper estimation or a reasonable assumption. In this paper, the effects of recruitment patterns and environmental impacts on the optimal exploitation of a fish population are investigated. Based on a discrete-time age-structured bioeconomic model of Northeast Atlantic mackerel, we introduce the mechanisms that generate 6 scenarios of the problem. Using the simplest scenario, optimizations are conducted under 8 different parameter combinations. Then, the problem is solved for each scenario and simulations are conducted with constant fishing mortalities. It is found that a higher environmental volatility leads to more net profits but with a lower probability of achieving the mean values. Any parameter combination that favours the older fish tends to lend itself to pulse fishing pattern. The simulations indicate that a constant fishing mortality around 0.06 performs the best. A comparison between the optimal and the historical harvest shows that for more than 70% of the time, the optimal exploitation precedes the historical one, leading to 43% higher net profit and 34% lower fishing cost.
Q20|Greed is good: from super-harvest to recovery in a stochastic predator-prey system|This paper demonstrates a predator-prey system of cod and capelin that confronts a possible scenario of prey extinction under the first-best policy in a stochastic world. We discover a novel ‘super-harvest’ phenomenon that the optimal harvest of the predator is even higher than the myopic policy, or the ‘greedy solution’, on part of the state space. This intrinsic attempt to harvest more predator to protect the prey is a critical evidence supporting the idea behind ‘greed is good’. We ban prey harvest and increase predator harvest in a designated state space area based on the optimal policy. Three heuristic recovery plans are generated following this principle. We employ stochastic simulations to analyse the probability of prey recovery and evaluate corresponding costs in terms of value loss percentage. We find that the alternative policies enhance prey recovery rates mostly around the area of 50% recovery probability under the optimal policy. When we scale up the predator harvest by 1.5, the prey recovery rate escalates for as much as 28% at a cost of 5% value loss. We establish two strategies: modest deviation from the optimal on a large area or intense measure on a small area. It seems more cost-effective to target the stock space with accuracy than to simply boost predator harvest when the aim is to achieve remarkable improvement of prey recovery probability.
Q20|Learning cooperation from the commons|"The paper discusses the link between commons as they might have been used in prehistoric Norway and the rules concerning the exploitation of the commons as found in the oldest known legislation for regions of Norway, Gulating Law and Frostating Law. One clear social dilemma has been identified: the setting of a common date for moving animals from the home fields up to the summer farms and home again in the fall. The problem was obvious and the solution not particularly difficult to institute. Many more problems were of course present, but they did not rise to the level of a social dilemma. All such problems were managed by the rules enacted by the bygdeting along with other problems of a community. In particular the process of inheritance, the problems of fencing, how to change borders between neighbours and between individually owned fields and the commons, were treated by extensive rules. The bygdeting managed such issues from prehistory until the 16th and 17th centuries when reforms initiated by the Danish-Norwegian kings started to take effect, making the rule-of-law more uniquely a task for the central authorities and of less concern for the local communities. Maybe the basic legacy of the long history of local rule was a strong belief in the court system, that it would secure the old saying: ""By law the land shall be built, not with unlaw wasted""."
Q20|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and effciency motives. A priori, this fi nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to first increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse off in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
Q20|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and efficiency motives. A priori, this fi…nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to fi…rst increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse o¤ in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
Q20|Natural Resources, Economic Growth and Geography| In this paper we discuss the relationship between economic growth and natural resources at a global level, taking into account geography. With this aim, our model integrates elements of the theories of endogenous growth, natural resources and new economic geography. We find that an increase in the world growth rate can lead to a higher depletion of the natural resources following an increase in the world demand due to expansion in population. However, the consideration of geography and growth mechanisms make the relationship between growth and natural resources more complex, and can even lead to the opposite conclusion when the forces behind growth are different from world demand. Indeed, either a reduction in transport costs or an increase in R&D productivity appears to be able to generate a faster growth compatible with a lower depletion of natural resources.
Q20|Sustainability of agricultural sub-sectors in Bulgaria|In Bulgaria, like in most countries, the comprehensive assessments on agrarian sustainability are mostly at sectoral or farm levels while there is practically no in-depth study on sustainability at sub-sector (industry) level. This paper tries to fill the gap and assess the sustainability of different sub-sectors in Bulgarian agriculture. First a holistic hierarchical framework for assessing integral, economic, social and ecological sustainability of Bulgarian agriculture is suggested including 17 principles, 35 criteria, and 46 indicators and reference values. After that, an assessment is made on the overall and aspects sustainability of major crop, livestock and mixed subsectors of Bulgarian agriculture. The assessment is based on first-hand information collected though in-depth interviews with the managers of “typical” farms in analysed industries. The study has found out that there is a considerable differentiation in the level of integral and aspects sustainability in individual sub-sectors in Bulgaria, with mixed livestock-breeding, mixed crop-growing, and perennial crops sub-sectors having the highest integral sustainability, while pigs, poultry and rabbits; vegetables, flowers and mushrooms, and mixed livestock-crops subsectors the lowest one. There are also substantial variations in the levels of economic, social and ecological sustainability of different agricultural sub-sectors and individual indicators with the highest and lowest values showing (critical) factors enhancing and deterring particular or overall sustainability of evaluated agro-industries. Results on the integral agrarian sustainability level of this study based on the micro sub-sector (farm) data are similar to the previous assessment based on the aggregate sectoral (statistical, etc.) data.
Q20|The Valuation of Fisheries Rights: A Real Options Approach|This article develops and implements a Real Option approach to value renewable natural resources in the case of Marine Fisheries. The model includes two sources of uncertainty: the resource biomass and the price of fish, and it can be used by fisheries to optimally adapt their harvesting strategy to changing conditions in these stochastic variables. The model also features realistic operational cash flows and fisheries can shutdown and reopen operations. Using publicly available data on the British Columbia halibut fishery, the required parameters are estimated and the model solved. The results indicate that the conservation of the biomass is both optimal from a financial and a social perspective. The approach could be extended to other fish species and natural resources if the appropriate data were available.
Q20|Evaluating the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity: Impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other approaches|This report provides an overview of methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness of policy instruments for biodiversity, covering impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness analysis and other more commonly used approaches. It then provides an inventory of biodiversity-relevant impact evaluation studies, across both terrestrial and marine ecosystems. The report concludes with lessons learned, policy insights and suggestions for further work.
Q20|Establishing the Link Between Poverty and Changes in Climatic Conditions in the Philippines|This paper investigates whether changes in climatic conditions significantly contribute to incidence of poverty in the Philippines. Due to the lack of sufficient regional estimates of poverty, this study utilized food cpi data to proxy for poverty level. The relationship between poverty level and food cpi were tested and found to be moving in parallel direction, and hence, could be substituted for each other for this study’s purposes. The relationship between poverty and food prices has also been verified in the literature, as higher food prices is the dominant variable that results in higher poverty levels. The results show that higher agricultural wages as well as extreme climate-influenced shocks such as El Niño and La Niña were significant determinants of poverty. Higher agricultural wage benefits agricultural workers, but the income effect may be small, and that overall, the net effect of is higher food prices that, in turn, exacerbates overall poverty. The negative impact of El Niño and La Niña on food prices (and therefore, poverty level) could be attributed to the consistent and appropriate government response to these weather shocks, which have stabilized supply of food. Government programs to stock up on rice during weather shocks, and the automatic assistance to farmers during calamities, have had the overall effect of neutralizing the potential poverty impacts of climate-related shocks. These are useful insights in carving out a climate-resilient economic development plan, and emphasize the importance of timely and appropriate government action and adaptation programs.
Q20|Renewable Energy, Quality of Institutions and Economic Growth in MENA Countries: a Panel Cointegration Approach|In this paper, we examine the relationship between renewable energy and economic growth taking into account institutional measures. Using panel cointegration tests, we found that these two variables and any institutional measure, of all considered in this study, are co-integrated. Furthermore, we found a strong causality running from renewable energy and any institutional measure, except for law and order, to growth. A reverse path is also observed since there is also a strong causality running from growth to renewable energy when the causal regression includes any institutional measure. Policy implications are accordingly derived.
Q20|Small-scale fishery of the Eastern Mediterranean Sea: A case study in the Kalymnos Island, Greece|This study analyzes the small-scale fishery in Kalymnos Island (located in Eastern Mediterranean Sea) to evaluate fishing practices in this fishery. The métiers of this fishery are defined with a multivariate analysis approach for assessing the main fishery resources and fishing gear employed. The empirical findings show that longlines in this fishery practice 10 types of métiers. Some of these métiers, in terms of target species, gear and seasonality are also used in other small-scale Mediterranean fisheries. The main 6 type of métiers with fishing gear: set longlines, drifting longlines, handlines and squid jig-lines with target species P.pagrus, D.vulgaris, P.erythrinus, S.aurata, X.gladius, O.vulgaris, and L.vulgaris. The seasonal rotation of métiers is determined by the availability of different fish species rather than market price. Identified the métiers provides information for developing monitoring and management strategies for the small-scale fishery. The small-scale fishery constitutes an important social component of local coastal communities.
Q20|Biodiversitatea patrimoniului natural montan. Provocările prezentului și perspective durabile de acțiune<BR>[Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives]|Între zonele montane și biodiversitate există o legătură directă și indisolubilă: zonele montane reprezintă, poate, cel mai important izvor de eco-sisteme la nivel global, adevărate laboratoare științifice, de cercetare și cunoaștere a evoluției și distribuției speciilor și organismelor vii, a relațiilor dintre acestea, a adaptării lor la diferite medii și a influențelor hotărâtoare ale acțiunilor umane care au condus la actualele schimbări climatice. Munții funcționează ca adevărate refugii pentru speciile endemice afectate de acțiunile umane necontrolate, în timp ce pajiștile alpine sunt expuse pierderii practicilor tradiționale de pășunat. Regiunile montane, diverse și complexe, sunt elementele centrale ale politicilor de mediu și dezvoltare durabilă, problemele lor și dificultățile de adaptare la noile schimbări climatice necesitând măsuri adecvate, rapide și, mai ales, permanente (susținute continuu). Munții aparțin, de regulă, geografiei mediului, dar, deopotrivă, pot fi analizați și din perspectivă economică, socială, culturală etc., multidisciplinaritatea lor fiind recunoscută atât de mediul academic-universitar, cât și de factorii decizionali implicați în politicile de dezvoltare teritorială. Recent, Noua Geografie Economică (New Economic Geography) promovată intens pe plan global, consideră dezvoltarea economică și socială a regiunilor montane ca fiind una deosebit de importantă: zonele montane sunt surse importante de materii prime și materiale necesare producției și consumului de bază (agricultură, industrie, servicii), aspect ce afectează, în condițiile actuale, atât biodiversitatea, cât și nivelul de viață al comunităților locale. Perspectiva economică este deosebit de importantă atât la nivelul marilor grupuri de interese regionale, cât mai ales la nivel local, pentru comunitățile dependente direct și permanent de resursele și condițiile oferite de munte. Din ce în ce mai vizibil, impactul negativ al activităților economice asupra zonei montante, atât de înaltă cât și de joasă altitudine, trebuie să conducă spre o viziune comună și o abordare durabilă a stării biodiversității acesteia, deoarece, afectarea unui habitat poate atrage după sine distrugerea întregului echilibrul ecologic, și așa atât de fragil, în prezent. Pornind de la considerentele prezentate mai sus, articolul oferă o imagine generală asupra relației dintre biodiversitatea zonelor montane și implicațiile dezvoltării economice și sociale asupra acesteia, apelând, în principal, la surse documentare naționale și internaționale, la date și informații statistice, care vin să completeze imaginea globală a evoluției relației, în timp și spațiu.
Q20|Sustainable management of fish stock: An assessment of small-scale fishing in Greece|The aim of this study was to identify the main métiers practiced by gillnet, trammel net and combined net fishery in the Kalymnos Island. The catch was obtained every 15 days of the small-scale fleet for the period from February 2013 to May 2014 by interviews during unloading. A total 315 fishing operations were recorded. Multivariate analysis applied to either species landings composition or economic revenue. The most important métiers identified were those B. boops with gillnet, intense fishing activity during December-February and mesh size 26 mm, métier which targeting S. porcus and S. officinalis with fishing gear trammel net, intense fishing activity during April-May and mesh size 26 mm. Both of these métiers appeared high produce and income. The results of this study confirm the multi-species natural of small-scale fishing and fishing activity in the area of Kalymnos specific difference from the other area in Greece.
Q20|Socioeconomic aspects and characteristics of small-scale fishery in eastern Mediterranean Sea|Small-scale fishery represents an important part of Mediterranean fishery. In order to improve the knowledge on this sector primary research was carried out in the Dodecanese fishery aiming to identify the fishery and socioeconomic characteristics, fishing activities, and to identify the small-scale fisheries métiers. Specifically, data were collected over the time period 2013-2014 by interviews aiming to characterize fleets, fishing gear used, fishing activity and socioeconomic elements and interviews during unloading aimed at catch data. The highest CPUE values were reported for Boops boops (2.38±2.93 kg/1500 m net*day) caught by gillnet in the winter season, Xiphias gladius (101.03±86.06 kg/800 hooks*day) by drifting longline in the spring season. The catch is traded in both the wholesale and the retail market. The most important métiers with fishing gear and target species: gillnet, B. boops, trammel net, Scorpaen porcus and Mullus surmuletus, set longline, Pagellus erythrinus, Pagrus pagrus, Diplodus sargus, drifting longlines, X.gladius and handlines, Octopus vulgaris. The Dodecanese fishery need management measures to protect fishery resources and maintain small-scale fishery.
Q20|Comparison between ideal and estimated pv parameters using evolutionary algorithms to save the economic costs|Micro grids are now emerging from lab modules sites into commercial markets, driven by technological improvements, falling costs, a proven track record, and growing recognition of their benefits. Their main contribution is to improve reliability and resilience of electrical grids, to manage the addition of distributed clean energy resources like wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) generation to reduce fossil fuel emissions, and to provide electricity in areas not served by centralized electrical infrastructure. In between, the popularity of photovoltaic panel is not deniable. In this paper, the ideal and practical electrical model of PV is being discussed. Due to significant role of the PV parameters, they are assessed by several heuristic methods and the results are compared. Hence an optimal method for parameter estimation is discussed that can be used in micro grid simulations to reach to an optimal quiescent working condition.
Q20|India’s Biodiesel Programme: A Pathway for Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Employment Generation and Inclusiveness|The biodiesel programme introduced by the Government of India in the beginning of this century represents a unique case of the development of numerous sustainable entrepreneurs, substantial employment generation for the poor and reduction of carbon footprints without compromising food security and thus promote equity and social justice. It is estimated that a 20% biofuel blending through domestic feedstock production would create 6.37 million sustainable entrepreneurs and185.15 million man-days per year by 2020. Given the availability of wasteland in the country this target is achievable. The two most important factors that restrained the success of the programme are the uncertainties in yield and seed prices for the farmers. As the domestic price of petroleum is linked to global crude price, any decline in the price of crude in the world market would reduce the feedstock prices in the local market. It therefore requires fixing minimum support prices for seeds and stabilizing yield at higher level through R&D. Given all this potential benefits and the recent trend of jobless growth in the country the programme deserves to be implemented more vigorously.
Q20|Closing the evidence gap: Energy consumption, real output and pollutant emissions in a developing mountainous economy|This study examines the inter relationships between energy consumption, output and carbon emissions in a mountainous economy using an augmented Vector Autoregression model. Time-series data over the period 1975-2013 is studied applying a multivariate framework using population and gross fixed capital formation as additional variables for Nepal. We control for the presence of structural breaks, autoregressive conditional heterosdeacticity and serial correlation in our analysis. Testing for Granger causality between integrated variables based on asymptotic theory reveals a long-run unidirectional Granger causality running from GDP to energy consumption, and a unidirectional Granger causality running from carbon emissions to GDP. The results indicate that energy consumption does not lead to economic growth while income leads to energy consumption. We suggest that the government of Nepal can adopt energy conservation policies and energy efficiency improvements to narrow the energy supply-demand gap. However, environmental policies aimed at reducing air pollution may have adverse effects on the growth of the Nepalese economy, which calls for a gradual approach towards decarbonisation. Our results remain robust to different estimators and contributes to an emerging literature on the nexus relationships between energy consumption, income and carbon emissions in developing economies.
Q20|A preliminary assessment of the indicators for Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development”|The SDGs are intended to address sustainable development processes in both developed and developing countries, and to facilitate action at all levels and with all actors, including government, civil society, the private sector and the science community to strengthen the capacity of the State to achieve the desired outcomes. The SDG 14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development” covers, among other features, economic pressures on the marine environment, as well as the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and coastal communities since they are particularly impacted by the economic pressures and dependent on the oceans in socio-economic terms. This paper reviews the rational for the SDG 14, as well as the framework for the SDG 14 indicators including (i) the basic concepts, i.e. the role of uncertainty, irreversibility and thresholds in the marine context, the multidimensionality of the SDG 14 indicators, and how to ensure effective SDG 14 monitoring and implementation through SMART SDG 14 targets; (ii) synergies and trade-offs among the SDG 14 targets and between SDG 14 and other SDGs targets, and how to track progress on policy coherence at the national level; (iii) synergies between SDG 14 indicators, and ocean-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 7 and Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs) targets and indicators; and (iv) the role of non-traditional sources of data such as big data. In addition, some preliminary indicators for the SDG 14 at the global and national scales (France) are also explored. As a result of this analysis, some areas for future research in the framework of SDG 14 indicators are proposed, i.e. building on the frontiers of ocean science, the development of innovative approaches for data collection, the development of common approaches in valuing marine ecosystem services and national accounting, the provision of incentives for best practice and peer-learning, the harmonisation of measurement methodologies and the selection of SDG 14 indicators according to the geographical level of intervention.
Q20|The determinants of economic growth in countries with high marine biodiversity|In this paper, we explore the economic growth determinants in 74 countries with high marine biodiversity for the period 1960-2009 through methodologies that take into account theory and specification uncertainty and the presence of multiple growth regimes. We find, firstly, that neoclassical (income), demography, macroeconomic policy, natural capital, fractionalisation and institutions theories are robust determinants of economic growth in these coastal countries. These results suggest that a country’s capacity to deal with marine biodiversity is associated with factors that impact economic growth. Secondly, in contrast with worldwide data sets, macroeconomic policies and natural capital are additional robust determinants of economic growth. There is strong historical evidence on the role of macroeconomic policies and non-renewable natural resources in trade flows and economic growth in coastal countries. Both factors, together with demography, highlight the pressures that coastal areas can be subject to such as construction and public works, population growth and urbanisation which, in turn, may degrade marine biodiversity. In fact, compared to other countries, coastal countries with high marine biodiversity have higher fertility rates, higher international trade exchanges, greater government consumption and lower institutional endowments. Thirdly, we find that education plays an important role in these countries. The rate of economic convergence increases with the level of education. Moreover, education and investment in physical capital have a significant and positive impact on economic growth in countries with very high levels of marine biodiversity. All together, our results suggest that diversifying away from natural capital wealth by investing in education and, more generally, in intangible capital can enhance economic growth, particularly in countries with very high levels of marine biodiversity. In turn, this structural change can contribute to remove pressure from marine biodiversity hotspots, mainly through lower fertility rates as education increases and lower dependence on natural capital exports via coastal areas.
Q20|Economic growth determinants in countries with blue carbon: Natural capital as a limiting factor ?|In this paper, we explore the determinants of economic growth in countries with blue carbon, i.e. countries with open access to the sea and high mangrove mitigation potential, to explore the effects of potential antropogenic pressures on these coastal ecosystems. For this purpose, we use a sample of 23 countries across different regions in the world for the period 1960-2009. We find evidence that whereas neoclassical (initial income and investment in physical capital), demography, macroeconomic policy and natural capital are the robust growth theories in countries with blue carbon, investment in physical capital, macroeconomic policy and natural capital are not relevant anymore when using a worldwide sample of countries. The findings on the role of natural capital on economic growth are largely consistent with those of “less developed” countries that our sample represents. Indeed, there is a share over two times lower of national natural capital per capita compared to an average country, and such lower share can be a limiting factor for economic growth. In addition, a too large economic dependence on national natural capital, almost two times higher than in an average country, may also have a negative impact on economic growth. These features, together with the high fertility rates in these countries, highlight the potential antropogenic pressures that coastal areas with blue carbon can be subject to such as land conversion for agriculture or aquaculture, farming run-offs, over-exploitation of blue carbon resources, urbanisation, uncontrolled sewage and public works which, in turn, can degrade blue carbon ecosystems. Given these findings, we empathize the role of central governments to provide incentives for the protection of these nature-based solutions at the level of local policy makers and communities, and of international financial institutions to provide financial support for such initiatives in these “less developed” countries.
Q20|Introducing Environmental Ethics into Economic Analysis: Some insights from Hans Jonas’ Responsibility Principle|This paper addresses how environmental ethics could be incorporated in economic analysis and more particularly how the Responsibility Principle of H. Jonas can provide useful insights into the analysis of sustainability issues. The challenges of environmental and social sustainability in terms of intergenerational fairness are analysed and involve a moral duty applicable to economic governance. The paper also explores to what extent responsibility, as an alternative to utilitarianism and as a principle facilitating the coordination of the agents involved, can be a first step towards the long-term and sustainable conservation of Nature.
Q20|Seasonality matters: a multi-season, multi-state dynamic optimization in fishery|Many biological and economic processes in fishery happen seasonally. Most of the extant literature tends to neglect this fact. This work is an initial attempt to treat seasonality in a systematic and proper way. We apply a periodic Bellman approach to obtain the optimal feedback policy of each season. Our approach has rich potentials. It could deal with seasonal patterns of uneven lengths: some may span years and some within the year. We find that, in some cases the equilibrium consists of one harvesting season followed by a moratorium period, indicating an optimal closure of the fishery that would be overlooked by a yearly model. Unlike a typical policy that enforces a moratorium to recover the stock, we find that many states first undergo harvesting all year round and later evolve into the seasonal moratorium. A rising group biomass could be the overshooting effect instead of a clear sign to increase harvest. We sometimes observe declining optimal harvest with increasing states (‘valley’), which may relate to the unit profit difference between seasons. Fishing pressure on the mature elicits even heavier harvest in the next season on the same group. A protective moratorium of the immature seems to hinder the value of the whole stock.
Q20|Understanding Norwegian Commons|he paper reviews the development of the legal status of Norwegian commons from the first known legislation on commons. The development can be divided into 5 periods. The first period lasted until about 1300. In this period, the commons changed from being a local matter for the chiefs and the local thing to become a national resource where also the King had rights to resources for defence of the realm. The second period is the big population decline 1350-1550 where Norway lost 60% of its population and the King and his bureaucracy moved to Copenhagen. The commons reverted to a local issue. The third period lasted from about 1550 to 1814. The powers of ownership were now seen to reside in the Crown. It had moved from the local community to the state. The rights of common were respected and should remain as they had been from old on. Limitations on the commoner's exploitation were introduced. Rights of common were held by active farms and stinted to the needs of the farm. At the same time, the Crown started large-scale exploitation of the forest resources and selling off forestland to sawmill owners and timber merchants. In the period 1814 to 1857/ 1863 the state’s ideas about the commons were recast into 3 types of commons and one type not mentioned in the legal texts that here is called hamlet commons. In the period after 1863 the limitations and regulations of the exploitation of the commons continued. By the end of the 20th century, the rights of common were reduced to rights of forests and pasture tailored to the needs of the farm. However, the development in farming and recreation activities of the population changed the usage of the commons. The rights of fishing and hunting in state commons came close to an all men’s right. The national community expanded its use of the commons by defining much of their areas to be protected lands providing landscapes for recreational activities and production of ecosystem services.
Q20|Crowding out or Knowledge Spillovers: The Wind Power Industry´s Effect on Related Energy Machinery|There is a risk that if a government adopts a R&D spending policy directed towards wind power technology crowding out of other technologies might occur due to fiscal constraints and changes in relative prices. The purpose of this paper is to provide a backward-looking analysis of how the accumulation of wind energy patents and public R&D spending affected the domestic and neighboring country output of granted patents in the “related energy machinery field”. The econometric analysis, a Poisson fixed-effects estimator based on the Hausman, Hall and Griliches (1984) method, relies on a data set consisting of eight countries in Western Europe with the highest rates of patent production in the field of wind power between 1978 and 2008. The results show that an accumulation of a national wind power stock is a statistically significant negative determinant of a country’s related energy machinery patenting outcomes. However, no crowding out effects of public R&D spending were found.
Q20|The Infinitely Worried Forest Owner: Key Biotopes and Forest Certification in a Faustmann Model|In this note, we consider a case when a forestry property may lose its market value through “political risk”, illustrated here by it being classified as containing a key biotope. If a key biotope is found on a forest property in Sweden, the wood is almost impossible to sell. We show how the Faustmann formula is modified in this case and identify a “balance sheet” effect and document the incentive properties (the “kill an owl, save a logger” effect observed in the Spotted Owl controversy). The theory seems to have some empirical support, given observed changes in bank lending contracts and alleged changes in forester's behavior to reduce the ”political risk.”
Q20|Natural Resources, Economic Growth and Geography|In this paper we discuss the relationship between economic growth and natural resources at a global level, taking into account geography. With this aim, our model integrates elements of the theories of endogenous growth, natural resources and new economic geography. We find that an increase in the world growth rate can lead to a higher depletion of the natural resources following an increase in the world demand due to expansion in population. However, the consideration of geography and growth mechanisms make the relationship between growth and natural resources more complex, and can even lead to the opposite conclusion when the forces behind growth are different from world demand. Indeed, either a reduction in transport costs or an increase in R&D productivity appears to be able to generate a faster growth compatible with a lower depletion of natural resources.
Q20|The Ecological Insurance Trap|Common pool resources often insure individual livelihoods against the collapse of private endeavors. When endeavors based on private and common pool resources are interconnected, investment in one may put the other at risk. We model Senegalese pastoralists who choose whether to grow crops, a private activity, or raise livestock on common pool pastureland. Livestock can increase the likelihood of locust outbreaks via ecological processes related to grassland degradation. Locust outbreaks damage crops, but not livestock, which are used for savings and insurance. We show the incentive to self-protect (reduce grazing pressure) or self-insure (increase livestock levels) changes with various property rights schemes and levels of ecological detail. If the common pool nature of insurance exacerbates the ecological externality even fully-informed individuals may make decisions that increase the probability of catastrophe, creating an “insurance trap.”
Q20|Reversible Environmental Catastrophes with Disconnected Generations|We study environmental policy in an economy-ecology model featuring multiple deterministic stable steady-state ecological equilibria. The economy-ecology does not settle in either of the deterministic steady states as the environmental system is hit by random shocks. Individual live for two periods and derive utility from the (stochastic) quality of the environment. They feature warm-glow preferences and therefore will engage in private abatement in order to slightly influence the stochastic process governing environmental quality. The government may also conduct abatement activities or introduce environmental taxes. We solve for the market equilibrium abstracting from public abatement and taxes and show that the ecological process may get stuck for extended periods of time fluctuating around the heavily polluted (low quality) deterministic steady state. These events are called environmental catastrophes. They are not irreversible, however, as the system typically switches back to the basin of attraction associated with the good (high quality) deterministic steady state. The paper also compares the stationary distributions for environmental quality and individuals’ welfare arising under the unmanaged economy and in the first-best social optimum.
Q20|From Natural Resources to Human Rights|Per Magnus Wijkman was the first foreign observer to urge Iceland in print to regulate its fisheries by price. This was in 1975, nine years before the Icelandic fishing quota system came into effect, a system judged discriminatory and unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Iceland in 1998 (but not in 2000!) as well as by the United Nations Committee on Human Rights in 2007, principally because the advice given by Wijkman and others was not heeded. This paper discusses the human rights aspects of natural resources management in view of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which stipulates the inalienable rights of nations to the rents from their natural resources.
Q20|The Road ahead for Solar PV Power|Over the past decade, solar photovoltaic (PV) power has experienced dramatic deployment growth coupled with substantial decreases in system prices. This article examines how solar PV power is currently positioned in the electricity marketplace and how that position is likely to evolve in the foreseeable future. We first assess the current cost competitiveness of solar PV in select U.S. locations and industry segments using the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) metric. This framework enables us to quantify the effects that supportive public policies, time-of-use pricing, and anticipated future technological improvements have on the cost of solar PV. We also build on recent analytical work that has identified circumstances under which it becomes financially attractive to add behind-the-meter batteries to an existing PV solar system. Taken together, our findings suggest that solar power, by itself and in conjunction with low cost storage, is positioned to account for a significant and growing share of the overall energy mix.
Q20|The Effects of an Anti-Dumping Policy on Stock Prices of the Solar Companies|This study focuses on the reactions of abnormal returns on the Taiwanese solar stocks from eight anti-dumping events to examine the effect of anti-dumping tax on the Taiwanese solar companies. We collects the Taiwanese market reactions to U.S. announced anti-dumping tax on Taiwan, and the Chinese market reactions to U.S. announced anti-dumping tax on China. The purposes of this study are to explore whether abnormal returns are negative during the announcement of anti-dumping tax investigation. Furthermore, we test how abnormal returns change when the verdict of anti-dumping tax is favorable or unfavorable. Finally, we test whether Taiwanese solar stocks abnormal returns are positive during American announcement of anti-dumping tax on China. We find that the abnormal returns are negative during the announcement of anti-dumping tax investigation. The abnormal returns are positive if the verdict of anti-dumping tax is favorable. On the other hand, the abnormal returns are negative if the verdict of anti-dumping tax is unfavorable. Because China and Taiwan ranks top one and two in solar investment respectively, we find positive abnormal returns of Taiwanese companies during American?s announcement of anti-dumping tax on China.
Q20|Nonparametric estimation of international R&D spillovers|In a recent paper, Ertur and Musolesi (Journal of Applied Econometrics 2017; 32: 477-503) employ the Common Correlated Effects (CCE) approach to address the issue of strong cross-sectional dependence while studying international technology diffusion. We carefully revisit this issue by adopting Su and Jin's (Journal of Econometrics 2012; 169: 34-47) method, which extends the CCE approach to nonparametric specifications. Our results indicate that the adoption of a nonparametric approach provides significant benefits in terms of predictive ability. This work also refines previous results by showing threshold effects, nonlinearities and interactions, which are obscured in parametric specifications and which have relevant policy implications.
Q20|An Evolutionary Approach to International Environmental Agreements|Our work contributes to explain the origin of the failure or success of international environmental agreements (IEA) and their relation with the actual aggregate global level of greenhouse gas emissions, by including climate risks, cross-country inequalities, and consumer's environmental awareness. We introduce a novel multi-scale framework, composed by two tied games, to show under which conditions a country is able to fulfil the IEA: (i) a one-shot 2x2 Game, with asymmetric countries that negotiate on the maximum share of emissions, and (ii) an Evolutionary Game which describes the economic structure through the interaction of households and rms' strategies.
Q20|On the Axiomatic Foundation of Ecological Footprint Indices|The objective of this paper is to provide an axiomatic foundation to the concept of ecological footprint indices. For this purpose, we propose five axioms representing general properties which any ecological footprint measure should fulfill. It can be shown that there exists a unique index which is characterized by the given set of axioms. Its functional form is determined and an economic interpretation is given. We find that the proposed index may resolve or confirm some important issues discussed in the literature. First, it incorporates a trade component indicating the ecological footprint of economic activities embodied in the trade pattern of a country or region. Moreover, the productivity of land use in production as a means to mitigate the pressure on the ecological system is reflected. But most importantly, from a methodological point of view, there is no longer the need for designing ecological footprint indices ad-hoc, in particular for the sake of empirical application.
Q20|Common pool resources: Is there support for conservationists?|We examine the role of support for coalition stability in common pool resource games such as fisheries games. Some players may not want to join a coalition that jointly manages a resource. Still, because they benefit from spillovers, they may want to support the coalition with a transfer payment in order to set incentives for others to join. We find that the impact of support on equilibria of this game is limited to games with three or five players.
Q20|Environmental attitudes and place identity as simultaneous determinants of preferences for environmental goods|Economic valuation is frequently employed to provide evidence of people's preferences for environmental goods. However, it is also often criticised for providing a simplified representation of preferences, with many factors that affect value formation not accounted for. This is the case of environmental attitudes and especially place identity perceptions, which have been largely overlooked in economic valuation, despite representing amongst the most important drivers of people's behaviour towards the environment, according to the environmental psychology and sociology literature. To address this gap, we designed and conducted a choice experiment where we explored the simultaneous role of environmental attitudes and place identity perceptions on willingness to pay (WTP), taking peatland restoration in Scotland as a case study. This study adds to the existing literature in that no valuation study to date has simultaneously integrated both aspects in preference modelling. Given that both factors are potentially strong drivers of preferences, focusing only on one or the other provides a partial picture of the determinants of WTP. Moreover, we do not just look at 'generic' environmental attitudes, but also at ‘specific’ environmental attitudes. Our results, estimated through a novel and econometrically robust approach based on the hybrid choice model, show that people with more positive environmental attitudes and those who feel attached to Scotland and think that peatlands are an important part of Scotland's identity and landscape tend to display higher WTP. These findings are important to provide a richer understanding of the determinants of preferences for environmental goods. Our results also open up new insights to the discipline in relation to the spatial heterogeneity of preferences: we have shown that people do not only relate with the space around them by focusing on the distance to the improvement site, as most frequently postulated in valuation studies. The idea that place can be understood as a space with emotional and cultural meanings also plays a critical role in shaping preferences. All these are critical elements to better inform policy-makers in the design of more socially acceptable and effective environmental policies.
Q20|The Introduction of Wind Power Generation in a Local Community: An Economic Analysis of Subjective Well-Being Data in Choshi City|In this study, we analyze the external effects of wind turbines, which are often considered detrimental to the promotion of wind power generation. Understanding these externalities is essential for reaching a consensus with residents who live near the planned site of a wind turbine. We conducted a mail survey in Choshi City in Chiba Prefecture to examine the external effects of wind turbines, adopting a subjective well-being index to measure respondents f well-being. Regression analysis suggests that a view of wind power turbines has a positive effect on the subjective well-being of local residents. Moreover, results indicate that such well-being increases with increasing distance from wind turbines. In other words, except for scenic elements, we found that wind turbines are not always considered desirable by residents. As such, it is important to further clarify the external influence of wind turbines as well as other facilities in the neighborhood.
Q20|An empirical analysis of green energy adoption among residential consumers in Poland|This paper investigates the acceptance of green electricity among Polish residential consumers. Our focus was on the socio-economic and environmental attributes of consumers in terms of their willingness to adopt renewable energy sources (RES) and green electricity tariffs. In particular, this study explores the determinants of adoption by examining consumers' willingness to pay (WTP) for green electricity, willingness to switch to green electricity tariffs, and willingness to install small-scale generators in the household. The hypotheses were tested empirically with data collected by means of a standardized telephone survey of 502 household electricity consumers in Poland. Most Polish people accept and support the development of RES, but they do not know how to contribute to this process. Their WTP increases with income, education, pro-environmental attitudes, and knowledge. They also care about social influence. To increase the adoption rate of RES among residential consumers, stable legal regulations, clear procedures, subsidies, social campaigns, and educational trainings are needed. We believe that the findings from this study may be valuable for those involved in marketing green electricity offers and for politicians responsible for the increase of the share of renewables in the Polish power system.
Q20|Household willingness to pay for green electricity in Poland|This paper analyses the willingness to pay (WTP) for green electricity among residential consumers in Poland. The current share of renewable energy sources (RES) in energy consumption is around 13.5% and is expected to increase. Data were collected through a telephone survey of a representative sample of Poles. The results obtained indicate that - above all - age, income, environmental attitudes, peer support, but also, education and knowledge about RES play the most important role in explaining consumers' WTP for green electricity. Statistical analyses indicate that the mean WTP of Polish consumers is currently very low (around 0.5 USD), which is due to the relatively low GDP per capita, the lack of knowledge about green energy and no past experience with green electricity tariffs.
Q20|Circular economy measures to keep plastics and their value in the economy, avoid waste and reduce marine litter|"We live in the plastic age (the ""plasticene""), producing over 300 million tonnes (mt) of plastic every year globally, 5-15 mt of which flow into already polluted oceans. Plastic remains a key material in the global economy, but low rates of collection, reuse and recycling, emissions of microplastic from product wear and tear, and often insufficient disposal measures are leading to far-reaching environmental, health, social and economic impacts. The costs of inaction are unacceptably high. Globally there is a growing recognition of the need to address marine litter and rethink our approach to plastics and plastic packaging within the economy. Measures that enable a transition to a circular economy can avoid waste and reduce marine litter, and contribute to keeping plastics and their value in the economy."
Q20|Equity and the willingness to pay for green electricity in Germany|The production of electricity on the basis of renewable energy technologies is a classic example of an impure public good. It is often discriminatively financed by industrial and household consumers, such as in Germany, where the energy-intensive sector benefits from a far-reaching exemption rule, while all other electricity consumers are forced to bear a higher burden. Based on randomized information treatments in a stated-choice experiment among about 11,000 German households, we explore whether this coercive payment rule affects households' willingness-to-pay (WTP) for green electricity. Our central result is that reducing inequity by abolishing the exemption for the energyintensive industry raises households' WTP substantially.
Q20|Knowledge and attitudes of forestry students on nature and protected areas in Greece|The study and academic training of citizens in issues of forest and protected areas shapes the environmentally friendly attitudes to graduates. Attitudes include public beliefs and assessments of ecosystem management activities. In education it is necessary to redefine our values and ethical norms and obligations towards man and the natural environment. The field of study and gender have an impact on environmental attitudes and behaviors of students. The protected areas are subject to ample scientific research and have educational interest. The purpose of this research is to measure attitudes on Protected Areas (PA) of Forestry students in Greece. The questionnaire used as a research tool, based on the scale FVS (Forest Values Scale) which is suitably adapted for PA. Based on the results of this survey it was found that the majority of the sampled students showing more biocentric attitude to Protected Areas which is largely due to the subject of their studies. With regard to gender on the positive attitude towards the environment was found to be statistically significant in favor of women. Students largely support positive environmental attitudes and found that there is a relationship between the level of knowledge about protected areas and the attitude towards the environment.
Q20|Managerial Decision Making And Cost Reduction For Wind Deployment As An Alternative Energy|This paper analyses the modern aspect and framework of business decision making related to investments and cost reduction in wind energy companies. It describes different strategies of measuring the efficiency level of installed wind capacities. The research is presented with consideration to the methodology approach specific for wind energy. Special attention is given to the cost-effective business operations of contemporary systems of energy accumulation and the process of optimal decision making in the course of energy distribution. The focus is on the framework for sustainable business in compliance with complex external environment. The impact of unpredictable market and climate circumstances show the importance of the strategy mix and its role in creating value for the end-users of electrical energy. The dynamics of exploitation of the preferential conditions for wind energy companies is also important in the context of return on investment. The perspective of investing in wind energy projects is also given, along with the specificities of their implementation according to the principle of creating positive energy balance. The paper also points out the significance of government incentives and their variations. It also provides useful guidelines for successful business decision making for managers in wind energy.
Q20|Do pollution abatement expenditures lead to higher productivity growth? Evidence from Greek manufacturing industries|Abstract Several environmental concerns are not in favour of Greece’s sustainable future growth while the implementation of differential environmental policies to appoint the Kyoto protocol’s directives requires firms to balance their capital expenditures and operating costs to pollution abatement initiatives. This paper examines the impact of pollution abatement costs of Greek manufacturing over the period 1993–2006 using an industry-level balanced panel. Empirical results indicate that pollution abatement costs have no significant effect on the productivity of Greek manufacturing industries, on a yearly basis, providing no support on the Porter hypothesis stating that stricter environmental regulation triggers industrial productivity. However, significant changes are observed between energy intensive and energy consuming industries with pollution abatement efforts.
Q20|An Evolutionary approach to International Environmental Agreements|Our work contributes to explain the observation of two facts at odds: the number of signatories of international environmental agreements (IEA) has grown in time, meanwhile, the aggregate global level of greenhouse gas emissions is increasing at exponential rate. We introduce a novel multi-scale framework, composed by two tied games, to show under which conditions a country is able to fulfill the IEA: an Evolutionary Game which describes the economic structure through the interaction of households and rms' strategies; and a 2x2 one-shot Game, with asymmetric nations that negotiate on the maximum share of emissions. The distance between international environmental targets and country's emissions performances is explained in terms of heterogeneous economic structure, without the need to impose any free-riding behaviour. Consumer's environmental consciousness (micro level) together with global income (and technological) inequality (macro level), are found to be the key variables towards the green transition path. We provide analytical results paired with numerical simulations.
Q20|Stated Preferences for Conservation Policies under Uncertainty: Insights on Individuals’ Risk Attitudes in the Environmental Domain|The outcome of a conservation policy is often subject to uncertainty. In stated preference valuation, there is increasing recognition that uncertainty affects preferences for environmental policies. However, there is also poor understanding regarding people’s perception of uncertainty per se and risk attitude. To shed more light on this, we designed a discrete choice experiment and compared preferences for environmental outcomes under climate change across two split samples, each confronted with a scenario where environmental outcomes are presented as either certain or uncertain (i.e. probabilistically) but displaying the same expected results. We find that, for an equal expected outcome, preferences vary between the certain and the uncertain treatment. These results indicate that risk attitudes impact stated preferences for conservation policies under uncertainty and reinforce the idea that uncertainty should be included in stated preference studies to provide more accurate and policy relevant results. Interestingly, we additionally find that risk attitudes appear to be both context- and individual- specific – the effect of uncertainty depends on the magnitude and direction of change of the environmental good and on individual’s socio-demographic characteristics.
Q20|Stated Preferences for Conservation Policies under Uncertainty: Insights on Individuals’ Risk Attitudes in the Environmental Domain|The outcome of a conservation policy is often subject to uncertainty. In stated preference valuation, there is increasing recognition that uncertainty affects preferences for environmental policies. However, there is also poor understanding regarding people’s perception of uncertainty per se and risk attitude. To shed more light on this , we designed a discrete choice experiment and compared preferences for environmental outcomes under climate change across two split samples, each confronted with a scenario where environmental outcomes are presented as either certain or uncertain (i.e. probabilistically) but displaying the same expected results. We fi nd that, for an equal expected outcome, preferences vary between the certain and the uncertain treatment. These results indicate that risk attitudes impact stated preferences for conservation policies under uncertainty and reinforce the idea that uncertainty should be included in stated preference studies to provide more accurate and policy relevant results . Interestingly, we additionally find that risk attitudes appear to be both context- and individual-specific– the effect of uncertainty depends on the magnitude and direction of change of the environmental good and on individual’s socio-demographic characteristics.
Q20|Hyperbolic discounting and the time-consistent solution of three canonical environmental problems|In this paper I propose a time-consistent method of discounting hyperbolically and apply it to three canonical environmental problems: (i) optimal renewable resource use, (ii) the tragedy of the commons, (iii) economic growth and pollution. I then compare results with those for conventional exponential discounting using the normalization that both methods provide the same present value of an infinite constant flow. I show that, irrespective of potentially high initial discount rates, time-consistent hyperbolic discounting leads always to a steady state of maximum yield, or, if the environment enters the utility function, a steady state where the Green Golden Rule applies. While (asymptotic) extinction is a real threat under exponential discounting it is impossible under time-consistent hyperbolic discounting. This result is also confirmed for open access resources. In a model of economic growth and pollution, hyperbolic discounting establishes the Golden Rule of capital accumulation and the Modified Green Golden Rule.
Q20|Private health expenditures and environmental quality|This paper presents a simple two-period overlapping generations model that contains environmental and health issues. It investigates an intergenerational conflict between old and young generations as regards two defensive expenditures offsetting the influence of a worsening environment represented here by health care and environmental investment. Workers support environmental maintenance while retirees prefer investing in health care. The authors have shown that an increasing support for private health expenditure leads to a higher level of capital accumulation and leads also to a higher level of environmental quality if the maintenance efforts are higher than consumption externalities.
Q20|Harvesting a Remote Renewable Resource|In standard models of spatial harvesting, the resource is distributed over the complete domain and the agent is able to control the harvesting activity everywhere all the time. In some cases though, it is more realistic to assume that the resource is located at a single point in space and that the agent is required to travel there in order to be able to harvest. In this case, the agent faces a combined travelling–and–harvesting problem. We scrutinize this type of a two-stage optimal control problem, and illuminate the interdependencies between the solution of travelling and that of the harvesting sub-problem. Since the model is parsimoniously parameterised, we are able to analytically characterise the optimal policy of the complete travelling–and–harvesting problem. In an appendix we show how bounds on either control, i. e. on acceleration and on the harvesting capacity, as well as a positive discount rate affect the solution of the travelling–and–harvesting problem.
Q20|Energy transition in Germany and regional spillovers: What triggers the diffusion of renewable energy in firms?|The success of an energy turnaround towards renewables highly depends on the willingness and ability of firms to adopt energy technologies using renewable sources. Existing studies focused on the role of regulation and energy markets (e.g. the price for fossil energy) to explain the diffusion of green energy technologies. The present paper tries to give a more comprehensive view on the determinants of renewable energy innovations focusing on the crucial role of firms' regional environment (role of regional spillover effects, the greenness of a region and the regional endowment with green energy plants). We use a unique database combining the Community Innovation Survey 2014 for Germany and NUTS 3 data on renewable energy plants, the greenness of a region and other economic control variables. We find that geographical proximity to electricity production based on renewable energy sources and the orientation of a region towards 'green issues' (measured by the share of green party voters) are both major drivers for such innovations. Furthermore, our results show that in addition to regulation, government subsidies for eco-innovation, high energy costs and regional knowledge spillovers contribute to a rapid adoption of renewable energy. The reinforcing nature of this process leads to a diverging regional development of renewable energy innovations.
Q20|Waiting or acting now? The effect on willingness-to-pay of delivering inherent uncertainty information in choice experiments|This paper analyzes the effect of inherent uncertainty on the willingness-to-pay (WTP) for a policy aimed at reducing expected climate change impacts. To do this, it relates outcome uncertainty to the probability of occurrence of one of these impacts within a given time horizon. Unlike the existing studies, this paper links outcome uncertainty to the uncontrollable component of environmental uncertainty derived from the stochastic nature of an ecosystem's behavior. Results show that the WTP for the policy in the presence of uncertainty does not decrease compared to the scenario where climate change impacts are assumed to occur with certainty. This suggests individuals are adopting a precautionary attitude when stating their WTP. Thus, the paper provides economic justification for preventive measures in highly uncertain contexts. However, findings are not conclusive with respect to the influence of the degree of uncertainty on the support for such measures.
Q20|The role of rare earth prices in renewable energy consumption: The actual driver for a renewable energy world|This study examines, for the first time in the energy issues literature, the long-run relationship between rare earth prices and the consumption of energy from renewables. The study applies standard time series econometric methodologies and monthly data in relevance to regional and income classification groups of countries, spanning the period 2004–2016. The empirical findings indicate the presence of a long-run relationship between these variables, but for certain rare earths and regions. The findings survive a multivariate robustness test, while they are expected to be of substantial importance for the world community, given that a few countries have control of those materials. The importance is lying on the need to establish a global green energy environment.
Q20|Price volatility and residential electricity decisions: Experimental evidence on the convergence of energy generating source|The recent trend in most developed countries has been toward greater reliance on renewable or “green” energy sources. This paper investigates how price volatility in residential electricity rates impacts consumers' preferences for green power. Using a choice-based experiment, we present respondents with choice scenarios that feature two electric utility plans: (i) a conventional plan where electricity is generated from either coal or natural gas, and (ii) a green plan where electricity is generated renewably from either wind or solar. We then systematically vary the monthly price volatility of each plan across choice scenarios. Our results suggest that price volatility in monthly rates significantly impacts respondents' plan choices and, specifically, their decision to adopt the green power plan. In particular, increased volatility in the green power plan reduces the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan, while increased volatility in the conventional plan increases the likelihood of respondents choosing the green plan. Moreover, the documented effects of price volatility are robust across different price premiums for the green power plan.
Q20|Threatening thresholds? The effect of disastrous regime shifts on the non-cooperative use of environmental goods and services|This paper presents a tractable dynamic game in which agents jointly use a resource. The resource replenishes fully but collapses irreversibly if the total use exceeds a threshold. The threshold is assumed to be constant, but its location may be unknown. Consequently, an experiment to increase the level of safe resource use will only reveal whether the threshold has been crossed or not. If the consequence of crossing the threshold is disastrous (i.e., independent of how far the threshold has been exceeded), it is individually and socially optimal to update beliefs about the threshold's location at most once. The threat of a disastrous regime thereby facilitates coordination on a “cautious equilibrium”. If the initial safe level is sufficiently valuable, the equilibrium implies no experimentation and coincides with the first-best resource use. The less valuable the initial safe value, the more the agents will experiment. For sufficiently low initial values, immediate depletion of the resource is the only equilibrium. When the regime shift is not disastrous, but the damage depends on how far threshold has been exceeded, experimentation may be gradual.
Q20|Energy and the Military: Convergence of Security, Economic, and Environmental Decision-Making|Energy considerations are core to mission delivery of armed forces worldwide. The interaction between military energy issues and non-military energy issues is not often explicitly treated in the literature or media, although in the last decade there has been some increase driven especially by the issues of clean energy. It is recognized that the military has for more than a hundred years taken a leadership role in terms on research and development (R&D) of specific energy technologies - most commonly where they are applicable in theater. More recently that R&D leadership has moved to the energy efficiency of home-country bases, and the development of renewable energy projects for areas as diverse as mini-grids for in-country installations, to alternative fuels for submarines and jets. Nevertheless, the military in most major countries tends to see energy issues as a matter of mission delivery or conversely the denial of enemy energy supply chains as a source of advantage. In this paper we explore the evolving relationship between energy issues and defense planning, and show how these developments have implications for military tactics and strategy and for civil energy policy.
Q20|The impact of renewable versus non-renewable natural capital on economic growth|This paper examines whether natural capital is a robust determinant of economic growth, distinguishing the contribution of direct and indirect effects in renewable and non-renewable natural capital. Our hypothesis is that renewable natural capital may have a rather indirect but more important impact on economic growth than non-renewable natural capital, particularly through human well-being. In contrast, non-renewable natural capital can be a source of immediate financial wealth, but can have adverse social and environmental effects. To test this hypothesis we use a data set on 83 countries for the period 1960-2009 to compare the relevance of proximate and fundamental theories to explain economic growth. We find some evidence of an indirect negative impact of renewable natural capital in wealth on economic growth through through human well-being and, more precisely, population growth rates and fertility. This is particularly the case for countries with higher levels of human development. In contrast, the share of non-renewable natural capital in wealth has a direct positive impact on economic growth in countries with lower income inequality and higher institutional quality. This finding reflects the effect of capital accumulation in the domestic economy, as capacity constrainst are relaxed. Finally, countries with higher income per capita, higher human development and higher institutional quality have a higher share of higher renewable natural capital per capita, although they also have a lower share of lower renewable natural capital in wealth. Such result emphasises that renewable natural capital is very necessary for people (per capita), hence isa primary concern for empowered countries, although such capital contributes less to wealth, and economic growth, in these countries . Our results question the way â€˜wealthâ€™ and economic growth are defined in economics when the effect of natural capital is examined.
Q20|Testing the Influence of Substitute Sites in Nature Valuation by Using Spatial Discounting Factors|Abstract This paper investigates the effect of nearby nature substitute sites on preferences for nature restoration. Contrary to prior studies, we use a respondent-centric approach to control for substitute sites. We assess each respondent-specific spatial context by computing densities of nature substitute sites within various ranges from each respondent’s home. This approach considers the use and non-use values of nature together. Data from three similar discrete choice experiments carried out in Flanders (Belgium) are compared. Different spatial discounting factors are tested to explore how the substitution effect behaves with regard to distance. Latent class analyses are performed to account for preference heterogeneity among respondents. We observe divergent behaviours across groups of respondents. The “distance-to-substitutes” affects how respondents gauge substitute sites. We find a significant influence of the squared average buffer distance but this effect varies in sign across case studies and classes of respondents. Our results demonstrate that individual-specific GIS data can significantly improve the representation of the spatial context and the transferability of value functions. However, the roles played by preference heterogeneity and nature perception on respondents’ capacity to value nature still deserves further attention in future research.
Q20|Economic analysis of postwindthrow forest management: the cut-or-keep decision rule|Wind storms are one of the most important risks for forest management. After a storm hits a forest stand the forest owner has two possibilities: clear cut and start a new rotation or keep the standing trees until maturity. We compute the Land Expectation Value (LEV) under the risk of windthrow and introduce an endogenous rule to account for this decision. We compare the result with the alternative - often used in the literature- of clear cut and replant by default after each storm. We calibrated our model to represent maritime pine plantations in south-western France. Our results show that roughly 75% of the time it is profitable to keep the standing trees until maturity. So doing the forest owner may increase payoffs by up to 90% when the economic risk (i.e. probability of having a storm) is high. Although payoffs are sensitive to economic risk, the optimal rotation age does not change much with significant increases in the risk probability.
Q20|Do the Number of Appropriators from the Commons Matter in Controlled Laboratory Environments?|Many controlled laboratory experiments have shown non-binding communication among appropriators from a common pool to be an effective way to reduce over-appropriation from the commons. The controlled laboratory environments have tended to be environments with fewer than 10 participants. Recent work by Buckley et al. (2017) found that non-binding communication is not successful in reducing appropriation effort in a controlled laboratory environment with 12 participants. A conjecture was that there might be a difference between 12 participants and 8 participants (the typical number used by Ostrom et al. 1994 in their seminal work and used in many subsequent studies by others). This paper presents an environment that utilizes the CPR setting identical to that used by Buckley et al. (2017) reduces the number of appropriators from 12 to 8. Eight sessions (4 with and 4 without non-binding communication) are run using the Buckley et al. (2017) environment with 8 participants. The results suggest that the number of participants may not be an important factor in driving the differences between the impact that non-binding communication has on the Buckley et al. (2017) and Ostrom et al. (1994) environments. Alternate conjectures are presented to account for the differences.
Q20|Reverse Supply Chain Management – Theory and Practice|The traditional interest of researchers and practitioners in the field of supply chain management focuses on the movement of material flows from the initial producer to end customer in the chain. However, nowadays more and more products are returned to manufacturers or distributors. Hence, the concept of socalled reverse supply chains arises – these are chains that serve the flows of products and materials moving from the end customer to the initial producer. The article presents the essence and configuration of the reverse supply chains and examines the challenges facing their management. It discusses the role of the European and Bulgarian legislation and provides examples of the best practices in the management of reverse supply chains. The thesis is argued that the effective and efficient management of reverse supply chains provides a number of advantages and benefits for companies and stakeholders.
Q20|Engaging the Private Sector for Green Growth and Climate Action: An Overview of Development Co-Operation Efforts|The private sector plays an important role in supporting green growth in developing countries. As a result, there is increasing emphasis for development co-operation providers to integrate private sector engagement (PSE) approaches into their programmes on green growth and climate change. This paper provides an overview of activities in this area, estimating that 22% of climate-related development finance supported PSE activities in 2013. It also presents a stock-taking of efforts to: mobilise private climate investment, promote green private sector development and harness skills and knowledge of private actors. The paper highlights some challenges and lessons learned, such as the need for PSE to target a wider range of environmental issues, the importance of investing in integrated approaches to enable the development of pipelines, and the need to align private sector approaches with national contexts. The findings in this paper contribute to the discussion on how development co-operation providers can improve the effectiveness of PSE approaches to promote green growth and climate action, and may be a useful starting point to guide evidence-based policy relevant research.
Q20|Renewable energy governance in India: challenges and prospects for achieving the 2022 energy goals|India has set colossal renewable energy (RE) targets (achieving 175GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022) which need a clear strategy roadmap, integrated planning and a whole-of-system approach. However, the loopholes in institutional mechanisms are bound to hinder the process of policy formulation and implementation for the aspired quantum leap. This paper is an attempt to observe governance of renewable energy in India while exploring the issues and challenges that have been stalling the process of clean energy uptake. The paper finds that despite the comprehensive policy and regulatory frameworks, the large disconnect between the central policies and regional needs has created barriers for deployment of renewable technologies. The paper emphasizes the provision for clean energy financial support to be made available to the states for addressing the disparities between RE potential and the development cost, and planning for better grid management systems. The RE targets also demand an intensive capital market development and innovative financial support mechanisms and products. While aligning itself with the clean energy goals, India needs to focus significantly on the energy needs of the rural population which has been grappling with electricity cuts and brownouts. For regions with limited or no electricity supply, the government should aggressively promote the ideas of off-grid solar power and micro grids. The paper also recommends the possibilities for private sector investments, rural entrepreneurship and public- private ventures for filling in the gaps, and thus harnessing the potential of RE-rich states.
Q20|Estimating recreational values of coastal zones|The present study tries to improve our understanding of why some people value coastal zone using attitudinal and preference factors in a Contingent Valuation Method (CVM) study. Specifically, it aims at public preferences for improving the quality (protection) of Pagasitikos coastal area in Greece and explores the influence of environmental attitude on preference to people’s willingness to pay (WTP) coastal zone conservation. It also presents the results of a discrete CVM survey which investigates households’ WTP for a set of wetland attributes. The proposed approach uses applied methodological methods like Principal Components and Cluster Analyses together with logistic regression. Various demographic variables (as education and income) together with people’s preferences for coastal zone show a strong impact on WTP and the specific amounts stated. At a second stage people who accept the CVM scenario results and grouped into two segments, with different attitude against coastal zone management and ecological view.
Q20|Sustainability level of Bulgarian agriculture|This paper presents a holistic approach for assessing agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria based on its economic, social and ecological aspects on sectoral macro-level. It is based on official statistical and other information as well as on expert evaluation. Our study has found that the Bulgarian agriculture on macro-level has good sustainability. Some of the sustainability aspects have higher levels (e.g. the economic aspect) while others (social and environmental) are inferior. Study results could help in focusing the political efforts, so that the agrarian sustainability, in its social and ecological aspect, could be increased. However, a further research is needed to evaluate the level of sustainability at micro-level, so that the major issues and problem areas are addressed accordingly.
Q20|Exploring social values for marine protected areas: The case of Mediterranean monk seal|This study primarily attempts to understand people’s beliefs towards marine protected areas considering as a case study the National Marine Park of Alonissos, Northern Sporades (NMPANS) in Greece. Specifically, it aims to identify people’s opinion about the utility of the park investigating also their beliefs in relation to socio-economic characteristics. For this reason, a face-to-face survey of 200 respondents randomly selected residents of Volos was carried out. The research was structured according to the principles of the Contingent Valuation Method (CVM). According to the survey results, the majority of responders recognized the contribution of the Park to preserve the monk seal and the natural environment. Moreover, they want to maintain the park and specialise in the area of protection measures.
Q20|Renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa|The importance of renewable energy consumption has grown to a large extent over the recent years. The benefits of renewable energy consumption ranging from improved environmental quality to higher economic growth are well documented. However, the impact of renewable energy consumption on unemployment has received relatively less attention. This study examines the relationship between renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa over the period 1990-2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model was employed to test the long-run and short-run impacts of renewable energy consumption on unemployment. The results reveal that renewable energy consumption has a negative and significant effect on unemployment in the long-run. However, in the short-run the variables have an insignificant relationship. The study therefore advocates for an increase in the production and consumption of renewable energy in order to boost employment levels.
Q20|Renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa|The importance of renewable energy consumption has grown to a large extent over the recent years. The benefits of renewable energy consumption ranging from improved environmental quality to higher economic growth are well documented. However, the impact of renewable energy consumption on unemployment has received relatively less attention. This study examines the relationship between renewable energy consumption and unemployment in South Africa over the period 1990-2014. The Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) model was employed to test the long-run and short-run impacts of renewable energy consumption on unemployment. The results reveal that renewable energy consumption has a negative and significant effect on unemployment in the long-run. However, in the short-run the variables have an insignificant relationship. The study therefore advocates for an increase in the production and consumption of renewable energy in order to boost employment levels.
Q20|Renewable Energy Policy in Indonesia: The Qur'anic Scientific Signals in Islamic Economics Perspective|This study confirms that renewable energy sources become the solution for energy development in Indonesia due to the increasingly depleted use of fossil-based energy, due to an increase in the population that increases energy consumption and waste in fuel consumption. The Qur'an has provided simple concepts and illustrations about renewable energy sources that can be utilized by humans, energy conservation, and energy enrichment. With the codification and content analysis approach to energy policy in Indonesia and energy themes in the Qur'an, this paper asserts that the Government of Indonesia's renewable energy policy focuses on providing and developing renewable energy as part of sustainable development. This renewable energy policy can be proven scientifically with the implementation of scientific Qur'anic terms about renewable energy sources such as water, geothermal, ocean, vegetation, and wind. The policy on energy conservation through energy saving becomes a religious obligation for every person, institution, and government because to meet the needs of consumers, maintain the survival of the community, and preserve the environment.
Q20|Regulating the tragedy of commons: nonlinear feedback solutions of a differential game with a dual interpretation|A well established dynamic model describing the impact of oligopolistic interaction on a renewable resource is revisited here to illustrate its dual interpretation as a waste removal differential game. The regulatory implications are illustrated by assuming that the public agency may control market price and possibly also access to the commons. Two different formulations of the managerial or CSR objective are envisaged, based on a combination of profits and either output or the individual share of the waste stock. It is shown that if the representative firm’s objective includes the residual waste stock, there exists a unique regulated price driving to zero the steady state stock itself. Hence, the present analysis delivers some useful indications concerning an appropriate definition of the CSR objective firms should adopt.
Q20|On the attainment of the maximum sustainable yield in the Verhulst-Lotka-Volterra model|We reformulate the Verhulst-Lotka-Volterra model of natural resource extraction under the alternative assumptions of Cournot behaviour and perfect competition, to revisit the tragedy of commons vs the possibility of sustainable harvesting. We stress the different impact of demand elasticity on the regulator’s possibility of driving industry harvest to the maximum sustainable yield in the two settings. The presence of a flat demand function offers the authority a fully effective regulatory tool in the form of the exogeneous price faced by perfectly competitive firms, to drive their collective harvest rate at the maximum sustainable yield. The same cannot happen under Cournot competition, as in this case the price is endogenous and the regulator’s policy is confined to limiting access to the common pool.
Q20|Energy and the Military: Convergence of Security, Economic, and Environmental Decision-Making|Energy considerations are core to mission delivery of armed forces worldwide. The interaction between military energy issues and non-military energy issues is not often explicitly treated in the literature or media, although in the last decade there has been some increase driven especially by the issues of clean energy. It is recognized that the military has for more than a hundred years taken a leadership role in terms on research and development (R&D) of specific energy technologies - most commonly where they are applicable in theater. More recently that R&D leadership has moved to the energy efficiency of home-country bases, and the development of renewable energy projects for areas as diverse as mini-grids for in-country installations, to alternative fuels for submarines and jets. Nevertheless, the military in most major countries tends to see energy issues as a matter of mission delivery or conversely the denial of enemy energy supply chains as a source of advantage. In this paper we explore the evolving relationship between energy issues and defense planning, and show how these developments have implications for military tactics and strategy and for civil energy policy.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q20|A Market Mechanism for Sustainable and Efficient Resource Use under Uncertainty|Sustainability and efficiency are potentially conflicting social objectives in natural resource management. We propose a market mechanism to allocate use rights over a stochastic resource to private managers. The mechanism endogenously determines the maximal tenure length guaranteeing that the sustainability goal is obeyed for sure over the entire period. In addition, the mechanism achieves efficiency, i.e. it maximizes the expected present value of resource rents that accrue to society. Potential applications include improved fishing agreements between developing countries and distant-water fishing fleets.
Q20|Harvesting a Remote Renewable Resource|In standard models of spatial harvesting, the resource is distributed over the complete domain and the agent is able to control the harvesting activity everywhere. In some cases, it is more realistic to assume that the resource is located at a single point and that the agent is required to travel. The agent faces a combined travelling–and–harvesting problem. We scrutinize this two-stage optimal control problem and characterise the optimal policy of the full travelling–and–harvesting problem.
Q20|Q - Quemas y chaqueo|Resumen de la situación de la deforestación en Bolivia, 1990 - 2015
Q20|The Next Farm Bill May Present Opportunities for Hybrid Farm Conservation Policies|No abstract is available for this item.
Q20|A Fiatalok Fenntartható Fejlődéssel Kapcsolatos Ismereteinek És Környezettudatos Magatartásának Kvalitatív Vizsgálata| Az emberi tevékenységek hatására bekövetkezett környezeti károk helyrehozásának, illetve helyzetük romlásának megállításához a fogyasztói társadalom fenntartható irányába történő elmozdítása elengedhetetlen. A fiataloknak, mint a jövő generációjának tudatformálása szerves eleme ennek a folyamatnak. A fiatalok fenntartható fejlődéssel és környezettudatos magatartással kapcsolatos ismereteinek és attitűdjének feltárásának, valamint az eredmények alapján a célcsoportok attitűdformálási lehetőségeire és irányaira történő rámutatás céljából fókuszcsoportos interjúkat végeztünk.. Az eredmények rámutattak, hogy a két vizsgált korcsoport meglévő ismeretei között csak kisebb eltérések figyelhetők meg. A hallgatók észreveszik az őket körülvevő környezeti problémákat, azonban személyes felelősségük kevésbé tudatosul bennük, nem éreznek elég motivációt a cselekvésre. A fiatal felnőttek már inkább hosszú távra gondolkodnak, azonban belőlük is hiányzik a felelősségvállalás. A fiatalok számára utat kell mutatni a helyes gyakorlat megvalósításának érdekében, egyértelművé kell tenni a személyes cselekvési pontokat. A siker érdekében a hiteles információk biztosítása elengedhetetlen, amely során kiemelt figyelmet kell fordítani – a korosztály jellemzőit figyelembe véve – a gyakorlatiasságra, valamint az interaktivitáson és emocionális üzeneteken alapuló marketingkommunikációs eszközök alkalmazására is. A fiatalok tudatformálása során nem a fogalmak pontos ismeretét kell megcéloznunk, hanem hogy az ismeret hatására olyan cselekvési motiváció alakuljon ki, amely későbbiekben mindennapi életük során rendszeres gyakorlatban tud megnyilvánulni. Továbbá szem előtt kell tartanunk, hogy az „elméleti gyakorlatiasság” lassan épül be a mindennapi rutinba, amely eredménye csak később fog megmutatkozni. ---------------------------------------------------- In order to amend for the environmental damages emerged as a result of the human activities and to stop its further destruction, moving the consumer society into the sustainable direction is essential. Mind shaping of the young people, as the generation of the future, is an elemental part of this process. For the reveal of young people’s knowledge regarding the sustainable development and their environmental consciousness attitude, as well as for the point out of the attitude formation’s possibilities focus group interviews were done. Only minor differences were observed between the analysed age groups’ current level of knowledge. Students notice the environmental problems; however their personal responsibility is not realized and they do not feel enough motivation for the action. Young adults are already thinking in the long run, but they are lack of responsibility, too. To achieve the appropriate practice the line of bearing must be shown and the personal action points must be disambiguated. In favour of success ensuring of the authentic information is essential. In the course of providing information outstanding attention has to be paid – with taking into consideration the particularities of the different age groups – to the practicality as well as to the utilization of interactivity and emotional messages based marketing communication tools. Instead of the teaching of the exact meaning of the definitions, knowledge should be turned into action motivation, which later may be manifested in an everyday practice. However there is no getting away from the fact that the ‘theoretical practice’ becomes a part of the everyday routine slowly, which result will be realized later on.
Q20|Changing Livelihoods in Rural Cambodia: Evidence from panel household data in Stung Treng| Analysis of livelihood strategies can aid to understand and resolve problems associated with vulnerability to poverty and food security. This paper aims to identify and describe the changes in rural livelihood activities by using household data for 2013 and 2014 collected in Stung Treng, Cambodia. We use the same variables and estimate different clusters for both the years. The paper concludes that despite the lag of only one year, there are noticeable changes in livelihood strategies. Firstly, we find a group of transition farmers in 2014 that is composed of households that are witnessing a shift towards commercialization. They invest and consume more than subsistence farmers. Secondly, there is a greater diversification in activities amongst the groups. Most households practice multiple activities. Lastly, with regards to self-employment, there has been a shift from agriculture and the production sector to services and crafts. All of the above changes can be deemed as positive as there is a gradual movement away from more vulnerable sectors. Accordingly, households that participate in livelihood activities related to agriculture and natural resource extraction are most affected by shocks and face the highest vulnerability to poverty. The paper additionally highlights some concerns such as a decline in availability of extracted products such as the fish stock which are expected to negatively impact on these more vulnerable rural households in the medium and longer term. Furthermore, the state of education is dismal and needs attention. Therefore, policy makers need to consider these issues while addressing rural poverty.
Q20|Trade Liberalization and Environmental Taxation in Federal Systems| The literature on trade liberalization and environment has not yet considered federal structures. In this paper, we show how the design of environmental policy in a federal system has implications for the effects of trade reform. Trade liberalization leads to a decline in pollution taxes, regardless of whether pollution taxes are set at the federal (centralized) or local (decentralized) level, and it increases social welfare. The effect under a decentralized system is smaller than if these taxes are set by the federal government, and pollution emissions therefore decline in this case. Moreover, majority bias interacts with trade liberalization if federal taxes are used.
Q20|Can Polluting Firms Favor Regulation?|This paper investigates the production decisions of firms with asymmetric environmental damages, and how their profits are affected by environmental regulation. We demonstrate that emission fees entail a negative effect on firms’ profits, since they increase unit production costs. However, fees can also produce a positive effect for a relatively inefficient firm, given that environmental regulation mitigates its cost disadvantage. If such a disadvantage is sufficiently large, we show that the positive effect dominates, thus leading this firm to actually favor the introduction of environmental policy, while the relatively efficient firm opposes regulation. Furthermore, we show that such support can originate from polluting companies.
Q20|Hopf bifurcation in an overlapping generations resource economy with endogenous population growth rate|As scarce environmental resources necessarily put a constraint on population growth, we use more realistic population growth dynamics which contemplates a feedback mechanism between population growth rate and resource availability. We examine the local stability properties in overlapping generations resource economies which takes this feedback mechanism into account. The results indicate that Hopf bifurcation may arise without requiring logistic regeneration or unconventional constraints on parameter values. In particular, Hopf bifurcation is encountered under convex-concave dependence of carrying capacity on the resource availability.
Q20|Politiques de R&D, taxe carbone et paradoxe vert| We study an economy in which a final good is produced by two sectors. One uses a non-renewable and polluting resource, the other a renewable and clean resource. A specific type of research is associated with each sector. The public authorities levy a carbon tax and simultaneously subsidise both research sectors. We study the impact of such a policy scheme on the rate of resource extraction and emissions. In the clean sector, the research subsidy and the carbon tax have opposite effects. If the tax creates a green paradox, the subsidy moderates it; if the tax slows resource extraction, then the subsidy generates a green paradox.
Q20|Drought and Groundwater Management|This paper considers the problem of a water management authority faced with the threat of a drought that hits at an uncertain date. Three management policies are investigated: i) a laissez-faire (open-access) policy of automatic adjustment through a zero marginal private net benefit condition, ii) a policy of optimal dynamic management ignoring the threat of the drought and relying on automatic adjustments through a zero marginal social net benefit condition, iii) an economically optimal dynamic policy taking account of the threat of a drought. In particular, we show that the optimal pre-drought steady-state equilibrium stock size of water under policy iii) is smaller than under policy ii) and, hence, a precautionary stock size should not be built up prior to the drought.
Q20|From fossil fuels to renewables: The role of electricity storage|Electricity storage represents a solution to curb carbon emissions by enabling more use of intermittent renewable energy. Our goal is to empirically analyze the determinants of innovation in electricity storage and its role in fostering technological innovations in renewable and conventional electricity generation. Using a global firm-level data set of electricity patents from 1963 to 2011, we find that better electricity storage promotes innovation not only in renewable energy but also in conventional technologies. Specifically, our estimates show that an additional storage patent increases the probability to apply for patents in renewable energy and efficiency-improving fossil fuel technologies two years from now by 1.09% and 0.65%, respectively. This implies that improved electricity storage technologies can boost the energy efficiency of conventional, fossil fuel-fired power plants as well as increase the use of renewable electricity. Thus, the ability of electricity storage to curb carbon emissions depends on: the competitiveness of renewable energy against conventional electricity generation, and conventional power generation mix as storage increases fossil-fuel efficiency and reduces ramping costs.
Q20|Der Ausbau Erneuerbarer Energien im Föderalismus und Mehrebenensystem – Neoklassische und neoinstitutionalistische Perspektiven|"Einen Kern der Energiewende bildet der Ausbau Erneuerbarer Energien in Deutschland. Be-sonders im Strombereich greifen dabei EU-, Bundes-, Landes- und Kommunalpolitik sowie bürgerschaftliches Engagement eng ineinander, allerdings nicht immer reibungslos. Ziel dieser Studie ist es, bestimmte wissenschaftliche Entscheidungsgrundlagen politischen Handelns im Rahmen der Energiewende offenzulegen und zu reflektieren. Dazu werden zunächst energiebezogene Grundlagen und eine überblickshafte Bestandsaufnahme von Politik und Governance im Untersuchungsfeld vorgenommen. Diese dient aber zugleich der Reflexion normativer Theorien und politischer Gestaltungsempfehlungen. In einem zweiten Teil wird daher bezogen auf den Ausbau Erneuerbarer Energien eine Gegenüberstellung der neoklassisch-wohlfahrtsökonomischen Theorie des Föderalismus einerseits und des mit dem Namen Elinor und Vincent Ostrom verknüpften polyzentrischen oder auch Mehr-Ebenen-Governance Ansatzes vorgenommen. Politikempfehlungen in der Tradition Ostroms betonen die „gelebte Energiewende"", also einen Prozess, der im gesellschaftlichen Diskurs beständig angepasst werden muss. Dies steht in einem Spannungsfeld zum neoklassisch geprägten Denken in Zuständen und Ergebnissen und seiner Fokussierung auf Effizienzfragen (z.B. Ausbauziel mit bestimmten (Neben-)wirkungen). Gewisse Berührungspunkte bestehen aber insofern, wie von neoklassischer Seite auch heterogene Bürgerpräferenzen und die Innovationsvorteile des Labor- bzw. Bottom-up-Föderalismus berücksichtigt werden. Berührungspunkte bestehen auch in dem Sinne, dass von beiden bestimmte Schwachstellen und – i.d.R. empirische – Erklärungsdefizite in der derzeitigen Forschung anerkannt werden."
Q20|Klimaverträglichkeit und Wettbewerbsfähigkeit in Einklang bringen – Ergebnisse und Lösungsansätze aus der Klimaökonomie|Mit dem Förderschwerpunkt »Ökonomie des Klimawandels« förderte das Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung 27 Forschungsprojekte, die wirtschaftliche Aspekte des Klimawandels untersuchten. Im Rahmen der Begleitaktivitäten zu diesem Förderschwerpunkt koordinierten das Zentrum für Europäische Wirtschaftsforschung (ZEW), Mannheim, und das ifo Institut gemeinsam einen von vier Themenschwerpunkten mit dem Titel Energieressourcen und klimafreundliche Energieversorgung. Ziel der Begleitaktivitäten war die Stärkung der Anwendungsorientierung und Verwertung der wissenschaftlichen Arbeit sowie deren Kommunikation mit Praktikern aus Politik, Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft. Dazu wurden verschiedene Workshops und Fachforen organisiert. In diesem Beitrag wird dokumentiert, welche Lösungsansätze die Teilprojekte des Themenschwerpunkts entwickelt haben, um Klimaverträglichkeit und Wettbewerbsfähigkeit in Einklang zu bringen. Im Anschluss zu den Lösungsansätzen werden offene Fragen thematisiert, die den Bedarf für zukünftige Forschung deutlich machen.
Q20|Status concern and the exploitation of common pool renewable resources|We examine the impact of social status concern in a common pool renewable resource oligopoly. A small number of players share access to a common pool resource and sell their production in a common market where they are oligopolists. We depart from the mainstream literature on common pool resource oligopolies by considering that each player cares about her social status. We allow for two channels to impact a player's welfare: harvest and profits. Under the first channel, a player has a bump in her utility when her harvest is larger than the average harvest of the rest of the players. In this case we show that the presence of this channel exacerbates the tragedy of the commons. Under the second channel, a player enjoys a bump in her utility if she manages to earn more profits than the average profits of the other players. In this case we show that social status concern may temporarily alleviate the tragedy of the commons: it results in a decrease of extraction over an interval of stock sizes.
Q20|The Mixed Bentham-Rawls Intertemporal Choice Criterion and Rawls’ Just Savings Principle|This paper provides general theorems about the control that maximizes the mixed Bentham-Rawls (MBR) criterion for intergenerational justice, which was introduced in Alvarez-Cuadrado and Long (2009). We establish sufficient concavity conditions for a candidate trajectory to be optimal and unique. We show that the state variable is monotonic under rather weak conditions. We also prove that inequality among generations, captured by the gap between the poorest and the richest generations, is lower when optimization is performed under the MBR criterion rather than under the discounted utilitarian criterion. A quadratic example is also used to perform comparative static exercices: it turns out, in particular, that the larger the weight attributed to the maximin part of the MBR criterion, the better-off the less fortunate generations. All those properties are discussed and compared with those of the discounted utilitarian (DU, Koopmans 1960) and the rank-discounted utilitarian (RDU, Zuber and Asheim, 2012) criterions. We contend they are in line with some aspects of the rawlsian just savings principle.
Q20|A corporate-crime perspective on fisheries: liability rules and non-compliance|The existing fisheries economics literature analyzes compliance problems by treating the fishing firm as one cohesive unit, but in many cases, violations are committed by agents acting on behalf of a firm. To account for this, we analyze the principal-agent relationship within the fishing firm. In the case where the firm directly benefits from illegal fishing, the firm must induce its crew to violate regulations through the incentive scheme. Within this framework, we analyze how the allocation of liability between fishing firms and crew affects quota violations and the ability to design a socially efficient fisheries policy. We show that without wage frictions, it does not matter whom is held liable. However, under the commonly used share systems of remuneration, crew liability generally yields a more efficient outcome than firm liability. Furthermore, asset restrictions may affect the outcome under various liability rules.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q20|Energy Scientific Production In The Context Of The Green Development Models|The energy sector plays a vital role in addressing the global challenges of achieving sustainability by using the renewable energy sources and by increasing the energy efficiency and conservation, while obtaining energy security and safety. The aim of this paper is to quantitatively observe the evolution and status of the main publications on “green” energy. The study uses the Scopus database and the VOSviewer software to determine the progress of research and the main sub-themes discussed in the field of energy in the context of green economy and sustainable development. The findings suggest slightly different approaches of the scientific production on sustainable-related energy, green- related energy and renewable related-energy. This paper provides insights on the main internationally debated research areas in the energy field.
Q20|Los costes energéticos en la agricultura de regadío. Alternativas para su reducción y efectos de la implantación de una tarifa verde en España|Este artículo analiza los incrementos de los costes energéticos en la Comunidad General de Riegos del Alto Aragón, un grupo de comunidades de regantes de la provincia de Huesca (noreste de España) con más de 127.000 hectáreas de cultivo. Además de los procesos de modernización, recientemente, el aumento del precio de la energía ha provocado incrementos considerables en los costes energéticos. Dada la importancia de la agricultura de regadío en España, se propone la implantación de la tarifa verde francesa (“Tarif Vert”) para reducir sus costes energéticos y se muestran los efectos positivos que esto para la economía española.
Q20|The moderating role of firm age in the relationship between R&D expenditure and financial performance: Evidence from Chinese and US mining firms|We examine the impact of Research and Development (R&D) on the profitability and sales of mining firms in China and the United States (US) and the moderating effect of firm age using Coarsened Exact Matching (CEM). For the combined panel of 168 major US and Chinese mining firms, we find that, on average, a firm engaging in R&D activities earns 4% to 11% higher sales and generates 4% to 13% more profits than firms that do not engage in R&D activities. We also show that, in the mining industry, firm age moderates the relationship between R&D activities and financial performance. A comparatively mature R&D active firm earns 4.4% more profit and generates 7.2% more sales than a younger non-innovative firm. The turning point at which R&D activities switch from making a negative, to positive, contribution to profit and sales is 37years and 22years, respectively. Our results are consistent with the liability of newness, meaning that firm investment in R&D takes time to have a real impact on bottom line measures of financial performance. We conclude with a discussion of the practical implications of our results for Chinese and US mining firms.
Q20|Substitution elasticities between GHG-polluting and nonpolluting inputs in agricultural production: A meta-regression|This paper reports meta-regressions of substitution elasticities between greenhouse gas (GHG) polluting and nonpolluting inputs in agricultural production, which is the main feedstock source for biofuel in the U.S. We treat energy, fertilizer, and manure collectively as the “polluting input” and labor, land, and capital as nonpolluting inputs. We estimate meta-regressions for samples of Morishima substitution elasticities for labor, land, and capital vs. the polluting input. Much of the heterogeneity of Morishima elasticities can be explained by type of primal or dual function, functional form, type and observational level of data, input categories, number of outputs, type of output, time period, and country categories. Each estimated long-run elasticity for the reference case, which is most relevant for assessing GHG emissions through life-cycle analysis, is greater than 1.0 and significantly different from zero. Most predicted long-run elasticities remain significantly different from zero at the data means. These findings imply that life-cycle analysis based on fixed proportion production functions could provide grossly inaccurate measures of GHG of biofuel.
Q20|Urbanization, openness, emissions, and energy intensity: A study of increasingly urbanized emerging economies|This paper analyses the impact of urbanization and trade openness on emissions and energy intensity in twenty-two increasingly urbanized emerging economies. We employ three second-generation heterogeneous linear panel models as well as recently developed nonlinear panel estimation techniques allowing for cross-sectional dependence. The empirical results show that population density and affluence increase emissions and energy intensity while renewable energy seems to be dormant in these emerging economies, but non-renewable energy increases both CO2 emissions and energy intensity. In addition, openness significantly reduces both pollutant emissions and energy intensity whereas urbanization significantly increases energy intensity, but it is insignificant in increasing emissions. This may be, in part, due to the recent increasing trend in adopting cleaner technologies in these increasingly urbanized developing economies.
Q20|Asymmetric oil shocks and external balances of major oil exporting and importing countries|This study investigates the effects of oil price shocks on three measures of oil exporters' and oil importers' external balances: total trade balance, oil trade balance and non-oil trade balance. We employ three second-generation heterogeneous linear panel models and one recently developed non-linear panel estimation technique that allows for cross-sectional dependence. With respect to 28 major oil exporting countries, an increase in oil prices leads to an improved real oil trade balance, although it is detrimental to non-oil and total trade balances. This finding might be due to the expenditure effect arising from increases in proceeds from oil exports. A decrease in oil prices is found to be beneficial for both total and oil trade balances in these oil exporting countries. Forty major oil importers seem to be increasingly shielded from positive oil shocks over the 1970s and 1980s; however, they must worry about oil price declines. A decline in oil prices has a negative impact on both total and real oil trade balances resulting from increased oil imports in emerging economies. Hence, a decline in oil prices is beneficial to oil exporters due to the quantity effect outweighing the price effect, while for oil importers a stable oil price is more desirable than a price decline. These results are important to take into account if we are to gain a full understanding on the magnitude of the trade and macroeconomic effects of oil price changes and what the policy responses should be.
Q20|The impact of the North Atlantic Oscillation on electricity markets: A case study on Ireland|The North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) is a large-scale atmospheric circulation pattern driving climate variability in north-western Europe. As the deployment of wind-powered generation expands on electricity networks across Europe, the impacts of the NAO on the electricity system will be amplified. This study assesses the impact of the NAO, via wind-power generation, on the electricity market considering thermal generation costs, wholesale electricity prices and wind generation subsidies. A Monte Carlo approach is used to model NAO phases and generate hourly wind speed time-series data, electricity demand and fuel input data. A least-cost unit commitment and economic dispatch model is used to simulate an island electricity system, modelled on the all-island Irish electricity system. The impact of the NAO obviously depends on the level of wind capacity within an electricity system. Our results indicate that on average a switch from negative to positive NAO phase can reduce thermal generation costs by up to 8%, reduce wholesale electricity prices by as much as €1.5/MWh, and increase wind power generators' revenue by 12%.
Q20|Exuberance in China's renewable energy investment: Rationality, capital structure and implications with firm level evidence|The new century has witnessed phenomenal worldwide growth in renewable energy investments. China has been especially remarkable, surpassing both the US and the EU in 2013. Some recent facts, however, have raised the question of whether exuberant investment in China’s renewable energy sector is rational. This paper aims to contribute to the literature and to the debate in two ways. First, it tests the over-investment hypothesis based on the main stream finance methodology; second, it analyzes the role of capital structure in the performance of China's renewable energy firms. Empirical results show that overinvestment in the renewable energy sector exists. The problem is more significant in the biomass and wind sector. Capital structure is found to be more important to downstream firms, indicating that policy makers may provide support that enables these firms to finance their investments through corporate bonds, commercial credit, or long-terms debts.
Q20|Exuberance in China's Renewable Energy Investment: Rationality, Capital Structure, and Implications with Firm Level Evidence|The 21st century has already witnessed phenomenal worldwide growth in renewable energy investments. China has been especially remarkable, surpassing both the US and the EU in 2013. Some recent facts, however, have raised the question of whether China’s exuberant investment in renewable energy sector is rational. This study aims to contribute to the literature and to the debate in two ways. First, it tests the over-investment hypothesis based on the mainstream finance methodology (the Q model); second, it analyses the role of capital structure in the performance of China’s renewable energy firms. Empirical results could then provide recommendations for policymakers on how to prompt sustainable growth in the renewable energy sector. Although based on China, this study’s main findings could also contribute to policy design for emerging economies.
Q20|Analysis of the policy effects of downstream Feed-In Tariff on China’s solar photovoltaic industry|The Chinese government initiated the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) policy for downstream power generation in August 2013. The effectiveness of the downstream FIT policy has attracted the attention of academia and government. Using the quarterly data of listed solar PV companies between 2009 and 2015, this paper provides an empirical analysis regarding the effects of the downstream FIT policy. We find that (1) the FIT policy has significantly enhanced the inventory turnover of listed PV firms and improved their profitability; (2) the FIT policy has significant effects on the inventory turnover of midstream companies and mixed industry-chain companies mainly engaged in downstream operations; (3) FIT policy is more favorable towards increasing the inventory turnover of private enterprises. Our results indicate that the FIT policy can have substantial effects on the sustainable development of China's solar photovoltaic industry.
Q20|Tinbergen and tipping points: Could some thresholds be policy-induced?|Thresholds and tipping points that are characteristic of dynamic multi-stability are increasingly prominent touchstones of the science-policy interface. Prior economic work has shown thresholds arising in convex-concave ecological models that exclude humans may disappear in models of coupled economic-ecological systems when economic agents are included as part of the system. Less well-understood is how this result may depend on the ability of humans to manage complex systems. We examine the role of institutions that condition the available management choices. We find institutional restrictions do not generate non-convexities when the ecological system is well-behaved, but that these restrictions may generate non-convexities when the ecological system is convex-concave. These results are tied to the concept of path controllability, which is when managers have sufficient controls to guide the system across the state space. Path controllability is the dynamic version of the Tinbergen rule, and generally requires separate controls to manage each possible ecological externality. We link the concepts of ecosystem externalities, thresholds, and path controllability to provide new economic insights into problems with the potential for multi-stability, and we illustrate the importance of institutions for managing convex-concave systems.
Q20|Price discontinuities in the market for RINs|In the last few years, a market has emerged for Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs), a unique 28-character alphanumeric code assigned to each domestically produced and imported gallon of renewable fuel. As with many commodity markets, the arrival of new information can lead to unexpectedly rapid changes – or jumps – in prices; this suggests that RINs prices may follow a more complex process than geometric Brownian motion (GBM). We investigate the potential presence of jumps, as well as time varying volatility in the spot price for RINs. Our results demonstrate that allowing for jumps and time-varying volatility provides statistically important improvements in the modeling of prices, relative to GBM. Both jumps and time varying volatility can contribute to the fatness of the tails in the distribution of price returns, which has implications for investments in capital projects linked to renewables.
Q20|Corporate governance and green innovation|We study the relationship between corporate governance and firms׳ environmental innovation. Exploiting changes in antitakeover legislation in the US, we show that worse governed firms generate fewer green patents relative to all their innovations. This negative effect is greater for firms with a smaller share of institutional ownership, with a smaller stock of green patents, and with more binding financial constraints. Investigating regulatory and industry variations, we also find more pronounced effects for firms operating in states with lower pollution abatement costs, and in sectors less dependent on energy inputs. Overall, our results suggest that ineffective corporate governance may constitute a major obstacle to environmental efficiency.
Q20|The effect of renewable energy generation on import demand|In the present paper the link between renewable energy generation and imports dynamics is explored in import demand equations. We find that renewable energy generation reduces import growth. The results display a considerable robustness across estimation methods and model specifications.
Q20|Análisis estructural de la economía mexicana para el año 2008|Identificar sectores productivos, capaces de impulsar la economía, es fundamental para diseñar políticas. Este trabajo analiza la estructura de la economía mexicana con modelos lineales de equilibrio general, que están basados en una matriz de contabilidad social. Primero, realizamos un análisis de sectores clave, a fin de determinar efectos directos, indirectos e inducidos, con una descomposición de multiplicadores. Luego, elaboramos un paisaje tridimensional de la economía e identificamos los multiplicadores de empleo. Finalmente, analizamos la distribución ingreso-gasto de los hogares. Entre otros resultados, los sectores más importantes resultaron ser las actividades comerciales; con menos importancia para la economía, están los sectores de la construcción, servicios de esparcimiento, electricidad, agua y gas, corporativos y minería.
Q20|Finance and Sustainability Synthesis Report of WP7|This paper investigates the relationship between finance and environmental sustainability. The first part summarises a few crucial methodological and foundational issues underlying meaning and implications of financialisation, sustainability and their mutual relation. The second part focuses on a particularly significant case study: the unsustainability of the existing energy system based on carbon fuels focusing on the urgency of a rapid transition to a low carbon economy. The third part explores which role financial instruments may play to facilitate the transition towards a low carbon economy. In particular, it investigates the implications for sustainability of the growing trade of energy derivatives. The forth part examines the consequences of the disembedment of money from the socioecological flows of matter and energy. The fifth part investigates the relations between financialisation of built environments and urban sustainability. The final part of the paper draws the main policy implications from the preceding analysis in the light of the growing problems affecting environmental policy in a financialised economy. The main policy conclusion is that, notwithstanding the growing conflict between the ongoing process of financialisation and sustainability, finance has to play a crucial role to implement a process of convergence towards a sustainable path of development.
Q20|Drought and Groundwater Management|This paper considers the problem of a water management authority faced with the threat of a drought that hits at an uncertain date. Three management policies are investigated: i) a laissez-faire (open-access) policy of automatic adjustment through a zero marginal private net benefit condition, ii) a policy of optimal dynamic management ignoring the threat of the drought and relying on automatic adjustments through a zero marginal social net benefit condition, iii) an economically optimal dynamic policy taking account of the threat of a drought. In particular, we show that the optimal pre-drought steady-state equilibrium stock size of water under policy iii) is smaller than under policy ii) and, hence, a precautionary stock size should not be built up prior to the drought.
Q20|Drought and groundwater management|This paper considers the problem of a water management authority faced with the threat of a drought that hits at an uncertain date. Three management policies are investigated: i) a laissez-faire (open-access) policy of automatic adjustment through a zero marginal private net benefit condition, ii) a policy of optimal dynamic management ignoring the threat of the drought and relying on automatic adjustments through a zero marginal social net benefit condition, iii) an economically optimal dynamic policy taking account of the threat of a drought. In particular, we show that the optimal pre-drought steady-state equilibrium stock size of water under policy iii) is smaller than under policy ii) and, hence, a precautionary stock size should not be built up prior to the drought.
Q20|Optimal fishing mortalities with age-structured bioeconomic model - a case of NEA mackerel|The effects of random environmental impacts on optimal exploitation of a fish population are investigated using both optimization and simulation, based on a discrete-time age-structured bioeconomic model. The optimization problem is solved as a non-linear programming problem in GAMS. First, a basic model structure and 6 different scenarios, dealing with two interactions between fish and environment, are introduced. Based on the simplest scenario, eight different parameter combinations are tested. Then the optimization problem is solved for each of the 6 scenarios for a period of 100 years in order to gain long term insights. The main finding is that higher volatility from the environment leads to higher net profits but together with a lower probability of actually hitting the mean values. Simulations are conducted with different fixed fishing mortality levels under 6 scenarios. It seems that a constant fishing mortality around 0.06 is optimal. In the end, a comparison is made between historical and optimal harvest for a period of 40 years. It turns out that in more than 70% of the time, the optimal exploitation offered by our optimization model dominates the historical one, leading to 43% higher net profit and 34% lower fishing cost on average.
Q20|Optimal control theory with applications to resource and environmental economics|This note gives a brief, non-rigorous sketch of basic optimal control theory, which is a useful tool in several simple economic problems,such as those in resource and environmental economics. While the mathematical analysis in the note is self-contained, there is not much explanation and intuition on the economic issues. The note should therefore be read together with articles or books that give more discussion of the economics of the problems considered.
Q20|Air Emissions Performance: A Dynamic Analysis for Spain|This paper investigates the dynamic performance of air pollution in Spain from 1960 to 2010. First, we evaluate the relationship between economic growth and pollution through the Environmental Kuznets Curve. Second, we test the hypothesis of regional convergence in air pollution intensity from 1995 to 2010, in order to analyse whether regional taxes intended to abate emissions have been effective. For the first issue, our results show that a quadratic relationship is satisfied, but an out-of-sample turning point is generated. For the second, regional convergence is rejected, although those regions which haveimplemented a pollution tax seem to perform differently.
Q20|Sustainable Tourism And Hotel Management In Macedonia Through The Use Of Renewable Energy Sources|This study aimed to investigate the nature of energy applied in hotel industry in Macedonia. It explored the indicators for resources application in three, four and five star hotels. The data were collected by means of an online survey conducted among 45 managers and department supervisors. It is found that large number of hotels lack measures to reduce the conventional energy use and replace it with renewable sources of energy. Considering the fact that energy use is a substantial cost factor, the modest and restricted application of geothermal energy, biofuels and photocell lightening is extremely alarming for achieving sustainable tourism development. The study concludes that Macedonian hotels although being fully aware of importance of energy efficiency concept, it is not their managerial priority. It further pointed out that the development and operation of sustainable hotels requires properly planned and designed environmental protection practices. Finally, the study recommends that instead of being driven by increased number of tourists regardless the environmental concern, Macedonian hotels should pay attention and become eco-friendly and be focused on applying environmental oriented practices. At the same time, the research poses new challenges that urgently need to be brought to hotel management in the line of achieving sustainable tourism development.
Q20|Economics for the Curious. Inside the Minds of 12 Nobel Laureates<BR>[Экономика Для Любознательных. О Чем Размышляют Нобелевские Лауреаты]|Alfred Marshall, the founder of modern economics, once described economics as ‘the study of mankind in the ordinary business of earning a living’. In Economics for the Curious, 12 Nobel Laureates show that ‘the ordinary business of earning a living’ covers a wide range of activities, as they take readers on an engaging tour of some of the everyday issues that can be explored using basic economic principles. Written in the plainest possible language, Nobel Laureates including Paul Krugman, Robert Solow and Vernon Smith confront some of the key issues challenging society today — challenges that claim attention in any phase of the business cycle. The range of topics includes how economic tools can be used to rebuild nations in the aftermath of a war; financing retirement as longevity increases; the sustainable use of natural resources and what governments should really be doing to boost the economy. Economics for the Curious is an accessible but informative display of the kinds of questions economics can illuminate. It will appeal to anyone who has an interest in economics and the world around them, and we hope it will encourage further interest and study in the topic from readers everywhere.
Q20|Are South African consumers arm-chair environmentalists? Implications for renewable energy|Discussions between policymakers about renewable energy have gained momentum in recent years, amid growing recognition of the need for more investment in green energy sources. The question is whether households in developing countries like South Africa will support green energy actions if it comes at an additional cost or whether they are simply arm-chair environmentalist. To assess this, we use the contingency valuation method (CVM) to identify the determinants of support for renewable energy. It is vital that householdsâ€™ determinants of the additional cost burden associated with renewable energy are assessed, in an effort to win public acceptance of the introduction of renewable energy. The US$966 willingness to pay (WTP) for renewable energy represents a significant premium over generation costs, and signals social acceptance of renewable energy. Most importantly, given the wide degree of heterogeneity in WTP models, a clear message to policymakers and stakeholders is that they need to do more to communicate the economic and environmental benefits associated with renewable energy.
Q20|Optimal economic growth and energy policy: analysis of nonrenewable and renewable energy|This article analyzes the taxes levied on the nonrenewable energy sector and the subsidies awarded for renewable energy use. Applyin g the decentralized economy model with a parallel use of two types of energy, we find that the decentralized economy cannot attain the social optimum due to externality in the market economy. Using optimal tax to attain the social optimum in the decentralized economy entails imposing it on the nonrenewable energy sector. Using damage functions for simulation in our model, we find that the worse the environmental damage is, the larger the cost. Copyright Society for Environmental Economics and Policy Studies and Springer Japan 2016
Q20|A Game Model of New and Remanufactured Goods, Brown and Green Consumers, and Market Share Dominance|Abstract The n total consumers in the market for a particular good are made up of b brown and g green consumers so that $$b+g=n$$ b + g = n . The b brown (g green) consumers are not (are) environmentally conscious and hence they prefer to buy a new (remanufactured) good denoted by N and R respectively. By strategically purchasing or not purchasing the N and the R goods, the brown and the green consumers attempt to create a dominant market share for their preferred good. In this setting, we study three issues. First, we delineate the game between the brown and the green consumers in normal form and then solve for the Nash equilibrium when $$n=2$$ n = 2 and $$b=1$$ b = 1 . Second, we find all the Nash equilibria of this game between brown and green consumers when $$n>2$$ n > 2 is an even number and $$b=g=n/2$$ b = g = n / 2 . Finally, we increase the cost of purchasing the new and the remanufactured goods and then study how this increase affects the answers obtained for the above two issues.
Q20|Genuine Savings in developing and developed countries, 1900-2000|This paper traces the long-run development of Genuine Savings (GS) using a panel of eleven countries during the twentieth century. This panel covers a number of developed countries (Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland, France, the US, and Australia) as well as a set of resource-abundant countries in Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Mexico). These countries represent approximately 50 percent of the world’s output in terms of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 1950, and include large economies and small open economies, and resource-rich and resource-scarce countries, thus allowing us to compare their historical experiences. Components of GS considered include physical and human capital as well as resource extraction and pollution damages. Generally, we find evidence of positive GS over the course of the twentieth century, although the twoWorldWars and the Great Depression left considerable marks. Also, we found striking differences between Latin American and developed countries when Total Factor Productivity (TFP) is included; this could be a signal of natural resource curse or technological gaps unnoticed in previous works.
Q20|Damming Trans-boundary Rivers: A Welfare Analysis of Conflict and Cooperation|Dams are essential for water storage and hydropower generation, but change river flow patterns and endanger local environments. Dam projects may further exacerbate already existing problems in trans-boundary rivers. We consider three scenarios of institutional factors: (1) each country pursues its own interests, (2) efficient cooperation along the river and (3) partial cooperation among neighboring countries. We conduct cost-benefit analyses for these scenarios incorporating dam projects and their externalities. We demonstrate our approach for the Mekong River incorporating expert hydrological knowledge regarding installed hydropower capacity and dam location instead of the standard economic assumptions of such costs. Our results show that cooperation between Laos and Cambodia internalizes the negative impacts of dam construction in Laos on fishery in Cambodia, and Laos refrains from building some planned dams. Our results also hint that the 1995 Mekong agreement among Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam is internally stable.
Q20|Quota Enforcement and Capital Investment in Natural Resource Industries|We investigate the relationship between quota enforcement, compliance, and capital accumulation in ITQ regulated fisheries. Overextraction and overcapacity represent two of the main fisheries management challenges, and we aim to model and analyze the two jointly. In a stylized resource model, quota violating and complying firms invest in capital, buy quotas, and choose their harvest. We show that in the short run, more capacity increases illegal extraction, while a well-functioning quota market partially alleviates this effect. We also show how tougher enforcement yields a double benefit by directly improving compliance and indirectly reducing incentives to invest in capacity, which improves future compliance. Our analysis thus contributes to the literature on market-based management of renewable resources.
Q20|Harvesting the Commons|Abstract We study a socio-ecological model in which a continuum of consumers harvest a common property renewable natural resource. Markov perfect Nash equilibria of the corresponding non-cooperative game are derived and are compared with collectively optimal harvesting policies. The underlying mechanisms that drive open-access commons in our model are shaped by population size, harvesting costs, and the ecosystem’s productivity. If other things equal population is small relative to harvesting costs, unmanaged commons do not face destruction. More strikingly, they are harvested at the collectively optimal rate. Property rights do not matter in that parametric regime because the resource has no social scarcity value. However, if other things equal population is large relative to harvesting costs, open-access renewable natural resources suffer from the tragedy of the commons. Property rights matter there because the resource has a social scarcity price. The population size relative to harvesting costs at which the socio-ecological system bifurcates is an increasing function of the ecosystem’s productivity. A sudden crash in productivity, population overshoot, or decline in harvesting costs can tip an unmanaged common into ruin. The model provides a way to interpret historical and archaeological findings on the collapse of those societies that have been studied by scholars.
Q20|Gain and loss of money in a choice experiment. The impact of financial loss aversion and risk preferences on willingness to pay to avoid renewable energy externalities|We examine how the direction of price changes affects the value people place on avoiding renewable energy externalities in Poland. Additionally, we investigate the influence of individuals' financial loss aversion and financial risk preferences on this valuation. In our study we conduct a choice experiment survey in which respondents' choices indicate the value they place on avoiding wind, solar, and biomass externalities. We combine this survey with a financial lottery choice task that elicits the respondents' risk preferences and degree of loss aversion. In the choice experiment we use both increases and decreases in electricity bills to depict the uncertain effect of new sources of energy generation on the current price level. This design allows us to investigate if obtained values are independent of the payment mechanism. In the analyzed context, our results indicate that marginal utility of money seems to be lower with a rebate on the energy bill than with a surcharge. We find that financial risk preferences affect people's choices both in a case of a surcharge and a rebate, while loss aversion for money affects them just in the case of a rebate. Loss aversion for money seems to not be present during a buying process. The results indicate that the more risk seeking people are in a financial domain the more they are willing to pay for proposed changes in renewable energy development, at the same time people who are more risk averse require less compensation before they accept externalities from renewable electricity production. Moreover, a higher compensation is required by people who are more loss averse with regard to money.
Q20|Pollution Permit Sharing Games|We consider a pollution permit sharing problem in which a ?nite number of countries, each identi?ed by a unique technology that transforms the pollution permits into an output, share a given amount of permits. We de?ne a Pollution Permit Sharing (PPS) game that assigns to each coalition of countries the maximal value of output they can generate collectively with their technologies and permits available to them. We show that the game is totally balanced. We also show that, for the well-known Cap and Trade (CAT) mechanism, namely the competitive equilibrium allocation which generates an efficient allocation of the permits, its corresponding (net) output distribution is in the core of the PPS game. We consider two other coalitional games whose de?nitions depend on the availability of either the total permits or the technologies. The Aspiration Upper Bound with given Permits (AUBP) game assigns to each coalition the maximal value they can generate by using the technologies available from all countries, but only with the permits available to the coalition. And the Aspiration Upper Bound with given Technologies (AUBT) game assigns to each coalition the maximal value they can generate using only the technolo-gies available to the coalition with the permits available from all countries. We show that the core of the AUBP game is nonempty. More importantly, we show that the competitive equilibrium allocation violates the above two aspiration upper bound restrictions. Finally, we suggest the Shapley value as one of the possible alternative solutions to the permit sharing problem.
Q20|Social nudging with condorcet juries and its strategic implications for a paternalistic implementation of LED bulbs|"In the light of irrational behaviour and decision biases leading people to commit systematic blunders, Thaler and Sunstein (2003) presented in their approach of libertarian paternalism the concept of choice architecture, to face the problem of wrong decisionmaking and resulting welfare losses by ""Nudging"" irrational agents. The debate about this approach focuses on its compatibility with libertarian principles, on its welfare-enhancing character and on the knowledge problem about peoples' true preferences. The goal of this paper is to show in part I that with recourse to contract theory, applied constitutional economics provides a justification of both the libertarian character and the profitability of libertarian paternalism. The use of libertarian paternalistic policies for environmental in particular to promote the acceptance and purchase of climate-friendly and sustainable LED bulbs can be justified as a selfbinding commitment induced by hierarchical preferences for sustainability. Referring to the Condorcet Jury Theorem, stating that 1) an expert jury is always more competent than a single expert and that 2) for large juries, group competence tends to infallibility with an increase in group size, libertarian paternalism for ecological goals can be defended against the knowledge problem. In part II an extension of the Condorcet Jury Theorem relaxing its restrictive assumptions of binary choice, homogeneous and independent voters, investigates its applicability and reliability for paternalistic interventions and allows a new perspective in the debate of choice framing paternalism, namely the concept of ""social nudging"" to promote social long-term goals. This paper provides an approach of effective choice framing by applying the CJT and implementing expert juries with the subsidiary principle. It investigates with regard to the support of sustainable ""lightconsumption"" how far institutions should go in shaping choice situations of consumers to promote their welfare."
Q20|Aging, private health expenditures and environment quality|This paper presents a simple two-period overlapping generation's model with uncertain lifetimes that contains environmental and health issues. It investigates an intergenerational conflict between old and young generations as regards two defensive expenditures, offsetting the influence of a worsening environment, represented here by health care and environmental investment. Workers support environmental maintenance while retirees prefer investing in healthcare. The author shows that an increasing support for private health expenditures in an aging economy leads to a higher level of capital accumulation and leads also to a higher level of environmental quality only if the maintenance efforts are larger than consumption externalities.
Q20|Dynamical Methods Applied in Natural Resource Economics|This paper presents, in brief, the fundamentals of optimal control theory together with some notes for differential games, which is the game theoretic analogue of the optimal control. As it is recommended by literature references the main tool of analysis in open loop information structure for environmental models is the Pontryagin’s Maximum Principle, while the Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman equation is the tool of analysis for any closed loop informational structure. As applications of the above theoretic considerations we present some environmental economic models which are solved both as optimal control problems and as differential games as well.
Q20|The Importance of the Sustainable Development in Terms of Quality of Life of the Future Generations|Within last few decades, sustainable development has started to become more and more popular as a conception. It proves how important is to approach to this matter via society, economy and environment etc. in terms of life standarts of future generations. Especially by the end of the 20th century, as the new development tools gained more importance then this proved the necessity of sustainable development. Therefore this study was aimed on consideration of development progress in Turkey and Brazil. In this context, it has been discussed the progress levels of these countries in terms of sustainable development also it has been proved what policies need to be used in order to provide a more efficient sustainable development for Turkey.
Q20|Rögnvaldur Hannesson, Ecofundamentalism: A Critique of Extreme Environmentalism|Professor Rögnvaldur Hannesson, an authority on natural resource management, has written a well-argued, even if polemical, book against ecofundamentalism, which, for him, puts nature before man. He cogently discusses the difficulties in applying notions of sustainability and biodiversity to the human condition and suggests that in the foreseeable future mankind should continue mainly to use fossil fuels as energy sources. Hannesson regards models of global warming as scientific, but as too uncertain for mankind radically to alter its way of life.
Q20|Getting Polluters to Tell the Truth|We study the problem of a regulator who must control the emissions of a given pollutant from a series of industries when the firms' abatement costs are unknown. We develop a mechanism in which the regulator asks firms to report their abatement costs and implements the most stringent emissions standard consistent with the firms' declarations. He also inspects one of the firms in each industry which declared the cost structure consistent with the least stringent emissions standard and with an arbitrarily small probability, he discovers whether the report was true or not. The firm is punished with an arbitrarily small fine if and only if its report was false. This mechanism is simple, is implementable in practice, its unique equilibrium is truth telling by firms, it implements the first best pollution standards and shares some features of the regulatory processes actually observed in reality.
Q20|Effect of Internal Migration on Air and Water Pollution in China|We examine the effect of inter-provincial migration on air and water pollution for a panel of Chinese provinces over the period 2000-2013. To do so, we employ linear and non-linear panel data models in a Stochastic Impacts by Regression on Population, Affluence and Technology (STIRPAT) framework. Our findings from both the linear and non-linear models suggest that inter-provincial migration has contributed to air and water pollution. Results from the second-generation linear panel data models suggest that for every additional 10,000 inter-provincial migrants, chemical oxygen demand (COD) increases 0.33-0.58 per cent and sulphur dioxide (SO2) increases 0.15-0.33 per cent. Our results from the non-linear threshold panel model are that for every additional 10,000 inter-provincial migrants, COD increases 0.2-0.5 per cent and SO2 increases 0.10-0.20 per cent. These estimates mean that over the period 2000-2013 average interprovincial migration was responsible for 7-12.4 per cent of wastewater discharge and 3.2-7 per cent of SO2 emissions in China based on the second-generation linear panel data models and 4.3-10.7 per cent of wastewater discharge and 2.1-4.3 per cent of SO2 emissions based on the non-linear threshold panel model.
Q20|On Intergenerational Distribution of the Burden of Greenhouse Gas Emissions|In this paper we propose an extension to the Dynamic Integrated model of Climate and Economy (DICE) by William Nordhaus, where we introduce overlapping generations (OLG) in the original model, and consider competitive equilibrium with the government, which follows Ramsey optimal policy on greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions reduction. In this framework it is possible to distinguish between subjective discount rate of individuals and social discount rate of the government. Thus the model provides two discount rates in the OLG model: the social discount rate under which cost-benefits analysis of climate projects are evaluated and the market discount rate for investments in physical capital. Using numerical simulations methods we show that the introduction of overlapping generations in the model could streamline more and early GHG emissions reduction, without causing a significant impact on the return on capital market. Long term gain from this policy is approximately 1 B C.
Q20|The Devil in the Detail: A Practical Guide on Designing Payments for Environmental Services|Payments for environmental services (PES) have become a popular approach to address environmental degradation. However, evidence on its effectiveness is scarce and rather mixed. PES is not a panacea, but there are many cases where PES can be a promising tool. Yet, poor PES design translates into poor performance of the instrument. PES design is a complex task; the devil is in the detail of a number of PES design features. The purpose of this paper is to provide guidance in dealing with this complexity through a comprehensive review of PES design that is accessible to both academics and practitioners. Practitioner guidelines on deciding whether PES is the best approach and for selecting among alternative design features are presented. PES design has to start from a careful understanding of the specific ecological and socio-economic context. We now know a lot about which design features are best suited to which context. It is time to put these insights into practice.
Q20|Intrinsic Motivation, Norms and Environmental Behaviour: The Dynamics of Overarching Goals|The understanding, prediction, and encouragement of pro-environmental behaviour (i.e., behaviour that impacts the environment as little as possible) depend to a large extent on understanding the motivational dynamics of pro-environmental behaviour. In this review paper, we discuss the state of the art with regard to these dynamics. We explain the importance of three types of goals underlying behaviour: the hedonic goal to feel good, the gain goal to enhance one's resources, and the normative goal to act appropriately. The strength of these goals differs across situation, which affects which aspects in the situation people attend to, how they evaluate these aspects, and which choices they make. We describe factors affecting the strength of goals, and how the normative goal to act appropriately can be strengthened so as to encourage sustained pro-environmental actions. More specifically, we propose that values affect the chronic strength of goals. Besides, various situational factors can affect the strength of goals in a particular situation. These situational factors explain why people do not have stable preferences and why they do not always act upon the values they prioritise. Finally, we discuss strategies that can be employed to encourage pro-environmental actions. These strategies are either aimed at reducing the conflict between different goals by aligning the hedonic and/or gain goal with the normative goal, or at strengthening the normative goal so that people will act pro-environmentally even though this may reduce the realisation of their hedonic or gain goals.
Q20|Poaching and the Protection of an Endangered Species: A Game-Theoretic Approach|Poaching of rhino and elephant has increased significantly over the last decade. We develop a model that views poaching and protection of a migratory species as a repeated, spatial game between strategic opponents. A poacher and an anti-poaching patrol make locational decisions each season on where to poach and where to patrol. We simulate different locational strategies to determine their affect on species abundance. Random locational strategies that account for the spatial distribution of the species are superior to non-random strategies for both the poacher and the antipoaching patrol. This mixed-locational strategy is shown to be a unique Nash equilibrium. If elephants avoid kill sites from the previous year, they may contribute to their own protection by reducing the number sites where they would be found.
Q20|Making growth more inclusive in Costa Rica|In the past 30 years Costa Rica has grown steadily and social indicators have improved markedly. Well-being indicators are comparable or even above the OECD average in several dimensions, such as health, environment or life-satisfaction. This paper reviews the social progress that Costa Rica has achieved and identifies reducing inequality and poverty as the main challenges. To tackle those challenges, the paper argues that there is a need to upgrade existing social assistance programmes to maximise their impact. Social policies should put more emphasis on getting more people into formal work, including by raising their skill levels. This is the most effective way to get people out of poverty. Education is the area where the largest gap with respect to OECD countries is observed. Policy efforts are also warranted to tackle informality, which is increasing rapidly, and to close the gender gap in the labour market. The health and pension systems play a fundamental role in maintaining social cohesion in Costa Rica and it is crucial to modernise them and to make them sustainable in the face of demographic challenges. Costa Rica exemplifies the benefits of preserving natural resources in generating growth and employment opportunities, thereby providing a way out of poverty. Building on its achievements in this area, Costa Rica should reinforce environmental protection efforts, such as reducing emissions from the transport sector and improving wastewater treatment. Une croissance plus inclusive au Costa Rica Au cours des 30 dernières années, le Costa Rica a connu une croissance soutenue et les indicateurs sociaux se sont améliorés de façon marquée. Les indicateurs de bien-être sont comparables ou même au-dessus de la moyenne de l'OCDE en plusieurs dimensions, comme la santé, l'environnement ou la satisfaction de vivre. Cet article examine le progrès social que le Costa Rica a réussi et identifie la réduction des inégalités et de la pauvreté comme les principaux défis. Pour faire face à ces défis, le document fait valoir qu'il est nécessaire d'améliorer les programmes d'aide sociale existants afin de maximiser leur impact. Les politiques sociales devraient mettre davantage l'accent sur l'obtention de plus de gens dans le travail formel, y compris en augmentant leur niveau de compétence. Ceci est le moyen le plus efficace pour sortir les gens de la pauvreté. L'éducation est la dimension où le plus grand écart par rapport aux pays de l'OCDE est observé. Les efforts politiques sont également nécessaire pour lutter contre l'informalité, qui est de plus en plus haut, et de combler l'écart entre les sexes sur le marché du travail. Les systèmes de santé et de retraite jouent un rôle fondamental pour maintenir la cohésion sociale en Costa Rica et il est crucial de les moderniser et de les rendre durables face aux défis démographiques. Costa Rica illustre les avantages de la préservation des ressources naturelles en générant des opportunités de croissance et d'emploi, fournissant ainsi un moyen de sortir de la pauvreté. Fort de ses réalisations dans ce domaine, le Costa Rica devrait renforcer les efforts de protection de l'environnement, tels que la réduction des émissions du secteur des transports et l'amélioration du traitement des eaux usées.
Q20|Green Labour Market: A Response to Environmental Modernization. EU Case [Piaţa verde a muncii: un răspuns la modernizarea ecologică. Cazul UE]|The attitude towards environmental issues can represent a key differentiating factor among countries’ performance levels, considering the tight competitive climate. On its way to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, through social and economic integration, EU continues to face great proportion of social imbalances and wider inequalities.
Q20|A Critical Assessment of the European Social Dimension under 2020 Strategy [O evaluare critică a dimensiunii sociale europene sub auspiciile Strategiei 2020]|Under multidimensional pressures, the social dimension of Europe, yet a very envied one by lots of nations from around the world, is now facing austere budgets, social imbalances, demographic gaps, public opinions based on extremely diverse political and economic rationales, and manifest market failures, the social burdens thus becoming even more obvious after the economic crisis.
Q20|Modelling the effect of public investment on agricultural productivity in Ghana|Using annual time series data for Ghana, the current study investigates the public investment and agricultural productivity nexus for the period 1961-2013. The empirical assessment is done by using the Johansen test (JT), the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM), and the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression test. The results indicate significant stable long run link between public investment and agricultural productivity in the JT. However, there is insignificant short run link between public investment and agricultural productivity in the VECM. The results of the OLS indicate negative significant link between investment and agricultural productivity. The findings suggest that Public investment has led to a decrease in agricultural productivity. Policy makers should manage public investment very well in order to achieve positive impact on the agricultural sector. The argument in support of public investment in agriculture sector needs to be re-examined as the current findings does not support the debate. Future study should examine the current issue using accounting for causality and structural breaks issues since the present study did not consider these issues.
Q20|Solar Australia|Current large energy consumer potential of Asian and Pacific region as well as rise in GDP, population indicates further potential for energy needs. Part of solution at least in China is energy import. While electricity production so far is done in China and Australia with coal that causes high CO2 emissions proposed project Solar Australia suggests renewable production from Concentrated Solar. Negative impact of CO2 is hindered with competitive technology of solar from China, innovative technical solution in transmission process and incorporating environmental and social benefits and costs into calculation in order to provide a solution to high emissions in Asia Pacific Region.
Q20|Urbanization and Environmental Quality in Africa|Africa’s rapid urbanization pose challenges for her sustainable development. This paper investigates the environmental impact of urbanization for 49 African countries from 1990 to 2010. Using the Stochastic Impacts by Regression on Population, Affluence and Technology (STIRPAT) framework, a recently developed semi-parametric panel fixed-effects regression technique, and two atmospheric air pollutants, namely carbon dioxide (CO2) and ambient particulate matter PM10 emissions, the evidence indicates that urbanization reduces environmental pollution. The semi-parametric analysis reveals that the result is more pronounced with PM10 but weaker for CO2 emissions. Moreover, there is no evidence to confirm the Kuznets hypothesis of an inverted U-shaped curve between urbanization and environmental pollution. To reap the benefits of urbanization, there is need for a strategic urban planning with basic infrastructure investment that promotes a green environment.
Q20|Opportunities & Challenges for Green Technology in 21st Century|Technology has affected the society and its surroundings in many ways and helped to develop more advanced economies including today's global economy. Science has contributed many technologies to the society which include Aircraft technology, Automobile technology, Biotechnology, Computer technology, Telecommunication technology, Internet technology, Renewable energy technology, Atomic & Nuclear technology, Nanotechnology, Space technology etc. have changed the lifestyle of the people and provided comfortability. In order to sustain this comfort of people in the society, they have to worry about the sustainability of the surrounding environment. In this paper, we propose how the technologies can be made sustainable by adding green component so that they can avoid environmental degradation and converted into green technologies to provide a clean environment for future generations. The paper also discuss the opportunities and challenges for green technology for agriculture, green technology for potable water, green technology for renewable energy, green technology for buildings, green technology for aircraft and space exploration, green technology for education, green technology for food & processing, and green technology for health and medicine in 21st century.
Q20|A Model of Sustainable Growth with Renewables( Wind, CS, Algae) in Africa Europe Relation|Paper states that investments in renewable energy - Africa north (Sahara) -contributes to growth, poverty reduction and social economical gain not just for Africa but for Europe too. It brings (wind) long term electricity input stability, price reduction, industry potential growth through cooperation with Africa(CS),input and long term solution (after oil) with algae to obtain biodiesel for car industry. With renewables in hand many innovation and day to day possibilities increase quality of life (wind supported with PV, magnets to increase efficiency), CS in respect of cooking, solar in transport (train, car), help in education. Opinion about long term sustainable growth is given as relation of known/unknown long term space matter constant 1 in which only variables are those in relation to person to person, person to positive (God) aspect.
Q20|Description of European policies and issues related to electricity pricing|This paper is focused on the description of institutional, technical, economic, legal and other relevant issues of electricity pricing in the European Union connected with the increasing use of renewable energy sources in electricity production and consumption. It provides background information related to the types of energy sources along with the summary of their advantages and disadvantages regarding both the environmental impact and financial costs. Furthermore, it involves fundamental global and European electricity production statistics and a summary of the European Union approach to the support of environment-friendly energy production methods.
Q20|Panel regression analysis of electricity prices and renewable energy in the European Union|This paper provides an econometric panel data model with data collected from 13 member states of the European Union over the period between 2010 and 2013 analysing two energy and climate relationships. First, it investigates the impact of the share of renewable energy sources in the final electricity production on the European consumer electricity prices. Second, it analyzes whether the replacement of fossil fuels by renewable energy causes a significant decrease in the greenhouse gases (specifically carbon dioxide) emissions. The results of our model analysis suggest that household electricity prices in the studied countries increase with the deployment of renewable electricity production. On the contrary, a negative effect of the renewables used in energy consumption on the CO2 emissions produced was found by the model regression.
Q20|Asian Giants' Fossil Fuel Dependence and the Challenge of Low Carbon Growth: Contrasting Performance of Clean Energy Development, Trade and Investment|With sluggish growth in alternate technologies, economic growth across the world has remained largely fuelled by hydro-carbons whose burning has contributed to the menace of global warming. In such a situation, this study focusing on the economies of China, India and Japan – the three Asian Giants, aims at not only ascertaining their fossil fuel dependence but it also addresses its environmental implications. Moreover, it contrasts their attainments in clean energy development. An analysis of trade in climate smart technologies reflects the nature of mutual cooperation among these giants. Similarly, an analysis of recent trends in investment financing corroborates their pursuit of low carbon growth agenda which is a major cause of concern in most of the international climate change negotiations.
Q20|Private Investment in Renewable Energy Sector in Africa: An Economic Analysis|African countries still lack a huge amount of energy that is necessary to increase economic growth, alleviate poverty, and sustain economic development (energy insecurity). Public investment in energy sector is still limited to supply household and private sector with their energy needs. Only private investment in renewable energy can play a major role in filling this gap. By applying SWOT analysis, this study illustrates the major threats and weaknesses (challenges) faced by the private investment in renewable energy sector in Africa vis-à-vis the main opportunities and strengths (benefits) these investments can get. Finally, it ends with some suggested solutions that can help at improving conditions of this vital sector and attracting more private investments to it.
Q20|Fleet dynamics and overcapitalization under rational expectations|When individual stay/exit decisions depend on the opportunity cost of exiting, capital malleability is endogenously determined by the instruments used for stock rehabilitation. In a General Equilibrium framework, we characterize the transitional dynamics caused by stock rehabilitation policies. We show that a management policy based on input controls generates less exit, a less productive fleet, and overcapitalization, as input controls require a higher number of firms to achieve the same biological targets. Using data from the Multiannual Plan for the Western Mediterranean, we show that the use of input controls generates a Spanish fleet around 14 percent higher than the one that would result from a non distortionary instrument.
Q20|Cascading Defections from Cooperation Triggered by Present-Biased Behaviors in the Commons|This work shows that defective behaviors from the cooperative equilibrium in the management of common resources can be fueled and triggered by the presence of agents with myopic behaviors; a similar phenomenon is also possible with cooperative motivations. This paper demonstrates and discusses that the apparent and detectable decay of the cooperative choices in the dilemmas of common resources are not an exclusive and indisputable signal of an escalation in free-riding intentions, but can also be an outcome of the present-biased preferences and myopic behaviors of the cooperative agents. In fact, within the context populated by conditional cooperators with a heterogeneous myopic discount factor, in the absence of information about agents’ intentions, the present-biased preferences can trigger a strategy that directs the community to excessively increase its harvesting level, even in presence of the other-regarding motives. The behavior implemented by naïve agents, even if done with cooperative intent, can activate a dynamic of cascading defections from the cooperative strategy within the harvester group. Therefore, a lowering of the cooperative behaviors can also be the effect of the absence of coordination instruments in response to the cognitive bias that influences human behaviors.
Q20|Other-regarding Preferences and Social Norms in the Intergenerational Transfer of Renewable Resources when Agent has Present-Biased Preferences|The paper analyses the effects of the present-bias in terms of reduction of the welfare of future generations in the framework of renewable resources harvesting. In particular, this study queries the behavioral traits that emerge when the agent is present-biased and also in presence of other-regarding preferences toward future generations, which are expressed through the adherence to genuine other-regarding preferences or social norms. This investigation demonstrates that the strategic short-sightedness imposed by the “dictatorship of the present” causes a reduction in the well-being of future generations, despite the existence of strong social preferences. Faced with this problem, this study argues that if the social preferences of the individuals are not left only and exclusively to their own spontaneous behavior, and if these social preferences are also expressed through social norms that prescribe to not reevaluate the harvesting decisions, a mitigation of the effect of present bias on the intergenerational equity can occur.
Q20|Present Bias in Renewable Resources Management Reduces Agent’s Welfare|This study investigates the effects generated by myopic and present-biased preferences in the context of resource harvesting, specifically on the impact that the present bias has on the agent’s welfare when the agent is engaged in an intertemporal harvesting activity from a stock of renewable resources. The harvesting activity, in this context, poses a conflict between the long-run benefit of the agent and the short-run desire. The paper assumes there is evidence of the existence of a dual system of response to short and long-term stimuli. Thus, the study shows and argues that in the decision-making that involves intertemporal choices in renewable resources management, the naive behavior, strongly influenced by the emotional-affective system, leads to a reduction in the lifetime utility enjoyed by the individual because of the present bias.
Q20|The Importance of Renewable Energy in Economic Growth: Evidence from a Panel of Emerging Countries|The purpose of this paper is to estimate the impact of renewable energy consumption from combustible renewable and waste sources on economic growth in emerging countries. We analyze the stylized facts of renewable energy and emerging countries related to four regions (Africa, Europe, Latin America, and Asia). We use recent data in the cob-Douglas function and applying a non-stationary panel model for 15 emerging countries covering the period (1990-2011). The Granger causality test showed that there is no causal relationship between renewable energy consumption of combustible renewable and waste sources and economic growth that confirm the neutrality hypothesis. The results supported a positive and significant effect of renewable energy consumption of this source on economic growth in emerging countries. The absence of a causal relationship can be explained by the inefficient use of combustible renewable and waste in the majority of those emerging countries. The consumption of low variability renewable energy such as renewable and waste stimulates economic growth in emerging countries.
Q20|Experimental departures from self-interest when competing partnerships share output|When every individual’s effort imposes negative externalities, self-interested behavior leads to socially excessive effort. To curb these excesses when effort cannot be monitored, competing output-sharing partnerships can form. With the right-sized groups, aggregate effort falls to the socially optimal level. We investigate this theory experimentally and find that while it makes correct qualitative predictions, there are systematic quantitative deviations, always in the direction of the socially optimal investment. Using data on subjects’ conjectures of each other’s behavior we investigate altruism, conformity and extremeness aversion as possible explanations. We show that deviations are consistent with both altruism and conformity (but not extremeness aversion). Copyright Economic Science Association 2015
Q20|Zhaoguang Hu, Xinyanh Han, & Quan Wern, Integrated Resource Strategic Planning and Power Demand-Side Management|The edited volume presents an engaging cartography of Indian economy following two decades of liberalization on the backdrop of globalization and problem of sustainability - two defining moments of post-reforms reorganization of the economy. A wide variety of sector-specific and economy-wide studies in the collection, examine the central tenets of market-centric reforms representing globalization. The research works dealing with micro- and macro-aspects of development help us form an idea of important issues, emerging debates, dominant institutions and changes required for attainment/restoration of efficiency. Most of these writings indicate the limitations of current developmental logic in their specific settings. These studies also propose measures to tackle the problems faced while presuming growth-sustainability disconnect to be temporary in nature. A number of studies introduced new analytical categories and empirical frameworks to capture current reality in better and more meaningful ways. A third strand of writings portrays conflict between the project of globalization and issue of sustainability as a distinguishing characteristic of global capitalism although the present policy framework accord highest priority to capitalist expansion. This conflict however, has put the Indian state in a perpetual act of balancing the growth objective of global capital and welfare objective meant for those experiencing exclusion in the development process.
Q20|International Environmental Agreements—The Role of Foresight|Abstract The present paper attempts to bridge the gap between the cooperative and the non-cooperative approach employed to examine the size of stable coalitions, formed to address global environmental problems. We do so by endowing countries with foresightedness, that is, by endogenizing the reaction of the coalition’s members to a deviation by one member. We assume that when a country contemplates withdrawing or joining an agreement, it takes into account the reactions of other countries ignited by its own actions. We identify conditions under which there always exists a unique set of farsighted stable IEAs. The new farsighted IEAs can be much larger than those some of the previous models supported but are not always Pareto efficient.
Q20|Economic Behavior, Market Signals, and Urban Ecology|Urban ecologists have extended the bounds of this field to incorporate both the effects of human activities on ecological processes (e.g., humans as generators of disturbances), and the ways in which the structures, functions, and processes of urban ecosystems, and human alterations to them, in turn alter people’s behavior. This feedback loop from the perspective of urban ecologists offers a natural connection to economic models for human behavior. At their core, housing markets reveal price signals that communicate to developers the tradeoffs consumers are willing to make for the private characteristics of homes and the attributes of the neighborhoods where they are located. These signals together with local land use rules guide the location of development. The characteristics of this development in turn influence the functioning and evolution of urban ecosystems. This paper describes markets as coordination mechanisms and conveyors of information from a complex adaptive systems perspective. It also discusses the way in which physical and biological processes, infrastructural boundaries, and the institutional equivalent of “barbed wire” all simultaneously act to shape the transmission of ecosystem services over the landscape. These processes alter the spatial distribution of housing prices in ways that are both continuous and discrete.
Q20|The Silence of the Lambs: Payment for Carnivore Conservation and Sheep Farming|During the last few decades, the number of large carnivores (wolf, bear, lynx and wolverines) has increased significantly in Scandinavia. As a result of more predation of livestock, conflicts with livestock farmers have deepened. We model this conflict using sheep farming as an example, and in instances in which farmers are given compensation for the predation loss. The compensation scheme is composed of a fixed per animal loss value (ex-post), but also a compensation just for the presence of the carnivores (ex-ante). Ex-post compensation payment is practiced in many countries where farmers are affected by killed and injured livestock, but also damages to crops. Ex-ante payment implies payment for environmental services (PES) and is also widely practiced. In the first part of the paper, the stocking decision of a group of farmers is analyzed. In a next step, the Directorate for Natural Resource Management (DNRM), managing the carnivores and compensation scheme, is introduced. The strategic interaction between the sheep farmers and DNRM is modelled as a Stackelberg game with DNRM as the leader. We find that it is not beneficial for DNRM to use ex-post, but only ex-ante compensation. The solution to the game is compared to the social planner solution, and numerical illustrations indicate that the efficiency loss of the ex-ante compensation scheme to be small.
Q20|Conservation Planning: A Review of Return on Investment Analysis|Land and natural resource conservation programs are increasingly being evaluated on the basis of their return on investment (ROI). Conservation ROI analysis quantitatively measures the costs, benefits, and risks of investments, which allows conservation organizations to rank or prioritize them. This article surveys the literature in this area. We organize our discussion around the way studies treat the core elements of ROI, which include the definition and measurement of the conservation objective, identification of relevant baselines, the types of conservation investments considered, and investment costs. We discuss the state of the art of ROI analysis, highlight some unresolved issues, and make suggestions for improvements. We also describe options for extending ROI analysis beyond biodiversity conservation, which is the typical objective. The literature indicates that conservation planning that uses ROI analysis can considerably alter the location and targets of conservation, lead to more protection and higher quality conservation outcomes, and result in significant savings. The measurement and prediction of baseline ecological conditions and threats remains a central challenge for conservation ROI analysis, as does accounting for landowner and developer responses to conservation investments. Another key priority for future research is the identification of ways to more comprehensively incorporate ecosystem services and multiple environmental objectives into the assessment framework. (JEL: Q20, Q30, Q51, Q57)
Q20|The Road to Competitive Advantage must be Paved with a Respectful Attitude towards the Environment|The role of economic entities in society has changed as a result of the emergence of environmental concerns among people. Currently economic entities are facing a new challenge, that of introducing environment variable in its activities. The paper deals with new environmental assessment of the effects on competitiveness and how we can transform the environment into a competitive advantage. The current concern, social and institutional environment protection has led to pressure on economic entities to adopt a much more respectful of the natural environment. This is a challenge for managers entity. However, it is clear that regulations and legislation are not enough to stabilize the situation. Change must take place in the business. In conclusion, we must be aware that the road to competitive advantage is difficult, full of obstacles, and be paved with a respectful attitude towards the environment, but at the other end sees business sustainability.
Q20|Solar Power's Rise and Promise|"Time was when solar energy was facilely dismissed as impractical, inefficient, and pricey. In recent years, however, innovations in technology, regulation, and financing have resulted in remarkable efficiency improvements and price reductions, thereby reversing the skepticism about this renewable energy (RE) source. In this paper, we explore how this has happened, to what extent photovoltaic solar technology has been accepted around the world, and what might be its potential for inclusive green growth. We find that adoption of both on-grid and off-grid solar systems has been widespread and rapidly increasing. Particularly noteworthy is the utilization of small- scale individual or distributed off-grid solar home systems (SHS) in remote and underserved areas in the developing world, including East Africa and South Asia. It appears that the Philippines has been a relative latecomer. Data show that solar power's ""installed"" capacity remains a tiny fraction of all RE sources (that also include hydro, geothermal, wind, biomass, and ocean). Moreover, such capacity is for ongrid only; there seems none as yet installed for off-grid SHS. We conclude with the paper's main points and possible implications for policy and research."
Q20|Environmental attitude, motivations and values for marine biodiversity protection|This study explores people's environmental attitudes and motives for putting economic values to marine biodiversity protection. Primary data were collected from a sample of 359 residents in two important Greek ports: Thessaloniki and Volos. Respondents’ environmental attitude was measured with the New Ecological Paradigm (NEP) scale. Economic values were derived from contingent valuation survey. Use of appropriate methods revealed three factors of environmental attitudes: man dominate to nature, anti-anthropocentrism and limits to growth. Significant relationships are found between NEP scale factors, socio-economic characteristics and individuals’ opinions about biodiversity utility. Pro-environmental behavior is associated with higher NEP scores. A logistic regression setup the relation between people's willingness to pay (WTP) for marine biodiversity protection with their socio-economic characteristics and PCA results. Significant relationships are found between environmental attitudes, non-use motivations, WTP and ethical motives for species protection. Mean individuals’ WTP for marine biodiversity protection was calculated approximately equal to €29.
Q20|Scenario analysis on greenhouse gas emissions reduction in Southeast Balkans' energy system|This paper by using the Long range Energy Alternatives Planning System (LEAP) evaluates the progress towards sustainability with long-term scenarios for the energy map of Southeast Balkans, particularly the three countries of Bulgaria, Greece and Romania. The main objective of this work is to examine and compare scenarios based on organizations reports, so that countries achieve the objectives of the European Commission (abating 40% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and 80-95% by 2050) and finally to observe the contribution of each country to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The results reveal that the main challenge for the Southeast Balkans policy makers will be the energy policies associated with the renewable energy usage. It appears that under the seven different energy policy scenarios the higher the participation of renewable energy the higher the reduction of GHG emissions.
Q20|Investing in the cheapest form of energy: efficiency practices of SMEs in rural Ghana|Efficiency has been identified as the cheapest and cleanest source of fuel. Whilst effort has been made in the advanced countries to promote technology and efficiency, little is known about efficiency in emerging economies in Africa. The purpose of this study is to identify the energy efficiency practices of SMEs in rural Ghana and also examine the barriers to energy efficiency practices. First, a descriptive analysis was used to examine the barriers and energy efficiency indicators. Finally, autometrics is used to examine the relationship between energy efficiency and productivity at the aggregate level. The study finds that lack of information on energy efficiency practices is the most important barrier to energy efficiency. On the practices, methods such as putting off electrical appliances when not in use or when closed, using new electrical appliances and using less appliances to achieve the same goal are some of the common ones adopted by SMEs in rural Ghana. The study recommends that the Ghana Energy Commission should intensify its energy efficiency education and extend this to rural areas.
Q20|Assessing greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia's energy system|This paper investigates Estonia’s prospects in meeting the new European Union climate commitments to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions till 2030 by 40% and 2050 by 80-95% compared to 1990 emission levels. The contribution of this study is twofold. In a first stage, based on organizations reports and using the Long range Energy Alternatives Planning system (LEAP) it constructs seven long-term scenarios to examine Estonia's energy system till 2050. In a second stage, using the Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) nonparametric approach it evaluates the efficiency of renewable energy commitments in reducing GHG emissions. The findings show that the main challenge for the Estonia policy makers will be the energy policies associated with the renewable energy usage. It appears that under the seven different energy policy scenarios the higher the participation of renewable energy the higher the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
Q20|Popularising Direct Seeded Rice: Issues and Extension Strategies|Direct Seeded Rice (DSR) is the technology which is water, labour and energy efficient along with eco-friendly characteristics. Flooded rice is a major source of methane emission, while the use of nitrogen fertilizers produces nitrous oxide; both are greenhouse gases linked to global warming. The dominant method of rice establishment is transplanting in the rice-wheat growing areas of the Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP). However, rising labour costs for establishing a nursery, puddling fields, and transplanting have increased costs for transplanting in the region. Direct seeding of rice was a common practice before green revolution in India and is becoming popular once again because of its potential to save water and labour. However, high weed infestation is the major bottleneck in DSR, especially in dry field conditions and, availability of several nutrients including N, P, S and micronutrients such as Zn and Fe, is likely to be a constraint. Extension activities can play very important role in popularisation of DSR, which includes training, demonstration of DSR in farmer’s field, on farm trial related to various potential problems faced by farmers and exposure visit of farmers to field. Coordination is also required within the different disciplines/specializations, between institutions and departments as well as functional areas like research, extension and training along with people’s participation and new thrust on participatory research and development to bring farmers in the framework of interactions at all levels. With the increase in prices of inputs and low rice prices, rice production does not provide farmers with high income. Rice food security needs clear national policy that allows right investment in all phases of rice development. There must be right policies on input availability, output marketing and prices. The following paper tries to look into the issues affecting DSR adoption and suggests extension strategies to popularise it.
Q20|Dynamical methods in Environmental and Resource Economics|This paper presents, in brief, the fundamentals of optimal control theory together with some notes for differential games, which is the game theoretic analogue of the optimal control. As it is recommended by literature references the main tool of analysis in open loop information structure for environmental models is the Pontryagin’s Maximum Principle, while the Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman equation is the tool of analysis for any closed loop informational structure. As applications of the above theoretic considerations we present some environmental economic models which are solved both as optimal control problems and as differential games as well.
Q20|Overview and perspectives of protected natural areas in Romania|Under the global environmental changes, the impacts of human-induced activities on habitats and ecosystems have become increasingly high, thus the role of protected areas in conserving biodiversity becomes critical. As a result, protected areas are exposed to a variety of pressures (e.g. biodiversity loss, habitat fragmentation, deforestation, pollution, overexploitation of natural resources, land use/land cover changes) posing major threats to ecosystems and their services. Currently, protected natural areas in Romania cover 1,798,782 hectares (7.55% of the national territory). An increased surface of protected areas was a priority of Romania’s following the accession to the European Union (2007), thus having to reach a 17% protected surface of the national territory (from 7% as it had previously been before EU accession) by means of other important conservative tools, such as “Natura 2000” European Network. The current study is aiming to provide a general overview on the natural protected areas in Romania, identify and assess the main strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT analysis) and, ultimately propose a strategic vision, for the next twenty years, based on key scenarios in relation to the measures and management guidelines assumed under the EU and national environmental policies. The research was undertaken in the framework of the project entitled: “Natural resources - strategic reserves, what we use and what we leave to future generations” supported by the Romanian Academy.
Q20|Energy and Economy Overview with Accent on Possibilities in Austria|With rising GDP/capita, population increase on the world scale further rise in energy demand is expected. Today’s division on rich north and poor south has added one more category: countries that are endowed with non renewable energy potentials, one that work actively on implementation of renewables and those who do have natural potential and slow to incorporate renewable due to financial, economical, war, other obstacles. Although it is said that energy should be available to all people, and strategy of diversification and security is actively promoted one more aspect even in the most developed world is not tackled: better interrelation, trade, electrical market transparent in all forms (all renewable, nonrenewable part of bills are visible), easy change and substitution of electrical source, and weak social policy to one that lives under lower income brackets. Austria as highly developed country can serve as educative source, and with reaching its own renewable potentials gain additional strength in exporting clean energy (hydroelectrically plants, wind etc.).
Q20|An Approach to Assess Sustainability of Agricultural Farms|This paper gives an answer to important questions such as: “what is sustainability of farms?” and “how to assess sustainability of farms?”. First, evolution of the “concept” and the major approaches for assessing sustainability of farms is discussed. More adequate definition of the farm sustainability is suggested as ability of a particular farm to maintain its governance, economic, social and ecological functions in a long term. Next, a specific for the conditions of Bulgarian farms framework for assessing farm sustainability is proposed. The later includes a system of appropriate principles, criteria, indicators, and reference values for evaluating governance, economic, ecological and social aspects of farms sustainability as well as an approach for their integration and interpretation. The ultimate objective of this study is to work out an effective framework for assessing sustainability of farms in the specific economic, institutional and natural environment of farms of different types and location, assist farm management and strategies, and agricultural policies and forms of public intervention in agriculture.
Q20|The agri-food sector in Romania – an analysis of the resources-utilization correlation in the post-accession period|As important part of national economy, the agri-food sector had oscillating evolutions in the post-accession period, mainly generated by the need to get in line with the EU requirements. The analysis of the resources-utilizations ratio, from the point of view of production account, reveals significant modifications, as regards both the direct relations between the different subsectors of national economy and the relation between the overall sector and the rest of national economy. Based on data processing from the input-output table from national accounts, the present approach tries to make a diagnosis of the agri-food economy resources utilization in relation to other branches of the economy.
Q20|Изследване На Социално-Икономическите Ефекти На Земетресението, Цунамито И Ядрената Авария Във Фукушима През Март 2011 Година Върху Агро-Хранителните Вериги В Япония<BR>[A study on socio-economic impacts of earthquake, tsunami and Fukushima nuclear disaster of march 2011 on agri-food chains in Japan]|В статията се прави оценка на ефектите от земетресението, цунамито и ядрената авария във Фукушима през март 2011 година върху селското стопанство и хранителния сектор на Япония. Най напред се представят трите бедствия и техните последствия. След това се оценява ефектът върху фермите и аграрните ресурси. Следва оценка на последствията върху хранителната промишленост. След това се представя размера на радиационното замърсяване на земеделските и хранителни продукти. Накрая, се прави оценка на ефектите върху пазарите, потребителите и международната търговия. Обобщена е реакцията на различните агенти, оценен е прогреса и предизвикателствата на възстановяването и реконструкцията след бедствията, и са извлечени поуки от японския опит.
Q20|Valoarea Economică A Ariilor Protejate<BR>[Economic value of protected area]|Protected Area help to sustain income, output and consumption across the economy. Also, generate employment and earn the government fiscal revenues. The economic specialists have been making increasing use of the concept of total economic evaluation to assess the value of protected areas. Many protected areas are managed on a multiple-use basis and tourism and recreation are among the very important uses of such areas. To determine the optimal use of such areas is an important problem for the community and for the managers of protected areas. These article provides core information about economic valuation of protected area and present, synthetically, the case study.
Q20|The Controversy of Corporate Social Responsibility: What Is Best For Business|"The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the subject of permanent theoretical debates and the constant object of a company's business practices but also of some controversy. This makes it necessary to bring some valid arguments to support the growing role of CSR in the company' s efforts to achieve its objectives. This article aims to contribute to a better understanding of CSR issues and how it may help by better meeting the demands of society. It begins with a brief overview of the phenomenon of social irresponsibility which is justifying a better understanding of CSR issues. Therefore, the second part deals with the concept and the improved content of CSR which includes an authorâ€™s proposal of a new updated structure of the CSR content and ends with the presentation of its potential contribution to the company's performance and to better satisfy the demands of society. The conclusions highlight the main ideas and arguments of the article. At first, they present the arguments in favor of CSR that are justified by the changes in contemporary society and then the ones which stems from the fact that the companies are members of the society. The article has as support the idea of Riley (2012) who argues that ""ignoring CSR potentially damage stakeholders, embracing CSR creates value""."
Q20|On the effects of mergers on equilibrium outcomes in a common property renewable asset oligopoly|This paper examines a dynamic game of exploitation of a common pool of some renewable asset by agents that sell the result of their exploitation on an oligopolistic market. A Markov Perfect Nash Equilibrium of the game is used to analyze the effects of a merger of a subset of the agents. We study the impact of the merger on the equilibrium production strategies, on the steady states, and on the profitability of the merger for its members. We show that there exists an interval of the asset׳s stock such that any merger is profitable if the stock at the time the merger is formed falls within that interval. That includes mergers that are known to be unprofitable in the corresponding static equilibrium framework.
Q20|Unraveling the effects of environmental outcomes and processes on financial performance: A non-linear approach|We examine the roles of the outcome and process dimensions of environmental performance in determining financial performance as measured by Tobin's q. Outcomes refer to the impacts of the firm on the natural environment, while processes are the firm's actions to reduce these outcomes. We focus on a specific outcome – carbon emissions – and suggest that it affects Tobin's q non-linearly. We find that firms achieve the highest financial performance when their carbon performance is neither low nor high, but intermediate. We also find that environmental processes moderate this relationship as they reinforce firms' financial performance through improved stakeholder management. This mixed picture suggests that firms do not generally internalize the costs of poor carbon performance, but those that stand out in both environmental outcomes and processes achieve net financial benefits. These findings are based on a sample of carbon-intensive firms that disclosed their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through the Carbon Disclosure Project from 2007 through 2013.
Q20|Using tradeable permits to improve efficiency, equity and animal protection in the commercial kangaroo harvest|The utilisation of wildlife creates conflicts between commercial operators, landholders, traditional owners of the land, conservationists and animal protection advocates. Such conflicts are evident in Australia's utilisation of the iconic kangaroo (Macropus) species for their meat and hides. Like many wild animal industries, kangaroos are an open access resource, although restrictions built into the management regime ensure that rents are, approximately, maximised. However, resource allocation decisions and the distribution of rents reflect the values and objectives of the economically powerful stakeholders and particularly commercial processors. Thus, rents are not distributed equitably and the management regime excludes animal protection advocates from adequate participation. Thus, an external cost occurs when kangaroos are harvested that must be internalised for economic efficiency to be achieved. We propose a tradeable permit system where landholders, shooters and processors compete with ordinary citizens for the right to harvest kangaroos. This increases the private cost of harvest and internalises the external cost. It also improves the equity of rent distribution with landholders able to earn a return from kangaroos on their land. As similar issues arise in the utilisation of other wild animals, the research provides an important contribution to the literature on the economics of animal welfare.
Q20|Foreign direct investments, environmental externalities and capital segmentation in a rural economy|This paper examines the possible effects of external investment inflows on the development of local rural economies, taking into account two recurrent features of many developing countries: capital market segmentation and environmental externalities. To investigate this issue, we examine a model with two sectors: the “local sector” and the “external sector”. Physical capital accumulation in the latter sector is driven by foreign direct investments, while in the former sector it follows a Solow-type accumulation mechanism. We assume that the production activity of the external sector damages the environment while the local sector relies on natural resources. In this context, we give the conditions under which capital inflows can promote diversification of host economy while improving welfare of local populations. If these conditions are not satisfied, external investments fuel a welfare reducing process (for the local community) and a self-enforcing growth of the external sector at the expense of the local one.
Q20|Rural livelihoods and environmental resource dependence in Cambodia|Understanding rural livelihood strategies and environmental resource dependence can help to reduce and prevent livelihood stresses induced by environmental resource degradation. This study identifies livelihood strategies of farm households in rural Cambodia and explores their determinants with a focus on environmental resource dependence. The data are derived from a survey of 580 households in 30 villages of Stung Treng province in Cambodia undertaken in 2013. An activity-based two-step cluster analysis is conducted to identify different livelihood clusters and regression models are performed to determine the major factors affecting the choice of livelihood strategies and the extraction of environmental resources. The results demonstrate how different levels of environmental and household capital influence livelihood strategies. Environmental resources contribute a significant portion of household income (27%) and act as a means to reduce income inequality (7%) among households. The absolute environmental income is positively correlated with the total income but the relative environmental income decreases with an increase in total income. Thus, it appears that low income households are not to be blamed for environmental degradation, because they are unable to undertake activities with high return. The findings of this study suggest that promoting off-farm employment, education and social networking reduces the extraction of environmental resources.
Q20|Exogenous degradation in the commons: Field experimental evidence|This article presents the results from framed field economic experiments in rural Colombia that aim to explore the behavioral responses of resource users to exogenous changes in the availability of a common-pool resource. In the first 10 rounds of the experiment, all subjects played at a baseline with the same initial resource availability. In the subsequent rounds, the experimenters exogenously changed the resource size, including mild and strong reductions in the resource size and rebounds to original size. Results show that subjects react to strong reductions in resource availability, by increasing appropriation from the resource. This behavior holds for intense and persistent as well as for progressive reductions in resource availability. In addition, subjects that experience a reduction in the resource availability followed by a rebound to the initial resource size appropriate more than those subjects who did not experience any change in the resource availability.
Q20|Motivation crowding theory and pro-environmental behavior: Experimental evidence|Behavioral economists have argued that incentives can backfire. In a field experiment, we distribute “no junk mail” stickers to more than 800 households. We introduce information, monitoring, and rewards in treatments. We do not find evidence of motivation crowding out.
Q20|Short-term uncertainty in long-term energy system models — A case study of wind power in Denmark|When wind power constitutes a larger share of the electricity production mix, credible and reliable modelling of its operation in long-term investment models becomes increasingly important. In this paper the intermittent characteristics of wind power are modelled as a stochastic parameter in a long-term TIMES model of the Danish heat and electricity sector. To our knowledge, this is not a common approach in long-term investment models, and has not been done previously in TIMES, where the short-term uncertainty of wind power is normally taken into account by a deterministic constraint that ensures excess back-up capacity. In our model, the stochasticity gives lower total energy system costs, significant lower investments in wind power, less expected electricity export and higher expected biomass consumption compared to using the traditional deterministic approach. Also, the deterministic investment strategy can be insufficient in periods with poor wind conditions. Based on our findings, we recommend using a stochastic representation of intermittent renewables in long-term investment models to provide more solid results for decision makers.
Q20|The cost of solar-centric renewable portfolio standards and reducing coal power generation using Arizona as a case study|This paper develops an econometric forecasting system of energy demand coupled with engineering-economic models of energy supply. The framework is used to quantify the impact of a state-level renewable portfolio standard (RPS) achieved predominately with solar generation. We perform the analysis using Arizona's RPS as a case study over the period 2012–2035. We find if Arizona implements its RPS when supplying future electricity demand, there will be an increase in electricity rates (relative to a business-as-usual scenario of reliance on gas-fired generation). Extending the current regime of tax credits greatly reduces this increase, at the taxpayers' expense. We find that by 2025 Arizona's RPS will implicitly abate carbon dioxide emissions at a cost between $58 and $82 per metric ton, and by 2035 abatement costs are between $22 and $69 per metric ton (depending on the future evolution of nature gas prices). The RPS always leads to a negative impact on social welfare under low gas prices, but after 2029 the welfare impact is positive under high gas prices. In contrast, phasing out Arizona's existing coal-fired generation always has positive welfare impacts.
Q20|Impact of policies and subsidies in agribusiness: The case of oil palm and biofuels in Colombia|We analyze the economic impacts of policies supporting biodiesel production in Colombia, such as subsidies and mandates for compulsory fuel mixtures. In the major biodiesel source being palm oil, we seek to establish the impact of these policies on oil palm producer incomes, prices and production levels of crude palm oil (CPO) and biodiesel, as well as the impacts on demand for land for oil palm plantation expansion.
Q20|On the Markovian efficiency of Bertrand and Cournot equilibria|We characterize and compare closed-loop (feedback) price and quantity strategies within a full-fledged dynamic model of oligopolistic competition in which production requires exploitation of a renewable productive asset. Unlike previous papers on the strategic exploitation of productive assets, we allow for imperfect product substitutability, which enables us to deal with price competition. We show that the traditional result that the Bertrand equilibrium is more efficient than the Cournot equilibrium does not necessarily hold in a Markovian environment, either in the short-run or at the stationary equilibrium, or using the discounted sum of welfare as a criterion for relative efficiency.
Q20|Resource extraction under heterogeneous growth in demand|We study the effect of heterogeneous growth in demand on resource extraction. Using the Great Fish War framework of Levhari and Mirman (1980), we show that heterogeneity in demand growth has a profound effect on both non-cooperative (Cournot-Nash and Stackelberg) and cooperative solutions.
Q20|Saving money when safeguarding species and habitats: Conventional vs. advance land acquisition for transportation mitigation|Advance mitigation has attracted attention for its potential to improve ecological outcomes of and to reduce transportation agency expenditures for compensatory environmental mitigation. When developing or improving infrastructure in ways that impact habitats and species, transportation agencies are required to avoid, minimize, and mitigate natural resource impacts through compensatory mitigation. Whereas agencies traditionally plan and implement compensatory mitigation project-by-project, late in project development, advance mitigation addresses the impacts of one or many transportation projects before or during project planning. This new practice may reduce infrastructure development costs, yet evidence of its associated cost savings has been piecemeal and often anecdotal. We explore the early acquisition of land for compensatory mitigation as one advance mitigation strategy that may reduce costs. With case-based analysis of California's Beach Lake Mitigation Bank, we provide post hoc empirical estimates of savings realized from advance purchase. Additionally, hypothetical scenarios illustrate how the timing of mitigation land purchases can impact cost. Overall, we provide new evidence that advance mitigation, specifically early acquisition of land for compensatory mitigation, could promise agency cost savings, particularly when land is purchased during a market trough instead of at market peak. Still, inevitable project planning and land market uncertainties necessitate cautious optimism.
Q20|Perspectives Of Developing Hunting Tourism In Vrbas Municipality|"Although Serbia has a generally high potential for the development of hunting tourism, they have not been fully realized adequately. In recent years, intensive talks about the ""revival"" of some hunting areas that were previously brought significant revenue to municipalities in which they are located. However, as one of the limiting factors for the development of hunting imposes a lack of funds for hunting infrastructure and revitalization of flora and fauna. Vrbas, municipality previously valorize its tourism potential, primarily through hunting, and then through other forms of tourism, which it evidently available to. However, during the nineties, tourism is found on the margins of the overall economic development, to the municipality, and the whole society. Today intention of municipality is that tourists, primarily foreign, again animate and return to this important tourist destination of Vojvodina. Important role in this process will play marketing approach with all tools promotional mix. The aim of this paper is to present resources to develop hunting tourism in the municipality of Vrbas and point out the strategic directions for its future development."
Q20|Spatial Resource Management under Pollution Externalities|Variables describing the state of an environmental system such as resources (renewable or exhaustible), pollutants, greenhouse gases have a profound spatial dimension. This is because resources or pollutants are harvested, extracted, emitted, or abated in a specific location or locations, the impacts of environmental variables, whether beneficial or detrimental, have a strong spatial dimension, and there is transport of environmental state variables across geographical space due to natural processes. In this paper we study dynamic optimization for the joint management of resources and pollution when pollution affects resource growth and when spatial transport phenomena both for the resources and the pollution are present. We present approaches that deal with dynamic optimization in infinite dimensional spaces which can be used as tools in environmental and resource economic. We also present methods which can be used to study the emergence of spatial patterns in dynamic optimizations models. Our methods draw on the celebrated Turing diffusion induced instability but are different from TuringÃƒÂ¢Ã¯Â¿Â½Ã¯Â¿Â½s mechanism since they apply to forward-optimization models. We believe that this approach provides the tools to analyze a wide range of problems with explicit spatial structure which are very often encountered in environmental and resource economics.
Q20|A model of urban ecological security in ordinary cities: evidences from the Milan case|"In the last decade, cities has clearly emerged as the places where the challenge posed by climate change and constraints on energy and environmental resources will be won or lost. According to Hodson and Marvin (2009), world cities tend to conform their visions, strategies and policies around a common paradigm of environmental security and sustainability, named ""Secure Urbanism and Resilient Infrastructure"" (SURI), based on the strategic protection of cities, a new autarky and the development of global urban agglomerations. What about ordinary cities? This case study on Milan offers a very interesting test field to provide how the SURI model does not fit ordinary cities. Results show that Milan still lacks of a recognized and legitimized subject, capable of coordinating a process of urban visioning and narrative building; at the same time an alternative paradigm emerges, based on bottom-up initiatives."
Q20|Time Scale Externalities and the Management of Renewable Resources| The evolution of renewable resources is characterized in many cases by different time scales where some state variables such as biomass, may evolve relatively faster than other state variables such as carrying capacity. Ignoring this time scale separation means that a slowly changing variable is treated as constant over time. Management rules designed without accounting for time scale separation will result in inefficiencies in resource management. We call this inefficiency time scale externality and we analyze renewable resource harvesting when carrying capacity evolves slowly, either in response to exogenous forcing or in response to emissions generated by the industrial sector of the economy. We study cooperative and non-cooperative solutions under time scale separation. Using singular perturbation reduction methods (Fenichel 1979), we examine the role of different time scales in environmental management and the potential errors in optimal regulation when time scale separation is ignored.
Q20|Revealing the willingness to pay for income insurance in agriculture| In spite of its minor and decreasing share in EU GDP, agriculture still plays a fundamental and strategic role in the economy. This is why EU institutions have supported for decades a series of policies to guarantee a stable agricultural income, including insurance. With different degrees of public support, insurance policies covering an increasing number of risks have been developed across the EU. Eventually, EU institutions have started to encourage the development of income insurance. Income insurance covers more risks and has higher uncertainty and costs than conventional single risk or combined yield insurance. Assessing and enhancing the viability of income insurance demands an in depth knowledge of farmers’ willingness to pay (WTP) for this product. This study develops a methodology to calculate the WTP for different degrees of income protection using a revealed preference model and the certainty equivalent theory. The methodology is applied in a drought prone area in southeastern Spain. Results show that WTP for income insurance in the area is higher than observed insurance premiums. This may play in favor of the development of more comprehensive income insurance systems.
Q20|Modeling Coupled Climate, Ecosystems, and Economic Systems| Human economies and ecosystems form a coupled system coevolving in time and space, since human economies use ecosystems services and at the same time affect ecosystems through their production and consumption activities. The study of the interactions between human economies and ecosystems is fundamental for the efficient use of natural resources and the protection of the environment. This necessitates the development and use of models capable of tracing the main interactions, links and feedbacks. In developing this chapter, our objective was to focus on a segment of rapidly developing literature on coupled ecological/economic models with an emphasis on climate change. The advantage of this approach is that it introduces the reader to a very important current research topic, but it also allows, by using climate as the reference ecosystem, the exploration of new modeling approaches which are relevant and useful for the modeling of other types of coupled ecological/economic systems. These include modeling of deep structural uncertainty by using robust control methods, exploring modeling through cumulative carbon budgeting, studying spatial transport phenomena and spatial aspects in economic/ecological modelling.
Q20|Ressources naturelles et comptabilité des organisations|Face aux défis environnementaux : changement climatique et érosion de la biodiversité, il ne s'agit pas nécessairement de remettre en cause le système capitaliste, mais de le réformer pour que le maintien, voire la création, de capital naturel soit créateur de valeur. Pour une organisation, la création de valeur passe aujourd'hui par un système comptable internationalement reconnu. Dans cet article, l'auteur suggère des pistes de travail pour proposer de nouvelles règles comptables, par exemple en termes d'amortissement ou d'augmentation du capital, qui permettent de mieux intégrer les questions de biodiversité dans la stratégie des organisations.
