Q21|Estimating the impacts of financing support policies towards photovoltaic market in Indonesia: A social-energy-economy-environment (SE3) model simulation|This study estimates the impacts of four solar energy policy interventions on the photovoltaic (PV) market potential, government expenditure, economic growth, and the environment. An agent-based model is developed to capture the specific economic and institutional features of developing economies, citing Indonesia as a specific case study. We undertake a novel approach to energy modelling by combining energy system analysis, input-output analysis, life-cycle analysis, and socio-economic analysis to obtain a comprehensive and integrated impact assessment. Our results, after sensitivity analysis, call for abolishing the existing PV grant policy in the Indonesian rural electrification programs. The government, instead, should encourage the PV industry to improve production efficiency and to provide after-sales service. A 100-watt peak (Wp) PV under this policy is affordable for 33.2 percent of rural households without electricity access in 2010. Rural PV market size potentially increases to 82.4 percent with rural financing institutions lending 70 percent of capital cost for five years at 12 percent annual interest rate. Additional 30 percent capital subsidy and 5 percent interest subsidy slightly increase the rural PV market potential to 89.6 percent of PV adopters. However, the subsidies are crucial for creating PV demands by urban households but the most effective policy for promoting PV to urban households is the net metering scheme. Several policy proposals are discussed in response to these findings.
Q21|Optimal Control of the Parameters of the Production Line|The problem of optimal control of the parameters of the production flow line - stocks (work in process) and the rate of processing of objects of labour for a technological operation is considered. The article presents a mathematical formulation of the problem of controlling the parameters of a production line with restrictions on work in progress and the speed of machining parts for each technological operation. The control program is determined by the specified quality criteria. An example of the calculation of the optimal control for the production line parameters is presented.
Q21|Optimal Contracts for Renewable Electricity|Companies are increasingly choosing to procure their power from renewable energy sources, with their own set of potential challenges. In this paper we focus on contracts to procure electricity from renewable sources that are inherently unreliable (such as wind and solar). We determine the contracts that minimize the cost of procuring a given amount of renewable energy from two risk-averse generators. We contrast outcomes arising when investments are set in centralised and decentralised settings, with the absence of reliability addressed by either issuing orders in excess of what is needed or by investing in improved reliability. Our results suggest that future contracts may be geared towards a greater reliance on order inflation and lower investments in reliability as the cost of renewable energy keeps falling. The implications of these results for grid congestion and electricity spot market prices should be of interest to regulators and transmission system operators.
Q21|Is Western European Agriculture Resilient to High Temperatures?|We estimate a Ricardian model of Western European agricultural land values using farm-level data. We model the effect of temperature on land values using a flexible specification of daily mean temperature to test if there are temperature threshold effects. Results indicate that there are no temperature thresholds beyond which agricultural land values suddenly drop. The results are robust to alternative model specifications. Adaptation explains why a smooth aggregate response function is compatible with sharply non-linear crop yield functions. With adaptation, the effect of warming on Western European agriculture is likely to be smooth.
Q21|Empirical Analysis of Factors Influencing Price of Solar Modules|The decline in solar module prices is one of the key drivers behind the growth of the solar energy market. Thus, the price reduction mechanism in solar modules has become an important topic as the role of solar electricity in the overall energy supply and the market value of solar modules grow globally. Many empirical analyses have been carried out to unveil the mechanism behind this price reduction. However, the research performed on the price reduction mechanism of solar modules over the years have focused purely on the technological aspect of the manufacturing. When analyzing price, the influence of economic factors such as interest rate and exchange rate must also be taken into consideration to achieve a precise analysis. We use an oligopolistic model and econometric method to determine the economic factors that have an influence on solar module prices.
Q21|Impact of German Energiewende on transmission lines in the Central European region|The impacts of renewable energy production and German nuclear phase-out on the electricity transmission systems in Central Europe is investigated with focus on the disparity between the growth of renewable production and the pace at which new electricity transmission lines have been built, especially in Germany. This imbalance endangers the system stability and reliability in the whole region. The assessment of these impacts on the transmission grid is analysed by the direct current load flow model ELMOD. Two scenarios for the year 2025 are evaluated from different perspectives. The distribution of loads in the grids is shown. Hourly patterns are analysed. Geographical decomposition is made, and problematic regions are identified. The high solar or wind power generation decrease the periods of very low transmission load and increase the mid- and high load on the transmission lines. High solar feed-in has less detrimental impacts on the transmission grid than high wind feed-in. High wind feed-in burdens the transmission lines in the north-south direction in Germany and water-pump-storage areas in Austria.
Q21|The Distribution of Material Footprints in Germany|This study investigates the within-country heterogeneity of material footprints implied by households' consumption in Germany. Material footprints are defined as the amount of biomass, minerals, and fossil fuels extracted to produce the goods that households consume. Combining input-output data with households' consumption expenditures from the German sample survey of income and expenditure (EVS), we present the first comprehensive study on the distribution of material footprints among households, highlighting hot spots of unsustainable consumption patterns by household groups. Households in the quartile with the highest consumption expenditures have material footprints three times as large as those in the quartile with the lowest expenditures. We use a microeconomic model to study households' consumption behavior using EVS data. The results suggest that price-based instruments can reduce material footprints of luxury consumption such as leisure and private transport without imposing large burdens on less affluent households. The material footprints caused by energy consumption do not react sensitively to price changes, which suggests that non-price policies are more effective to reduce them.
Q21|Passive Learning and Incentivized Communication: A Randomized Controlled Trial in India|In order to understand the extent of the information barrier to adoption of a household technology, we designed a randomized controlled trial on willingness to pay (WTP) for solar lanterns in India. We gave high quality solar lanterns to randomly selected `seed' households in a non-electrified region of the state of Uttar Pradesh. Three friends of the seed household were randomly assigned to one of the following three groups: control, passive learning and incentivized communication. We elicit WTP from the control group when the seed receives the solar lantern. We elicit WTP from the friends in the passive learning and incentivized communication groups thirty days after the seed receives the solar lantern. We show that passive learning increases WTP by 90% and incentivized communication by 145% relative to the control group. We also show that learning from others is the mechanism that drives the observed WTP by peers.
Q21|The Critical Role Of Markets In Climate Change Adaptation|Markets, especially land markets, can facilitate climate change adaptation through price signals. A review of research reveals that urban, coastal, and agricultural land markets provide effective signals of the emerging costs of climate change. These signals encourage adjustments by both private owners and policy officials in taking preemptive action to reduce costs. In agriculture, they promote consideration of new cropping and tillage practices, seed types, timing, and location of production. They also stimulate use of new irrigation technologies. In urban areas, they motivate new housing construction, elevation, and location away from harm. They channel more efficient use of water and its application to parks and other green areas to make urban settings more desirable with higher temperatures. Related water markets play a similar role in adjusting water use and reallocation. To be effective, however, markets must reflect multiple traders and prices must be free to adjust. Where these conditions are not met, market signals will be inhibited and market-driven adaptation will be reduced. Because public policy is driven by constituent demands, it may not be a remedy. The evidence of the National Flood Insurance Program and federal wildfire response illustrates how politically difficult it may be to adjust programs to be more adaptive.
Q21|More Landings for Higher Profit? Inverse Demand Analysis of the Bluefin Tuna Auction Price in Japan and Economic Incentives in Global Bluefin Tuna Fisheries Management|This paper estimates the price changes in bluefin tuna markets in response to shifts in regional and global landings to evaluate the conservation incentives from changes in the Total Allowable Catch (TAC). Overall supply management that impacts regional and global industry revenues through the Regional Fisheries Management Organizations creates a potential economic incentive. A fisherman¡¦s income, and thus the financial incentive to accept management measures controlling catch levels, depends in part on how responsive price is to overall catch. When price falls proportionately more than landings increase, the total revenue of the industry falls. Fishermen, with their own best interest in mind, will continue increasing their own landings and create an incentive to increase the TAC within the industry, without realizing the possibility of revenue loss due to the resulting falling prices. To protect the value of all stakeholders¡¦ property rights, a consensus to avoid abruptly raising the TAC, without first considering the potential loss due to market response, is needed. Alternatively, if revenue increases with lower TAC, a positive economic incentive for conservation is created through price increasing proportionately more than the lower supply, with harvest profits boosted by lower costs of production. To capture the complexity of substituting across various sources of supply and product form, a general synthetic inverse demand system is estimated to identify the impact of overall landings on bluefin tuna (BFT) prices. This system estimates price flexibilities of both fresh and frozen longline-caught sashimi-grade tunas (Pacific and Atlantic bluefin, southern bluefin, and bigeye) at the Tsukiji Market in Tokyo, the world¡¦s largest fish auction market that serves as the single global price leader for bluefin tunas. The resulting estimation shows that own-quantity price flexibilities of every type of fresh and frozen BFTs are less than unity and inflexible in their own consumption. This creates poor individual producer incentives for fishermen to voluntarily reduce wild or farmed BFT supply, as there is (in theory) still a chance to increase their own revenue, under the unlikely condition that there is a fixed total supply with no substitution effect across other tuna products. However, the study shows that these sashimi-grade tunas are highly substitutable to each other and the estimated fresh and frozen BFTs scale flexibilities are all close to one in absolute value. If the scale flexibility is greater than one, suppliers will not be better off by increasing total supply, as price will drop proportionally faster and total revenue will thus be lower. We utilize the rapid increases in the TAC of Eastern Atlantic bluefin tuna (EABFT) in recent years to explore these results. Based on the estimated scale flexibility of frozen BFT (0.911), which is slightly less than unity, the frozen subsector of EABFT suppliers is the only winner in light of the supply increases. Suppliers of frozen BFT in other regions, suppliers of fresh BFT (in the Atlantic and elsewhere), and suppliers of southern BFT and bigeye tuna will all be harmed through lower revenue by the supply increases. However, even individual suppliers of frozen EABFT may not necessarily see revenue increases, because of the absence of any sort of property right system in the region that would otherwise guarantee a proportion of the increased catch. Additionally, while total revenue might stay the same for frozen BFT suppliers, fishermen will potentially receive lower profits due to higher operating costs associated with increased landings when the supply of EABFT increases. Given the number of sectors that ultimately lose financially in the short term, and given the ecological (and production) risks accompanying an abrupt increase in fishing pressure in the long term, the global economic losses resulting from an increase in the allowable catch of Atlantic bluefin tuna will outweigh any potential increases to revenue.
Q21|Living Standards Analysis Model: The First Prototype|How do we understand the synergies and trade-offs of a given policy on area beyond that policy, such as the effect of housing on health and on income? How do we choose between policies in completely different areas, such as an education policy and a health policy? Treasury’s Living Standards Framework provides one possible starting point, but it provides little assistance tracing the many dependencies between policy areas. A model that includes those dependencies could help. The Living Standards Analysis Model (LSAM) is designed to do this. A first prototype of the model has just been developed. This model includes all eleven aspects of wellbeing as described by the OECD’s How’s Life? framework and linkages between the different aspects for a small open economy. Most models for studying wellbeing only include one or two aspects, missing the rich set of interactions that can occur with greater coverage. As an early prototype, this version of the model does have many flaws and requires significant further development, but it forms a basis for creating an improved model as well as providing some qualitatively useful results. The model is loosely based on a stocks-and-flows type of model, with a small general equilibrium model covering the market economy part of the model. This paper is focussed on the description of the model.
Q21|Capital Accumulation Game with Quasi-Geometric Discounting and Consumption Externalities|This study introduces quasi-geometric discounting into a simple growth model of common capital accumulation that takes consumption externalities into account. We examine how present bias affects economic growth and welfare, and we consider two equilibrium concepts: the noncooperative Nash equilibrium (NNE) and the cooperative equilibrium (CE). We show that the growth rate in the NNE can be higher than that in the CE if individuals strongly admire the consumption of others regardless of the magnitude of present bias. Contrary to the results in the time-consistent case, we show that, when present bias is incorporated, the welfare level in the NNE can be higher than that in the CE in the initial period. However, in later periods, this relationship can be reversed depending on the difference in the speed of capital accumulation.
Q21|Establishing the Link Between Poverty and Changes in Climatic Conditions in the Philippines|This paper investigates whether changes in climatic conditions significantly contribute to incidence of poverty in the Philippines. Due to the lack of sufficient regional estimates of poverty, this study utilized food cpi data to proxy for poverty level. The relationship between poverty level and food cpi were tested and found to be moving in parallel direction, and hence, could be substituted for each other for this study’s purposes. The relationship between poverty and food prices has also been verified in the literature, as higher food prices is the dominant variable that results in higher poverty levels. The results show that higher agricultural wages as well as extreme climate-influenced shocks such as El Niño and La Niña were significant determinants of poverty. Higher agricultural wage benefits agricultural workers, but the income effect may be small, and that overall, the net effect of is higher food prices that, in turn, exacerbates overall poverty. The negative impact of El Niño and La Niña on food prices (and therefore, poverty level) could be attributed to the consistent and appropriate government response to these weather shocks, which have stabilized supply of food. Government programs to stock up on rice during weather shocks, and the automatic assistance to farmers during calamities, have had the overall effect of neutralizing the potential poverty impacts of climate-related shocks. These are useful insights in carving out a climate-resilient economic development plan, and emphasize the importance of timely and appropriate government action and adaptation programs.
Q21|The impact of oil prices on CO2 emissions in China: A Wavelet coherence approach|This paper observes the possible co-movements of oil price and CO2 emissions in China by following wavelet coherence and wavelet partial coherence analyses to be able to depict short-run and long-run co-movements at both low and high frequencies. To this end, this research might provide the current literature with the output of potential short run and long run, structural, changes in CO2 emissions upon a shock (a change) in oil prices in China together with the control variables of World oil prices, fossil energy consumption, and renewables consumption, and, urban population in China. Therefore, this research aims at determining wavelet coherencies between the variables and phase differences to exhibit the leading variable in potential co-movements. By following the time domain and frequency domain analyses of this research, one may claim that the oil prices in China has considerable negative impact on CO2 emissions at high frequencies for the periods 1960-2014 and 1971-2014 in China. Besides, one may underline as well other important output of the research exploring that the urban population and CO2 emissions have positive associations, move together for the period 1960-2014 in China. Eventually, this paper might suggest that authorities follow demand side management policies considering energy demand behavior at both shorter cycles and longer cycles to diminish the CO2 emissions in China.
Q21|Linking soy oil demand from the US Renewable Fuel Standard to palm oil expansion through an analysis on vegetable oil price elasticities|The United States (US) Renewable Fuel Standard and California's Low Carbon Fuel Standard support the use of soy biodiesel and renewable diesel in the transport fuel supply for climate mitigation. However, linkages between the markets for soy oil and palm oil, which is associated with very high land use change emissions, could negatively affect the climate performance of soy-based biofuels. This study estimates the own and cross-price elasticities for the supply of soy and palm oils in the US using country-level data from 1992 to 2016 under rational expectations, through a seemingly unrelated regressions system of equations. We find a positive cross-price elasticity of palm oil import with respect to soy oil price and a positive reaction of supply of soy oil to increase in prices of palm oil. These results suggest that US biofuel policies may underestimate substitution between soy and palm oils and thus overestimate the climate benefits from soy-based biofuel.
Q21|India’s Biodiesel Programme: A Pathway for Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Employment Generation and Inclusiveness|The biodiesel programme introduced by the Government of India in the beginning of this century represents a unique case of the development of numerous sustainable entrepreneurs, substantial employment generation for the poor and reduction of carbon footprints without compromising food security and thus promote equity and social justice. It is estimated that a 20% biofuel blending through domestic feedstock production would create 6.37 million sustainable entrepreneurs and185.15 million man-days per year by 2020. Given the availability of wasteland in the country this target is achievable. The two most important factors that restrained the success of the programme are the uncertainties in yield and seed prices for the farmers. As the domestic price of petroleum is linked to global crude price, any decline in the price of crude in the world market would reduce the feedstock prices in the local market. It therefore requires fixing minimum support prices for seeds and stabilizing yield at higher level through R&D. Given all this potential benefits and the recent trend of jobless growth in the country the programme deserves to be implemented more vigorously.
Q21|Empirical Analysis of Factors Influencing Price of Solar Modules|The solar energy market has seen huge growth in recent years with a vast increase in solar cumulative capacity worldwide. One of the key drivers behind this growth is the decline in solar module prices. Thus, the price reduction mechanism in solar modules has become an important topic as the role of solar electricity in the overall energy supply and the market value of solar modules grow globally. Many empirical analyses have been carried out to unveil the mechanism behind this price reduction. However, the researches performed on the price reduction mechanism of solar modules over the years have focused purely on the technological aspect of the manufacturing. When analyzing price, the influence of economic factors such as interest rate and exchange rate must also be taken into consideration to achieve a precise analysis. In this paper, an oligopolistic model and econometric method are used to determine the economic factors that have an influence on solar module prices.
Q21|Business Models for Energy Suppliers Aggregating Flexible Distributed Assets and Policy Issues Raised|The ongoing digitalization of the energy sector opens up opportunities for novel business models, which can help to overcome challenges that accompany the transition towards a sustainable energy supply. One necessity in a more decentralized energy system with high shares of renewables is the provision of flexibility. This paper uses the business model generation approach of Osterwalder and Pigneur (2010) to understand the challenges of the transition towards distributed power generation for energy suppliers. The insights gained indicate that the focus of business models in the electricity supply market has to switch to an offer-driven perspective. To this end, the business model of an “Energy Supplier 2.0” as a dedicated aggregator of flexible capacities on the household level is investigated. It is found that the aggregation of flexibilities can provide additional revenue streams, extra customer comfort, support for grid operators, and reduce society’s costs for the sustainable energy transition process. Despite these promising advantages, and even though early movers indicate economic interest, we find that the current regulation and policies bear obstacles for a broad diffusion of this type of business models in the energy sector. We identify several obstacles and suggest solutions how to overcome legislative hurdles where possible.
Q21|Harnessing Electricity Retail Tariffs to Support Climate Change Policy|Legacy electricity retail tariffs are ill-adapted to future electricity systems and markets, particularly with regard to accommodating the multi-faceted shift toward decarbonisation. We examine how retail tariffs need to be reformed to not only meet the future revenue requirements of energy-suppliers and networks but also to help achieve the environmental objectives of the energy transition. While existing literature has explored the link between retail tariff structure design, wholesale markets and/or network cost recovery, there is less recognition of the impact of tariff structure design on environmental objectives. This paper reviews the demand responsiveness of household customers to electricity prices and implications of retail tariff structure and design for the policy targets of CO2 emissions, energy efficiency, and renewable electricity generation, in addition to electricity system. A review of the literature provides a theoretical basis for price elasticity of demand and electricity retail tariff design, and we explore the environmental implications for future retail tariff design options via examples of various tariff structures in the EU and US. The research links the topics of emissions mitigation policy and market design, and should add empirical insights to the body of academic literature on future electricity markets. It should also be of interest to policy makers wishing to consider retail tariff structures that promote decarbonisation of the electricity system through multiple objectives of improved energy efficiency and increased shares of renewable electricity within future electricity markets.
Q21|Harnessing electricity retail tariffs to support climate change policy|Legacy electricity retail tariffs are ill-adapted to future electricity systems and markets, particularly with regard to accommodating the multi-faceted shift toward decarbonisation. We examine how retail tariffs need to be reformed to not only meet the future revenue requirements of energy-suppliers and networks but also to help achieve the environmental objectives of the energy transition. While existing literature has explored the link between retail tariff structure design, wholesale markets and/or network cost recovery, there is less recognition of the impact of tariff structure design on environmental objectives. This paper reviews the demand responsiveness of household customers to electricity prices and implications of retail tariff structure and design for the policy targets of CO2 emissions, energy efficiency, and renewable electricity generation, in addition to electricity system. A review of the literature provides a theoretical basis for price elasticity of demand and electricity retail tariff design, and we explore the environmental implications for future retail tariff design options via examples of various tariff structures in the EU and US. The research links the topics of emissions mitigation policy and market design, and should add empirical insights to the body of academic literature on future electricity markets. It should also be of interest to policy makers wishing to consider retail tariff structures that promote decarbonisation of the electricity system through multiple objectives of improved energy efficiency and increased shares of renewable electricity within future electricity markets.
Q21|Towards Renewable Electricity in Europe: An Empirical Analysis of the Determinants of Renewable Electricity Development in the European Union|The twenty-first century must see a decarbonisation of electricity production to mitigate the flow of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. This paper presents an econometric analysis of the factors that motivate the use of renewable energy in electricity production using panel data from EU Member States during the period 2000-2015. The research extends the literature in this area in several ways. Firstly, the econometric analysis is focused on the electricity sector rather than on the overall primary energy supply, which also includes the diverse heating and transport sectors. In addition, an alternative public policy variable is proposed using the tax and levy component of electricity bills. Furthermore, an alternative econometric approach is employed using a hybrid mixed effects estimator. The results of this analysis are found to be broadly as expected, with mixed fossil fuel price effects; electricity grid interconnection and higher levels of greenhouse gas emissions both motivate the development of renewable electricity. Policy implications are that policy support for fossil fuels should be ceased; electricity grid interconnections should be developed between countries; and furthermore, levies on retail electricity prices to fund RE support schemes are effective at promoting renewable electricity.
Q21|Integrating non-timber objectives into bio-economic models of the forest sector: a review of recent innovations and current shortcomings|This paper gives an overview of non-timber objective modelling in forest sector models (FSM) research through a systematic literature review followed by an in-depth narrative review. Originally conceived to perform projections of timber supply and wood products markets, FSM have been growingly used for forest and climate policy analysis. For this purpose, they have gradually integrated objectives other than timber production, such as habitat conservation, carbon sequestration and bioenergy production. We identify these non-timber objectives and elicit technical innovations that have enabled their integration into FSM. We also discuss their current limits and the new perspectives they bring for a better economic-environmental assessment of forest policies. Results show that the study of non-timber objectives is a growing topic in FSM research, with bioenergy production and climate change mitigation as the most commonly studied. However, there are discrepancies regarding the respective contributions of different families of models, and not all non-timber objectives have been integrated to the same degree. On the one hand, bioenergy production has been thoroughly integrated through marginal modifications of the market component of models. On the other hand, the modelling of carbon sequestration and habitat protection entails deeper changes, such as the addition of new resources to the models, an increase in the complexity of the objective function and associated constraints, or the use of tools and models outside the FSM.
Q21|Schwindende Akzeptanz für die Energiewende? Ergebnisse einer wiederholten Bürgerbefragung|Im Zuge der Energiewende geht der Ausbau der regenerativen Stromerzeugung in Deutschland mit hohem Tempo voran. Damit sind steigende Umlagen für die Förderung der Erneuerbaren sowie zunehmende Entgelte für den unvermeidlichen Ausbau der Stromnetze verbunden. Vor diesem Hintergrund untersucht der vorliegende Beitrag das Spannungsfeld zwischen der Befürwortung des Ausbaus der Erneuerbaren und den damit verbundenen Kosten auf Basis einer Erhebung unter mehr als 7.500 Haushalten aus dem Sommer 2017 und vergleicht die Ergebnisse mit früheren Erhebungen aus den Jahren 2013 und 2015. Es zeigt sich, dass die grundsätzliche Befürwortung der Förderung erneuerbarer Energien nach wie vor sehr hoch ist, aber die Zahlungsbereitschaft für grünen Strom im Zeitverlauf gesunken ist. Angesichts dieser Ergebnisse stellt sich die Frage nach der Akzeptanz der Bürger für die als Folge der Energiewende weiter wachsenden Belastungen.
Q21|Local cost for global benefit: The case of wind turbines|Given the rapid expansion of wind power capacities in Germany, this paper estimates the effects of wind turbines on house prices using real estate price data from Germany's leading online broker. Employing a hedonic price model whose specification is informed by machine learning techniques, our methodological approach provides insights into the sources of heterogeneity in treatment effects. We estimate an average treatment effect (ATE) of up to -7.1% for houses within a one-kilometer radius of a wind turbine, an effect that fades to zero at a distance of 8 to 9 km. Old houses and those in rural areas are affected the most, while home prices in urban areas are hardly affected. These results highlight that substantial local externalities are associated with wind power plants.
Q21|Grassland Easement Evaluation and Acquisition: an Integrated Framework| Efficient grassland easement management requires correct evaluation and cost-effective acquisition of easements. We develop an integrated theoretical framework to study grassland easement evaluation and acquisition. Grassland tracts can be either kept under grass gaining grazing returns or converted to cropland generating cropping returns. Under a two-period framework, grassland owners choose an optimal action from ‘convert now,’ ‘ease now,’ and ‘wait and see’ in period one to maximize total expected returns over the two periods, while taking easement payment from an easement agency as given. The easement agency, however, aims to maximize the increase in expected environmental benefits arising from a budget-constrained easement acquisition program. We find that a mean preserving spread of the difference between cropping returns and grazing returns increases the value from action ‘wait and see’ and the minimum easement payment that landowners are willing to accept (i.e., the easement value). This change will decrease conversion probability in period one. If distribution of cropping returns and grazing returns undergo a shift such that they become larger in the supermodular order sense, then the easement value decreases and the period-one conversion probability increases. Therefore, the easement value and period-one conversion probability may go opposite directions, which indicates that an assumption commonly used in conservation literature (i.e., the larger the conversion probability the higher the easement value) may not hold. Solutions to the easement agency’s problem show that a grassland tract whose owner chooses ‘wait and see’ in period one should not be acquired in that period. An easement acquisition index is developed to rank acquisition priority for different grassland tracts.
Q21|On the viability of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized production technologies, energy communities have become a topic of increased interest. While the potential benefits have been described, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to test the ability of such communities to adequately share the gains. Indeed, despite the potential value created by such coalitions, there is no guarantee that they will be viable: a subset of participants may find it profitable to exit the community and create another one of their own. We take the case of a neighborhood, having access to a limited resource e.g. a shared roof or piece of land which they can exploit if they invest in some renewable production capacity. By joining the community, participants also enjoy aggregation gains in the form of reduced network fees. We find conditions depending on the structure of renewable installation costs, on the magnitude of the aggregation effect and coordination costs and, most importantly, on the chosen sharing rule, under which the whole energy community is stable. Efficiency could require the intervention of a social planner or a change in network tariff structures.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q21|Identifying the Main Emitters of Carbon Dioxide in Mexico: A Multi-Sectoral Study|In this paper, input-output and SAM-based multiplier models are formulated to identify the main emitters of direct, indirect, and induced carbon dioxide (CO2) for the Mexi- can economy. The models are based on a social accounting matrix for Mexico, with disaggre- gated household income and consumption patterns according to the of cial poverty line. The results show that the nal users of the inputs that embody high levels of CO2 emissions are the next ve sectors: (1) construction; (2) electricity, gas, and water supply; (3) inland transport; (4) food, beverages, and tobacco; and (5) coke, re ned petroleum, and nuclear fuel. The ndings suggest that the implementation of a carbon tax could damage poor families, since these families generate high direct, indirect, and induced CO2 emissions per unit of income, as a consequence of their consumption patterns of fuels and the products that embody high CO2 emissions levels (for example, agriculture, hunting, forestry, and shing).
Q21|What are Households Willing to Pay for Improved Water Access? Results from a Meta-Analysis|Although several factors contribute to low rates of access to improved water and sanitation in the developing world, it is especially important to understand and measure household demand for these services. One valuable source of information regarding demand is the growing empirical literature that has applied stated preference methods to estimate households' willingness to pay (WTP). Because it is difficult to generalize and support planning based on this scattered literature, we conduct a meta-analysis to take stock of the worldwide sample of household WTP for improved drinking water services. Using 171 WTP estimates drawn from 60 studies, we first describe this sample and then examine the potential factors that explain variation in WTP estimates. Our results suggest that households are willing to pay between approximately $3 and $30 per month for improvements in water access. Specifically, in line with economic theory and intuition, WTP is sensitive to scope (the magnitude of improvement in drinking water services), as well as household income, and stated-preference elicitation method. We demonstrate how our results can be used to predict household-level WTP for selected improvements in drinking water access in regions with low coverage, and find that private benefits exceed the cost of provision.
Q21|On the viability of energy communities|Following the development of decentralized production technologies, energy communities have become a topic of increased interest. While the potential benefits have been described, we use the framework of cooperative game theory to test the ability of such communities to adequately share the gains. Indeed, despite the potential value created by such coalitions, there is no guarantee that they will be viable: a subset of participants may find it profitable to exit the community and create another one of their own. We take the case of a neighborhood, having access to a limited resource e.g. a shared roof or piece of land which they can exploit if they invest in some renewable production capacity. By joining the community, participants also enjoy aggregation gains in the form of reduced network fees. We find conditions depending on the structure of renewable installation costs, on the magnitude of the aggregation effect and coordination costs and, most importantly, on the chosen sharing rule, under which the whole energy community is stable. Efficiency could require the intervention of a social planner or a change in network tariff structures.
Q21|Investment in Energy Efficiency, Adoption of Renewable Energy and Household Behavior: Evidence from OECD Countries|There are possible synergies between the decision to invest in energy efficiency measures and to adopt renewable energy, in the sense that the former reduces energy demand so that the latter can further cut future greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and which has great potential in the residential sector. Much work has been done in the residential sector on demand for clean energy and on investment in energy efficiency, but to our knowledge there is no specific study that investigates the relationship between the two. This paper fills a gap in the literature, and first shows theoretically that there are relationships of substitution or complementarity between the two decisions depending on the threshold of the cross effect related to the environmental motivation of the consumer. Second, the paper empirically shows that the two decisions are positively interrelated due to unobserved characteristics that determine both decisions. Third, the paper provides differential impact of energy poverty, split incentive problem, dwelling characteristics, commitment and trust on the two decisions. Finally, the paper investigates household characteristics that significantly affect the joint adoption of energy efficient and renewable energy technologies. This contribution can serve to define incentive policies to advance the energy transition.
Q21|Influence of Renewable Energy Sources on Electricity Transmission Networks in Central Europe|This paper focuses on the influence of increased wind and solar power production on the transmission networks in Central Europe. The model ELMOD is employed. Two development scenarios for the year 2025 are evaluated on the basis of four representative weeks. The first scenario focuses on the effect of Energiewende on the transmission networks, the second one drops out nuclear phase-out and thus assesses isolated effect of increased feed-in. The results indicate that higher feed-in of solar and wind power increases the exchange balance and total transport of electricity between transmission system operator areas as well as the average load of lines and volatility of flows. Solar power is identified as a key contributor to the volatility increase, wind power is identified as a key loop-flow contributor. Eventually, it is concluded that German nuclear phase-out does not significantly exacerbate mentioned problems.
Q21|The Influence of Renewable Energy Sources on the Czech Electricity Transmission System|This paper provides the first academic economic simulation analysis of the impact of increase in predominantly German wind and solar energy production on the Czech electricity transmission network. To assess the exact impact on the transmission grid, updated state-of-the-art techno-economic model ELMOD is employed. Two scenarios for the year 2025 are evaluated on the basis of two representative weeks. The first scenario is considered as baseline and models currently used production mix. The second scenario focuses on the effect of German Energiewende policy on the transmission networks as expected in 2025. The results confirm that higher feed-in of solar and wind power increases the total transport of electricity between transmission system operator areas as well as the average load of lines and volatility of flows. Also, an increase in number of critical high-load hours is observable. Taking into account only the Czech transmission system, considerable rise both in transported volume and volatility are observed only on border transmission lines, not inside the country. Moreover, our qualitative analysis shows that all these mentioned effects are strenghtened by the presence of German-Austrian bidding zone.
Q21|Willingness to Pay for Low Water Footprint Food Choices During Drought|In the context of recent California drought years, we investigate empirically whether consumers are willing to pay for more efficient water usage in the production of four California agricultural products. We implement an internet survey choice experiment for avocados, almonds, lettuce, and tomatoes to elicit consumer valuation for water efficiency via revealed choices. We estimate a model of consumer choices where a product is defined as a bundle of three attributes: price, production method (conventional or organic), and water usage (average or efficient). Varying the attribute space presented to consumers in the experimental choice design gives us the data variation to estimate a discrete choice model—both conditional logit specifications and random coefficient mixed logit specifications. We find that on average consumers have a significant positive marginal utility towards water-efficiency and estimate that there is an implied positive willingness to pay (WTP) of about 12 cents per gallon of water saved on average. Moreover, informing consumers about the drought severity increases the WTP for low water footprint options, but not significantly. We find that there is heterogeneity in the WTP along respondents' education, race, and also with respect to stated environmental concern. Our findings have policy implications in that they suggest there to be a market based potential to nudge consumers who want to decrease their water footprint and follow a more sustainable diet, namely, by revealing information on the product's water footprint in a form of a label. Simulations of removing low water footprint labels from the choice set attributes imply significant consumer surplus losses, especially for the more educated, white, and more environmentally concerned respondents.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q21|More Landings for Higher Profit? Inverse Demand Analysis of the Bluefin Tuna Auction Price in Japan and Economic Incentives in Global Bluefin Tuna Fisheries Management|This paper estimates the global bluefin tuna market price response to shifts in landings. A fisherman's income and resulting incentives to accept management measures controlling catch levels depends on responsiveness of price. To capture the complexity of substituting across various sources of supply and product form, a general synthetic inverse demand system (GSIDS) is estimated to identify the impact of overall landings on bluefin tuna (BFT) prices. This system estimates price flexibilities of fresh and frozen longline-caught tunas (both Pacific and Atlantic bluefin, southern bluefin tunas (SBT) and bigeye tuna) in the Japanese sashimi auction market, which serves as the single leading market for global bluefin tunas. Based on the estimated scale flexibility of frozen BFT (0.911), which is not much different from unity, the overall frozen EABFT sector can be seen as the only winner in light of the EABFT supply increases (given price decreases slightly less than supply increases, so revenue increases more than proportionately). There is no guarantee that the individual fishermen's revenue will increase, because of the absence of an ITQ system that guarantees a certain proportion of the quota/catch. Additionally, the risks (in terms of long-term health and productivity of the stock) accompanying an abrupt TAC increment in pressure on the path to guaranteeing 60% recovery of stock would outweigh the gain in revenue overall, given sectors that lose financially - Japanese BFT fishermen, western bluefin fishermen, Atlantic and Pacific bigeye fishermen, SBT fishermen, and BFT fresh exporters. Even though total revenue might stay the same for frozen BFT, fishermen will experience lower profit due to operating cost increases with increased landings when the supply of eastern Atlantic BFT increases.
Q21|Analysis OF Energy Efficiency Practices of SMEs in Ghana: An application of Product Generational Dematerialisation|Reducing the amount of energy used in producing a given output is a cost-effective way of tackling global warming. In addition, energy efficiency promotes energy security and saves cost. This study is structured in three parts. First, the energy efficiency practices of small and medium scale enterprises in rural Ghana are investigated. Second, the study applies the Product Generational Dematerialisation method to examine the energy efficiency consumption of electricity and fossil fuels in Ghana. Finally, the general unrestricted model (GUM) is applied to energy consumption in Ghana. The results reveal that reduction in energy consumption among SMEs can be attributed mostly to blackouts and not efficiency as indicated by 72% of the respondents. Further, all three models confirmed that the consumption of energy has not been efficient. Further, productivity was found to be a major driver of energy efficiency. The study recommends public education and the use of new appliances (‘not second hand’) to save energy.
Q21|To Toss a Coin or Shake a Hand: An Overview of Renewable Energy Interventions and Procurement in selected African Countries|Open and competitive bidding process (toss a coin) promotes transparency, efficiency and cost reduction as compared to direct negotiations (shake a hand). This paper provides an overview of renewable energy interventions in Angola, Algeria, Cote Dvoire, Ghana and Nigeria. Further, best practices in Germany and South Africa are discussed. It was discovered that, apart from South Africa, most countries in Sub-Saharan Africa uses direct negotiations and feed-in-tariff which has contributed to high cost of renewables. The study recommends that countries should build tendering capacity, put in place simple but robust tendering process and research to identify their renewable energy potential to procure new renewable energy capacity through open and competitive bidding process.
Q21|Economic and investment models for future grids: Final Report Project 3|This final Future Grid Cluster Project 3 report provides the deployment of key modelling results and the identification of strategic priorities for stakeholders. The purpose of the University of Queensland’s project has been to create “Economic and Investment Models for the Future Grid” and the primary objectives are as follows: Provide broad understanding of how the electricity sector will need to change in a carbon constrained world. This transition to a lower emissions intensive technology base will require significant structural and regulatory reform to the energy markets; Development of quantitative methods to analyse how price levels and volatility on the wholesale electricity market are affected by changes to the transmission network structure and technology deployment; Implement modelling platforms which can inform stakeholders in the energy market of how changing network structure and electricity generation technology effects electricity prices; Develop market simulation platforms for natural gas to gain a better understanding of how changing the fuel and technology mixes will affect the power delivery process; Develop a scenario planning tool set for future electricity market modelling. This deliverable 6 reports the final analysis and results for the Future Grid project for the University of Queensland (UQ). It is also intended to highlight the progress made on the following topics: Modelling the National Electricity Market under fuel price uncertainty and the shift from coal to gas as the primary fuel source in the generation fleet.The tools developed to model the east coast gas market are discussed in the previous deliverable report [1]. The planning and scenario development is discussed in brief below (section 2) and in [2-4]; Modelling the rise Renewable Energy with a proactive consumer base (“Prosumer”) and the effects on the electricity market. The details of proactive consumers affect electricity markets and the development of modelling techniques to accommodate this new consumer class are detailed more fully in [5, 2, 6, 4, 7]. This report summarises the work carried out by the Project 3 team and a separate report details the work of Future Grid Cluster and its interconnections and progress by other projects. The work carried out by this team is also summarized by several working papers available on the Energy Economics and Management Group website . Details of how this and other projects within the cluster have co-contributed to addressing the transition to a carbon constrained future is detailed in its final summary document.
Q21|Demand for Narcotics in Thailand, with Policy Implications|The paper examines the demand for narcotic drugs, based on Becker (1968), as purported rational behavior of human beings. The results from sampling surveys in eight provinces in Thailand in 2014, representing nationwide drug users/addicts, show that the demand for narcotics (amphetamines, ice drug, and marijuana) are price inelastic (between -0.533 and -0.701), as well as normal goods. The key econometric coefficients in models A and B are 0.192 and 0.0467, respectively, and an increase in income will lead to an increase in the demand for narcotics. In addition, factors affecting the demand for narcotics are the age and age squared of the user, friendship, family member relationship, social relationship, reasons for drug use, risk behavior, and expected punishment. Public policy implications are also proposed and analysed.
Q21|Does Renewable Energy Consumption Drive Economic Growth: Evidence from Granger-Causality Technique|This study investigates the causal relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in South Africa. It incorporates carbon dioxide emissions, capital formation and trade openness as additional variables to form a multivariate framework. Quarterly data is used for the period 1990–2014 and is tested for stationarity using the Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF), Dickey Fuller Generalised Least Squares (DF-GLS) and Phillips and Perron (PP) unit root tests. The study employs the Autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) model to examine the long run relationship among the variables. Lastly, the study determines the direction of causality between the variables using the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM). The results validated an existence of a long run relationship between the variables. Moreover, a unidirectional causality flowing from renewable energy consumption to economic growth was established in the long run. The short run results suggested a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption. The findings of the study suggest that an appropriate and effective public policy is required in the long run, while considering sustainable economic growth and development.
Q21|Диффузионное Описание Производственного Процесса<BR>[Diffusion description of the production process]|В статье основное внимание уделяется построению стохастического уравнения для расчета производственного цикла изготовления партии изделий на предприятиях с поточным типом организации производства. В качестве базового подхода рассмотрен процесс движения предметов труда по синхронизованной поточной линии. Выполнена оценка размеров межоперационных заделов технологических операций, обеспечивающая бесперебойный режим функционирования поточной линии. Записано в канонической форме стохастическое уравнение и получено определение коэффициента диффузии.
Q21|The model of the production process of the party of the subjects of labour|The article discusses the construction of the model of streaming production line with the constraints on the technological trajectory of subjects of labour. The work shows the influence of the subject of labour movement trajectory, which is related to the limited maximum capacity of the operating storage. It analyses constraint that is associated with the serial order of subjects of labour processing. The equation for the trajectory of the regulatory process is built, taking into account the constraints on the trajectory of the subjects of labour, which can be used for closing the balance equations of PDE-models of streaming production lines.
Q21|Disaggregated relationship between economic growth and energy use in OECD countries: Time-series and cross-country evidence|We examine the GDP – energy use nexus in OECD countries over the period of 1960 – 2014. For the first time, energy use and GDP data are both disaggregated into their main components. Panel cointegration techniques addressing heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence are employed to infer the directions and the signs of long-run cross causalities between GDP and energy components. Results are threefold: first, there is a feedback relationship between total energy use and GDP at the aggregated level, mainly through the public expenditure channel. Second, the feedback relationship is validated between real GDP and transportation energy, residence energy and consumption energy, respectively, mainly through the exports and imports channels. Third,the conservation relationship is found between industrial energy and real GDP for which main transmission mechanisms are consumption, exports and imports.
Q21|Alternatives to Bank Finance: Role of Carbon Tax and Hometown Investment Trust Funds in Developing Green Energy Projects in Asia|The main obstacle to developing green energy projects is lack of access to finance. For larger energy projects (e.g., large hydropower projects), insurance and pensions are sustainable financing alternatives. Large energy projects are long-term investment projects; banks are not able to provide long-term loans because their resources (deposits) are short- to medium-term. Pension funds and insurance companies hold long-term savings, so these institutions could be a proper alternative for financing mega-size energy projects. On the other hand, because electricity tariffs are often regulated by the government, to increase the investment incentives the spillover effects originally created by energy supplies need to be used, and tax revenues refunded to the investors in energy projects. For smaller-size green projects, the paper provides a theoretical model for combining utilisation of carbon tax and a new way of financing risky capital, i.e., hometown investment trust funds (HITs). Because of the Basel capital requirement, and because most green energy projects from the point of view of financers are considered risky projects, many financers are reluctant to lend to them or they lend at high interest rates. We show that by taxing carbon dioxide (CO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), and nitrogen oxides (NOx) and allocating those tax revenues to HITs, green projects will become more feasible and more interesting for hometown investors; hence the supply of investment money to these funds will increase.
Q21|Price Volatility in Commodity Markets with Restricted Participation|Analyzing commodity market dynamics, we observe that price volatility increases with reduced contract duration. In this paper, we derive a theoretical model depicting the price formation in two markets with altering product granularity. Supplemented by empirical evidence from German electricity markets for hourly and quarter-hourly products, we find that the high price volatility is triggered by restricted participation of suppliers in the market for quarter-hourly products as well as by sub-hourly variations of renewable supply and demand. Welfare implications reveal efficiency losses of EUR 96 million in 2015 that may be reduced if markets are coupled.
Q21|Decoding Restricted Participation in Sequential Electricity Markets|Restricted participation in sequential markets may cause high price volatility and welfare losses. In this paper we therefore analyze the drivers of restricted participation in the German intraday auction which is a short-term electricity market with quarter-hourly products. Applying a fundamental electricity market model with 15-minute temporal resolution, we identify the lack of sub-hourly market coupling being the most relevant driver of restricted participation. We derive a proxy for price volatility and find that full market coupling may trigger quarter-hourly price volatility to decrease by a factor close to four.
Q21|Managerial Decision Making And Cost Reduction For Wind Deployment As An Alternative Energy|This paper analyses the modern aspect and framework of business decision making related to investments and cost reduction in wind energy companies. It describes different strategies of measuring the efficiency level of installed wind capacities. The research is presented with consideration to the methodology approach specific for wind energy. Special attention is given to the cost-effective business operations of contemporary systems of energy accumulation and the process of optimal decision making in the course of energy distribution. The focus is on the framework for sustainable business in compliance with complex external environment. The impact of unpredictable market and climate circumstances show the importance of the strategy mix and its role in creating value for the end-users of electrical energy. The dynamics of exploitation of the preferential conditions for wind energy companies is also important in the context of return on investment. The perspective of investing in wind energy projects is also given, along with the specificities of their implementation according to the principle of creating positive energy balance. The paper also points out the significance of government incentives and their variations. It also provides useful guidelines for successful business decision making for managers in wind energy.
Q21|Two-Stage Estimation to Control for Unobservables in a Recreation Demand Model with Unvisited Sites|The role of unobserved site attributes is a growing concern in recreation demand modeling. One solution in random utility models (RUMs) involves separating estimation into two stages, where the RUM is estimated with alternative specific constants (ASCs) in the first stage, and the estimated ASCs are regressed on the observed site attributes in the second stage. Prior work estimates the second stage with ordinary least squares (OLS) and two-stage least squares regression. We present an application with censored regression in the second stage. We show OLS produces inconsistent parameters when there are unvisited sites with no estimable ASCs and that censored regression avoids this problem.
Q21|A comprehensive evaluation of the EU's biofuel policy: From biofuels to agrofuels|During a time in which the subject of climate change is deemed high on the list of priorities of many governments, it is important to assess to what extent policies in this field are achieving meaningful results. The link between energy usage and global warming is clear and today in the European Union the use of renewable resources is being promoted more than ever before. The move towards a renewables based economy has clear benefits over a fossil fuel based one with regards to climate change and the environment, however if the implementation of renewables is not monitored and regulated then this is not a given by any means. Of the renewable resources, bioenergy has a high level of importance in the EU. For this reason, this paper will make a comprehensive evaluation of the EU's biofuel policy in order to assess what the driving forces behind the regulation of this resource are, and how they affect to what extent it is successful or not. In order to do this, firstly the impacts of current EU bioenergy consumption will be assessed, to determine whether it is achieving the stated and desired climate goals or not. Findings will show that in fact the current formulation of Europe's Renewable Strategy creates pressure to meet binding targets for renewable usage and the resultant rapid increase in the demand for bioenergy has caused a number of negative social and ecological impacts to arise. Therefore in light of this, the current systems in place at the EU level meant to regulate the use of bioenergy and ensure it is implemented in a sustainable way will be critically analysed in order to find out how such negative impacts have been able to occur. The final section will then look into the driving forces responsible for regulation of this kind through a case study of Germany and Indonesia.
Q21|From Today's City to Tomorrow's City: An Empirical Investigation of Urban Land Assembly|Because cities are constrained by the boundaries of land ownership, fundamental urban modifications require land delineation changes. We evaluate whether there is enough land assembly--the joining together of two or more parcels of land--to put land to its highest value use. We hypothesize that in the absence of market frictions such as holdouts, the price of land sold for assembly should not exceed the price of land sold for other uses. Empirically, we find that to-be-assembled land in Los Angeles trades at a 15 to 40 percent premium and conclude that significant frictions prevent assembly.
Q21|Price Efficiency in U.S. Water Rights Markets| With this study we seek to understand the relationship between the sale and one-year lease prices in the U.S. water rights market. Given that the majority of current water rights markets in the U.S. are informal, high in transaction costs, and heterogeneous within and across states, we do not expect for the asset pricing theory to completely explain high variation in prices. Our goal is to understand which part of the pricing can be explained by the arbitrage theory and which part should be attributed to the expectations about the future conditions. Using a unique water rights trading dataset, which consists of water rights sales and one-year leases in six U.S. western states between 1994 and 2007, we follow the Newell et al. (2007) approach applied to New Zealand fisheries, and econometrically analyze the applicability of a present-value asset pricing model to the water rights markets. Our preliminary results show that the asset pricing theory holds in water rights markets, and support our hypothesis that the U.S. water rights market is less efficient than the fishing quota market in New Zealand. We further analyze what policies lead to different water rights pricing mechanisms across and within the studied states.
Q21|Does Organic Wine Taste Better? An Analysis of Experts' Ratings| Eco-labels are part of a new wave of environmental policy that emphasizes information disclosure as a tool to induce environmentally friendly behavior by both firms and consumers. Little consensus exists as to whether eco-certified products are actually better than their conventional counterparts. This paper seeks to understand the link between eco-certification and product quality. We use data from three leading wine rating publications (Wine Advocate, Wine Enthusiast, and Wine Spectator) to assess quality for 74,148 wines produced in California between 1998 and 2009. Our results indicate that eco-certification is associated with a statistically significant increase in wine quality rating<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q21|An estimation of the willingness to pay for biodiesel: a pilot study of diesel consumers| Sri Lanka’s energy policy presumes that the country will be meeting 20% of its energy requirements by non-conventional renewable energy resources by 2020. This study attempts to assess diesel vehicle owners’ willingness to pay (WTP) for Jatropha biodiesel and the factors affecting their decisions. The Contingent valuation method (CVM) was used to elicit the WTP for the non-marketed biodiesel, which leads to a hypothetical allocation. For diesel vehicle users, a single bid approach was used at Rs.121/= per litre (€ 0.83). The study was carried out in Kandy region among diesel vehicle users. The factors affecting WTP were estimated using probit regression and WTP was estimated using nonparametric estimation techniques. The mean WTP for biodiesel by the diesel vehicle users was Rs.109 per litre (€ 0.74) for lower bound levels. The median WTP was Rs.124/= per litre (€ 0.85). Elderly respondents with higher education are less likely to pay for biodiesel in both samples. Married respondents with higher income are more likely to pay higher prices for biodiesel.
Q21|Demystifying RINs: A partial equilibrium model of U.S. biofuel markets|We explore four fundamental channels of mandate compliance available under current U.S. biofuel policy: increased ethanol blending through E10 or E85, increased biodiesel blending, and a reduction in the overall compliance base. Simulation results highlight the interplay and varying importance of these channels at increasing blend mandate levels. In addition, we establish how RIN prices are formed: The value of a RIN in equilibrium is shown to reflect the marginal cost of compensating the blender for employing one additional ethanol-equivalent unit of biofuel. This contrasts with existing research equating the price of RINs to the gap between ethanol supply and demand evaluated at the mandate level. We demonstrate the importance of this distinction in case of binding demand side infrastructure constraints such as the ethanol blend wall: as percentage blend mandates increase, the market for low-ethanol blends may contract in order to reduce the overall compliance base. This has important implications for implied ethanol demand in the economy.
Q21|Economic structure of fishing activity: An analysis of mackerel fishery management in the Basque Country| [EN] This paper analyses the activity of the Basque fleet during the mackerel fishing season and presents an economic analysis of the equilibrium of this fishery. It seeks to determine whether its eco-nomic structure represents an internal factor explaining the fishermen’s behaviour. The inverse demand function and the average cost function are therefore estimated. Moreover, the analysis conducted here also takes into account the institutional dimension by factoring in current fishery regulation measures. Conclusions are drawn as to whether the incentives provided by the management measures and the stra-tegy of fishermen are optimal on the basis of the estimated economic functions. [ES] Este trabajo analiza la actividad de la flota vasca durante la costera del verdel y presenta un análisis económico del equilibrio de esta pesquería. Se pretende determinar si su estructura económica representa un factor interno que explica el comportamiento de los pescadores. Así, se estiman la función inversa de demanda y la función de costes medios. Además, el análisis también considera la dimensión institucional, incorporando las actuales medidas de regulación de la pesquería. Se concluye analizando si los incentivos generados por las medidas de gestión y la estrategia de los pescadores son óptimos en base a las funciones económicas estimadas.
Q21|The Water Abstraction License Regime in Italy: A Case for Reform?|The current Water Abstraction License (WAL) regime in Italy is no longer flexible enough to cope with the challenges posed by human-induced climate and global environmental changes. The cornerstones of the current regime were laid down in the 1930s and have remained essentially unchanged ever since. The sole noteworthy reform of the Italian WAL regime was the decentralization of the regulatory competences from the state to the regional authorities in the late 1990s. In this paper, we review the WAL regimes across the administrative regions comprising the Po River Basin District (PRBD), the largest and economically most important in Italy. PRBD’s WAL regime includes a rigid and scattered WAL normative that hinders the performance of bottom-up conflict resolution mechanisms at a basin scale; a water pricing scheme that does not reflect the cost of water conveyance and use, and does not encourage efficient water allocation; and the lack of a central WAL register, which delays and in some cases impedes an environmental impact assessment for issuing new licenses or renewing existing ones, and does not allow prioritizing applications according to their full economic value. We argue these deficiencies may compromise both the integrity of riverine and water dependent ecosystems and the economic uses of water. This paper offers insights that can inform reform of water allocations in the PRBD and elsewhere in Italy and in Europe.
Q21|Copersucar: A World Leader in Sugar and Ethanol| Copersucar is a Brazilian sugar and ethanol cooperative founded in 1959. Today, it’s the world’s largest originator and trader of cane sugar, and one of the largest ethanol trading organizations. Copersucar’s mission is to create value through logistic capacity, differentiated trading operations, and operational excellence. The case is designed to help participants conduct both internal and external analyses through engaging, first-hand materials detailing Copersucar’s growth, operations, finances, and cooperative structure. It is written primarily for professional, executive, and graduate students.
Q21|White-tailed Deer Semen Auction Data: A Hedonic Analysis| In 2008, the cervid (i.e., deer) production and hunting industry had an economic impact of $318.4 million in Texas and $3 billion in the US. Antlers of white-tailed bucks are prized trophies for hunters, and hence, breeders make great investments to manage genetic potential for antler growth in their herds. This study identified the factors that influenced white-tailed deer semen prices using hedonic analysis of publicly available auction data from the Texas Deer Association. Results indicated that higher antler scores (p<0.0001), Texas genetics (p<0.0001), and deceased bucks (p<0.0432) significantly and positively influenced price per straw of semen.
Q21|Perspectives On Energy And Climate In European Union|Climate policies are fundamental to the future of our planet, while a truly European energy policy is an important factor for competitiveness. The primary objective of 40% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for 2030 greenhouse is the basis of the most efficient in terms of cost to an economy with low carbon dioxide emissions. Reduce by at least 27% renewable energy is an important objective to provide stability to investors, stimulate green jobs and support security of supply. The 2030 expressed the EU's willingness to promote progress towards a competitive low carbon dioxide, the investment stability and the security of energy supply, to ensure that energy remains affordable for households and businesses, sets a higher ambition as regards climate change.
Q21|How does renewables competition affect forward contracting in electricity markets?|Higher renewables penetration reduces the incentive of conventional electricity generators to sell forward production. This can undermine the role of forward contracting in mitigating market power. More renewable energy raises wholesale electricity prices in states of the world where its capacity utilization is low due to intermittency.
Q21|Conservación de la naturaleza en propiedad privada: las Reservas Naturales de la Sociedad Civil en el Valle del Cauca|Las Reservas Naturales de la Sociedad Civil en Colombia cumplen un papel importante en la conservación de ecosistemas. En este trabajo se investiga por qué los dueños de áreas privadas en el departamento del Valle del Cauca conservan la naturaleza en sus propiedades. Se consideran las explicaciones entre la teoría económica de la elección racional, la teoría económica sobre los comportamientos altruistas y recíprocos, y la teoría de la psicología social sobre los valores de orientación cultural. Las razones predominantes para la conformación de las reservas naturales son el interés propio y la valoración de la naturaleza de sus dueños
Q21|Wärmemonitor 2015: mit der Erfahrung kommt der Sanierungserfolg|In order to achieve the government's energy and climate policy goals, major energy savings in space heating are needed in the medium and long term. To this end, DIW Berlin, in partnership with ista Germany GmbH, conducts an annual heat survey based on a comprehensive database of annual heating bills from German apartment buildings. Heating demand fell between 2014 and 2015 by around 1.4 percent. Once again, the drop in energy prices translated into lower heating costs for private households. As well, an analysis of energy certificates shows that housing companies also play an important role in the implementation of the energy transition. Large housing companies are already making significant contributions to the energy rehabilitation of existing buildings in Germany - but of equal importance is a stronger integration of small companies and individual owners into the renovation process and more support for their projects. Successful rehabilitation in these segments could be achieved through the use of contracting models and a bundling of renovation projects. Instead of refurbishment incentives on the individual level, an approach that encourages renovation on the neighbourhood level and rehabilitation management would be beneficial at this point. This would also benefit larger housing providers, who could take on lead roles in these joint projects and benefit from the economies of scale of the rehabilitation projects. Um die energie- und klimapolitischen Ziele der Bundesregierung zu erreichen, müssen im Bereich der Raumwärme mittel- und langfristig große Energieeinsparungen erzielt werden. Vor diesem Hintergrund erhebt das DIW Berlin gemeinsam mit der ista Deutschland GmbH jährlich den Wärmemonitor, der auf einem umfangreichen Datenbestand jährlicher Heizenergieabrechnungen von Mehrfamilienhäusern in Deutschland basiert. Wie bereits im Vorjahr ist der Heizenergiebedarf auch im Jahr 2015 zurückgegangen: gegenüber 2014 sank er um gut 1,4 Prozent. Erneut kam es durch die weiter gesunkenen Energiepreise zu einer Entlastung der privaten Haushalte bei den Heizkosten. Eine Analyse von Energieausweisen zeigt darüber hinaus, dass die Wohnungswirtschaft insgesamt eine wichtige Rolle bei der Umsetzung der Energiewende einnimmt. Große Wohnungsunternehmen tragen bereits heute maßgeblich zur energetischen Sanierung des Gebäudebestands in Deutschland bei. Für den Erfolg der Energiewende ist es aber ebenso wichtig, auch kleine Unternehmen und private Einzeleigentümer verstärkt in die Sanierungsaktivitäten einzubinden und ihre Vorhaben zu unterstützen. Der Sanierungserfolg indiesen Segmenten könnte beispielsweise durch eine Bündelung von Sanierungsvorhaben und Contractingmodelle ermöglicht werden. Der Ansatz des Quartierskonzepts beziehungsweise des Sanierungsmanagements wären an dieser Stelle vorteilhaft. Dies würde auch größeren Wohnungsanbietern zugutekommen, die eine Führungsrolle in solchen Gemeinschaftsprojekten übernehmen und von den Größenvorteilen der Sanierungsprojekte profitieren könnten.
Q21|The Management of Drinking Water and Long-term Perspective: Tunisia Case|This article analyzes the current situation of the management of drinking water in Tunisia, focusing on the constraints that the said management is subject. The empirical results show the absence of a long-term equilibrium between production capacity and consumption structure. In addition, the pricing policy is not an incentive tool to lower consumption. In fact, for domestic sector, water appears as a necessary good, while for both industry and tourism sectors declining consumption due respect to the fact that these two sectors have adopted other sources of supply substituting water of the National Water Distribution Utility. In addition to these three sectors, the hypothesis of co-integration (long-term equilibrium relationship) between the level of consumption, the price and the number of subscribers is rejected in most cases. To solve these problems, we propose a new pricing structure based primarily on the size of households to reduce waste
Q21|The impact of renewable energy consumption to economic growth: A panel data application|Internationally, the importance of renewable energy in the energy mix has been increasingly appreciated. The advantages of the renewable energy usage for the world's energy security and the environment are indisputable and much discussed in the literature. However, its effects on the economic welfare of the countries are yet to be examined fully and described quantitatively. The purpose of this paper is to estimate the impact of the renewable energy consumption to economic welfare by employing panel data techniques. The results show that the influence of renewable energy consumption or its share to the total energy mix to economic growth is positive and statistically significant. From a policy point of view, promoting renewable energies bears benefits not only for the environment but also for the economic conditions of the countries.
Q21|The effect of ethanol policies on the vertical price transmission in corn and food markets|This paper analyzes the impact of ethanol policies on price transmission along the food supply chain. We consider the US corn sector and its vertical links with food and ethanol (energy) markets. We find that ethanol is a source of imperfect price transmission in the food supply chain. Ethanol, however, alters price transmission only under a binding blender's tax credit and only from food to corn (not vice versa). Our results indicate that ethanol weakens the response of corn and food prices in terms of their level changes to shocks occurring in agricultural (corn and food) markets. The results are robust to different assumptions on the model parameters. Although market power has previously been identified as a source of imperfect price transmission in the food supply chain, our findings show that in the presence of ethanol, the imperfect price transmission may occur even if markets are perfectly competitive. This warrants careful evaluation of markets before any policy intervention.
Q21|Electricity price forecasting using sale and purchase curves: The X-Model|Our paper aims to model and forecast the electricity price by taking a completely new perspective on the data. It will be the first approach which is able to combine the insights of market structure models with extensive and modern econometric analysis. Instead of directly modeling the electricity price as it is usually done in time series or data mining approaches, we model and utilize its true source: the sale and purchase curves of the electricity exchange. We will refer to this new model as X-Model, as almost every deregulated electricity price is simply the result of the intersection of the electricity supply and demand curve at a certain auction. Therefore we show an approach to deal with a tremendous amount of auction data, using a subtle data processing technique as well as dimension reduction and lasso based estimation methods. We incorporate not only several known features, such as seasonal behavior or the impact of other processes like renewable energy, but also completely new elaborated stylized facts of the bidding structure. Our model is able to capture the non-linear behavior of the electricity price, which is especially useful for predicting huge price spikes. Using simulation methods we show how to derive prediction intervals for probabilistic forecasting. We describe and show the proposed methods for the day-ahead EPEX spot price of Germany and Austria.
Q21|The impacts of meeting a tight CO2 performance standard on the electric power sector|This paper presents innovative modeling of complex interactions among gas-fired generators, coal-fired power plants, and renewables (wind and solar) when pushed hard to reduce CO2 emissions. A hypothetical CO2 technology performance standard, giving rise to a shadow price on CO2 emissions, was specified as part of the study design. In this work we see gas generation rapidly replacing coal generation. To understand the fate of coal-based generation, it is important to examine trends at a granular level. An important feature of our model, the Electricity Supply and Investment Model (ESIM) is that it contains a unit inventory with unit characteristics and a memory of how each unit is operated over time. Cycling damages that individual coal units incur are a function of cumulative wear and tear over time. The expected remaining life of a cycled coal unit will depend on the severity of the cycling and for how many years. Deteriorating operating characteristics of a cycled unit over time results in higher operating costs, slipping down the dispatch loading order, and hence an acceleration of cycling damage, that is, a viscous circle of decline. The rate of CFPP retirements will increase for lower gas prices, higher price on CO2 emissions, and greater penetration of variable and intermittent renewables.
Q21|The wood pellet market in Austria: A structural market model analysis|EU bioenergy policies and oil price hikes have resulted in a significant increase of installed pellet boilers for residential heating. Hence, European demand for wood pellets has been growing faster and more steadily than supply leading to rising market prices in recent years. This article presents an econometric analysis of demand and supply of wood pellets in the residential heating sector in Austria, one of the most dynamic markets for residential pellets. Annual and monthly time series data between 2000 and 2014 are used in a two-stage least-squares (2SLS) regression to estimate supply and demand elasticities of wood pellets. In all model specifications, pellets demand is found to be inelastic (from −0.66 to −0.76) and pellets supply unit-elastic (from 1.03 to 1.18). Thus, consumers are highly exposed to price changes resulting from supply shocks. Policies which support investments in pellet boilers will shift the demand of wood pellets and likely leading to higher prices for consumers.
Q21|The impact of different energy policy options on feedstock price and land demand for maize silage: The case of biogas in Lombardy|The growing demand of maize silage for biogas production in Northern Italy has triggered an intense debate concerning land rents, maize prices and their possible negative consequences on important agri-food chains. The aim of this work is to quantify the extent to which the rapid spread of biogas raised the maize price at regional level, increasing the demand of land for energy crops. For this purpose we applied a partial-equilibrium framework simulating the agricultural sector and the biogas industry in Lombardy, under two alternative schemes of subsidization policy. Results show that policy measures implemented in 2013 – reducing the average subsidy per kWh – may contribute to enforce the complementarity of the sector with agri-food chains, decreasing the competition between energy and non-energy uses. Compared to the old scheme, maize demand for biogas would decrease, lessening the market clearing price (as well as feed opportunity cost for livestock sector) and reducing land demand for energy purposes.
Q21|Steel scrap and equity market in Japan|Steel scrap is an important raw material in the steel making industry. As steel is a vital metal in modern life, the price of steel scrap is viewed as an important indicator of the macroeconomic activity. Steel scrap is consumed mainly in the electric arc furnace steel making, which represents approximately 30 per cent of the world annual steel production. Unlike other minerals including iron ore, both the supply and consumption amounts of steel scrap can be relatively easily adjusted based on the contemporary industrial activity level. For this reason, the steel scrap price reflects the condition of the macro economy and thereby it can be used as an indicator of future stock market performance in the country by market participants. Nevertheless, there is not much research on the market of steel scrap. This study aims to close this gap by testing the lead–lag relationship between the changes of steel scrap price and the aggregate Japanese stock market movement. Our empirical analyses suggest that the steel scrap price changes are informative in explaining the future stock market performance in Japan.
Q21|On the emissions–inequality and emissions–welfare trade-offs in energy taxation: Evidence on the German car fuels tax|By using estimates from a Demographically-Scaled Quadratic Almost Ideal Demand System (DQUAIDS), we investigate how the German car fuels tax changes the private households’ CO2 emissions, living standards, and post-tax income distribution. Our results show that the tax implies a trade-off between the aim to reduce emissions and vertical equity, which refers to the idea that people with a greater ability to pay taxes should pay more.
Q21|Influence of renewable energy sources on transmission networks in Central Europe|This article focuses on the influence of increased wind and solar power production on the transmission networks in Central Europe. The German Energiewende policy together with insufficient transmission capacity between northern and southern Germany as well as the existence of the German-Austrian bidding zone heavily contribute to congestion in the Central European transmission system. To assess the exact impact on the transmission grid, the direct current load flow model ELMOD is employed. Two development scenarios for the year 2025 are evaluated on the basis of four representative weeks. The first scenario focuses on the effect of Energiewende on the transmission networks, the second one drops out nuclear phase-out and thus assesses isolated effect of increased feed-in. The results indicate that higher feed-in of solar and wind power increases the exchange balance and total transport of electricity between transmission system operator areas as well as the average load of lines and volatility of flows. Solar power is identified as a key contributor to the volatility increase, wind power is identified as a key loop-flow contributor. Eventually, it is concluded that German nuclear phase-out does not significantly exacerbate mentioned problems.
Q21|The Water Abstraction License Regime in Italy: A Case for Reform?| The current Water Abstraction License (WAL) regime in Italy is no longer flexible enough to cope with the challenges posed by human-induced climate and global environmental changes. The cornerstones of the current regime were laid down in the 1930s and have remained essentially unchanged ever since. The sole noteworthy reform of the Italian WAL regime was the decentralization of the regulatory competences from the state to the regional authorities in the late 1990s. In this paper, we review the WAL regimes across the administrative regions comprising the Po River Basin District (PRBD), the largest and economically most important in Italy. PRBD’s WAL regime includes a rigid and scattered WAL normative that hinders the performance of bottom-up conflict resolution mechanisms at a basin scale; a water pricing scheme that does not reflect the cost of water conveyance and use, and does not encourage efficient water allocation; and the lack of a central WAL register, which delays and in some cases impedes an environmental impact assessment for issuing new licenses or renewing existing ones, and does not allow prioritizing applications according to their full economic value. We argue these deficiencies may compromise both the integrity of riverine and water dependent ecosystems and the economic uses of water. This paper offers insights that can inform reform of water allocations in the PRBD and elsewhere in Italy and in Europe.
Q21|Information on sellers and buyers characteristics added value to explain price formation at primary fish markets in managed French scallop fisheries|The aim of this article is to explore, through a hedonic approach, the factors that might explain the price variability for the French-managed fishery of scallop at primary fish markets. In addition to factors classically identified in the current literature like intrinsic product characteristics or markets situation, the characteristics of operators are tested. The relationships of loyalty between sellers and buyers, and market assiduity are notably considered.
Q21|Renewable Energy CSOPs: An updated Analysis for Wind Power Applications|In this paper we show an up-to-date analysis of the economic feasibility of Energy CSOPs (Consumer Stock Ownership Plan). CSOPs are instruments for low-threshold community investment projects and have shown to be competitive tools for distributed investments. Applied to the renewable energy sector (in this instance, wind power), CSOPs can help fostering the decentralized power production landscape as well as busting possibly present prevalent monopolies. We analyze the financial and economic feasibility of a set of model projects and discuss the most important investment parameters.
Q21|Responses to Changes in Domestic Water Tariff Structures: A Latent Class Analysis on Household-Level Data from Granada, Spain|A problem that affects the estimation of water demand functions is the presence of unobserved individual heterogeneity, which means that a common demand function is unlikely to represent the behavior of all users. We implement Latent Class Models to estimate water demand functions for four groups of users who are classified according to their unobservable preferences. This more flexible approach makes it possible to distinguish four different response patterns to changes in the drivers of water use, including different price elasticities. These results should be of particular interest to regulators who would like to tailor water demand management policy to heterogeneous users. Our analysis exploits household-level panel data on residential water demand and consumers’ characteristics obtained by combining information from a survey of 1,465 domestic users in the city of Granada and bimonthly price and consumption data supplied by this city’s water supplier from the period 2009–2011. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2016
Q21|Achieving Efficiency in Gas Pipeline Connection: Evidence from Ghana|The demand for the use of natural gas is on the increase as an energy source. Natural gas transportation requires a continuous pipeline network from the source of gas across long distance to the various destinations. The main objective involves extending gas pipelines from Takoradi to all the regional capital towns in Ghana to meet the growing demands of its citizenry in order to provide economy and efficiency with regards to cost and environmental sustainability by developing a straight forward method of locating pipeline facilities and designing pipeline networks. The problem is formulated as a network of distances and the solution is presented based on Primâ€™s Algorithm for minimum connections. Data on distances are obtained from the Ghana Highways Authority. The total distance covered by the pipe line network if the existing road networks were used from Takoradi to all the regional capitals towns in Ghana is 5,094km. After Primâ€™s Algorithm was used, the total distance covered decreased to 1,590km which is about 68.8% reduction in the distance covered with regards to cost and the environmental damage caused by construction of pipelines (soil, forest, rivers, wetlands, noise from compressor stations during pipeline discharge and risk of pipeline leakage).
Q21|Efficient diffusion of renewable energies: A roller-coaster ride|When the supply of intermittent renewable energies like wind and solar is high, the electricity price is low. Conversely, prices are high when their supply is low. This reduces the profit potential in renewable energies and, therefore, incentives to invest in renewable capacities. Nevertheless, we show that perfect competition and dynamic pricing lead to efficient choices of renewable and fossil capacities, provided that external costs of fossils are internalized by an appropriate tax. We also investigate some properties of electricity markets with intermittent renewables and examine the market diffusion of renewables as their capacity costs fall. We show that the intermittency of renewables causes an S-shaped diffusion pattern, implying that a rapid build-up of capacities is followed by a stage of substantially slowerdevelopment. While this pattern is well known from the innovation literature, the mechanism is new. We also find that technology improvements such as better battery storage capacities have substantial effects not only on the speed of market penetration, but also on its pattern. Finally, fluctuations of energy prices rise with the share of renewables. If regulators respond with a price cap, this leads to a faster market diffusion of renewables.
Q21|Oil demand and price elasticity of energy consumption in the GCC countries: A panel cointegration analysis|This paper examines the cointegrating relationship between oil demand and price elasticity of energy consumption in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) countries during the period 1980-2010. The paper has applied the recently developed panel cointegration techniques, Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) and panel DOLS in a panel of GCC countries. The region is being recognized as the major region of oil production and export in the global economy. In recent times, the region is emerging as a fastest growing oil consuming region globally. This fast increase in the level of oil consumption in the major oil exporting countries raises the energy security implications in the sphere of the growing oil demand in the world economy. This is likely to bring many pitfalls in the form of price distortions and reduced growth rates in and outside the oil export region. The empirical finding reveals a cointegrating relationship among the variables and indicates an income elastic and price inelastic demand for oil in the long-run in the GCC countries. The outcomes of income elastic and price inelastic demand for oil are also consistent in the short-run. The income and price inelastic demand for oil though exists for a full panel of countries but vary across the GCC countries. The result of the Granger Causality test also depicts a unidirectional causality running from income to oil consumption and bidirectional causality running between oil prices and income in the GCC countries. Moreover, the outcomes reveal that demand for oil varies positively with the growth of income and negatively with the price level in the economy.
Q21|Solar Australia|Current large energy consumer potential of Asian and Pacific region as well as rise in GDP, population indicates further potential for energy needs. Part of solution at least in China is energy import. While electricity production so far is done in China and Australia with coal that causes high CO2 emissions proposed project Solar Australia suggests renewable production from Concentrated Solar. Negative impact of CO2 is hindered with competitive technology of solar from China, innovative technical solution in transmission process and incorporating environmental and social benefits and costs into calculation in order to provide a solution to high emissions in Asia Pacific Region.
Q21|Potentials and Constraints of Cambodian Rice Export|Rice is one of the most important crops in Cambodia and its export becomes a significant source of employment and foreign exchange accumulation. In this study, the potentials and constraints of rice export are explored. Producers’ and export prices significantly influenced the volume of export. Given the export price, when the producers’ price is cheaper, export will increase. Export will also increase if export price increases while the producers’ price remains unchanged. In addition to the prices, factors that also affect the export of rice include the cost of transportation, access to finance, informal payment, access to the international market, quality of paddy, and business trust (trust among traders, trust between the rice trader and miller, and trust among the rice trader, miller and farmer).
Q21|The impact of (co-) ownership of renewable energy production facilities on demand flexibility|The transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources requires financial, technical and social innovation. This is particularly true for wind and solar energy which have structural differences to fossils: they depend on weather and thus are volatile in their power production scheme. Not only must a new energy infrastructure be built, but consumers motivated to change consumption habits so as to balance demand with a volatile energy supply and to accept new technologies like smart meters. Consumer (co-)ownership has proved successful in engaging consumers in financing renewable energy infrastructures, thus becoming “prosumers”. In addition, studies also indicate that co-ownership can induce behavioral changes in energy consumption. Based on a sample of 2,143 completed questionnaires collected through an online survey, the study presented in this paper seeks to empirically analyze empirically whether (co-)ownership also has an influence on demand side flexibility. Our results indicate a statistical correlation between (co-)ownership of renewable energy production facilities and the willingness of private households to adjust their consumption behavior. However, the relation is complex: Only when prosumers have the choice between self-consumption and sale of the surplus electricity production to the grid we observe a statistically significant effect on consumption behavior. As every kilowatt-hour not consumed is one potentially sold to the grid an economic incentive kicks in which is equally important for energy efficient behavior. To exclude a self-selection bias we have applied propensity score matching.
Q21|The Faustmann model under storm risk and price uncertainty: A case study of European beech in Northwestern France|International, economic and environmental contexts in this century are strongly affected by risks and uncertainties. Due to the long-term nature of forest investment, forest managers must integrate risks and uncertainties into their decisions. Our objective is to build a decision support tool to optimize forest management under multiple risks: extreme events and price variations. Our method integrates, into an economic model, different types of models on forest growth, price functions, predicted storm intensity and intervals, and damage functions. A numerical simulation applied to European beech (Fagus sylvatica) in Northwestern France shows that price variation as between 1974 and 2016 produces higher economic loss than does storm damage. We conclude on the need to concentrate forest policy on the development of new technologies and wood industry practices to increase the value of this natural resource. However, future climate change may well influence storm frequency and intensity, and this places limits on our conclusions.
Q21|Utility 2.0: A multi-dimensional review of New York’s Reforming the Energy Vision (REV) and Great Britain’s RIIO utility business models|A powerful confluence of architectural, technological, and socio-economic forces is transforming the U.S. electricity market. These trends and developments are placing tremendous pressure on utilities triggering changes in electricity production, transmission, and consumption. Increased democratized choice over energy usage, for instance, is empowering consumers to take key actions such as peak shaving, flexible loading, and installation of grid automation and intelligence solutions. A key step to achieving full benefits of these programs is repurposed Utility 2.0 concepts: the distributed grid, innovations in electric market design, real-time automated monitoring and verification, deployment of microgrids, increased uptake of ‘smart meters and smarter’ grids, and investment in data analytics in order to incentivize efficient market design and flexibility. Using a seven-part multi-dimensional framework, this paper examines the role of infrastructure network, revenue models, customer interface, business model resilience, organizational logic and mandate, risk management, and value proposition in improving communication with consumers and operational boundary of utilities in the new utility business model regime. The paper also assesses two prominent utility business models, the New York’s Reforming the Energy Vision (REV) and Great Britain’s ‘Revenue = Incentives + Innovation + Outputs” (RIIO) legislation in order to illustrate potential changes that await the energy utility actors. We conclude that positioning the ‘business model’ as the unit for analysis provides a robust and multi-dimensional tool for evaluating the suitability of new proposals for electric utilities and energy governance.
Q21|The construction a kinetic equation of the production process|The paper discusses methods of constructing the kinetic equation of the technology process. The article presents a model of the interaction of objects of labour with technological equipment, which is the basis for the derivation of the kinetic equation. To describe the state of the production line introduced numerical characteristics.
Q21|Information provision and consumer behavior: A natural experiment in billing frequency|In this study, I estimate a causal effect of increased billing frequency on consumer behavior. I exploit a natural experiment in which residential water customers switched exogenously from bimonthly to monthly billing. Customers increase consumption by 3.5–5% in response to more frequent information. This result is reconciled in models of price and quantity uncertainty, where increases in billing frequency reduce the distortion in consumer perceptions. Using treatment effects as sufficient statistics, I calculate consumer welfare gains equivalent to 0.5–1% of annual water expenditures. Heterogeneous treatment effects suggest increases in outdoor water use.
Q21|Urban Water Demand Forecasting and Comparative Analysis by Artificial Neural Networks, Support Vector Machines and Box-Jenkins Methods|Water demand forecasting is currently being used in many fields such as the investment planning, the design of the water systems (treatment plants, storage, transmission and distribution lines), the operation of existing systems at optimal capacity, calculation of operation and investment costs, and determination of urban water management policies (pricing policy, water conservation, etc.). Therefore, it can be said that an accurate water demand forecast has a key role in the planning, design, operation, and management of water systems. In this study, it is aimed to forecast Diyarbakir city centre drinking water demand by using Artificial Neural Networks method and Winters’s Seasonal Exponential Smoothing and Box-Jenkins methods based on time series analysis, and to compare forecasts obtained. For this purpose, firstly the data related to the variables affecting the water demand of Diyarbakir city centre for the time interval of 2003 – 2013 has been collected and analyzed. Then, a drinking water demand forecast has been made on the basis of this data by using Artificial Neural Network, Winters’s Seasonal Exponential Smoothing, and Box-Jenkins methods. The forecasts obtained from these three methods have been compared according to Productivity, The Mean Square Error, The Root Mean Square Error and The Mean Absolute Percentage Error criteria. In comparison results, it was seen that, in all performance criteria, Artificial Neural Networks method has better forecast results than those methods based on time series analysis.
Q21|How to Sell Renewable Electricity - Interactions of the Intraday and Day-ahead Market under Uncertainty|Uncertainty about renewable production increases the importance of sequential short-term trading. We consider a two-stage market where conventional and renewable producers compete in order to satisfy the demand of consumers. The trading in the ﬁrst stage takes place under uncertainty about production levels of renewable producers, which can be associated with trading in the day-ahead market. In the second stage, which we consider as the intraday market, uncertainty about the production levels is resolved. Our model is able to capture diﬀerent levels of ﬂexibility for conventional producers as well as diﬀerent levels of competition for renewable producers. We ﬁnd that it is optimal for renewable producers to sell less than the expected production in the day-ahead market. In situations with high renewable production it is even proﬁtable for renewable producers to withhold quantities in the intraday market. However, for an increasing number of renewable producers, the optimal quantity tends towards the expected production level. More competition as well as a more ﬂexible power plant ﬂeet lead to an increase in overall welfare, which can even be further increased by delaying the gate-closure of the day-ahead market or by improving the quality of renewable production forecasts.
Q21|When are consumers responding to electricity prices? An hourly pattern of demand elasticity|System security in electricity markets relies crucially on the interaction between demand and supply over time. However, research on electricity markets has been mainly focusing on the supply side arguing that demand is rather inelastic. Assuming perfectly inelastic demand might lead to delusive statements regarding the price formation in electricity markets. In this article we quantify the short-run price elasticity of electricity demand in the German day-ahead market and show that demand is adjusting to price movements in the short-run. We are able to solve the simultaneity problem of demand and supply for the German market by incorporating variable renewable electricity generation for the estimation of electricity prices in our econometric approach. We find a daily pattern for demand elasticity on the German day-ahead market where price-induced demand response occurs in early morning and late afternoon hours. Consequently, price elasticity is lowest at night times and during the day. Our measured price elasticity peaks at a value of approximately -0.13 implying that a one percent increase in price reduces demand by 0.13 percent.
Q21|The Market for Wastewater Sludge (Biosolids)|Despite public approval from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency (Miljøstyrelsen), farmers have proven reluctant to accept wastewater sludge as a source of fertilizer. They are in fact still being paid for accepting it. Based on interviews with key stakeholders, a review of the literature, and theoretical reflections this paper analyses the barriers to the recycling of wastewater sludge.
Q21|Convenience Yields and Risk Premiums in the EU‐ETS—Evidence from the Kyoto Commitment Period| We examine convenience yields and risk premiums in the EU‐wide CO 2 emissions trading scheme (EU‐ETS) during the first Kyoto commitment period (2008–2012). We find that the market has changed from initial backwardation to contango with significantly negative convenience yields in futures contracts. We further examine the impact of interest rate levels in the Eurozone, the increasing level of surplus allowances and banking, as well as returns, variance, or skewness in the EU‐ETS spot market. Our findings suggest that the drop in risk‐free rates during and after the financial crisis has impacted on the deviation from the cost‐of‐carry relationship for emission allowances (EUA) futures contracts. Our results also illustrate a negative relationship between convenience yields and the increasing level of inventory during the first Kyoto commitment period, providing an explanation for the high negative convenience yields. Finally, we find that market participants are willing to pay an additional risk premium in the futures market for a hedge against increased volatility in EUA prices. Overall, our results contribute to the literature on the determinants and empirical properties of convenience yields and risk premiums for this relatively new class of assets. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Jrl Fut Mark 36:587–611, 2016
Q21|Studie über die Erzeugungs- und Vermarktungsstruktur des Bienenzuchtsektors in Deutschland|Die Studie hat zum Ziel, einen Überblick über den deutschen Markt für Honig zu geben. Es werden die Imkereistruktur und die Beziehungen zwischen den Marktpartnern dargestellt. Daneben werden die Versorgungsbilanz sowie die Nachfrage betrachtet, bei der Deutschland als einer der größten Konsumenten auch weltweit eine entscheidende Rolle spielt. Zu unterscheiden sind hierbei Honige, die via Direktvermarktung vom Imker vertrieben werden, und Honige aus dem Einzelhandel. Diese Segmente existieren in Deutschland parallel zueinander und ergänzen sich teilweise. Aufgrund dieser Marktsegmentierung bestehen unterschiedliche Preisstrukturen und -elastizitäten. Die Imkereistruktur zeichnet sich in Deutschland durch 95 Prozent Hobbyimker, mit einer begrenzten Anzahl an Bienenvölkern pro Imker und einer geringen Produktion aus. Die Basis der Studie bilden Experteninterviews sowie die Informationen, die im Rahmen der Imkereiprogramme der Bundesländer erhoben wurden.
Q21|Zahlungsbereitschaft für grünen Strom: Zunehmende Kluft zwischen Wunsch und Wirklichkeit|Im Zuge der Energiewende schreitet der Ausbau der alternativen Stromerzeugungsanlagen in Deutschland mit hohem Tempo voran. Damit verbunden sind steigende Umlagen für die Förderung der Erneuerbaren und zunehmende Entgelte für den unvermeidlichen Ausbau der Stromnetze und somit weiter zunehmende Strompreise. Vor diesem Hintergrund untersucht der vorliegende Beitrag die Zahlungsbereitschaft der privaten Haushalte für grünen Strom auf Basis der Ergebnisse zweier Erhebungen unter jeweils mehr als 6 000 Haushalten des forsa-Haushaltspanels aus den Jahren 2013 und 2015. Es zeigt sich, dass zwar die grundsätzliche Befürwortung für die Förderung erneuerbarer Energien weiter gestiegen ist, sich die Zahlungsbereitschaft für reinen Grünstrom gegenüber 2013 jedoch verringerte. Angesichts dieser Ergebnisse stellt sich die Frage nach der Akzeptanz der Bürger für die im Zuge der Energiewende weiter wachsenden Belastungen.
Q21|Heterogeneous rebound effects: Comparing estimates from discrete-continuous models|Discrete-continuous models have become a common technique for addressing selectivity biases in data sets with endogenously partitioned observational units. Alternative two-stage approaches have been suggested by LEE (1983), DUBIN and MCFADDEN (1984), and DAHL (2002), all of which capture the first-stage discrete choice by the multinomial logit model, while the second-stage outcome equation is estimated using OLS. The nonlinearity introduced by the selection bias correction implies that the second-stage coefficients cannot be interpreted as marginal effects. Instead, the marginal effects are obtained using the estimates from both the first and second stages, a step that has been widely neglected in the applied literature. After deriving formulae for the marginal effects obtained from these selection correction approaches, we estimate a joint model of automobile ownership and distance driven to quantify the rebound effect, the behaviorally induced increase in driving that results from higher fuel economy. Our example illustrates that the pattern of rebound effects varies substantially depending on the method of selection bias correction.
Q21|Germanys Energiewende: A Tale of Increasing Costs and Decreasing Willingness-To-Pay|This paper presents evidence that the accumulating cost of Germany's ambitious plan to transform its system of energy provision - the so-called Energiewende - is butting up against consumers' willingness-to-pay (WTP) for it. Following a descriptive presentation that traces the German promotion of renewable energy technologies since 2000, we draw on two stated-preference surveys conducted in 2013 and 2015 that elicit the households' WTP for green electricity. Two models are estimated, one based on a closed-ended question framed around Germany's target of 35% renewable energy in electricity provision by 2020, and the other on an open-ended format that captures changes in WTP over time. To deal with the bias that typifies hypothetical responses, the models distinguish respondents according to whether they express definite certainty in their reported WTP. The results from both models reveal a strong contrast between the households' general acceptance of supporting renewable energy technologies and their own WTP for green electricity.
Q21|Efficient diffusion of renewable energies: A roller-coaster ride|When the supply of intermittent renewable energies like wind and solar is high, the electricity price is low. Conversely, prices are high when their supply is low. This reduces the profit potential in renewable energies and, therefore, incentives to invest in renewable capacities. Nevertheless, we show that perfect competition and dynamic pricing lead to efficient choices of renewable and fossil capacities, provided that external costs of fossils are internalized by an appropriate tax. We also investigate some properties of electricity markets with intermittent renewables and examine the market diffusion of renewables as their capacity costs fall. We show that the intermittency of renewables causes an S-shaped diffusion pattern, implying that a rapid build-up of capacities is followed by a stage of substantially slower development. While this pattern is well known from the innovation literature, the mechanism is new. Moreover, the S-shaped pattern is followed by another acceleration phase towards the end of the diffusion process. We also find that technology improvements such as better storage capabilities have substantial effects not only on the speed of market penetration, but also on its pattern. Finally, fluctuations of energy prices rise with the share of renewables. If regulators respond with a price cap, this leads to a faster market diffusion of renewables.
Q21|A Panel Co-integration Analysis and Dynamic Causality Test of Agricultural Supply Response to Prices: The Case of Rice in West Africa|The paper provides a regional estimate of rice yield and acreage supply response to prices in West Africa. Using balanced panel data of seven countries covering 1991-2006, the study employs panel cointegration estimators, namely FMOLS and DOLS to estimate the long-run rice yield supply function and using one-step Blundell-Bond system GMM to estimate the short-run acreage supply function in the region. While the empirical findings from both estimators provide similar results, the estimates show that price of maize is a key determinant of rice yield and acreage and there is rice-maize substitutability in both the long-run and short-run in the study. The short-run Granger causality runs only from maize price to rice acreage, while long run causality of joint effect of the prices on the acreage supply is also evident in the study. Our results also show that the rice yield and acreage supply functions are unresponsive to own price in the short -run and long -run, respectively.
Q21|Do African Countries Get Health from Health Aid?|This paper uses panel data from African countries and a dynamic panel data (DPD) estimator to investigate the effects of health aid on health outcomes as well as the effects of health aid on health expenditures from domestic resources. I find that health aid has a statistically significant positive impact on health outcomes in African countries. Health aid is found to be more effective in improving health outcomes in countries that increase health spending from domestic resources above the sample mean and those with better governance. I also find that health aid marginally increases health expenditure from domestic sources in African countries, all things equal, suggesting that the effect of health aid on health outcomes may be larger than the direct effect. The results are robust to several specifications and estimation methods.
Q21|What’s a Cup Worth?: A Hedonic Analysis of U.S. Retail Coffees Prices| The marginal retail value of coffee attributes are estimated for the U.S. marketHedonic implicit prices identify the marginal market values of alternative products and market strategies. Results indicate that Estate and Fair Trade designations detract, rather than add, value to coffees sold in U.S. retail markets. Organic certification offers no net value-added relative to natural production. Market premiums for origin labeling are limited to coffee exporting areas with long-standing reputations for high quality coffee. There are positive and economically significant rewards to flavor characteristics, roast type and recent innovations in single-serve packaging. Overall, the greatest value opportunity for coffee supplier is in the cup, not in ancillary, non-flavor characteristics.
Q21|Consumers' Willingness to Pay for Bioplastic Plant Containers: An Experimental Auction Approach| This study elicites consumers' willingness to pay for an environmentally sustainable good that might not typically be purchased on its own. We isolate the value of these perfectly-complementary, auxiliary goods by endowing consumers with the complete good and giving them the opportunity to pay to upgrade the auxiliary component of the good. We employ a Becker-Degroot-Marschack auction design in a market setting to determine consumers' actual willingness to pay for the auxiliary good. We find consumers are willing to pay a $0.67--$1.12 premium for a bioplastic plant container over a traditional plastic one.
Q21|HPAI Impact on EU-27’s Import Demand for Cooked and Uncooked Poultry and Other Meats| The article applied a Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) differential model to evaluate the impact of HPAI (H5N1) virus outbreaks on EU-27’s import demand for five meat products: cooked poultry, uncooked poultry, beef, pork, and other meats. One novel feature of this work is the division of poultry into two distinct import products—cooked (safe) and uncooked (less safe). Analysis shows that HPAI (H5N1) outbreaks had statistically significant impacts on EU27 import demand for meats, increasing cooked poultry and decreasing uncooked poultry, beef, pork, and other meats. The shift in import demand regime was permanent and statistically significant, making cooked poultry imports EU27’s largest, averaging more than 50 percent of EU imports in 2013 and 2014.
Q21|Do nonrenewable-energy prices affect renewable-energy volatility? The case of wood pellets|Over the past decade, the U.S. Southeast has experienced a rapid expansion of wood-pellet biomass production for European export. This renewable wood-pellet supply requires nonrenewable-energy inputs in its manufacturing and logistics, which suggests possible price-volatility spillovers between renewable and nonrenewable markets. A BEKK-MGARCH model is employed for investigating these possible price-volatility spillovers. Overall, results suggest a limited negative effect of past volatile nonrenewable-energy prices influencing current wood-pellet price volatility. Specifically, high volatilities in nonrenewable-energy prices do not affect the volatility of wood-pellet prices. Thus, any stability concerns in terms of nonrenewable-input prices affecting the wood-pellet market are not warranted.
Q21|An Alternative Paradigm for Food Production, Distribution, and Consumption: A Noneconomist’s Perspective|The Industrial Food and Agricultural (IFA) industry has become increasingly excoriated by proponents of the Naturalization Food and Agricultural (NFA) paradigm over the past decade. Thought leaders of this alternative movement have been calling for economic and policy overhauls of the food system—touching upon human health, labor rights, the environment, climate change, and animal welfare. Although the majority of these thought leaders are not economists or scientists, their arguments are structured to shape consumer choices and farmers’ production decisions, influence food and agricultural policy, and ultimately affect the economics of the industry. In this article, we survey publications at the forefront of the NFA paradigm, touching upon the work of Pollan, Schlosser, Petrini, Bittman, Nestle, and Kremen, among others, as well as the earlier contributions of Carson, Sinclair, Steinbeck, Buck, and even Jefferson. Their solutions, although short on quantitative analysis and long on prescriptions, address the real concerns of the general public and lay the foundation for economists to advance public discourse through analytical research on the NFA paradigm.
Q21|Determinants of willingness-to-pay for renewable energy: does the age of nuclear power plant reactors matter?|Many countries are facing a dilemma over whether to extend the lives of their old reactors or make costly capital investments on Renewable Energy (RE). This paper explores the determinants of Willingness-To-Pay (WTP) for RE in France by means of a contingent valuation question that was included in a large web survey organized by the OECD. The main contribution of our paper is to test whether people living close to a reactor are sensitive to the age of the reactor. We find that the age of the reactor has a positive effect on WTP for RE.
Q21|Gestión y valor económico del recurso hídrico|La presión sobre los recursos hídricos es un problema que, anudado a los crecientes niveles de contaminación, ha conducido en los últimos tiempos a la sobreexplotación y a un incremento de la demanda por agua, con sus consecuencias en la calidad. La expansión de las redes de abastecimiento, el crecimiento de las zonas urbanas y rurales, el incremento de la superficie de riego, el aumento en la producción agropecuaria, la expansión industrial, la mala gestión pública y los bajos costos del agua son factores que explican el deterioro del recurso hídrico. Este artículo tiene como objetivo establecer una visión rápida sobre los problemas, la gestión y el valor económico del recurso hídrico. Aunque no existen muchos estudios empíricos en el mundo, nuestro país dispone de algunas estadísticas que serán presentadas, destacando sobre todo los costos financieros y económicos del recurso hídrico, así como las desigualdades que se presentan como privilegios sociales, culturales y antropológicos.******The pressure exerted on water resources is a problem that, added to the growing levels of pollution, has led to overexploitation and an increased demand for water, and the consequences of this on its quality. The expansion of the water networks, the growth of urban and rural areas, increased farming, industrial expansion and low water costs are some of the factors that explain the deterioration of our water resources. The purpose of this paper is to provide a quick glimpse at the problems, the management and the economic value of the water resources. Globally, not many empirical studies on the subject have been undertaken. However, our country has a number of statistics that will be presented, in particular, the financial and economic costs of the water resources and inequalities driven by social, cultural and anthropological privileges.
Q21|Wärmemonitor Deutschland 2014: rückläufiger Energiebedarf und lange Sanierungszyklen|For the German government to meet its energy and climate policy objectives, major energy savings need to be made in heating residential buildings in the medium and long term. As a result, DIW Berlin and the energy service provider ista Deutschland GmbH have developed the Heat Monitor Germany. This yearly report draws on a comprehensive data basis comprising the annual heating energy bills of apartment blocks in Germany. A further decline in heating energy consumption was seen in 2014. At the same time, in contrast to previous years, triggered by a reduction in energy prices, heating costs also fell considerably. Developments vary from region to region in Germany, which is partly due to the different construction and refurbishment cycles. Statistical estimates show that a complete refurbishment cycle lasts approximately 75 years — substantially longer than is generally assumed in engineering studies. For this reason, optimum use should be made of the existing potential for energy efficiency increases of any pending refurbishment. In buildings that have already been refurbished, it is possible to tap into additional energy-saving potential through low-cost investment opportunities. Finally, ensuring that consumers are well informed about heating costs and energy consumption is key to meeting Germany’s policy objectives. Um die energie- und klimapolitischen Ziele der Bundesregierung zu erreichen, müssen im Bereich der Raumwärme mittel- und langfristig große Energieeinsparungen erzielt werden. Vor diesem Hintergrund erhebt das DIW Berlin gemeinsam mit der ista Deutschland GmbH jährlich den sogenannten Wärmemonitor, der auf einem umfangreichen Datenbestand von jährlichen Heizenergieabrechnungen von Mehrfamilienhäusern in Deutschland basiert. Im Jahr 2014 ist der Heizenergiebedarf weiter gesunken. Dabei kam es, bedingt durch gesunkene Energiepreise, im Gegensatz zu den vorherigen Jahren auch zu einer erheblichen Reduktion der Heizkosten. Die Entwicklungen in den Regionen sind heterogen, was auch in regional unterschiedlich verlaufenden Bau- und Sanierungszyklen begründet ist. Statistische Schätzungen deuten darauf hin, dass ein vollständiger Sanierungszyklus ungefähr ein Dreivierteljahrhundert dauert – deutlich länger, als in ingenieurwissenschaftlichen Studien allgemein angenommen wird. Auch daher sollten bei den anstehenden Sanierungen bereits heute die vorhandenen Effizienzsteigerungspotenziale bestmöglich ausgenutzt werden. In bereits sanierten Gebäuden können durch geringinvestive Maßnahmen weitere Energieeinsparpotenziale erschlossen werden. Nicht zuletzt ist eine gute Information der Verbraucher über Heizkosten und Energieverbrauch ein wichtiger Schlüssel für das Erreichen der politischen Ziele.
Q21|When Low Market Values Are No Bad News: On the Coordination of Renewable Support and Real-Time Pricing|We analyze the interactions between different renewable support schemes and the benefits of real-time pricing (RTP) using a stylized economic model with a detailed demand-side representation calibrated to the German market. We find that there are considerable differences between a market premium on energy and capacity regarding wholesale prices, support levies and market values, which are all related to induced negative wholesale prices in case of the former. This comes along with overall higher welfare as it allows RTP consumers to increase their consumption in periods of high renewable availability. Moreover, increasing RTP shares also incurs higher welfare gains in case of a premium on energy, with the deployment-relevant group of consumers that switch from a flat-rate tariff to RTP benefiting most. Our analysis thus puts the widespread notion that higher market values are instrumental for the deployment of high shares of RES into perspective.
Q21|The burden of Germanyùs energy transition: An empirical analysis of distributional effects|Germanyùs energy transition has been accompanied by a near doubling of power prices for private households since the outset of the new millennium. Millions of poor households and those that are close to the poverty threshold are likely to suffer from the increase in electricity cost. Focusing on low-income households, this paper illustrates the distributional implications of Germanyùs energy transition by investigating their electricity cost burden between 2006 and 2012, using data from the German Residential Energy Consumption Survey (GRECS). Our estimates suggest that in 2012, on average, households at poverty risk allocated 5.5% of their income to power and, hence, paid nearly as much for covering their electricity consumption as for heating purposes. Given Germanyùs ambitious targets to expand the share of costly renewable technologies in electricity consumption, which has broad support among the electorate, it is to be expected that householdsù expenditure for power will increase in the upcoming years. This raises the urgent question of how to mitigate the regressive impact of further increasing electricity prices on poor households. Direct cash transfers are suggested here as a non-distortionary instrument for easing the burden of high prices, one that is directly targeted at those endangered by energy poverty.
Q21|Endogenous growth and property rights over renewable resources|We study how different regimes of access rights to renewable natural resources – namely open access versus full property rights – affect sustainability, growth and welfare in the context of modern endogenous growth theory. Resource exhaustion may occur under both regimes but is more likely to arise under open access. Moreover, under full property rights, positive resource rents increase expenditures on manufacturing goods and temporarily accelerate productivity growth, but also yield a higher resource price at least in the short-to-medium run. We characterize analytically and quantitatively the model׳s dynamics to assess the welfare implications of differences in property rights enforcement.
Q21|Short-term uncertainty in long-term energy system models — A case study of wind power in Denmark|When wind power constitutes a larger share of the electricity production mix, credible and reliable modelling of its operation in long-term investment models becomes increasingly important. In this paper the intermittent characteristics of wind power are modelled as a stochastic parameter in a long-term TIMES model of the Danish heat and electricity sector. To our knowledge, this is not a common approach in long-term investment models, and has not been done previously in TIMES, where the short-term uncertainty of wind power is normally taken into account by a deterministic constraint that ensures excess back-up capacity. In our model, the stochasticity gives lower total energy system costs, significant lower investments in wind power, less expected electricity export and higher expected biomass consumption compared to using the traditional deterministic approach. Also, the deterministic investment strategy can be insufficient in periods with poor wind conditions. Based on our findings, we recommend using a stochastic representation of intermittent renewables in long-term investment models to provide more solid results for decision makers.
Q21|Exploring the drivers' side of the “blend wall”: U.S. consumer preferences for ethanol blend fuels|Analysis of stated preferences from over 2300 U.S. respondents shows that general attitudes nationwide favor the use of ethanol as a motor fuel but a sizeable segment (~20%) indicated strong unwillingness to buy ethanol blend fuels. Results from a discrete choice experiment analyzed using mixed logit regressions show that, all else constant, price-per-gallon and miles-per-gallon dominated preferences for fuel attributes but ethanol content made the average consumer more likely to choose a blend fuel. Findings provide strong evidence of heterogeneity in preferences driven by attitudes but also affected by age and income. At a point of price per mile equivalence for ethanol and gasoline, in a market where gasoline, E20 and E85 were available with no regulatory, supply or technological constraints, E85 would dominate market share. In this case ethanol would account for 56% of volume of motor fuels consumed. Our results show a high level of consumer substitutability of gasoline with ethanol and willingness to choose high ethanol blend fuels – which could help expand ethanol use beyond the current regulatory and technological limits of the blend wall.
Q21|Multi-objective regulations on transportation fuels: Comparing renewable fuel mandates and emission standards|We compare two types of fuel market regulations — a renewable fuel mandate and a fuel emission standard — that could be employed to simultaneously achieve multiple outcomes such as reduction in fuel prices, fuel imports and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We compare these two types of regulations in a global context taking into account heterogeneity in carbon content of both fossil fuels and renewable fuels. We find that although neither the ethanol mandate nor the emission standard is certain to reduce emissions relative to a business-as-usual baseline, at any given level of biofuel consumption in the policy region, a mandate, relative to an emission standard, results in higher GHG emissions, smaller expenditure on fuel imports, lower price of ethanol-blended gasoline and higher domestic fuel market surplus. This result holds over a wide range of values of model parameters. We also discuss the implications of this result to a regulation such as the US Renewable Fuel Standard given recent developments within the US such as increase in shale and tight oil production and large increase in average vehicle fuel economy of the automotive fleet.
Q21|The cost of solar-centric renewable portfolio standards and reducing coal power generation using Arizona as a case study|This paper develops an econometric forecasting system of energy demand coupled with engineering-economic models of energy supply. The framework is used to quantify the impact of a state-level renewable portfolio standard (RPS) achieved predominately with solar generation. We perform the analysis using Arizona's RPS as a case study over the period 2012–2035. We find if Arizona implements its RPS when supplying future electricity demand, there will be an increase in electricity rates (relative to a business-as-usual scenario of reliance on gas-fired generation). Extending the current regime of tax credits greatly reduces this increase, at the taxpayers' expense. We find that by 2025 Arizona's RPS will implicitly abate carbon dioxide emissions at a cost between $58 and $82 per metric ton, and by 2035 abatement costs are between $22 and $69 per metric ton (depending on the future evolution of nature gas prices). The RPS always leads to a negative impact on social welfare under low gas prices, but after 2029 the welfare impact is positive under high gas prices. In contrast, phasing out Arizona's existing coal-fired generation always has positive welfare impacts.
Q21|Impact of policies and subsidies in agribusiness: The case of oil palm and biofuels in Colombia|We analyze the economic impacts of policies supporting biodiesel production in Colombia, such as subsidies and mandates for compulsory fuel mixtures. In the major biodiesel source being palm oil, we seek to establish the impact of these policies on oil palm producer incomes, prices and production levels of crude palm oil (CPO) and biodiesel, as well as the impacts on demand for land for oil palm plantation expansion.
Q21|The effects of renewables in space and time: A regime switching model of the Italian power price|Renewable energy production can exercise a downward pressure on electricity prices by partly crowding out conventional units characterized by higher marginal costs (merit order effect). Yet, congestion induced by renewables would partly offset the merit order effect in the congested zone, unless renewables reduce the need for imports and allow the emergence of prosumers. These congestion effects of renewables are hereby jointly tested with the merit order effect by means of an endogenous regime-switching model wherein a regime corresponds to the observable status (congested/non-congested) of the grid. The model is taken to data from the Italian power exchange, observed in 2012 and 2013, with a focus on the line connecting Sicily with the South zone, a frequent bottleneck in the Italian transmission grid. The results confirm the merit order effect previously detected in the literature and highlight a negative congestion effect, i.e. renewables relieve congestion from Sicily, a systematic importer, but not from the Italian peninsula (the exporting region). This effect is mainly driven by the wind power in-feed.
Q21|Determinants of China's lumber import: A bounds test for cointegration with monthly data|This paper estimates the long- and short-run demand equations for imported lumber based on classical production theory. Chinese monthly data from January 2000 to December 2013 are used. To account for the mixed integrated orders of variables and to control for the potential endogeneity, the bounds testing approach for cointegration is employed within an autoregressive distributed lag framework. The results show that there exists a long-run cointegrating relationship between China's lumber import and some specific explanatory variables. In the long run, the import demand is found to be elastic with respect to the lumber import price and a macroeconomic shifter at the 5% statistical level. Imported lumber seems to be a complement to other input factors, but the effect is not statistically significant. As expected, the short-run price and income elasticities are smaller in absolute terms than their long-run counterparts. The projection indicates China's future lumber imports will probably keep growing, but with a slower annual growth rate than observed in the past.
Q21|Are there multiple bubbles in the ethanol–gasoline price ratio of Brazil?|This paper tests for the existence of bubbles in the ethanol–gasoline price ratio in Brazil from 2000 to 2012 using right-tailed ADF tests. Results suggest the existence of two bubbles: one which has already burst (during the re-election of President Lula); and one which has been ongoing since 2010, thus corroborating empirical and anecdotal evidence in the Brazilian sugarcane industry. Freezing gasoline prices not only depressed ethanol prices but also depressed investments in new sugarcane crops and distillation plants.
Q21|Fossil fuels, alternative energy and economic growth|We present a theoretical framework that incorporates energy within an endogenous growth model. The model explicitly allows for the interaction and substitution between fossil fuels, defined as a non-renewable resource derived from some fixed initial stock, and alternative energy, defined as renewable resource whose production requires capital input. The dynamics of the model depict a unique balance growth to a steady state. The saddle path of consumption temporarily peaks, when fossil fuels are plentiful and cheap, followed by a fall, as fossil fuel become more scarce and alternative energy production has yet to take over, until finally the steady state is reached where alternative energy production fuels the entire economy.
Q21|Urban economic development, changes in food consumption patterns and land requirements for food production in China|Purpose - – The impact of dietary changes associated with urbanization is likely to increase the demand for land for food production. The purpose of this paper is to examine the impact of urban economic development on changes in food demand and associated land requirements for food production. Design/methodology/approach - – Based on economic estimates from the Almost Ideal Demand System, feed conversion ratios, and crop yields, the authors forecast and compare future dietary patterns and land requirements for two types of urban diets in China. Findings - – The results show that the expenditure elasticities of oil and fat, meat, eggs, aquatic products, dairy, and liquor for the diet of capital cities are greater than those for the diet of small- and medium-sized cities. The authors forecast that capital city residents will experience a more rapid rate of increase in per capita demand of meat, eggs, and aquatic products, which will lead to much higher per capita land requirements. Projections indicate that total per capita land demand for food production in capital cities will increase by 9.3 percent, from 1,402 to 1,533?m2 between 2010 and 2030, while total per capita land demand in small- and medium-sized cities will increase only by 5.3 percent, from 1,192 to 1,255?m2. Originality/value - – The results imply that urban economic development can significantly affect the final outcomes of land requirements for food production. Urban economic development is expected to accelerate the rate of change toward an affluent diet, which can lead to much higher future land requirements.
Q21|Governance and Images: Representations of Certified Southern Producers in High-Quality Design Markets|This article analyses the representational politics of global commodity networks, where certified forest products are produced and consumed, approaching them as complex forms of governance in which diverse actors, images, conventions and values interact. The study draws upon a case study of certified Honduran community forestry groups producing furniture and kitchenware for Danish design markets. Special focus is on the forms of negotiation and contestation through which the different actors mediate the representations and imagery circulating in the marketing of certified products and on their differential access to control and power. The research illustrates how leading retailers, in negotiation with environmental organisations, modify definitions of quality and guide consumers' expectations of certified southern forest products, by building images of southern community forest producers as authentic and exotic 'others'. The article concludes that certification as a market-based form of governance has had only limited impact on altering the unequal relationships characteristic of global networks of production and consumption.
Q21|Trade-off between water loss and water infrastructure quality: A cost minimization approach|In this paper, we focus on the issue of water loss caused by leakage from obsolete water mains. We develop in this theoretical paper, a cost minimization problem of a water utility that faces leakage from water mains. Our framework enables us to determine the optimal water main quality index according to different parameters such as the cost of water production, the quantity demanded and the cost of installing good quality water mains
Q21|Assessing sport brand value through use of the contingent valuation method|This work is a first attempt to estimate customer-based brand equity with the contingent valuation method (CVM) for a service-oriented product. We assess the value of a sport brand, IRONMAN triathlon, utilizing the CVM - one of the few available measures for estimating intangible product values. The equity of the IRONMAN brand was derived from consumersâ€™ perceptions, attitudes, and behaviours by asking consumers (i.e., triathletes who have experiences with IRONMAN and non-IRONMAN branded events) about their willingness to pay for an IRONMAN and generic non-IRONMAN triathlon events. We found (1) the presence of price premiums that sport consumers were willing to pay for the branded sport product and (2) the estimated brand equity value of approximately $102 million for IRONMAN Half-distance events, and $123 million for IRONMAN Full-distance event.
Q21|Trade-off between water loss and water infrastructure quality: A cost minimization approach|In this paper, we focus on the issue of water loss caused by leakage from obsolete water mains. We develop in this theoretical paper, a cost minimization problem of a water utility that faces leakage from water mains. Our framework enables us to determine the optimal water main quality index according to different parameters such as the cost of water production, the quantity demanded and the cost of installing good quality water mains.
Q21|Modelling Renewable Energy Economy in Ghana with Autometrics|Renewable energy consumption has been identified as a potential solution to the intermittent power supply in Ghana. Recently, a Renewable Energy Act has been passed which has a target of 10% of renewable energy component in Ghana’s energy mix by 2020. Whilst effort is been made to enhance supply through feed in tariffs, education and tax reduction on renewable energy related equipment, there is the need to understand the drivers of renewable energy demand. In this study, the general unrestricted model through Autometrics is used to estimate the determinants of renewable energy demand in Ghana. The results indicate that both economic factors and non-economic affect the demand for renewable energy. In addition, the underlying energy demand trend exhibits energy using behaviour. The study recommends that economic factors such as consumer subsidies should be considered when promoting renewable energy demand.
Q21|Investing in the cheapest form of energy: efficiency practices of SMEs in rural Ghana|Efficiency has been identified as the cheapest and cleanest source of fuel. Whilst effort has been made in the advanced countries to promote technology and efficiency, little is known about efficiency in emerging economies in Africa. The purpose of this study is to identify the energy efficiency practices of SMEs in rural Ghana and also examine the barriers to energy efficiency practices. First, a descriptive analysis was used to examine the barriers and energy efficiency indicators. Finally, autometrics is used to examine the relationship between energy efficiency and productivity at the aggregate level. The study finds that lack of information on energy efficiency practices is the most important barrier to energy efficiency. On the practices, methods such as putting off electrical appliances when not in use or when closed, using new electrical appliances and using less appliances to achieve the same goal are some of the common ones adopted by SMEs in rural Ghana. The study recommends that the Ghana Energy Commission should intensify its energy efficiency education and extend this to rural areas.
Q21|Oil – The Earth’s blood, a paper on how to recover its critical declining prices by using a hedge vaccine through a leading core of countries termed as VIRUS|This paper introduces the description of whom are the main concerns about the currently and critical decline of oil prices, and how this countries, named as VIRUS, could turn out to be a “vaccine” into resulting on a hedge to correct and return to economic viable prices on the commodity. It uses as methodology the acceptance of five main regions or countries as the main characters on the supply and demand of crude oil globally, using a hedge through observation of old prices through a sextic polynomial equation to determine the price to be used into an econometric equation to forecast the hedge price scenario that could help the recovery of the global oil prices at mid-term, taking also into consideration a possible decline over the shale gas demand of the USA due environment question over fracking
Q21|What Factors Drive Energy Consumption in Ghana?|Whilst most countries have drafted energy policies, the desired goals of these policies are not met. One reason may be the failure to distinguish between renewable and non-energy. The purpose of this study is to estimate the impact of economic and non-economic factors on renewable and non-renewable energy demand. The Structural Time Series Model is applied to renewable studies for the first time. The findings indicate that productivity growth and income are the major drivers of renewable and non-renewable energy consumption in Ghana. It is recommended that there should be more investments in productivity to help control non-renewable energy demand.
Q21|To pay or not to pay? Water bill and delay in payment in Bejaia (Algeria): A duration analysis|Efficient water management does not only involve effective water treatment and delivery to customer but also efficient billing and payment system to ensure financial sustainability. Delays in water bills payment are recognized as a major problem in developing countries but the reasons explaining these situations are scarcely addressed in the literature. To our knowledge, this paper is the first to address this issue.This article addresses this topic with Algeria as a case study. In this context, we identified from a literature review the factors that could affect time to water bill payment and we analyzed the effect of these factors on the time to bill payments through a Kaplan Meyer survival estimates approach. We applied this approach to two datasets, one including 27,363 household subscribers of Algerienne Des Eaux Company (ADE-Bejaia) located in Bejaia city and a second one that we collected in August 2008 made of 172 subscribers. Our results show that price is an explanatory factor in payment delays. A 10% increase in the average price generates a 4.8% increase in the average time to payment. In addition to economic factors, users’ dissatisfaction about service quality is a key element in our model.
Q21|Development and Land Acquisition in the View of Law and Economics|The marginal productivity theory determines the value of a land under ceteris peribus. Land price depends on economic opportunity, time and technology. Recently, development policy focuses on creation of economic opportunity that increases the demand for transferring land from primary to secondary or tertiary activities. Market mechanism is sufficient argument of distributive justice for land acquisition for development activity, but some time it fails. Landowners are heterogeneous in terms of knowledge, skill, risk preferences, attitudes, perception of future development benefits, etc. Incorporating the mind set of landowners, how do we assign the value of land and compensate for land transfer for developmental activities? This paper focuses on it with possible alternative viable solutions. There is good reason to insist on compensation of displaced landowners at market prices for distributive justice with economic efficiency. Given the heterogeneity in land valuations, the required compensation rates can be set at the market rate. But the role of income security is ignored in market mechanism. The role of complementarities of land with farming skills those are non-transferable that incorporate their concern for financial security, time preference, and pattern of skills. These concerns exhibited considerable diversity with a corresponding diversity of preferences over alternative forms of non-cash compensation. Hence a menu of alternative compensation packages ought to be offered, to cater to this diversity.
Q21|Применение Почвозащитных Технологий В Регионах, Подверженных Ветровой Эрозии: Механизмы Мотивации Собственников Земли<BR>[Application of soil protection technologies in regions prone to wind erosion: mechanisms for motivating landowners]|The purpose is to reveal the factors of motivations of the agricultural enterprises and certain farmers in the course of application of the nature preservation technologies; the priority of protection the natural resources in motivation of farmers; to develop a technique of studying the social and economic mechanisms of use of the soil-protective systems. The novelty consists in complex studying of motivation of rural producers by means of the technique considering macro-social and micro-social factors of application of the nature preservation technologies for the regions subject to wind erosion of soils (Kazakhstan, the Volga region, Siberia, etc.). The results are as follows: the policy in the sphere of the nature preservation technologies has to consider the factors influencing the choice of decisions regarding the use of technologies. Among the factors are demographic situation, poverty level, the state policy, measure of sensibleness of the carried-out actions, access to information, and economic efficiency for the economic entity. The action program directed on formation of the social and economic mechanism, pricing, subsidies and trade policy in agriculture has been proposed, as well as creations of the monitoring system of soils condition, consumption of fertilizers, pesticides, soil cover and the ground waters. The scope of results is the following: professional communities, state authorities, municipalities, scientific and research and educational institutions.
Q21|La spada di Damocle malthusiana<BR>[The Sword of Malthusian Damocles]|Food demand appears to be steadily increasing, as a function of population growth and income. These levels of consumption, never seen in the past, project the world into unknown scenarios, soon called to test the validity of Malthus law and its consequences. While questioning the capacity of supply to meet demand, agriculture is the main factor in the development of the economy. This leads to outline the main evolutionary motives of food consumption, which will increasingly exert their influence on the planet.
Q21|Enhancing Agricultural Productivity of CLMV Countries: Challenges and Agenda for Reforms|Responding positively to economic reforms, the economies of Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Myanmar, and Viet Nam (CLMV) have shown tremendous growth since the mid-1980s, including in their respective agriculture sectors. Recent developments, however, have brought into question the CLMV countries’ ability to sustain further increases in agricultural productivity given the slow pace of reforms and emerging challenges. Going forward, the reform agenda must go beyond the traditional view of expanding yields and supply of agricultural products for development gains in the sector to contribute to inclusive growth, poverty alleviation, and food security. This will require changing the market structures and regulatory policies that govern the sector.
Q21|The environmental setting, farming activities and rural accommodation prices|The objective of this study is to analyze how the characteristics of the environment associated with agricultural activities influence the prices of rural tourism accommodation. To this end the model of hedonic prices is applied, which allows to break down the price of a good or service depending on the characteristics that it entails, including those of its environment. The study is carried out in the autonomous community of Asturias. The results indicate that the market values positively accommodation establishments located in municipalities with a high percentage of forests and pastureland, and negatively those located in municipalities with a high percentage of cultivated land. The study serves as a starting point for cost-benefit analysis of the policies aimed to promote activities that will improve the rural environment.
Q21|Analysis of the Potential of New Renewable Energy and Energy Saving Measures on the Buildings for Green City|Climate change has become one of the most significant environmental issues, and each country makes an effort to reduce energy consumption in the building level. New renewable energy system (NREs) and energy saving measures (ESMs) are the solution for reducing energy consumption. Therefore, in this study, to understand the energy demand of the unit city, the feasibility analysis of NREs and ESMs, was conducted as the following three steps: (i) collecting database of Seoul, by type of energy used, and the type of facilities; (ii) the analysis on the implementation requirements of NREs and ESMs; and (iii) feasibility study for application of NREs and ESMs using a geographic information system. The differentiation with previous studies, it can be fed back to the plan of the urban energy system including community energy service, distributed generation and unused energy in the city.
Q21|Welfare Effects of Water Pricing in Germany|The observed two-part tariff price structure (consisting of a lump-sum price and linear marginal price) for drinking water in Germany does not reflect the cost structure reported in the literature. Recovering marginal costs from a sample of 251 German counties, we see that there are positive price-cost margins, while lump-sum prices are too low. A price structure readjustment along welfare economic principles (marginal cost pricing, lump-sum price ensures cost-recovery) would increase the mean consumer surplus by 0.037% of the local GDP or €2.129 million per county, assuming a share of 15% variable costs in total costs.
Q21|On the emissions-inequality trade-off in energy taxation: Evidence on the German car fuel tax|By using estimates from an Almost Ideal Demand System (AIDS), we investigate how the German energy tax on car fuels changes the private households-CO2 emissions, living standards, and post-tax income distribution. Our results show that the tax implies a trade-off between the aim to reduce emissions and vertical equity, which refers to the idea that people with a greater ability to pay taxes should pay more.
Q21|The Dynamic Efficiency Costs of Common-Pool Resource Exploitation|We conduct the first empirical investigation of common-pool resource users' dynamic and strategic behavior at the micro level using real-world data. Fishermen's strategies in a fully dynamic game account for latent resource dynamics and other players' actions, revealing the profit structure of the fishery. We compare the fishermen's actual and socially optimal exploitation paths under a time-specific vessel allocation policy and find a sizable dynamic externality. Individual fishermen respond to other users by exerting effort above the optimal level early in the season. Congestion is costly instantaneously but is beneficial in the long run because it partially offsets dynamic inefficiencies. (JEL D24, Q21, Q22)
Q21|The Ethics of Efficient Markets and Commons Tragedies: A Review of John Broome's Climate Matters: Ethics in a Warming World|What are the ethical implications of our contributions to global warming on an individual level? In his extended essay, John Broome analyzes the moral implications of our imposing damages on future generations through our greenhouse-gas emissions. He argues that we as individuals owe restitution to those who are in the future damaged by these unjust acts. He suggests that restitution can be accomplished by completely offsetting emissions and thereby having a zero carbon footprint. This review examines the force of his arguments and suggests that off-setting emissions on an individual basis is an imperfect substitute for collective action or more encompassing contributions to those hurt by our externalities. (JEL D63, Q21, Q54, Q58)
Q21|Do Increasing Block Rate Water Budgets Reduce Residential Water Demand? A Case Study in Southern California| This study investigates the effect of introducing a fiscally neutral increasing block-rate water budget price structure on residential water demand. We estimate that demand was reduced by at least 18 percent, although the reduction was achieved gradually over more than three years. As intermediate steps the study derives estimates of price and income elasticities that rely only on longitudinal variability. We investigate how different subpopulations responded to the pricing change and find evidence that marginal, rather than average, prices may be driving consumption. Additionally, we derive alternative rate structures that might have been implemented, and assess the estimated demand effects of those rate structures.
Q21|Biofuels and Vertical Price Transmission: The Case of the U.S. Corn, Ethanol, and Food Markets|This is the first paper to analyze the impact of biofuels on the price transmission along the food chain. We analyze the U.S. corn sector and its vertical links with food and ethanol (energy) markets. We find that biofuels affect the price transmission elasticity in the food chain compared to a no biofuel production situation but the effect depends on the source of the market shock and the policy regime: the price transmission elasticity declines under a binding blender’s tax credit and a food market shock. Our results also indicate that the response of corn and food prices to shocks in the corn and/or food markets is lower in the presence of biofuels. Finally, the sensitivity analyses indicate that our results are robust to different assumptions about the model parameters.
Q21|Mesures de compensation écologique : risques ou opportunités pour le foncier agricole ?|[paper in French] Compensation measures require a developer to offset the negative effects of the project. Two types of approaches are possible. The first one is based on the compensation claim: in this case the developer looks for surfaces on which he can offset its grip. The second focuses on offering compensation: in this approach the service provider secures land through acquisition or long term contracts. We describe the game rules and procedures for the implementation of ecological compensation, and we emphasize the need for consistency of these measures with land based policies. The property aspects, the concept of expectation and the consultation with the agricultural sector are for us the main determinants of the effectiveness of such measures.
Q21|Wärmemonitor Deutschland 2013: gesunkener Heizenergiebedarf, gestiegene Kosten|The heating market plays a key role in achieving the Federal Government’s energy and climate policy objectives. In particular, major savings need to be made in heating residential buildings if the majority of buildings are to be climate-neutral by 2050. In light of this, DIW Berlin and ista Deutschland GmbH have created an up-to-date data basis that is based on the heating energy bills of apartment blocks in Germany. Significant savings were achieved between 2003 and 2013. Demand for area-specific heating energy in Multifamily buildings throughout Germany fell by around 16 percent. Given developments in recent years and the continuing increases in floor space, however, the Federal Government’s medium-term and, in particular, long-term objectives require significantly greater savings. Nevertheless, decreasing energy demand does not necessarily lead to lower heating costs. The reason for this is largely a rise in oil prices which, on average, has actually overcompensated for energy savings. Given these circumstances, energy-efficiency upgrades to buildings not only provide insurance against soaring energy prices but are also an important long-term tool for maintaining real estate marketability. There are also differences in regional developments: while heating energy demand in the East German states is lower on average, savings in the West German states are more dynamic. Individual regions, for example, in southern Germany, have made substantial progress. The pattern of heating costs varies from region to region. Households in some parts of the East German states and in rural areas, where fuel oil is used more frequently, have higher energy costs. Der Wärmemarkt spielt eine zentrale Rolle für die Erreichung der energie- und klimapolitischen Ziele der Bundesregierung. Insbesondere bei der Raumwärme in Wohngebäuden müssen große Einsparerfolge erzielt werden, wenn bis 2050 ein weitgehend klimaneutraler Gebäudebestand erreicht werden soll. Vor diesem Hintergrund hat das DIW Berlin gemeinsam mit der ista Deutschland GmbH eine aktuelle Datengrundlage geschaffen, die auf Heizenergieabrechnungen von Mehrfamilienhäusern in Deutschland basiert. Zwischen 2003 und 2013 wurden deutliche Einsparungen realisiert. Deutschlandweit sank der flächenspezifische Heizenergiebedarf von Mehrfamilienhäusern um knapp 16 Prozent. In Anbetracht der Entwicklungen der letzten Jahre und der sich weiter vergrößernden Wohnfläche erfordern die Ziele der Bundesregierung mittel- und vor allem langfristig jedoch noch deutlich größere Einsparungen. Der gesunkene Energiebedarf spiegelt sich allerdings nicht in niedrigeren Heizkosten wider. Grund hierfür sind insbesondere deutlich gestiegene Heizölpreise, die die Einsparungserfolge im Durchschnitt sogar überkompensieren. Vor diesem Hintergrund stellen energetische Sanierungsmaßnahmen nicht nur eine Versicherung gegen steigende Energiepreise dar, sondern sind langfristig auch ein wichtiges Instrument, um die Marktfähigkeit einer Immobilie zu erhalten. Regional zeigen sich differenzierte Entwicklungen: Während in den neuen Bundesländern der Heizenergiebedarf im Durchschnitt niedriger ist, weisen die alten Ländern eine höhere Dynamik bei den Einsparungen auf. Einzelne Regionen, beispielsweise in Süddeutschland, haben besonders große Fortschritte erzielt. Bei den Heizkosten zeigt sich ein abweichendes regionales Muster. In Teilen der neuen Länder und in einigen ländlichen Regionen, in denen Heizöl eine relativ hohe Bedeutung hat, müssen Haushalte höhere Energiekosten tragen.
Q21|Urbanization and renewable and non-renewable energy consumption in OECD countries: An empirical analysis|This article aims to analyse the impact of urbanization on renewable and non-renewable energy consumption in OECD countries by using the STIRPAT model and data for the period of 1980 to 2011. Demographic factors including total population, urbanization and population density are found to be significant factors, particularly with respect to non-renewable energy consumption. The results also reveal that while total population and urbanization positively influence non-renewable energy consumption, population density has a negative impact on non-renewable energy consumption. From the demographic factors only total population has a significant impact on renewable energy consumption. Granger causality results indicate that there is unidirectional causality from non-renewable energy use to population density in the short run. However, no causal linkage is found between urbanization and non-renewable energy use. Likewise, no causal direction is seen between renewable energy use and any of the demographic factors.
Q21|Biomass feedstock contracts: Role of land quality and yield variability in near term feasibility|In the absence of an infrastructure for the harvest, storage and purchase of cellulosic biomass, contracting is an important mechanism through which biorefineries can ensure adequate feedstock supply. We develop an optimization model to assess the economic potential of dedicated energy crops when profit-maximizing farmers allocate croplands of varying quality toward biomass in response to multi-year contracts. We evaluate the economic competitiveness of perennial grasses with traditional commodity crops, in a case study of switchgrass production in Tennessee. Assuming short-term contracts, we consider the importance of payment structure, land quality, energy crop yield and projected commodity crop returns on a farmer's decision to accept a contract for biomass production. We find that a wholesale contract, in which the farmer is guaranteed a price per unit biomass, is most effective on the highest quality of land, while a contract in which the farmer is guaranteed a price per acre is most effective on lower quality land. From the biorefinery perspective, a wholesale contract is most effective for short-term contracts while an acreage contract is most effective for long-term contracts. Breakeven pricing will only secure feedstock from farmers who produce commodity crops with unfavorable price outlooks on lower quality land; therefore, the contract price must include a premium in order to compete for space in the crop mix. The yield profile of energy crops has a significant effect on the terms at which short-term contracts will be accepted and land allocated toward feedstock production. The extent to which energy crop yields observed in field trials can be maintained at commercial scale also has a substantial effect on the scale at which farmers would be willing to participate in energy crop production.
Q21|Renewable and non-renewable energy consumption and economic activities: Further evidence from OECD countries|This article examines the dynamic relationship between renewable and non-renewable energy consumption and industrial output and GDP growth in OECD countries using data over the period of 1980–2011. The panel cointegration technique allowing structural breaks is used for empirical investigation. The results show that there is a long-term equilibrium relationship among non-renewable and renewable energy sources, industrial output and economic growth. The panel causality analyses show bidirectional causality between industrial output and both renewable and non-renewable energy consumption in the short and long run. However, there is evidence of bidirectional short-run relationship between GDP growth and non-renewable energy consumption while unidirectional causality between GDP growth and renewable energy consumption. These results indicate that OECD economies still remain energy-dependent for their industrial output as well as overall economic growth. However, expansion of renewable energy sources is a viable solution for addressing energy security and climate change issues, and gradually substituting renewable to non-renewable energy sources could enhance a sustainable energy economy.
Q21|Efficiency assessment of hydroelectric power plants in Canada: A multi criteria decision making approach|Hydropower plays a major role in the Canadian electricity generation industry. Few attempts have been made, however, to assess the efficiency of hydropower generation in Canada. This paper analyzes the overall efficiency of hydropower generation in Canada from comprehensive viewpoints of electricity generating capability, its profitability, as well as environmental benefits and social responsibility using the TOPSIS (the Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution) method. The factors that influence the efficiency of the hydropower generation are also presented to help to the sustainable hydropower production in Canada. The most important results of this study concern (1) the pivotal roles of energy saving and of the social responsibility in the overall efficiency of hydropower corporates and (2) the lower hydropower generation efficiency of some of the most important economic regions in Canada. Other results reveal that the overall efficiency of hydropower generation in Canada experienced an improvement in 2012, following a downtrend from 2005 to 2011. Amidst these influencing factors, energy saving and social responsibility are key factors in the overall efficiency scores while management (defined herein by the number of employees and hydropower stations of a corporation) has only a slightly negative impact on the overall efficiency score.
Q21|Global impacts of Russian log export restrictions and the Canada–U.S. lumber dispute: Modeling trade in logs and lumber|Forest product trade analysis is complicated by the inter-relationships among forest products. This paper deals with the development and application of an integrated log-lumber trade model that divides the globe into 20 regions. These regions play a significant role as producers and/or consumers of coniferous logs and softwood lumber. The model is calibrated using positive mathematical programming (PMP) so that the baseline scenario precisely duplicates observed 2010 bi-lateral trade flows of both logs and lumber. The calibrated model is then used to examine (1) liberalization of Russian log export taxes and (2) removal of the export restrictions on Canadian lumber exports to the United States. By permitting expanded log exports, Russian welfare increases by $2.3billion, with losses to lumber consumers and producers more than covered by the gain in rents to timber land. However, the impacts on other regions in the model are surprisingly small. Likewise, removal of the export tax on Canadian lumber to the U.S. also leads to very small changes in welfare; Canada gains $91.8million, but the U.S. loses only $16million as it shifts lumber sales from domestic to export markets. Russia loses $485million because it produces less logs and lumber, while the impact on other regions is imperceptible. Clearly, by modeling logs and lumber together, the overall impacts of forest policies in one region are mitigated at the global scale.
Q21|Estimating the value of additional wind and transmission capacity in the rocky mountain west|The expansion of wind-generation in the United States poses significant challenges to policy-makers, particularly because wind's intermittency and unpredictability can exacerbate problems of congestion on a transmission-constrained grid. Understanding these issues is necessary if optimal development of wind energy and transmission is to occur. This paper applies a model that integrates the special concerns of electricity generation to empirically consider the challenges of developing wind resources in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Given the lack the high frequency data needed to address the special problems of intermittency and congestion, our solution is to create a dispatch model of the region and to use simulations to generate the necessary data, then use this data to understand patterns that have occurred as wind resources have been developed.
Q21|L’accettabilità delle innovazioni nella filiera lattiero casearia: un’analisi tramite la metodologia Q sort|"This work illustrates the acceptability of innovations in the Italian dairy supply chain. The research is part of a larger study financed by the EU Commission (EU-FP7 SOLID - ""Sustainable Organic and Low-Input Dairying"") aimed at optimising the financial, agronomic and nutritional aspects of the organic and low input dairy sector. Several studies demonstrate how the development and the adoption of innovations are critical in improving and increasing the competitiveness of the supply chains (es. Stewart-Knox & Mitchell, 2003). In this work, the Q methodology was applied to investigate the innovation acceptability to organic and low input dairy supply chain members (Consumers, Farmers and Retailers & Processors). The aim was to identify and analyse different and common opinions of the Q participants. The results showed two different perspectives. The first one is a ‘sustainable’ view, shared by the majority of participants to the Q study; the second one is more practical, and mostly adopted by farmers. Some methodological and strategic implications are also presented in detail."
Q21|Energy Storage and Renewable Energy|I consider an economy with fossil fuel and renewable energy and energy storage, and search for the conditions that lead to welfare improvements when energy is stored. I then solve for the optimal decision rule and analyze the long-run tendencies of the economy-energy variables. The findings are threefold. First, energy storage is fostered by the convexity of the marginal utility (prudence), the marginal cost function for fossil fuel energy, and the degree of intermittency. Second, considering a low penetration of renewable energy to the power grid, energy storage is not welfare improving if the fossil fuel energy cost function is linear. Third, energy storage creates an added value to renewable energy investments when actively used. By showing the in uence that energy storage can have on energy generation and investment decisions, I hope that the current work can be in uential in a more generous treatment of energy supply in future energy-economy-climate models.
Q21|Inefficiencies in residential use of energy - A critical overview of literature and energy efficiency policies in EU and Sweden|A rather large literature argue that firms and households do not improve energy efficiency by investing in new technology despite that is cost-effective to do so. If this is the case people would be able to reduce their energy bills and spend their money on more pleasurable things. We argue that the so-called energy efficiency gap to some extent is a numerical artifact that can be explained by heterogeneity within the frames of rational choice not captured in the calculations of average cost-effectiveness of various measures to improve energy efficiency. In this paper we have reviewed the theoretical and empirical literature on the energy efficiency gap and provided a rational for policy makers to act on improving energy efficiency. By eliminating market failures, welfare can be improved in a broad sense, including both environmental quality and material welfare. Social ‘nudges’ are an example of policy instruments which does not directly target any market failure in energy markets, but still may have a significant impact on energy use. As social ‘nudges’ do not restrict choices available to consumers such ‘nudges’ can be considered as least-cost instruments, given they have persistent and desirable effects on energy demand.
Q21|En elmarknad i förändring - Är kundernas flexibilitet till salu eller ens verklig?|Energifrågorna står högt upp på de politiska agendorna världen över. Förnybar energi, energieffektivisering och smarta elnät är politiska ledord i de strategier som dras upp för framtidens elmarknader. Smarta elnät är ”jokern i leken” som sägs möjliggöra för både mer förnybar energi och energieffektivisering. Begreppet smarta elnät inbegriper bland annat en digitalisering av elsystemet som förbättrar kommunikationen mellan elmarknadens parter. Möjligheten att förmedla information i realtid underlättar för en ökad efterfrågeflexibilitet, dvs. en ökad respons på prissignaler eller annan information till elkunderna. En åtgärd som ofta lyfts fram som en central åtgärd på elmarknaden är en bred övergång till timprissättning, i syfte att stimulera elkonsumenter att förändra sina förbrukningsmönster. För att timprissättning ska fungera effektivt måste prisförändringar kunna förmedlas direkt till elkunderna (eller till deras maskiner och apparater) för att de i sin tur ska kunna anpassa sin elkonsumtion vid rätt tillfälle. Ett antal studier har också visat att timprissättning påverkar hushållens elkonsumtion (Faruqui och Sergici, 2013). I ett relativt stort amerikanskt fältexperiment fann man dock att timprissättning inte främst leder till att hushåll flyttar om sin elanvändning över tid utan att de snarare drar ner på elförbrukningen i högpristimmar (Allcott, 2011a). I en italiensk studie där hushållen påtvingades dynamisk prissättning fann man dock det omvända, dvs. att elförbrukningen ökade (Torriti, 2012). En kritik som riktats mot de studier som utvärderat pilotprojekt med timprissättning är att de medverkande hushållen vanligtvis frivilligt valt timprisavtal och att dessa hushåll inte är representativa för befolkningen i övrigt (Goulden m.fl., 2014). Om så är fallet kan det innebära att de potentialer för efterfrågeflexibilitet som påvisats har överskattats, dvs. hushåll som valt timprisavtal är mer medvetna om sin elanvändning och mer priskänsliga. Förutom möjlighet till timprissättning kan smarta elnät också ge ökade möjligheter till uppföljning och utvärdering av enskilda elkunders elanvändning, t.ex. via s.k. energitjänsteföretag, vilket kan bidra till energibesparingar. Förväntningarna på smarta elnät är således stora. Kunskapen är dock förhållandevis liten om hur flexibla elkunder är och kommer att vara i framtiden och vilka faktorer som driver den enskilde elkonsumentens beteende. Det övergripande syftet med föreliggande rapport är att bidra med ökad kunskap om elkonsumenternas beteende och vilka möjligheter och drivkrafter som finns för att förändra rådande konsumtionsmönster. Mer specifikt är huvudsyftet att kvalitativt och kvantitativt belysa och analysera hur flexibla elkonsumenter är och vad som krävs för att enskilda konsumenter skall förändra sina konsumtionsmönster. Den metod vi använder i den kvantitativa analysen för detta syfte är ett så kallat ”valexperiment”. Utgångspunkten i experimentet är att människor väljer det mest tilltalande alternativet då de ställs inför ett antal hypotetiska alternativ relaterade till sin energianvändning. Metoden, som baseras på individ/hushållsdata, är vedertagen och möjliggör en värdering av enskilda produkt- eller avtalsattribut, t.ex. en bils säkerhet eller komfort, till skillnad från en värdering av hela produkten (bilen). Med hjälp av experimentet kan vi således studera när, hur och till vilken kostnad vi kan förvänta oss flexibilitet hos elkunderna. En annan fördel med metoden är att den omfattar alla typer av elkunder och därmed inte baseras på självselektion. Som ett led i att uppnå rapportens huvudsyfte belyses först hur svenska hushålls elförbrukning i dagsläget varierar över dygnet, veckan och året. Därefter studeras hur det kan skilja sig åt mellan olika typer av hushåll, samt hur stora de ekonomiska incitamenten kan vara för att styra om elförbrukningen. För detta ändamål används förbrukningsdata på hushålls- och apparatnivå. Ett annat delsyfte med rapporten är att ge en översiktlig bild av kunskapsläget vad gäller elkonsumenters beteende. Politiken på området, som syftar till att effektivisera elanvändningen och förändra konsumtionsmönster, har hittills fokuserat på prisstyrmedel och krav på energiprestanda. Nyare akademisk litteratur visar dock att hur vi använder el, och hur mycket, är relaterat till vilken information hushållen har om sin egen och andras elkonsumtion (se t.ex. Allcott, 2011b). Detta skapar möjligheter att påverka konsumtionsbeteenden med riktade informationsinsatser, vilket underlättas med ny teknik. Det kan exempelvis handla om att ge konsumenterna ytterligare information om hur man kan minska sin elförbrukning, eller hur man kan förändra konsumtionsmönster över tid. Förutom att ligga till grund för den senare analysen är ett delsyfte med rapporten således att redogöra för kunskapsläget inom detta område, men även att analysera konsumenternas attityder till att erhålla och dela med sig av information. I nästa avsnitt, avsnitt 2, ges en allmän bakgrundsbeskrivning till rapportens syfte. I avsnitt 3 redogörs för hushållens konsumtionsmönster över tid och vilka besparingar man potentiellt kan göra genom förändrad konsumtion över dygnet. I samband med detta diskuteras även val av elavtal. I avsnitt 4 ges en översiktlig genomgång av tankar och idéer från den akademiska litteraturen kring vilka faktorer som påverkar hushållens elanvändning. I samband med detta diskuteras även möjliga policy-instrument som är tillgängliga för att styra den totala elförbrukning såväl som hur och när förbrukningen sker. Det presenteras även resultat från en enkätundersökning gällande hur svenska hushåll ser på information kring sin egen och andras elförbrukning. I avsnitt 5 redogörs för olika åtgärder som kan användas för att skapa efterfrågeflexibilitet. I avsnitt 6 presenteras och analyseras det valexperiment som genomförts. Slutligen, i avsnitt 7, sammanfattas resultaten och slutsatserna samtidigt som möjliga policyimplikationer relaterade till förändrade konsumtionsmönster diskuteras.
Q21|The Role Of Small Farms In Romanian Rural Areas|Small-sized farms have a significant share in Romania’s agriculture, as a result of the specificity of land restitution to former owners in the early 1990s. Although the total number of agricultural holdings in Romania has decreased by almost half a million in the last decade, it remains one of the highest in the EU countries and reveals the social, subsistence character of a large part of agricultural holdings. The paper attempts to evaluate the situation of small farm sector restructuring after applying Measure 141 referring to the support to semi-subsistence farms from NRDP 2007-2013 and the national Life Annuity scheme. At the same time, starting from the Commission’s proposal for the post-2013 period on the support to small farms under the form of a lump sum payment ranging from 500 to 1000 euro, a series of calculation variants are made in order to see whether this measure would be financially attractive for the small-sized farms in Romania. The main conclusion of the study could be that the process of small farm consolidation and its integration into the market economy structures would be quite slow, due to the extremely large number of small farms and to their safety net role for the extremely poor rural population, whose survival depends on the operation of the small plot of land into ownership.
Q21|Segmenting And Profiling The Cultural Tourism Market For An Island Destination|"Culture is an important part of the tourism product and is one of the variables that can increase the attractiveness and the competitiveness of a tourism destination. Cultural tourism covers all aspects of travel and provides an opportunity for visitors to learn about a destinationâ€™s history and way of life. However, the size and importance of cultural tourism for specific destinations is still a matter of some debate. Some suggest that it is difficult to truly document the size of the cultural tourism market due to the issues of defining a ""cultural tourist."" This paper examines the magnitude and significance of cultural tourism for Prince Edward Island, a major Canadian tourist destination. In doing so, the paper segments and profiles the tourism market, and identifies distinguishing trip characteristics. Based on the research, two segments of travelers, based on cultural related activities, are clearly evident. The results indicate that culture-seeking tourists and other interest tourists are significantly different in terms of many travel variables, and particularly in spending patterns. For the destination studied, the extra economic impact associated with cultural visitors is substantial due to three factors: a closer personal connection to the destination, a longer overall length of stay, and higher per person per night spending."
Q21|Oilseeds, Vegetable Oils and Protein Meals World Markets|The world markets of oil crops products have been in good position during 2013/2014 season, with increased supply, reflecting a more rapid increase of world production in comparison with world demand as well as increased stocks, both in case of the oilseeds and vegetable oils and protein meals. International prices as averages for the first half of the season have moved on a generally downward trend.As to the future evolution on these markets, the actual estimates on the supply/demand balance suggest, at least on short term, and in the absence of unforeseen factors, the continuation of present trends Ã®n the movement of prices.
Q21|The Trends and Long-Term Scenarios in EU and the Member States Concerning Renewable Energy|In the past 20 years the European Union has been working continually to promote green energy. Renewable energy has a number of social, economic and environmental benefits. A major advantage of using renewable energy is that it has a low environmental impact, therefore, can support growth on a sustainable basis. The study analyzes the EU progress and long-term trends and scenarios in the field of renewable resources. It also presents the experience of other Member States and their green energy orientations. This can be for Romania an example to promote an energy policy that ensures a permanent balance between security of supply, competitiveness and economic viability and the last, but not the least environment protection.
Q21|Microeconometric Analysis of Residential Water Demand|This paper develops a structural model for obtaining price elasticities and evaluating consumer’s response to changes in nonlinear tariffs when only panel data on household consumption are available. The model and the empirical strategy address problems implied by nonlinear tariffs, existence of a fixed cost, and use of limited data, giving rise to a random effects model with a nonlinear individual effect. Results show that the estimated model does well at fitting data and demand is inelastic, although elasticity varies by initial consumption block. Then, I estimate welfare consequences of implementing several demand policies. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q21|Maintaining the Common Pool: Voluntary Water Conservation in Response to Varying Scarcity|Studies of voluntary conservation response to changing information about an environmental problem have traditionally been synonymous with studies of information campaign effectiveness. As such, they have not been able to capture the response to actual changes in the environment. This paper takes a novel approach to identifying voluntary conservation by studying the impact of changing storage levels on urban water usage in the context of a prolonged drought and a highly ’water aware’ community. Our results suggest that voluntary conservation increases substantially when water is scarce and the public value of the savings is greatest. We discuss the implications of these findings for our understanding of environmental information campaigns in general, and urban water demand management in particular. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q21|The curse of low-valued recycling|Abstract This paper discusses how to deal with low-valued recyclable wastes whose reprocessing itself does not pay financially. While such a recycling activity can potentially improve social welfare if the social costs associated with their disposal are sufficiently significant, governmental policies to promote recycling may lead to illegal disposal. Explicitly considering the monitoring cost in preventing firms from disposing of collected wastes illicitly, we show that the second-best policy for a low-valued recyclable is either one of the two following schemes: a deposit-refund scheme (DRS) that gives birth to a recycling market and an advanced-disposal fee that does not create a recycling market. However, in order to select the optimal policy scheme and implement it appropriately, a policymaker needs information available only in the recycling market. Thus, the structure of the second-best policy itself entails critical information issues in its implementation, which is in stark contrast to a DRS for a non-low-valued recyclable.
Q21|Determinants of the Forest property management in Poland|The article discusses the problem of the management of the forest real estate in Poland. The main focus has been put on the properties owned by The State Treasury and administered by The State Forests National Forest Holding. The purpose of the article was to define the economic challenges of effective forest property management which does not involve completion of statutory duties. In addition, the basic institutional and legal barriers to the effective management of property entrusted with authorized entities have been identified.
Q21|Biofuels and vertical price transmission: the case of the U.S. corn, ethanol and food markets| This is the first paper to analyze the impact of biofuels on the price transmission along the food chain. Specifically, we analyze the U.S. corn sector and its vertical links to food and ethanol markets. The key result of this paper is that the presence of biofuels affects the price transmission elasticity only when the blender's tax credit is binding and the shock originates in the food market. Our another important result is that the response of corn and food prices to exogenous shocks in the corn or food markets is always lower in the presence of biofuels when the tax credit is binding. However, the results are mixed for the binding mandate. The sensitivity analyses indicate that our results are robust to different assumptions about the model parameters.
Q21|Land allocation in subsistence economies and intra-familial time-use decisions|Classical household theory predicts that adolescents facing a developed labour market should invest in formal education. In contrast, it is obvious that adolescents in subsistence economies should choose learning-by-doing approaches to working on the family farm. However, it is unclear what determines optimal education choices among societies in transition from subsistence to labour-market integration. While education is generally the basic condition to enter the labour market, access to land represents an important asset in subsistence farming. This paper argues that intra-household time use and education â€“ that is, time spent learning outside the family farm â€“ is influenced by the way land is transferred from one generation to the next. We use a dichotomous approach assuming that land is either transferred by bequest or by a formal land board. These two methods represent the extremes of a scale that considers personal relations and reliance on certified abilities as the basis for land allocation. This paper provides a theoretical analysis of how anticipated bequests and asset transfers from other sources influence trade-offs between work on the family farm and other time-use options. We discuss the effects using a case study from the Okavango
Q21|Water, Food, Energy: Searching for the Economic Nexus|Water, food and energy (WFE) are strongly interconnected: each depends on the other for a lot of concerns, spanning from guaranteeing access to services, to environmental, social and ethical impact issues, to price relations. Using daily data spanning from November 2001 to May 2013 we empirically analyze the volatility spillovers and the dynamic conditional correlation between the WFE prices using a multivariate GARCH method. We then apply a multifactor market model based on the theory of Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) with the aim to analyze the impact of agriculture and energy price trends on the share price value of exchange-listed companies that derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the potable and wastewater industry. Results highlight the existences of a financial nexus between WFE that is particular exacerbate during finance turbulence. Understanding price dynamics is relevant both to water, agriculture and energy policy makers and to investors, since it influences information dissemination, price discovery, efficient allocation of resources, hedging and portfolio optimization.
Q21|The Value of Heterogeneous Property Rights and the Costs of Water Volatility|The system of prior appropriation in the Western Unites States prioritizes property rights for water based on the establishment of beneficial use, creating a hierarchy where rights initiated first are more secure. I estimate the demand for security in water rights through their capitalization in agricultural property markets using spatially explicit water rights data in the Yakima River Basin, a major watershed in Washington State. The Yakima River watershed, like many Western watersheds, satisfies all water claims during an average year so the benefits of secure water rights stem from protection against water curtailment during drought years. Thus the relative value of secure property rights is a function of water supply volatility because the costs of droughts are predominantly born by those with weak rights. Bayesian model averaging and boundary discontinuity specifications of the hedonic price model indicate that the premium for more secure water rights is not statistically different from zero.
Q21|High Power Two- Stage Class-AB/J Power Amplifier with High Gain and Efficiency|This paper presents a hybrid Broadband power amplifier which provides high drain efficiency. AB and J, Two Classes of power amplifier are described using GaN HEMT with matching networks together with input and output compact elements. Using Load Pull method, the best input and output network in the central frequency of 3GHz for output power of 40dBm, 10dB high gain and high efficiency of 80%, has been designed. After describing the design of each of the amplifiers and comparing their performance, the proposed circuit, two-class AB/J are discussed to be the target of the circuit design, reducing the input power to achieve high efficiency output power and gain. Input and output matching proposed circuit elements in terms of theory and simulation are compared, and the results of both investigations were similar. Also, the fundamental harmonic and the second harmonic in the 0.5GHz bandwidth have the desirable amplitude of the output signal.
Q21|Mesures de compensation écologique : risques ou opportunités pour le foncier agricole ?| Compenser revient à équilibrer un effet par un autre : les mesures de compensation obligent un aménageur à compenser les effets négatifs de son projet. Deux types d’approches sont envisagées, la première est fondée sur la demande de compensation, dans ce cas l’aménageur cherche des surfaces sur lesquelles il pourra compenser son emprise ; la seconde est axée sur l’offre de compensation, dans cette approche un prestataire sécurisera des terrains, au moyen d’acquisition ou par des contrats durables. L’analyse de la règle du jeu et des modalités de mise en œuvre de la compensation écologique, permet de vérifier la cohérence de ces mesures avec les politiques foncières territorialisées. Les aspects fonciers et les notions d’anticipation et de concertation avec le monde agricole apparaissent comme les déterminants principaux de l’efficacité de ces mesure
Q21|Impactos socioeconómicos y ambientales de compensaciones por la reducción de emisiones de deforestación en Bolivia: resultados del modelo OSIRIS-Bolivia|Bolivia tiene un gran potencial para mitigar el cambio climático a través de la reducción de la deforestación. Mientras que las posibles complicaciones han sido intensamente debatidas, se ha realizado poco análisis cuantitativo al respecto. Introducimos el modelo OSIRISBolivia, con el fin de crear una base cuantitativa para la toma de decisiones. OSIRIS-Bolivia es una herramienta en Excel capaz de analizar los efectos de los incentivos REDD en Bolivia. Esta herramienta está basada en un modelo econométrico-espacial de la deforestación en el periodo 2001-2005, y usa información sobre cobertura forestal, tasas de deforestación, condiciones geográficas, y causantes de la deforestación, así como los costos de oportunidad agrícolas, para más de 120.000 píxeles en todo el país. Se trata de un modelo de equilibrio parcial, en el sentido que toma en cuenta el hecho de que reducciones en la deforestación en un lugar causarán una reducción en la oferta de productos agrícolas, lo que a su vez hará subir los precios agrícolas y aumentará la presión para deforestar en otro lugar (fugas de carbono). El modelo nos puede ayudar a resolver preguntas como: ¿dónde es más probable que funcione REDD?, ¿cuánto dinero necesitamos para reducir la deforestación en cierto porcentaje?, ¿cuáles son los potenciales problemas de REDD?
Q21|Consumption of Wood Products and Dependence on Imports|This article has made an attempt to assess the prospect of sustainable forest management for an emerging economy, like India, where the area under forest coverage has gone up marginally over the last three decades in spite of population growth and rapid urbanization. A conscious attempt towards conservation is noted from the supply side. However, with rapid income growth, given the high demand elasticity of the wood-based products, there is a sharply growing gap between demand and supply. The import of forestry-based products is increasing in terms of volume, value and unit prices throughout this period, and the major importers of raw and semi-finished forestry-based inputs are the South and East Asian countries. Indiaâ€™s unleashed demand (met through import from outside) will eventually have its impact (like China) on reduced wood stock of the other countries and the consequent pressure on the climatic cycle of the planet will not only thwart the process of economic development but mere sustainable existence of the system will be doubtful. This pattern of the use of forest and wood-related products is indicating the absence of any consistently designed integrated policy position towards forest conservation. If no restriction is imposed from the demand-side, mere supply-side management would be inadequate to ensure sustainable forest use in the near future.
Q21|On the redistributive effects of Germany’s feed-in tariff|This article assesses the redistributive effects of a key element of German climate policy, the promotion of renewables in the electricity generation mix through the provision of a feed-in tariff. The tariff shapes the distribution of households’ disposable incomes by charging a levy that is proportional to household electricity consumption and by transferring financial resources to households who are feeding green electricity into the public grid. Our study builds on representative household survey data, providing information on various socio-demographics, household electricity consumption, and ownership of photovoltaic facilities. The redistributive effects of the feed-in tariff are evaluated by means of inequality indices. All the indices indicate that Germany’s feed-in tariff is regressive. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
Q21|Bad vibrations: new evidence on commons quality and localism at California’s surf breaks|This study extends prior empirical research on issues associated with the common-pool resource represented by California’s surf breaks by (1) expanding the test area to include all of the state’s surf breaks, (2) exploring additional aspects of surf break quality, (3) redefining “access” to the surf breaks by would-be users, and (4) re-examining linear restrictions present in prior empirical modeling. The results presented in this study are perhaps even more striking than those from prior research—indicating that marginal increases in surf break quality lead to relatively large increases in the probability of observing fierce localism at surf breaks. Results also indicate that localism is heightened along the surf breaks of Central California, an area previously unstudied. Although this study focuses on the relationship between surf break quality and localism, its findings offer greater understanding of the general importance of informal property rights protection of common-pool resources. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
Q21|Spatial Determinants of Urban Residential Water Demand in Fortaleza, Brazil|This paper aims at estimating the residential water demand function for the city of Fortaleza, Brazil, considering the potential impact of including spatial effects in the model. The empirical evidence is a unique micro-data set obtained through a household water consumption survey carried out in 2007. We estimated three econometric models, which have as explanatory variables the average/marginal price, the difference, income, number of male and female residents and the number of bathrooms, under different spatial specifications: the Spatial Error Model (SEM), the Spatial Autoregressive model (SAR), and finally, the Spatial Autoregressive Moving Average model (SARMA). Results suggest that the SARMA model is the “best” as shown by a series of tests. Such results contradict conclusions drawn by Chang et al. (Urban Geogr 31(7):953–972, 2010 ), House-Peters et al. (JAWRA J Am Water Resour Assoc 46(3), 2010 ), and Ramachandran and Johnston ( 2011 ). This means, among other things, that not controlling spatial effects is a key specification error, underestimating the effect of almost all variables in the model. Sometimes, these differences can be as high as 24.66 % and 13.32 % for price elasticity in the Average Price and the McFadden models, respectively. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q21|Niche Markets for Agrobiodiversity Conservation: Preference and Scale Heterogeneity Effects on Nepalese Consumers’ WTP for Finger Millet Products|Through the implementation of a choice experiment among Nepalese urban consumers, this paper aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a niche product development as market-oriented instrument for the conservation of endangered crops landraces. We compare establisheddiscrete choice models (conditional logit, random parameter logit and latent class) with the novel generalized multinomial logit model in WTP space to account for the preference and the scale heterogeneity effect on the WTP for the finger millet crop. The estimations are utilized to evaluate the impact that a potential price premium has on local rural farmers’ opportunity costs of cultivating the finger millet. Results confirm that, by controlling for heterogeneity, there are segments of population with a WTP that ensures an efficient increase in FM area cultivated. Further, the success of the niche market can attract public investments on the development and conservation of the entire stock of neglected and underutilized local species thereby safeguarding the related agrobiodiversity ecosystem services.
Q21|The Organic Food Premium: A Canterbury Tale|The present paper attempts to bring further evidence on the behavioural gap for organic food in Britain. The stated preferences are analysed by contingent valuation, while the revealed preferences are estimated by hedonic pricing. A small but significant gap in the premium for organic food between stated and revealed preferences has been found. This gap may suggest a need for price premium intervention. The estimated price elasticity for organic products is on average above one in absolute value suggesting that a pricing policy could be very effective.
Q21|Pro-environmental Behaviors, Energy Efficiency and Sustainable Development in Russia|The studies of environmental awareness or the so-called people's pro-environmental behaviors (PEBs) became a popular topic in Europe, North America and Asia, but not yet in Russia. Many studies investigated PEBs revealed that monetary saving and health concern are considered to be the most common influential factors for many PEBs. Because of the lowest electric power and heat tariffs in the world as well as abundant natural resources it can be assumed that the level of environmental awareness in Russia is low comparing to EU. Nowadays this problem can became a barrier for innovative development and diffusion of new energy efficient technologies. In this paper we present the results of empirical research aiming evaluation of environmental awareness in one of the southern region of Russia - Krasnodar region. In research we also evaluate the informational transparency in the field of ecology in Russia and distinguish the most popular sources of information. The method of research is medium-scale face-to-face inquiry. The survey involved 112 respondents from one big city (Krasnodar), it's suburbs, several small cities and rural areas. Data analysis was performed using StatSoft STATISTICA 10.0. The non-parametric Mann-Whitney tests and Kruskal - Wallis one-way analysis of variance were used to reveal the optimal quantification that describes the relationships between the categorical scores of each variable as well as the relationships between the variables themselves. In order to identify relationships between variables, measured in nominal scales, contingency tables (cross tabulation) were used. In some cases (where it was appropriate) correlation analysis and one-way ANOVA were used.
Q21|New trade in renewable resources and consumer preferences for diversity|The literature on trade in renewable resources implicitly assumes that the traded resources are perfect substitutes. We model trade in renewable resources as stipulated not only by autarky price differences, but also by consumers' love of variety. We show that the love-of-variety effect enables welfare gains from trade even if total consumption decreases. Total consumption may decrease because the love of variety weakens the link between resource scarcity and demand. If consumers are willing to pay the rising prices for harvests from increasingly depleted stocks, trade liberalization may end in stock collapse. The love of variety may thus threaten variety.
Q21|An unexpected discovery: Johann Heinrich von Thuenen and the tragedy of the commons|William Forster Lloyd's 1833 sketch about poor cattle on the commons and the well-fed animals on the adjacent enclosures published in his 'Two lectures on the checks to population' has hitherto been assessed as one starting point of the economics of renewable resources. In the 20th century the question of the use of common property resources has initially been treated by fisheries economists, at first in unknown publications of Jens Warming in 1911 and 1931, and after a disruption of more than 40 years starting again with the contributions of Gordon and Scott in the 1950s. Important results have been the derivation and presentation of the economic criteria for the open access equilibrium case on the one hand and the private property equilibrium case on the other hand. Garrett Hardin's well known 1968 Sciences article brought a new title and increased awareness to the 'tragedy of the commons' and Elenor Ostrom's 2009 nobel prize in economics finally underlined the importance as well as the diversity of institutional rules to achieve an efficient use of the natural resources - challenging the favored liberal concept of a privatization of scarce resources. Johann Heinrich von Thuenen's contributions on the commons - hidden in an 1831 article about urban agriculture in the journal 'Neue Annalen der Mecklenburgischen Landwirtschaftsgesellschaft' and in an unpublished manuscript - have been totally neglected until now, although he published his article about the core problem of the commons two years earlier than William Forster Lloyd and almost in the clarity of the fisheries economists 80 resp. 120 years later. He not only presented the correct allocation criteria for both property rights scenarios but additionally developed a framework a) how to gain the maximal rent of a resource through an auction system - drafting the first demand table b) how to redistribute the gains to the communal property owners - developing an adequate compensation mechanism c) and finally how to establish this institutional innovation democratically - thereby applying important elements of Elenor Ostrom's Common Property Rights Framework. Due to these contributions Johann Heinrich von Thuenen deserves the title of the founder of the economics of renewable resources. Moreover, in combination with his publications on forestry, land use, soil improvement and agricultural processing industries he should also be seen as the creator of a discipline which got its name but now, the creator of bioeconomics.
Q21|Zahlungsbereitschaft für grünen Strom: Die Kluft zwischen Wunsch und Wirklichkeit|Die Überschätzung der Zahlungsbereitschaft in rein hypothetischen Entscheidungssituationen ist ein in der Literatur wohlbekanntes Phänomen. Zur Eliminierung dieser Verzerrung wurden verschiedene Methoden vorgeschlagen, unter anderem der sogenannte Cheap-Talk-Ansatz und das Consequential-Skript. Auf Basis einer Erhebung unter mehr als 6.500 deutschen Haushalten untersucht dieser Beitrag die Effektivität dieser Korrektive. Nach unseren ökonometrischen Ergebnissen erweist sich allein Cheap Talk als effektiv, senkt jedoch die Zahlungsbereitschaft für grünen Strom nur bei jenen Befragten, die sich nicht ganz sicher hinsichtlich ihrer Angaben zur Zahlungsbereitschaft sind. Darüber hinaus zeigen unsere Befragungsergebnisse einen starken Kontrast zwischen der Unterstützung für erneuerbare Energien und der Zahlungsbereitschaft für grünen Strom. So sprechen sich 85,1% der Antwortenden für die Förderung erneuerbarer Energietechnologien aus, aber nur knapp die Hälfte der Antwortenden ist bereit, für grünen Strom zusätzliche Kosten in Kauf zu nehmen.
Q21|Energiekostenbelastung privater Haushalte: Das EEG als sozialpolitische Zeitbombe?|Seit dem Jahr 2000 haben sich die Strompreise für private Haushalte praktisch verdoppelt. Von steigenden Stromkosten sind nicht zuletzt Millionen von armutsgefährdeten Haushalten betroffen. Vor diesem Hintergrund untersucht der vorliegende Beitrag exemplarisch für einige Haushaltstypen mit geringem Einkommen, wie stark ihre Stromkostenbelastung in den vergangenen Jahren relativ zum Einkommen zugenommen hat und in welchem Maße diese Belastung künftig weiter steigen könnte. Nach unseren Abschätzungen auf Basis stilisierter Fakten musste beispielsweise der von uns betrachtete armutsgefährdete alleinstehende Rentner im Jahr 2013 etwa gleich viel für Strom ausgeben wie zur Deckung seines Energiebedarfs zum Heizen und zur Warmwassererzeugung. Es muss davon ausgegangen werden, dass aufgrund des Ausbaus der erneuerbaren Energien die Stromkostenbelastung auch in den nächsten Jahren weiter steigen wird. Damit stellt sich immer drängender die Frage nach Maßnahmen zur Abschwächung der Entwicklung steigender Strompreise und zur sozialen Abfederung ihrer regressiven Wirkungen.
Q21|Mitigating Hypothetical Bias: Evidence on the Effects of Correctives from a Large Field Study|Abstract The overestimation of willingness-to-pay (WTP) in hypothetical responses is a well-known finding in the literature. Various techniques have been proposed to remove or, at least, reduce this bias. Using about 30,000 responses on WTP for a variety of power mixes from a panel of 6500 German households and the fixed-effects estimator to control for unobserved heterogeneity, this article simultaneously explores the effects of two common ex-ante approaches—cheap talk and consequential script—and the ex-post certainty approach to calibrating hypothetical WTP responses. Based on a switching regression model that accounts for the potential endogeneity of respondent certainty, we find evidence for a lower WTP among those respondents who classify themselves as definitely certain about their answers. Although neither cheap talk nor the consequential-script corrective reduce WTP estimates, receiving either of these scripts increases the probability that respondents indicate definite certainty about their WTP bids.
Q21|Buyer behaviour in the context of sustainable consumption policy pursued in Poland|The concept of sustainable consumption has been actively promoted among modern societies. It has gained a special importance in the context of pursuing sustainable consumption policy and supporting actions taken as part of corporate social responsibility. The fulfilment of strategic goals defined under this concept minimizes negative effects of industrialization and globalization. Furthermore, it contributes to efficient allocation of natural resources and natural environment protection. It is beyond any doubt that a 21st century consumer should take account of a number of issues while buying and subsequently using goods and services. These issues include wastage reduction, lower emission of pollution and limited production of waste, as well as selection of products whose development conforms to the code of ethics and socio-environmental norms. This awareness is observed in most countries all over the world, nevertheless certain differences can be noticed between the developed and developing states. Although the concept of sustainable consumption is being actively promoted among consumers in the developing countries (e.g. in Poland), they are still less aware of the necessity to conform to socio-ecological norms in the process of consumption. The main aim of the article is to analyse buyer behaviour in the context of sustainable development policy pursued in Poland. The first part will be devoted to theoretical issues relating to the subject of the analysis. In the second part of the paper the author will present the results of a survey examining the aforementioned behaviour.
Q21|Heterogeneous Responses to Social Norms for Water Conservation|" Utilizing social norms is gaining momentum as a cost-effective mechanism to promote sustainable behavior. We analyze household water data from multiple pilot programs for a company that provides information campaigns containing social comparisons of water use and personalized conservation recommendations in order to reduce household water consumption. We find significant treatment effect heterogeneity across the distribution of consumption and environmental attitudes. In the two pilots with a full year of data one utility achieves savings of 6.5%; while the other in aggregate achieved limited conservation gains. Heterogeneity based on the distribution of consumption is more important in the utility with significant savings, with the highest users saving the most water. In contrast ideology appears to be more important in the utility with an insignificant average treatment effect with dis-savings for those with very low environmental preferences and strong savings for the most environmentally-conscious. Inter-regional ideology may play an critical role since the utility with significant savings is in a much ""greener"" community, whereas intra-utility ideology is influential in conservative areas. We caution interpretation of the results, particularly for Utility B, as the data are still incomplete."
Q21|Seed Market Segmentation: How Do Argentine Farmers Buy Their Expendable Inputs?| In this paper we analyze the buying behavior of farmers for expendable inputs. In particular, we will study the case of the seed industry in Argentina. We segment them using cluster analysis, identifying four distinctive segments of farmers for seed purchasing: Performance, Price, Balance, and Convenience. This work intends to help agribusiness managers understand customers in the seed market in Argentina. Additionally, a multinomial logit model is used to predict segment membership for seed purchases based on farmers’ observable and attitudinal variables.
Q21|The World Market of Fragrant Rice, Main Issues and Perspectives| Worldwide rice production totaled 481 million metric tons in 2011, including 7.1% in trade. Fragrant rice is estimated to account for 15-18% of the rice trade procuring the highest prices on the world market. Some new players are interested in entering this premium segment, including the US, Vietnam, and other rice growers and traders. The fragrant rice commodity chain is deciphered through a meta-analysis of data on rice cropping and trading. We conclude on a possible split between fragrant and coarse rice markets. The upcoming challenges for fragrant rice industry are discussed with the next release of genetically modified varieties; water scarcity in rice cropping; and land use trade-offs between fragrant and coarse rice.
Q21|Economic Impact of Institutions on the Consumption of Forest Products in India| The paper analyses the impact of forest institutions and economic liberalisation of the 1990s on the consumption of forest products and in turn on forest conservation. It is hypothesised that the forest institutions (1) Forest Conservation Act of 1980, and (2) National Forest Policy of 1988, (3) the economic liberalisation and (4) real gross national product (GNP) have perceptible influence on the consumption of forest products and forest conservation. The time series data on apparent consumption of forest products (production plus imports minus exports) as detailed in the FAO Yearbook of Forest Products and the real GNP from 1971 to 2009 form the data base for this study. The transcendental and quadratic consumption functions are used to derive income elasticity of consumption for various forest products of India using time series data from 1971 to 2009. The results indicate that the impact of both forest and economic institutions has led to increase in the consumption of 14 forest products forming 67 per cent (of 21 forest products). For these products the imports are substantial and are the prima facie indicators of the role of economic institution such as liberalisation, which lead to substantial imports and reduced domestic supplies due to institution of forest conservation.
Q21|Mensuração das Elasticidades-preço da Demanda, Cruzada e Renda no Mercado de Etanol Brasileiro: um estudo usando painéis cointegrados| The future shortage of fossil energy is not shared by the entire academy, but the need of renewable energy sources is a consensus. Based on this, the ethanol from sugarcane in Brazil becomes an excellent energy alternative by offering better indicators, such as: less land intensity, lower production costs and larger CO2 reduction when compared with other energy producing crops. However, there are no studies that estimate the long run ethanol demand using panel data or either estimate it at regional level. Therefore, this study aims to estimate the price, income and cross price demand elasticities for ethanol in the short and long run. The estimates are both at national and regional levels for Brazil, from July 2001 to July 2011, on a monthly basis. Panel data econometrics are used and forecasts use the following estimators: General Least Squares (GLS) with correction for heteroscedasticity for short run and Dynamic Ordinary Least Squares (DOLS) for long run. Results indicate that ethanol is price elastic, with elasticity around -1.42 and -3.30 for the short and long run, respectively. There was an increase of cross and price elasticities in the short run in the post-flex period.
Q21|Estimating the Indirect Economic Costs to Shrimp Consumers from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon Gulf Coast Oil Spill| In this paper, we estimate the indirect economic losses to U.S. shrimp consumers as a result of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Using a combination of national fisheries market data and the results of an experimental auction, we identify three sources of economic damages to shrimp consumers: (1) higher prices paid by consumers for shrimp in 2010, (2) a loss of utility in the form of substituting consumption of preferred wild-caught Gulf shrimp with less-preferred substitutes, and (3) a loss in utility in the form of stigma attached to wild-caught Gulf shrimp.
Q21|Open Access to the Resource of Antibiotic Treatment Efficacy Subject to Bacterial Resistance| In this paper, we are interested in how a pharmaceutical industry manages existing antibiotic drugs in the context of bacterial resistance. We consider a model based on an epidemiological framework where antibiotic recovery rates, and thus intrinsic qualities, may differ. Antibiotic efficacy is modeled as a common pool of a non-renewable resource to which antibiotic producers have open access. The paper derives antibiotic demands within a vertical differentiation model and characterizes the dynamics of infected individuals, antibiotic efficacy and treatment rates under the open-access and the socially optimal allocation. We show that the high-quality antibiotic drug loses its comparative advantage over time under both allocations, such that the low-quality drug should be used longer. This occurs at a later point of time in the social optimum and allows for a better control of infection in the longer run. In contrast with the ambiguous outcome reported in the literature, the socially optimal steady-state level of antibiotic efficacy is lower than that of the open-access allocation. We also extend our analysis to a strategic, duopolistic context.
Q21|Modeling Forest Trade in Logs and Lumber: Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis|This paper deals with forest trade modelling from a theoretical, analytic and empirical perspective. An integrated dynamic log-lumber trade model is developed and then used to examine two trade issues, namely, a reduction of Russian taxes on log exports and removal of the taxes on Canadian lumber destined for the United States. To demonstrate the dynamic aspect of the model, both sets of taxes are lowered over a period of time. The trade model consists of five Canadian regions, three U.S. regions, New Zealand, Australia, Chile, Rest of Latin America, Russia, Sweden, Finland, Rest of Europe, Japan, China, Rest of Asia, and Rest of the World – a total of 20 regions. It concerns only coniferous logs and softwood lumber, ignoring hardwoods. The model is also calibrated on 2010 observed bi-lateral flows of logs and lumber using positive mathematical programming. The forest trade model is written using an Excel-GAMS interface, with input data retrieved by GAMS from Excel and GAMS output written to Excel, where final calculations are made.
Q21|Renewable energy sources in households in Bulgaria: reality and opportunities|The utilization of renewable energy sources (RES) by the Bulgarian households is studied in this article. A representative study of the Bulgarian population results in hypotheses, investigating the relation between socio-demographic issues and the use of alternative energy sources. The dependence of investments in green energy on key factors such as income and electricity costs was estimated qualitatively by means of statistical methods. An estimation was made of RES investments, recommending to use the latest energy technologies in households in order to meet the national target of 16% share of RES in gross final consumption of energy, as set out in Directive 2009/28/ÅC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009.
Q21|Habit Formation and Preference Change with Capital and Renewable Resources|Background: Although there are many formal models about interactions among habit formation, preference change and the economic growth, only a few formal models examine implications of habit formation and preference change for the economic growth with resources. Objectives: This paper builds an economic growth model with endogenous physical capital, renewable resources, habit formation and preference. Methods: Although it is influenced by the Ramsey growth theory with time preference and habit formation, the paper applies a new approach to the household behaviour. Results: We plot the motion of the economy and conduct a comparative dynamic analysis with regard to certain parameters to obtain insights into interactions between the preference and the economic structural changes. Conclusions: We have shown that habit formation and preference change have significant effects on the economic grow and resources utilization both with regard to the transitional paths and the long-run equilibrium.
Q21|Sushi or Fish Fingers? Seafood Diversity, Collapsing Fish Stocks, and Multispecies Fishery Management|We present a model of a multi-species fishery and show that (i) consumer preferences for seafood diversity may trigger a sequential collapse of fish stocks under open-access fishery, (ii) the stronger the preferences are for diversity the higher is the need for coordinated multi-species regulation, (iii) second-best optimal management of only one (or a few) species is less strict than socially optimal management of the same species. Finally, (iv) myopic regulation of one species, ignoring spill-overs to other species, may cause depletion of other stocks that would not be depleted under open access.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q21|The Tourist Acommodation Capacity In Vâlcea County And The Main Tourist Indicators Between 2006-2010|The article highlights an analysis of the tourist accommodation capacity conducted in Vâlcea County. We analyzed the main tourism indicators registred between 2006-2010: number of arrivals in the main establishments of tourist’s reception with functions of tourist’s accommodation, number of stays overnight. Also, we explained the tourism terms that we used in our paper. We mention that the statistical data are processed according to the Vâlcea County Statistics Department, press releases from 2011, published under National Statistics Intitute. The paper was conducted in Vâlcea County, an area with touristic potential and wich has a strong attraction for tourist seeking natural resources, local culture.
Q21|Social Effects in the Diffusion of solar Photovoltaic Technology in the UK|The main research question in this paper is whether the installation rate of solar pv technology is affected by social spillovers from spatially close households. The installed base, defined as the cumulative number of solar v installations within a neighbourhood by the end of a particular month, serves as a measure for the social effects of interest. Motivated by the technology-specific time lag between the decision to adopt a solar Pv panel and the completion of the installation, the third lag of the installed base serves as main regressor of interest in the panel data model employed. The results suggest small, but positive and significant social effects that can be exploited to promote adoption: at the average installation rate of 0.7 installations per 1,000 owner-occupied households, one more solar PV panel in the postcode district increases the installation rate three months later by one percent. At the average number of 6,629 owner—occupied households within a postcode district, this implies an increase in the number of new installations in the neighbourhood by 0.005. Projects involving a high number of installations could hence promote diffusion. A major limitation of the model is that social spillovers are assumed to spread within defined neighbourhoods, only. spatial econometric methods could allow for social effects across these borders.
Q21|An assessment of energy resources for global decarbonisation|This paper presents an assessment of global economic energy potentials for all major natural energy resources. This work is based on both an extensive literature review and calculations based onto natural resource assessment data. In the first part, economic potentials are presented in the form of cost-supply curves, in terms of energy flows for renewable energy sources, or fixed amounts for fossil and nuclear resources, using consistent energy units that allow direct comparisons to be made. These calculations take into account, and provide a theoretical framework for considering uncertainty in resource assessments, providing a novel contribution aimed at enabling the introduction of uncertainty into resource limitations used in energy modelling. The theoretical details and parameters provided in tables enable this extensive natural resource database to be adapted to any modelling framework for energy systems. The second part of this paper uses these cost-supply curves in order to build a tool for analysing global scenarios of energy use, in the context of exploring the feasibility global decarbonisation using renewable energy sources. For such a purpose, a theoretical framework is given for evaluating either flows of stock energy resources for given price path assumptions for the related energy carriers, or the prices of energy carriers given energy demand assumptions. Results of both approaches are used in order to produce a complete comparison of global energy resources. The particular case of the feasibility of global decarbonisation by the end of the century is explored. Since the scale of the required amount of energy flows from renewables is comparable to the sum of the technical potentials, the associated scale of global land use for energy production is found to be large. For complete decarbonisation, without energy demand reductions, 7 to 12\% of the global land area could be required for energy production activities, emphasising the importance of improving energy consumption patterns and intensity of the global economy. The third part of this work is an appendix that provides all missing details, equations and databases necessary to understand and reproduce the work of Part I. This part is therefore aimed at enabling energy modellers to reproduce exactly and use in their own work the database that was constructed in this work.
Q21|Análisis de la distribución espacial de la reducción en la demanda de agua potable como efecto de políticas de ahorro en su consumo en el Área Metropolitana del Valle de Aburrá|El presente estudio presenta un análisis, espacialmente desagregado, de la disminución en el consumo residencial de agua en el Área Metropolitana del Valle de Aburrá (AMVA) durante el periodo 2005 – 2010 e identificar las características socioeconómicas asociadas a estos patrones. Además, se analiza la forma cómo las políticas y campañas para incentivar la disminución del consumo de agua potable han sido acogidas en el AMVA. Los resultados obtenidos muestran claras diferencias espaciales (y por estrato) en los niveles de consumo de agua, así como en los niveles de reducción de dicho consumo en el período analizado. También, por medio de modelos de econometría espacial, se encuentra que las características socioeconómicas juegan un papel relevante a la hora de explicar los niveles de consumo de agua y que estos consumos presentan autocorrelación espacial sustantiva que indica que los niveles de consumo de agua potable en un área determinada no solo dependen de las características socioeconómicas del área, sino también de los niveles de consumo de las áreas vecinas. Por último, se encuentra que los impactos derivados del desincentivo económico al consumo excesivo, tiene un efecto inmediato que no perdura en el tiempo.
Q21|Modeling a clean energy standard for electricity: Policy design implications for emissions, supply, prices, and regions|The electricity sector is responsible for roughly 40% of U.S. carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, and a reduction in CO2 emissions from electricity generation is an important component of the U.S. strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Toward that goal, several proposals for a clean energy standard (CES) have been put forth, including one espoused by the Obama administration that calls for 80% clean electricity by 2035 phased in from current levels of roughly 40%. This paper looks at the effects of such a policy on CO2 emissions from the electricity sector, the mix of technologies used to supply electricity, electricity prices, and regional flows of clean energy credits. The CES leads to a 30% reduction in cumulative CO2 emissions between 2013 and 2035 and results in dramatic reductions in generation from conventional coal. The policy also results in fairly modest increases on national electricity prices, but this masks a wide variety of effects across regions.
Q21|Competition and environmental policies in an electricity sector|We study the impact of competition and environmental policy (feed-in tariff vs. the EU ETS) on investment, CO2 emissions and welfare in an electricity sector. We consider different market structures (a planner who maximises social welfare vs. duopoly) and two types of consumers (those whose behaviour depends on the weather vs. those whose behaviour does not). The demand specification is innovative and takes incompressible consumption into account.
Q21|Fuel demand in Brazil in a dynamic panel data approach|The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the sensitivity of fuel consumers regarding price and income, taking recent changes in the Brazilian fuel market into account. In this market, new market rules, energy policy towards fuel diversification and introduction of flex-fuel engines have determined fuel competition among gasoline, ethanol and compressed natural gas. Using a dynamic panel data model, demand equations for these three fuels are econometrically estimated to obtain consumer adjustment coefficients, price, cross-price and income elasticities in the short and long-run. In addition, the effect of the introduction of flex-fuel engines in the market and the rationality of consumers towards efficiency constraints of the engines were tested. Apart from considerable competition, results show that the dynamics of the Brazilian fuel market revolves around ethanol instead of gasoline. While demands for gasoline and natural gas are inelastic to price, demand for ethanol is elastic in Brazil. Furthermore, after the introduction of the flex-fuel technology the sensitivity of consumers to fuel prices changed, and ethanol consumers take efficiency constrains into account when ethanol prices reach the threshold of 70% of gasoline prices.
Q21|On the economics of renewable energy sources|With the global expansion of renewable energy (RE) technologies, the provision of optimal RE policy packages becomes an important task. We review pivotal aspects regarding the economics of renewables that are relevant to the design of an optimal RE policy, many of which are to date unresolved. We do so from three interrelated perspectives that a meaningful public policy framework for inquiry must take into account. First, we explore different social objectives justifying the deployment of RE technologies and review model-based estimates of the economic potential of RE technologies, i.e. their socially optimal deployment level. Second, we address pivotal market failures that arise in the course of implementing the economic potential of RE sources in decentralized markets. Third, we discuss multiple policy instruments curing these market failures. Our framework reveals the requirements for an assessment of the relevant options for real-world decision makers in the field of RE policies. This review makes it clear that there are remaining white areas on the knowledge map concerning consistent and socially optimal RE policies.
Q21|China’s inter-regional spillover of carbon emissions and domestic supply chains|In this study, we apply the inter-regional input–output model to explain the relationship between China’s inter-regional spillover of CO2 emissions and domestic supply chains for 2002 and 2007. Based on this model, we propose alternative indicators such as the trade in CO2 emissions, CO2 emissions in trade and the regional trade balances of CO2 emissions. Our results do not only reveal the nature and significance of inter-regional environmental spillover within China’s domestic regions but also demonstrate how CO2 emissions are created and distributed across regions via domestic and global production networks. Results show that a region’s CO2 emissions depend on its intra-regional production technology, energy use efficiency, as well as its position and participation degree in domestic and global supply chains.
