Q22|The Design, Compilation, and Interpretation of Satellite Accounts of South Africa’s Fisheries: Some Critical Thoughts|Using South Africa’s hake and rock lobster fisheries as examples, this paper argues the need for satellite accounts of South Africa’s commercial fisheries. It stresses the policy role of satellite accounts, particularly where access to fish stocks is contested. Satellite accounts give all interested parties information on the extent of stock depletion, past and present fishing effort, and the returns-to-effort reduction. They can also present the resource rents generated from harvests and the value of the resource stock. Using the United Nations handbook on national accounting for fisheries (SEEAF) to construct physical accounts, the paper indicates the ease with which these could be compiled, albeit with a number of caveats. The paper then extends the results to include monetary accounts, but warns that the current guidelines embody flaws that can yield anomalous results.
Q22|Closing Gaps in National Regulations Against IUU Fishing|This paper identifies the progress achieved by individual countries in implementing internationally recognised best policies and practices against illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing since 2005. It aims to inspire and guide governments and all stakeholders in the fisheries sector in how to focus their effort and investment to step up their fight against IUU fishing. The paper builds on a suite of policy indicators that investigate the extent to which countries meet their responsibilities in the most important dimensions of government intervention in relation to IUU fishing. The indicators show considerable improvement in fighting IUU fishing over the last decade, in line with international treaties and voluntary agreements. They also point to the gaps that need to be closed to individually and collectively work towards eliminating IUU fishing.
Q22|Intensifying the Fight Against IUU Fishing at the Regional Level|Regional fisheries management organisations (RFMOs) are the primary mechanism for co-operation between fishing countries and coastal states to ensure sustainable fishing globally. This paper aims to inspire and guide RFMO secretariats and member countries in how to focus their effort and investment to step up the contribution of RFMOs to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. It does so by measuring the extent to which RFMOs apply best practices against IUU fishing and pointing to the remaining gaps. Information gathered from RFMOs’ resolutions and recommendations introducing conservation and management measures (CMMs), other publicly available sources and direct communication with RFMOs’ secretariats was analysed and summarised into five indicators reflecting the most important management tools targeting IUU fishing at the disposal of RFMOs. Indicators show overall progress among RFMOs, but discrepancies remain, suggesting scope for improvement by learning from best performers.
Q22|Encouraging policy change for sustainable and resilient fisheries|How can policy makers successfully implement the policy changes needed to achieve greater economic, social, and environmental sustainability and resilience? This report combines lessons from the available literature, discussions with experts and stakeholders, as well as information on past policy change processes. Results suggest that, over the last decade, changes to fisheries policy have largely been triggered by the performance of the sector itself and how it is perceived, particularly with respect to resource management and to socio-economic outcomes. Other important factors stand out, in particular initiatives by people in charge of fisheries management and legal commitments to adopt changes. Macroeconomic and macro-political factors, however, appear to have had less impact on fisheries policy than on other policy domains. Key recommendations are proposed to facilitate policy change in the future through better use of data, commitment mechanisms, non-sectoral policies, and consultation processes.
Q22|Heterogeneous Consumer Preference for Seafood Sustainability in Japan|This study estimates Japanese consumers’ willingness to pay (WTP) for several components of seafood sustainability. A choice experiment via a web survey is conducted among Japanese seafood consumers. In order to estimate WTP, a latent class model is employed to treat heterogeneity of consumer preference in addition to a basic conditional logit model. The latent class model resulted in separating consumers into two characteristic groups: nature-oriented and human-oriented groups. Neither group was found to be willing to pay for seafood sustainability even though they are somewhat concerned about seafood sustainability. Specifically, the nature-oriented group, which comprised 51% of our consumer sample, negatively evaluated fisheries management and preservation of tradition and culture but highly evaluated the environment and ecosystems. Meanwhile, the human-oriented group, which comprised 49% of our consumer sample, positively evaluated fisheries management and regionality, but negatively evaluated the environment and ecosystems. The differences between the groups are unrelated to education or income, but are related to seafood expense, age, family structure, and knowledge of sustainability.
Q22|Developing an electricity satellite account (EISA): an application to Scotland, UK|Within the system of national accounts the electricity sector is typically reported as a single entry representing generation, transmission, distribution and trade. The way in which these components interact with the economy differs greatly, a feature lost within the standard accounting framework. In this paper we propose an Electricity Satellite Account (ElSA) approach to better understand the linkages between the economy and the electricity sector, with a particularly focus on generation technologies. To develop this framework, we draw parallels to Tourism Satellite Accounts (TSAs). To illustrate the practical steps in constructing ElSAs, we develop an ElSA for Scotland for 2012. We show how the ELSA framework gives an improved understanding of the electricity sector, which is critical in improving the usefulness of such accounts future climate and energy, as well as economic, policy.
Q22|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and effciency motives. A priori, this fi nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to first increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse off in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
Q22|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and efficiency motives. A priori, this fi…nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to fi…rst increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse o¤ in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
Q22|Míster Ford en el Océano|Este trabajo busca aproximarse al desarrollo del sistema fordista en la pesca. Dicho sistema, difundido en la industria agroalimentaria en Estados Unidos en los años treinta, por asimilación de los cambios operados en la industria de bienes de consumo duradero, fue replicado por el conjunto de sectores agrícolas occidentales tras la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Los cambios en el modelo industrial permitieron incrementar sustancialmente la productividad, asentando un sistema de acumulación basado en la producción y el consumo masivo. La nueva naturaleza industrial también afectó a la pesca. La exigencia de recursos abundantes y homogéneos impuesta por la tecnología pesquera de tipo fordista, impulsó la intensificación y la mundialización de la actividad, generando nuevas dinámicas económicas y ecológicas. En las siguientes páginas abordaremos, primero, la difusión del fordismo en la industria agroalimentaria y la incorporación del pescado a las nuevas formas de consumo; a continuación, analizaremos su plasmación en la actividad pesquera, las nuevas formas de aprovechamiento y conservación del pescado; después, estudiaremos los factores que proporcionaron consistencia al sistema en los años sesenta y setenta; sus bases tecnológicas y su excepcional marco institucional y económico.
Q22|Co-enforcement of Common Pool Resources: Experimental Evidence from TURFs in Chile|This work presents the results of framed field experiments designed to study the co-enforcement of access to common pool resources. The experiments were conducted in the field with participants in the territorial use rights in fisheries (TURFs) management scheme that regulates access to nearshore fisheries along the coast of Chile. In the experiments, TURF members not only decided on harvest but also invested in monitoring to deter poaching by outsiders. Treatments varied whether the monitoring investment was an individual decision or determined by a group vote. Per-unit sanctions for poaching were exogenous as if provided by a government authority, and we varied the sanction level. Our results suggest that co-enforcement, in which monitoring for poaching is provided by resource users and sanctions are levied by the government, can reduce poaching levels. Monitoring investments were not high enough to lift the expected marginal penalty for poaching above the marginal gain from poaching when the sanction for poaching was low, but expected marginal penalties were higher than the marginal gain from poaching when the sanction was high. Despite this, poaching levels were not sensitive to changes in monitoring levels and sanctions. While co-enforcement did not eliminate poaching, it did eliminate the gains from poaching in all but one treatment.
Q22|Co-enforcement of Common Pool Resources: Experimental Evidence from TURFs in Chile|This work presents the results of framed field experiments designed to study the co-enforcement of access to common pool resources. The experiments were conducted in the field with participants in the territorial use rights in fisheries (TURFs) management scheme that regulates access to nearshore fisheries along the coast of Chile. In the experiments, TURF members not only decided on harvest but also invested in monitoring to deter poaching by outsiders. Treatments varied whether the monitoring investment was an individual decision or determined by a group vote. Per-unit sanctions for poaching were exogenous as if provided by a government authority, and we varied the sanction level. Our results suggest that co-enforcement, in which monitoring for poaching is provided by resource users and sanctions are levied by the government, can reduce poaching levels. Monitoring investments were not high enough to lift the expected marginal penalty for poaching above the marginal gain from poaching when the sanction for poaching was low, but expected marginal penalties were higher than the marginal gain from poaching when the sanction was high. Despite this, poaching levels were not sensitive to changes in monitoring levels and sanctions. While co-enforcement did not eliminate poaching, it did eliminate the gains from poaching in all but one treatment.
Q22|Sub-Lethal Concentrations of Neonicotinoid Insecticides at the Field Level Affect Negatively Honey Yield: Evidence from a 6-year Survey of Greek Apiaries|We used data from a 6-year survey of 60 apiaries in Greece and economic modelling to assess at the field level the effects of neonicotinoid insecticides on honey production. Based on production function estimates, we found that sub-lethal concentrations of two widely used neonicotinoid insecticides (imidacloprid and thiamethoxam) detected in the nectar of flowers resulted in substantial losses in honey production for commercial beekeepers in our sample.
Q22|Optimization of age-structured bioeconomic model: recruitment, weight gain and environmental effects|More and more fishery researchers begin to acknowledge that one-dimensional biomass models may omit key information when generating management guidelines. For the more complicated age-structured models, numerous parameters require a proper estimation or a reasonable assumption. In this paper, the effects of recruitment patterns and environmental impacts on the optimal exploitation of a fish population are investigated. Based on a discrete-time age-structured bioeconomic model of Northeast Atlantic mackerel, we introduce the mechanisms that generate 6 scenarios of the problem. Using the simplest scenario, optimizations are conducted under 8 different parameter combinations. Then, the problem is solved for each scenario and simulations are conducted with constant fishing mortalities. It is found that a higher environmental volatility leads to more net profits but with a lower probability of achieving the mean values. Any parameter combination that favours the older fish tends to lend itself to pulse fishing pattern. The simulations indicate that a constant fishing mortality around 0.06 performs the best. A comparison between the optimal and the historical harvest shows that for more than 70% of the time, the optimal exploitation precedes the historical one, leading to 43% higher net profit and 34% lower fishing cost.
Q22|Greed is good: from super-harvest to recovery in a stochastic predator-prey system|This paper demonstrates a predator-prey system of cod and capelin that confronts a possible scenario of prey extinction under the first-best policy in a stochastic world. We discover a novel ‘super-harvest’ phenomenon that the optimal harvest of the predator is even higher than the myopic policy, or the ‘greedy solution’, on part of the state space. This intrinsic attempt to harvest more predator to protect the prey is a critical evidence supporting the idea behind ‘greed is good’. We ban prey harvest and increase predator harvest in a designated state space area based on the optimal policy. Three heuristic recovery plans are generated following this principle. We employ stochastic simulations to analyse the probability of prey recovery and evaluate corresponding costs in terms of value loss percentage. We find that the alternative policies enhance prey recovery rates mostly around the area of 50% recovery probability under the optimal policy. When we scale up the predator harvest by 1.5, the prey recovery rate escalates for as much as 28% at a cost of 5% value loss. We establish two strategies: modest deviation from the optimal on a large area or intense measure on a small area. It seems more cost-effective to target the stock space with accuracy than to simply boost predator harvest when the aim is to achieve remarkable improvement of prey recovery probability.
Q22|Gone fishing: The value of recreational fishing in Sweden|Data from a unique nationwide recreational fishing survey in Sweden is used to estimate benefits of recreational fishing in Sweden, differences between regions and age groups, and how they relate to expected catch. The data targets the whole Swedish population, and as a consequence a large fraction of zero fishing days exists in the sample. To consider this, a zero-inflated Poisson model was used. Swedes fished around 16 million days in 2013, of which two-thirds was spent on inland fishing, and one third was spent on marine and costal fishing. Expected consumer surplus per fishing day vary over the season, from about SEK 23 for winter fishing, to SEK 148 for summer fishing. The highest consumer surplus values are found among the youngest and the oldest age groups that were surveyed. Expected catch is an important determinant for number of fishing days, but catch increases mainly influence summer fishing.
Q22|Managing and defending the commons: Experimental evidence from TURFs in Chile|This work presents the results of framed field experiments designed to study the joint problem of managing harvests from a common pool resource and protecting the resource from poaching. The experiments were conducted both in the field with TURF users and in the lab with university students. Our study has two objectives. First, we designed our experiments to study the effects of poaching on the ability of common pool resource users to coordinate their harvests when encroachment by outsiders is unrestricted and when the government provides weak enforcement. Second, we examine the ability of common pool resource users to simultaneously coordinate their harvests and investments in monitoring to deter poaching with and without government assistance in monitoring. Weak external monitoring that was predicted to have no effect actually led to significantly lower poaching relative to unrestricted poaching. However, neither giving sole responsibility for monitoring to resource users nor combining user and government monitoring affected poaching levels much. Our results suggest that users of a common pool resource may have difficulties coordinating their efforts to deter poachers, even with help from government authorities. We find no important qualitative differences in the behavior of TURF users and university students.
Q22|Estimating Biomass Migration Parameters by Analyzing the Spatial Behavior of the Fishing Fleet|In this study, a method will be developed and applied for estimating biological migration parameters of the biomass of a fishery resource by means of a decision analysis of the spatial behavior of the fishing fleet. The method involves the econometric estimation of a two-stage model. In the first stage an aggregated model of discrete selection is estimated per fishing area by the fleet, together with patch capture function, considering the available biomass in each patch as a non-observed feature by the econometrician in the spatial decision of the fleet. This will allow estimating the monthly biomass availability on different fishing patches. In the second stage, values of biomass obtained from the first stage are used in order to estimate a spatial model of biological migration between patches. This method is proven in the Chilean jack mackerel fishery in Central Southern Chile. The application of the model in this fishery will allow estimating statistically significant migration parameters. Results confirm the existence of a high biomass migration between patches by identifying some migration patterns between the fishing areas studied.
Q22|Fishing and Nonfishing Income Decisions: The Role of Human Capital and Family Structure|Resource-dependent households often diversify their income. We model demand for remittances and supply of off-resource labor as a joint decision, and discuss household trade-offs. We extend the off-farm labor supply literature to a rural fishery, contrasting our results to common findings in the farm literature and providing empirical evidence of the interdependence between education and family structure in determining income diversification. Using a unique dataset from Malaysia, we find that more-educated households are less likely to diversify their income, with caveats depending on family composition. Policy implications for resource management in a remittance economy with alternative livelihoods are discussed.
Q22|The impact of the war in Yemen on artisanal fishing of the Red Sea|In March 2015, a military coalition formally led by Saudi Arabia began aerial bombardment on Yemen. The Saudi command declared that ‘Operation Decisive Storm’ was going to be a short campaign. Three and a half years later, the war continues. This study aims to identify marked changes in the socio-economic relations of artisanal fishing in Yemen since the onset of the war. It adopts a descriptive approach based on surveys, focus groups and comparative analysis. The study concludes that collaboration, solidarity, integration and partnership characterise the socio-economic relations of artisanal fishing and the communities of fishermen in the Red Sea coastal governorates of Yemen. The study reveals that damages from the war have affected all aspects of the artisanal fishing sector. It shows that damages from the ongoing war on the artisanal fishing sector have had a considerable impact on fishermen, fishing inputs, marine ecosystems, infrastructure, all parts of fishing operations, all stakeholders involved in fish processing and marketing and the development of the fishing sector.
Q22|Changing background risk and risk-taking - Evidence from the field|Decisions involving risk are usually taken in the presence of other insurable or non-insurable risks, the latter type called background risk. We examine how changing background risk influences risk-taking based on panel data with monthly observations from Senegalese fishermen. Fishing income is volatile and income risk depends on weather conditions and on technologies employed. To measure risktaking, we use an incentivized investment task. To measure background risk, we consider long-run wind conditions and a measure based on comparing standardized monthly income deviations from the yearly individual mean. We find that the latter measure that controls for technology choices and thus takes conscious reduction of risk exposure into account has a significant impact when overall fishing income is below average. Then, higher income risk increases risk-taking, suggesting intemperate behavior in low-income situations. This effect is stronger for poorer fishermen, highlighting the need for safety nets.
Q22|The determinants of economic growth in countries with high marine biodiversity|In this paper, we explore the economic growth determinants in 74 countries with high marine biodiversity for the period 1960-2009 through methodologies that take into account theory and specification uncertainty and the presence of multiple growth regimes. We find, firstly, that neoclassical (income), demography, macroeconomic policy, natural capital, fractionalisation and institutions theories are robust determinants of economic growth in these coastal countries. These results suggest that a country’s capacity to deal with marine biodiversity is associated with factors that impact economic growth. Secondly, in contrast with worldwide data sets, macroeconomic policies and natural capital are additional robust determinants of economic growth. There is strong historical evidence on the role of macroeconomic policies and non-renewable natural resources in trade flows and economic growth in coastal countries. Both factors, together with demography, highlight the pressures that coastal areas can be subject to such as construction and public works, population growth and urbanisation which, in turn, may degrade marine biodiversity. In fact, compared to other countries, coastal countries with high marine biodiversity have higher fertility rates, higher international trade exchanges, greater government consumption and lower institutional endowments. Thirdly, we find that education plays an important role in these countries. The rate of economic convergence increases with the level of education. Moreover, education and investment in physical capital have a significant and positive impact on economic growth in countries with very high levels of marine biodiversity. All together, our results suggest that diversifying away from natural capital wealth by investing in education and, more generally, in intangible capital can enhance economic growth, particularly in countries with very high levels of marine biodiversity. In turn, this structural change can contribute to remove pressure from marine biodiversity hotspots, mainly through lower fertility rates as education increases and lower dependence on natural capital exports via coastal areas.
Q22|Economic growth determinants in countries with blue carbon: Natural capital as a limiting factor ?|In this paper, we explore the determinants of economic growth in countries with blue carbon, i.e. countries with open access to the sea and high mangrove mitigation potential, to explore the effects of potential antropogenic pressures on these coastal ecosystems. For this purpose, we use a sample of 23 countries across different regions in the world for the period 1960-2009. We find evidence that whereas neoclassical (initial income and investment in physical capital), demography, macroeconomic policy and natural capital are the robust growth theories in countries with blue carbon, investment in physical capital, macroeconomic policy and natural capital are not relevant anymore when using a worldwide sample of countries. The findings on the role of natural capital on economic growth are largely consistent with those of “less developed” countries that our sample represents. Indeed, there is a share over two times lower of national natural capital per capita compared to an average country, and such lower share can be a limiting factor for economic growth. In addition, a too large economic dependence on national natural capital, almost two times higher than in an average country, may also have a negative impact on economic growth. These features, together with the high fertility rates in these countries, highlight the potential antropogenic pressures that coastal areas with blue carbon can be subject to such as land conversion for agriculture or aquaculture, farming run-offs, over-exploitation of blue carbon resources, urbanisation, uncontrolled sewage and public works which, in turn, can degrade blue carbon ecosystems. Given these findings, we empathize the role of central governments to provide incentives for the protection of these nature-based solutions at the level of local policy makers and communities, and of international financial institutions to provide financial support for such initiatives in these “less developed” countries.
Q22|Testing theoretical explanations for investment behaviour in the Dutch beam trawler fishery in the North Sea| In this study, we investigate whether the neoclassical economic theory, capital market frictions or preference-based theory can explain investment behaviour in the Dutch beam trawler fishery in the North Sea. By presenting a number of estimations, we show that vessels conducting pulse fishing invest substantially more than similar vessels undertaking conventional fishing, even after controlling for differences in such variables as capital stock, prices, profits and quotas. One possible explanation for this result is that vessel owners may obtain a separate benefit from investing in pulse fishing.
Q22|How Many Instruments Do We Really Need? A First-Best Optimal Solution to Multiple Objectives with Fisheries Regulation|Part of the existing economic literature on fisheries regulation focuses on addressing several objectives with one instrument. In an extension of this literature we investigate the following three objectives of fisheries regulation: A) Correcting a stock externality; B) Raising public funds, and; C) Solving problems with uncertainty. We analyze the implications of combining a non-linear tax on harvest and individual transferable quotas to address these three objectives and argue that a tax alone can fulfill all three objectives simultaneously. This result can be related to the theory on a first-best and a second-best optimum which state that the number of objectives must be identical to the number of instruments if a first-best optimum shall be reached. We show that one instrument (a tax based on the size of the harvest in this case) is enough to achieve a first-best optimum.
Q22|Risk averse policies foster bio-economic sustainability in mixed ﬁsheries|This paper examines the role of risk aversion on the sustainable management of multispecies ﬁsheries with technical interactions. We consider a bio-economic dynamic model of multiple species harvested by a single ﬂeet with uncertain costs of eﬀort. We assume that the regulatory agency aims at reaching MMEY (Multispecies Maxi-mum Economic Yield) in an uncertain context by maximizing the expected utility of total proﬁts, where utility is a quadratic function capturing risk aversion. We ana-lyze the impact of risk aversion on optimal ﬁshing eﬀort, proﬁt, production, biodiver-sity and conservation. We show analytically that such a risk-averse MMEY promotes bio-economic sustainability as it mitigates the risk of biological and economic over-exploitation of the diﬀerent species. Risk aversion also enhances biodiversity in the sense of evenness within the portfolio of the ﬁshery. However, by reducing the eﬀort, risk aversion lessens the expected proﬁt and food production. Thus, a trade-oﬀ be-tween diﬀerent bio-economic goals is exhibited through risk aversion. We illustrate the analytical ﬁndings with the case study of the Australian South East Fishery, where small risk aversion levels allow for high global bio-economic performances and balanced management objectives, therefore fostering sustainability.
Q22|Marine Ecosystem Considerations and Second-Best Management|Abstract We compare how the long-run distribution of fishing activities is affected in multispecies fisheries when facing different second-best control rules: (1) species-specific landing regulation, and (2) global input regulation. We show how this depends on the economic returns and on the type of ecological interaction considered. We highlight specifically that fishing effort does not necessarily increase on nontargeted species and decrease on targeted species, and that the characterization of second-best efficient instruments may differ drastically depending on the nature of the interaction.
Q22|Maximum Economic Yield Fishery Management in the Face of Global Warming|This paper deals with fishery management in the face of the ecological and economic effects of global warming. To achieve this, a dynamic bioeconomic model and model-based scenarios are considered, in which the stock's growth function depends on the sea surface temperature. The model is empirically calibrated for the French Guiana shrimp fishery using time series collected over the period 1993–2009. Three fishing effort strategies are then compared under two contrasted IPCC climate scenarios (RCP 8.5 and RCP 2.6). A first harvesting strategy maintains the Status Quo in terms of fishing effort. A more ecologically-oriented strategy based on the closure of the fishery is also considered. A third strategy, which relates to Maximum Economic Yield (MEY), is based on the optimisation of the net present value derived from fishing. The results first show that ‘Status Quo’ fishing intensity combined with global warming leads to the collapse of the fishery in the long run. Secondly, it turns out that the Closure strategy preserves stock viability especially under the optimistic climate scenario. Thirdly, the MEY strategy makes it possible to satisfy bioeconomic performances requirements with positive stock and profit, once again, especially under the optimistic warming scenario. Consequently, MEY emerges as a relevant bioeconomic strategy in terms of adaptation to climate change but only in connection with climate change mitigation.
Q22|Spatial renewable resource extraction under possible regime shift|How will countries harvesting mobile natural resources react to the threat of regime shift? We address the non-cooperative exploitation of a migratory renewable resource in the presence of possible regime shift that a_ects its movement. Motivated by the anticipated effects of climate change, we model a regime shift that will alter the spatial movement patterns of the resource at some point in the future. We develop a stochastic spatial bioeconomic model to address the effects of this class of regime shift on non-cooperative harvest decisions made by decentralized owners such as countries exploiting a migratory fish or other natural resource stock. We find that the threat of a future shift modifies the standard golden rule and may induce more aggressive harvest everywhere, irrespective of whether the owner will be advantaged or disadvantaged by the shift. We also identify conditions under which the threat of regime shift induces owners to reduce harvest rates in advance of the shift. Our analysis suggests that different property rights structures (single ownership vs common property) or heterogeneous growth can give rise to previously unexplored incentives and can even reverse conventional wisdom about how countries will react to the prospect of future environmental change
Q22|Mangrove increases resiliency of the French Guiana shrimp fishery facing global warming|This paper deals with the biological, ecological and economic impact of global warming and mangrove habitat availability on the French Guiana shrimp fishery. A dynamic bio-economic model is built by employing a shrimp stock's growth function depending on Sea Surface Temperature (SST) and on mangrove surface. The model is empirically calibrated for the French Guiana shrimp fishery using time series collected over 1995–2011. First, two Cobb-Douglas functions, which describe shrimp's natural growth and harvest, are estimated. Then, a Maximum Economic Yield (MEY) harvest rule, based on the optimization of the net present value derived from fishing, is computed. Three management strategies are compared (Closure, Status Quo management, and MEY) under three mangrove surface fluctuations and climatic scenarios: (a) SST and mangrove remain stable, (b) SST rises while mangrove declines, (c) SST rises and mangrove remains stable. The scenarios considering a SST rise are based on the median greenhouse gases emission projections estimated by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). The scenario focused on the reduction of mangrove surface is based on a general rate calculated on a global level. Our study shows that preserving the mangrove will increase the resiliency of French Guiana shrimp fishery in the long run.
Q22|Perish or prosper: Trade patterns for highly perishable products| Trade with highly perishable agricultural products like fresh fish has increased substantially. The perishability of these products appears to challenge conventional wisdom when it comes to food trade, which emphasizes the importance of large shipments to reduce transportation costs. In this paper, gravity models and several margins of trade are estimated for the trade with fresh salmon, a highly perishable product. The results indicate that increased geographical distance have a larger negative effect than what is generally reported. Most interestingly, the number of exporters and the shipment frequency increase while there is little impact on shipment size when trade increase.
Q22|Norwegian export of farmed salmon − trade costs and market concentration|While variation in unit value most commonly has been associated with quality in the trade literature, observed differences in prices between markets might also be explained by variation in market concentration and the degree of competition. Using transaction data on Norwegian exports of salmon, we introduce a Herfindahl index as a measure of competition in a standard gravity model. We find that competition typically is weaker in small and distant markets that due to high trade costs are served by relatively few firms. We argue that the anti-competitive impact of trade costs may explain price differentiation between markets even for homogeneous products.
Q22|Seasonality matters: a multi-season, multi-state dynamic optimization in fishery|Many biological and economic processes in fishery happen seasonally. Most of the extant literature tends to neglect this fact. This work is an initial attempt to treat seasonality in a systematic and proper way. We apply a periodic Bellman approach to obtain the optimal feedback policy of each season. Our approach has rich potentials. It could deal with seasonal patterns of uneven lengths: some may span years and some within the year. We find that, in some cases the equilibrium consists of one harvesting season followed by a moratorium period, indicating an optimal closure of the fishery that would be overlooked by a yearly model. Unlike a typical policy that enforces a moratorium to recover the stock, we find that many states first undergo harvesting all year round and later evolve into the seasonal moratorium. A rising group biomass could be the overshooting effect instead of a clear sign to increase harvest. We sometimes observe declining optimal harvest with increasing states (‘valley’), which may relate to the unit profit difference between seasons. Fishing pressure on the mature elicits even heavier harvest in the next season on the same group. A protective moratorium of the immature seems to hinder the value of the whole stock.
Q22|The Input-Output Analysis Of Blue Industries: Comparative Study Of Estonia And Finland|The paper focuses on examining the role of blue industries in the national economies of Estonia and Finland as two neighbouring countries that have a sea border. We exploit the Input-Output (I-O) methodology to analyse inter-industry linkages relying on the OECD I-O tables. The OECD database comprises information on 34 sectors of the national economy over the period 1995–2011. The results of the analysis show that despite rather weak overall backward and forward linkages of aggregated blue industries within the national economies, they play a remarkable role in the economic activities of maritime regions, and to a large extent drive the economic success of Estonian and Finnish regional and national economies in generating new growth and employment. The weak backward and forward linkages indicate that negative dynamics within the blue economy yield rather weak negative externalities for the overall economy, and by contrast, if the national economy as a whole is suffering under a crisis, the potential impact on industries is not particularly remarkable. These findings suggest that blue industries are relatively independent within national economies having a remarkable role in socio-economic development of maritime regions, and thereby, create good preconditions for the stable development of cross-border cooperation between the maritime regions of both countries.
Q22|Douglass C. North: Transaction Costs, Property Rights, and Economic Outcomes|Douglass North asked why some societies historically and contemporarily have rising per-capita incomes and individual welfare, whereas others do not? He argued that successful economies had property rights that encouraged markets, trade, and investment in new production and organizational methods. In other economies, transaction costs, especially those due to the political process, blocked more efficient property rights. Property rights grant decision making over valuable resources and are the basis for investment, and market exchange. They mold the economy and the distribution of wealth and political power. Politicians and coalitions of privileged elites with stakes in the status quo join to preserve it. Inefficiencies create their own constituencies. There is no clear remedy for general citizens in North’s cases. Despite the power of North’s argument, transaction costs are not clear in aggregate studies of economies. They are more apparent in US common-pool resource problems with large, continuing losses in resource rents. This evidence runs counter to the facile arguments in the welfare and environmental economics literatures for addressing externalities that are reminiscent of the simplistic recommendations in the growth and economic history literatures that North challenged. If the observed costly political response to open access losses is characteristic of regulation in general, then welfare losses permeate developed economies as well and are more pervasive than the dramatic examples of development failure examined by North and others. Mitigation requires competitive interest groups that benefit from more secure property rights and greater resource rents to offset powerful elites that align with politicians and capture bureaucratic agencies to achieve particularistic benefits that undermine general welfare.
Q22|The Critical Role Of Markets In Climate Change Adaptation|Markets, especially land markets, can facilitate climate change adaptation through price signals. A review of research reveals that urban, coastal, and agricultural land markets provide effective signals of the emerging costs of climate change. These signals encourage adjustments by both private owners and policy officials in taking preemptive action to reduce costs. In agriculture, they promote consideration of new cropping and tillage practices, seed types, timing, and location of production. They also stimulate use of new irrigation technologies. In urban areas, they motivate new housing construction, elevation, and location away from harm. They channel more efficient use of water and its application to parks and other green areas to make urban settings more desirable with higher temperatures. Related water markets play a similar role in adjusting water use and reallocation. To be effective, however, markets must reflect multiple traders and prices must be free to adjust. Where these conditions are not met, market signals will be inhibited and market-driven adaptation will be reduced. Because public policy is driven by constituent demands, it may not be a remedy. The evidence of the National Flood Insurance Program and federal wildfire response illustrates how politically difficult it may be to adjust programs to be more adaptive.
Q22|The Valuation of Fisheries Rights: A Real Options Approach|This article develops and implements a Real Option approach to value renewable natural resources in the case of Marine Fisheries. The model includes two sources of uncertainty: the resource biomass and the price of fish, and it can be used by fisheries to optimally adapt their harvesting strategy to changing conditions in these stochastic variables. The model also features realistic operational cash flows and fisheries can shutdown and reopen operations. Using publicly available data on the British Columbia halibut fishery, the required parameters are estimated and the model solved. The results indicate that the conservation of the biomass is both optimal from a financial and a social perspective. The approach could be extended to other fish species and natural resources if the appropriate data were available.
Q22|Relative Effects of Fisheries Support Policies|The effects of six common forms of fisheries support are estimated using a bioeconomic model of the global fishery. The results show that all have the potential to provoke overfishing, to lead to fish stocks being overfished, to encourage illegal, unreported or unregulated (IUU) fishing and to increase fleet capacity, but that their effects can vary significantly both in scale and how they are distributed at the fleet level. The fisheries management system can mitigate, though not entirely eliminate, these impacts. Supports based on reducing the cost of inputs purchased by fishers provoke the greatest increase in fishing effort, with associated risks of overfishing. This includes fuel subsidies, which are also shown to deliver less than 10% of their value in actual benefits to fishers in some cases, making them the least effective means of transferring income to fishers of those evaluated. Payments based on improving fishers’ business operations provided the greatest benefit to fishers and had relatively less tendency to increase fishing effort. If only USD 5 billion in fuel support was converted into support of this type, fishers would see increased income of more than USD 2 billion, while at the same time reducing effort and improving fish stocks. Such a change would also provide relatively more benefit to smaller fishers.
Q22|Small-scale fishery of the Eastern Mediterranean Sea: A case study in the Kalymnos Island, Greece|This study analyzes the small-scale fishery in Kalymnos Island (located in Eastern Mediterranean Sea) to evaluate fishing practices in this fishery. The métiers of this fishery are defined with a multivariate analysis approach for assessing the main fishery resources and fishing gear employed. The empirical findings show that longlines in this fishery practice 10 types of métiers. Some of these métiers, in terms of target species, gear and seasonality are also used in other small-scale Mediterranean fisheries. The main 6 type of métiers with fishing gear: set longlines, drifting longlines, handlines and squid jig-lines with target species P.pagrus, D.vulgaris, P.erythrinus, S.aurata, X.gladius, O.vulgaris, and L.vulgaris. The seasonal rotation of métiers is determined by the availability of different fish species rather than market price. Identified the métiers provides information for developing monitoring and management strategies for the small-scale fishery. The small-scale fishery constitutes an important social component of local coastal communities.
Q22|Sustainable management of fish stock: An assessment of small-scale fishing in Greece|The aim of this study was to identify the main métiers practiced by gillnet, trammel net and combined net fishery in the Kalymnos Island. The catch was obtained every 15 days of the small-scale fleet for the period from February 2013 to May 2014 by interviews during unloading. A total 315 fishing operations were recorded. Multivariate analysis applied to either species landings composition or economic revenue. The most important métiers identified were those B. boops with gillnet, intense fishing activity during December-February and mesh size 26 mm, métier which targeting S. porcus and S. officinalis with fishing gear trammel net, intense fishing activity during April-May and mesh size 26 mm. Both of these métiers appeared high produce and income. The results of this study confirm the multi-species natural of small-scale fishing and fishing activity in the area of Kalymnos specific difference from the other area in Greece.
Q22|Socioeconomic aspects and characteristics of small-scale fishery in eastern Mediterranean Sea|Small-scale fishery represents an important part of Mediterranean fishery. In order to improve the knowledge on this sector primary research was carried out in the Dodecanese fishery aiming to identify the fishery and socioeconomic characteristics, fishing activities, and to identify the small-scale fisheries métiers. Specifically, data were collected over the time period 2013-2014 by interviews aiming to characterize fleets, fishing gear used, fishing activity and socioeconomic elements and interviews during unloading aimed at catch data. The highest CPUE values were reported for Boops boops (2.38±2.93 kg/1500 m net*day) caught by gillnet in the winter season, Xiphias gladius (101.03±86.06 kg/800 hooks*day) by drifting longline in the spring season. The catch is traded in both the wholesale and the retail market. The most important métiers with fishing gear and target species: gillnet, B. boops, trammel net, Scorpaen porcus and Mullus surmuletus, set longline, Pagellus erythrinus, Pagrus pagrus, Diplodus sargus, drifting longlines, X.gladius and handlines, Octopus vulgaris. The Dodecanese fishery need management measures to protect fishery resources and maintain small-scale fishery.
Q22|A bayesian estimation of the economic effects of the Common Fisheries Policy on the Galician Fleet: a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium approach|What would have happened if a relatively looser fisheries policy had been implemented in the European Union (EU)? Using Bayesian methods a Dynamic Stochastic General Equilib- rium (DSGE) model is estimated to assess the impact of the European Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) on the economic performance of a Galician (north-west of Spain) fleet highly dependant on the EU southern stock of hake. Our counterfactual analysis shows that if a less effective CFP had been implemented during the period 1986-2012, ‘fishing opportunities” would have increased, leading to an increase in labor hours of 4.87%. However, this increase in fishing activity would have worsened the profitability of the fleet, dropping wages and rental price of capital by 6.79% and 0.88%, respectively. Welfare would also be negatively affected since, in addition to the increase in hours worked, consumption would have reduced by 0.59%.
Q22|What ails fishery insurance in China? - Evaluating fishermen's willingness to pay in central coastal areas|Despite the remarkable development in its fishery sector, the penetration rate of fishery insurance in China is considerably low. This paper examines the key factors that contribute to the poor performance of fishery insurance in the country and investigates fishermen?s willingness to pay (WTP) for the insurance program, based on a survey of 1,280 fishermen in three coastal cities in China. The results indicate fishermen?s decision on adoption of an insurance scheme depends on various factors, among which the magnitude of loss, insurance awareness and education level all have positive impact, but annual income and years of fishing experience are more likely to have negative effects. In addition, the mean WTP for fishery insurance is estimated to be CNY 579 per family, which is equivalent to 1.5% of fishermen's mean annual income. These results provide several policy implications for not only the government but also researchers and insurance companies.
Q22|Low, High and Super Congestion of an Open-Access Resource: Impact under Autarky and Trade, with Aquaculture as Illustration|Analysis of open-access common-property natural resource (NR) has occurred under “low” congestion (LC) – where 𝐴𝐶 and 𝑀𝐶 increase with output 𝑄 – and has for the most part ignored the more important congestion categories where 𝐴𝐶 (𝑀𝐶) is backward-bending (negative) and welfare and NR losses are significantly greater. This paper identifies two such categories, “high” (HC) and “super” (SC) congestion, and examines the impact of open access on steady-state welfare, NR, employment, output and price in a general equilibrium model. Main findings are: i) Welfare and NR costs (and optimal taxes) are a multiple or orders of magnitude greater under HC and (especially) SC than under LC, with trade further – and always – reducing an open-access exporter’s NR and welfare. These results are robust to alternative parameter values and functional forms and greatly increase the importance of regulation; ii) An optimal tax raises price and reduces output under autarky in the case of LC and HC but reduces price and raises output under SC, with significantly larger gains; iii) Studies conducted under LC show trade between open-access developing country C1 and regulated but otherwise identical C2 reduces C1’s welfare and both C1’s and global NR, and though the same holds under HC, the opposite holds under SC; iv) Trade between two open-access countries – say, a developing and an emerging one – with different externality (population) levels raises global output and welfare, improves NR’s global efficiency, raises (does not affect) its level, and reduces international inequality; and v) Emigration’s welfare gain is much larger under SC than under LC, especially if migration results in LC after migration. Application to other issues and policy implications are provided.
Q22|Does the European Union achieve comprehensive blue growth? Progress of EU coastal states in the Baltic and North Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean against sustainable development Goal 14|The Sustainable Development Goal for the oceans and coasts (SDG 14) as part of the 2030 Agenda can be considered as an important step towards achieving more comprehensive blue growth. Here, we selected a set of 18 indicators to measure progress against SDG 14 for EU coastal states in the Baltic and the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean since 2012. In our assessment we distinguish between a concept of weak and strong sustainability, assuming high and low substitution possibilities, respectively. Overall, we show that the majority of countries in our assessment fail to achieve comprehensive blue growth. Sweden, Spain, Ireland, and in particular Portugal experienced a considerable reduction in scores since 2012. The only exemption is Estonia which managed to improve its scores over time under both concepts of sustainability. The unsustainable development at the EU level is mainly driven by deteriorations in indicators related to fisheries.
Q22|Common-Pool Resources are Intrinsically Unstable|Efficient allocations in common-pool resources cannot be accomplished when appropriators are selfish. In addition, we find that a system of a common-pool resource is locally unstable if there are four or more appropriators. Such instability most likely makes efficiency worse than that in the Nash equilibrium. These results indicate that equilibrium analyses might not capture the essence of the common-pool resource problem. They may also provide an answer to the unexplained pulsing behavior among appropriators and inefficiency observed in experiments.
Q22|Commercial fishing and outdoor recreation benefits of water quality improvements in the Chesapeake Bay|We estimated the economic benefits of the Chesapeake Bay TMDL to commercial fish harvesters and consumers, recreational anglers, and other outdoor recreators. To forecast the impacts of the TMDL on harvested fish and shellfish stocks in the bay and connected Atlantic coast waters, we used a summary of judgments from an expert panel and a multi-species model of Chesapeake Bay fisheries. We estimated benefits to consumers in commercial fish markets using a multi-stage inverse demand system, which models price as a function of exogenous supply and accounts for substitution possibilities between 13 different species and as many as five regions. Models were estimated using monthly harvest data from the years 1991 to 2011. The estimated parameters of the inverse demand systems were then used to calculate compensating and equivalent variation from the changes in harvests between the baseline and TMDL scenarios. To estimate producer surplus changes, we assumed that fishing effort will remain fixed at recent levels in each fishery, so harvesting costs do not increase due to the TMDL. The resulting estimates of commercial fishing benefits range between $3 and $26 million per year. We also examined the implications of alternative assumptions about the management regime in each fishery, including fixed effort, open access, and maximum sustainable surplus. We calculated benefits to recreational anglers using a linked participation and site-choice recreation demand model. The model was estimated using angler intercept survey data from the Marine Recreational Fisheries Statistics Survey (MRFSS). Catch rates were calculated using historic reported catch from the MRFSS. We accounted for the sample selection bias caused by the non-random intercept survey sampling design using weights based on historic visitation frequencies at each intercept site. The intercept data were used to estimate a random utility site-choice model, and counts of trips from respondent zip codes were used to estimate a negative binomial participation model conditional on the inclusive value of all sites as estimated by the site-choice model. The resulting estimates of recreational fishing benefits range between $5 and $59 million per year. We used a separate recreation demand model to estimate the benefits associated with other outdoor recreation activities. The model was estimated using aggregate data on the total number of visitors to national and state parks in Maryland, Virginia, and Delaware. The aggregate visitation data alone are insufficient to estimate all parameters of the model, so these data were supplemented with survey data on the number of recreation trips taken to the Chesapeake Bay collected from a random sample of individuals in the study area. The marginal effects of water quality on recreators’ site choices were estimated in a second-stage regression, using estimates of site-specific constants from the first-stage site-choice model as the dependent variable and measures of average water quality conditions and other fixed site attributes as explanatory variables. The central estimates of the outdoor recreation benefits (exclusive of recreational fishing) are between $105 to $280 million per year.
Q22|Welfare analysis in a two-stage inverse demand model: an application to harvest changes in the Chesapeake Bay|Abstract Like many agricultural commodities, fish and shellfish are highly perishable and producers cannot easily adjust supply in the short run to respond to changes in demand. In these cases it is more appropriate to conduct welfare analysis using inverse demand models that take quantities as given and allow prices to adjust to clear the market. One challenge faced by economists conducting demand analysis is how to limit the number of commodities in the analysis while accounting for the relevant substitutability and complementarity among goods. A common approach in direct demand modeling is to assume weak separability of the utility function and apply a multi-stage budgeting approach. This approach has not, however, been applied to an inverse demand system or the associated welfare analysis. This paper develops a two-stage inverse demand model and derives the total quantity flexibilities which describe how market clearing prices respond to supply changes in other commodity groups. The model provides the means to estimate consumer welfare impacts of an increase in finfish and shellfish harvest from the Chesapeake Bay while recognizing that harvests from other regions are potential substitutes. Comparing the two-stage results with single-stage analysis of the same data shows that ignoring differentiation of harvests from different regions, or the availability of substitutes not affected by a supply shock, can bias welfare estimates.
Q22|Red tape and administrative burden in aquaculture licensing|Concern that rates of aquaculture growth in OECD countries are below potential has resulted in environmentally sustainable production increase becoming a priority for policy makers. Growth in aquaculture production can be influenced by many factors. This report looks at the attributes of licensing and regulatory systems in OECD countries, the area over which policy makers have greatest direct control, and finds some suggestion they may be negatively related to aquaculture growth rates. Opportunities exist for reducing the administrative burden faced by enterprises, without sacrificing regulatory quality in the process. There is also a strong indication that quality governance, aided by having systems of evaluation and review in place, helps reduce overall administrative burden. Comparing the attributes of licensing systems with environmental performance was not possible due to the lack of suitable indicators. This highlights the need to measure environmental performance if regulatory effectiveness is to be evaluated further.
Q22|On consumption patterns in oyster markets: the role of attitudes|Achieving a low-carbon and sustainable economy is a long-term goal that EU aims at achieving in the next few decades: the potential role of bioeconomy is likely to make the difference, and in particular, the EU aquaculture and the seafood processing industry has the potential to contribute substantially to the emergence of bioeconomies (for instance through new – niche - markets for bio-based products such as algae, etc). In this particular framework, understanding how to enhance cleaner and more sustainable consumption patterns is preliminary to the transition towards more equitable and sustainable markets. The present analysis investigates the role of consumers’ attitudes with respect to sustainable attributes (namely food safety and respect of the environment) in order to suggest on their potential role to catalyze the transition toward bioeconomies. Up to date, empirical investigations on this issue are limited to few markets, and studies on aquaculture are particularly scant. The gap is reduced by the present analysis: it has been implemented a survey on fish consumers to investigate how their attitudes toward food safety and environmental issues tend to influence consumption choices, and it is shown that those attitudes are important determinants of consumers choices. Put differently, a cleaner and more sustainable supply chain (i.e through a safer, and environmental friendly product) is likely to enhance consumption of oysters. To the extent that policy makers, producers, and taxpayers are interested in enhancing sustainable bioeconomies, understanding the relevance of attitudes toward food safety and environmental sustainability is an important and pressing goal. The analysis, novel in its application to a high quality product, speaks in this direction and will help understanding how to accelerate the transition to sustainable bioeconomies.
Q22|Global marine fisheries with economic growth|This study explores the state of global marine fisheries and empirically analyzes its relationship to economic factors. We apply the pooled mean group estimator method to examine 70 fishing countries for the period of 1961–2010. We use both catch and the estimated size of stock as proxies for marine ecosystems. Our results confirm that economic growth initially leads to the deterioration of marine ecosystems. However, for a per capita income level of approximately 3,827 USD for the catch model and of 6,066 USD for the biomass model, we found beneficial impacts of economic growth on the sustainability of marine fisheries. Over the next two decades, we expect to see a decline in catch and indications of stock recovery.
Q22|Climate change and Bangladesh fisheries and aquaculture: Evidences from the household income and expenditure survey (HIES)2010 data|This paper estimates the impact of climate change on the fisheries and aquaculture sector of Bangladesh by employing appropriate econometric models. The Household Income and Expenditure Survey 2010 (HIES,2010) data have been used to estimate the Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regressions for examining the impact. Since “climate change” is a long run phenomenon, its impacts may not be discernable in the short run, cross sections data. Our econometric results find some negative impacts of climate change on the household fisheries production,though estimated coefficients are not statistically significant.Climate change therefore does not have any impact on the fisheries and aquaculture sector at the household level at least in the short run. Within HIES 2010 data, regarding geographical locations, respondent households associated with fisheries from Dhaka and Rangpur divisions (and also to a lesser extent, Khulna) have been found to be disproportionately more vulnerable to climate change-related shocks as well as having lower yearly mean household incomes, compared to their counterparts in other divisions.
Q22|The Rise and Demise of J.H. Todd and Sons, British Columbia’s Enduring Independent Salmon Canners|This paper examines J.H. Todd & Sons Ltd., a British Columbia family-owned and run fish packing company during the years 1881 through 1954. The research presented in this paper outlines the contribution of individual Todd members to both the success and eventual demise of the company. Also examined is the history of the B. C. salmon canning industry, the evolution of J.H. Todd & Sons Ltd., the role of the company in the broader context of the B. C. fishing industry; and the factors that led to the demise of the company. The research relies on documentary primary sources as well as extensive oral history collection obtained from Todd family members and employees.
Q22|Research agendas for profitable invasive species| Management of natural resources with uncertain net benefits presents an interdisciplinary challenge; economists often must rely on other disciplines to advise and evaluate policies. Net benefits may be uncertain due to absent, inconclusive or contradictory scientific findings. Economics must interpret uncertainties and ground policy recommendations in this context. Understanding biases in primary research agendas and the roles of vertical and horizontal integration in knowledge production and management are essential to prevent sub-optimal allocations across time and space, including avoiding recommendations of excess or insufficient harvest. We empirically investigate these biases by comparing disparate scientific literature and management decisions across vested interests to uncover how economic incentives systematically vary across research investments. The Barents Sea Red King Crab, a simultaneously profitable and invasive species with different net benefits across stakeholders, provides the empirical evidence. We find that scientific consensus is harder to achieve even for primary research when economic incentives differ across research institutions and that research agendas shift over time in response to changes in relative trade-offs between ecological consequences and financial benefits from the resource's presence. Impacts on management are accentuated by integration of the scientific research programmes and management decisions; broadening research participation and agendas may alleviate bias.
Q22|International Fisheries Agreements with a Shifting Stock|Abstract When a fish stock shifts from one nation to another nation, e.g., due to climate change, the nation that loses the resource has incentives to deplete it, while the other nation, receiving the resource, has incentives to conserve it. We propose an analytical model to study under which circumstances self-enforcing agreements can align incentives. Our setup allows to distinguish between a fast and a slow shift and between a smooth or a sudden shift in ownership. We show that the shorter the expected duration of the transition, the higher the total equilibrium exploitation rate. Similarly, a sudden shift implies—by and large—more aggressive non-cooperative exploitation than a gradual shift. However, a self-enforcing agreement without side-payments is more likely for a sudden than for a smooth shift. Further, the scope for cooperation increases with the expected duration of the transition, and it decreases with the renewability of the resource and the discount rate. Most importantly, we show that concentrating on in-kind transfers can be very detrimental for shifting renewable resources: In some cases, there is no efficient bargaining solution without side-payments, even when there are only two players.
Q22|Stabilization of an Uncertain Simple Fishery Management Game|This note analyzes in a fishery management problem the effects of relaxing one of the usual assumptions in the literature of dynamic games. Specifically, the assumption that players restrict to strategies that stabilize the system. Previous works in the literature have shown that feedback Nash equilibria can exist in which a player can improve unilaterally by choosing a feedback control for which the closed-loop system is unstable. This paper considers in some more detail the implication this setting has in the framework of a simple fishery management. It is shown that if the fishermen are not short-sighted in their valuation of future profits, the considered approach implies a division of them into two groups. One group going for maximal profits and the other group taking care of the imposed stability constraint. To see how noise might impact these results we additionally consider a framework where fishermen take into account the possibility that the fish growth might be corrupted by external factors. We consider a deterministic approach of dealing with noise in this set-up. The model predicts that the more people are involved in the group taking care of the stabilization constraint, the less active they get. Furthermore it predicts that the natural reaction of any of these persons is to increase his activities if he expects more noise. But that this activity is reduced, and partly replaced by more active control policies by group members, if the size of the group increases. Activity of fishermen going for maximal profits is not affected by noise expectations.
Q22|Evaluation of the Chilean Jack Mackerel ITQ System|The debate in commercial fishery management has evolved from whether well-defined rights are necessary for sustainability to measuring the impacts of different rights-based system designs. Most assessments are on developed world fisheries. Using a unique collection of datasets, we develop counterfactuals to evaluate the economic impacts of the Chilean jack mackerel catch share program. We investigate vessel and trip characteristics, as well as trip costs and revenues, before and after the implementation of the program. We find an increase in higher value products and associated revenue, as well as consolidation of catch on larger vessels, vessels taking longer trips, and those catching more per trip. Overall, we estimate that the program led to a measureable increase in fishing profits, mainly due to movement toward higher-value products. A back-of-the-envelope calculation results in an implied annual quota rental rate on the order of approximately 15-19% of ex-vessel prices.
Q22|Mapping the linkages between oceans and other Sustainable Development Goals: A preliminary exploration|This paper maps interrelationships among targets of the Sustainable Development Goal dedicated to oceans (SDG 14), as well as interrelationships between those targets and other SDGs. This is done using a large number of UN reports as well as scientific publications. The literature identifies many linkages among the targets of SDG 14; most of these targets are potentially synergistic with one another. Many linkages also exist between SDG 14 targets and other SDGs. Different targets under SDG 14 link to different SDGs. This has implications for policy discussions on how to achieve progress on SDG 14. The interrelationships that we highlight can be used as a tool for dialogue between policy and scientific communities working on oceans, in particular for assessing the status of knowledge on the various linkages, as well as identifying linkages that are likely to matter most for progress on SDG 14.
Q22|Subsidies, Fisheries Management, and Stock Depletion|This paper investigates the impact of fishery subsidies on resource stocks in 23 OECD countries during 1996–2011. Results show that the effect of subsidies depends on the type of subsidy and the management regime. Within this sample, cost-reducing subsidies have no effect on stocks if management is individual quota based but have negative effects if management uses traditional input/output restrictions. Subsidies for improving fishery management and infrastructure produce beneficial effects on stocks under traditional management, but no effect with individual quota–based management. These results suggest global efforts to reform fishery subsidies should be carried out in a highly selective manner.
Q22|Distributional preferences and donation behavior among marine resource users in Wakatobi, Indonesia|"This study examines the effect of participants' distributional preferences on donations of money and time using a field experiment with marine resource users in Indonesia. Individuals participate in a real effort task to earn money and are faced with a donation decision under different treatments - monetary donation, time donation, monetary match, and time match. In the distributional preferences elicitation we classify individuals' preferences as benevolent, egalitarian, own-money-maximizing, and spiteful. We find that the different distributional preference types are a significant indicator of participants' donation behavior. The people showing spiteful preferences and those that focus only on maximizing their own payoff are less likely to donate any amount compared to those that make egalitarian choices. Furthermore, we find strong evidence that individuals that choose payoff structures characterized as ""benevolent"" donate a significantly higher amount compared to the egalitarian types. We analyze the results econometrically in two-stages to better understand the determining factors for whether an individual donates and those factors that determine how much one donates. Practical implications involve the segmentation of the target audience, not by the type of charity but by the mechanism which motivates their donation behavior."
Q22|Harvesting a Remote Renewable Resource|In standard models of spatial harvesting, the resource is distributed over the complete domain and the agent is able to control the harvesting activity everywhere all the time. In some cases though, it is more realistic to assume that the resource is located at a single point in space and that the agent is required to travel there in order to be able to harvest. In this case, the agent faces a combined travelling–and–harvesting problem. We scrutinize this type of a two-stage optimal control problem, and illuminate the interdependencies between the solution of travelling and that of the harvesting sub-problem. Since the model is parsimoniously parameterised, we are able to analytically characterise the optimal policy of the complete travelling–and–harvesting problem. In an appendix we show how bounds on either control, i. e. on acceleration and on the harvesting capacity, as well as a positive discount rate affect the solution of the travelling–and–harvesting problem.
Q22|International Fisheries Access Agreements and Trade|International fishery access agreements allow fishermen from one country to harvest fish in another country's waters. We empirically examine, using a unique global panel dataset, why countries sign fisheries access agreements with each other and compare these to the characteristics of countries that choose the path of international trade. We show that access agreements and fish exports are driven by two key motives: a pattern of comparative advantage in fishing, which depends on fish stocks and fishing capacities; and gravity factors of economic size and distance. Our results suggest that most gravity factors work similarly for agreements and exports: larger countries that are closer to each other are more likely to sign access agreements or to trade. However, the pattern of advantage is determined differently: source countries with larger fishing capacity are more likely to export fish, while source countries with lower fishing capacity are more likely to sign agreements.
Q22|An Economic Analysis of Shellfish Harvests Regulations for Food Safety| Among causative agents of food-borne illness associated with shellfish consumption, Vibrio vulnificus has been identified as a special concern due to the high mortality it can induce, particularly to individuals with poor health and immune disorders. Food-borne V. vulnificus infections increase during the summer months due to higher densities of the bacteria in warmer water and increased risks associated with inappropriate handling of shellfish. To prevent the incidence of V. vulnificus infections, the FDA requires shellfish producing states to develop a Vibrio control plan and conduct an annual risk evaluation. In Florida the daily harvest period is regulated to minimize the length of time between shellfish harvest and processing, and this harvest period has been recently reduced for summer harvest to prevent food borne illness. The adoption of these public health regulations could affect the profitability and sustainability of oyster harvesting in Florida, especially among resource-dependent coastal communities. This study combines bioeconomic modeling and cost benefit analysis to assess the impact of this regulation on fishers’ harvest and revenues, and weighs that impact against the regulation’s potential public health benefits. Our results show that fishers will experience reduced harvests early in the season due to the shorter length of the harvest days, but this initial loss will be recouped later in the season as harvests remain high for longer than they would have if the harvest time regulations were not in place. The new regulations may yield significant net benefits even if only a small number of cases of V. vulnificus can be prevented.
Q22|Perceptions of selected aquaculture practices: Shanghai residents’ views on water and feed quality| The paper examines importance Shanghai consumers attach to four issues associated with the production of aquatic products. Three potential problems involve quality of production inputs, i.e., water quality, the use of feed without medication, and the use of only natural ingredients in feed. The fourth issue was the importance to consumers of releasing water from fish farms without treatment to surface water bodies. The estimation of four specified equations uses 394 observations and the ordered logit technique. Results consistently show the increasing importance of all issues as the educational attainment level of respondents’ increases. The presence of children is associated with importance of feed quality, but has the opposite effect on the importance of releasing untreated water. Age also increases the importance of feed quality, but decreases the importance of releasing untreated water to rivers and the sea. Male as compared to women respondents view the issues as less important. Overall, the results are consistent with expectations of better educated or older consumers attaching more importance to presented issues associated with aquatic production, except for the unexpected effect of child presence in a household on treatment of water.
Q22|Voluntary Management of Fisheries under an Uncertain Background Legislative Threat|We investigate the possibility for governance authorities to avoid a large part of regulatory costs, by simply backing up social norms with a threat of collective punishment. Specifically, we consider the case of fisheries in which the regulatory cap is to sustain an optimal conservation level. We identify a mandatory regulation such that, when it is used as a threat, it ensures that the cap is voluntarily implemented. The mandatory scheme is based on a incentive mechanism which secures the returns of the harvester, and a tax on potential capacity. From the status of mere threat, this mandatory regulation takes time to be enforced though. We show that such a tax scheme, even if it is applied randomly after the first occurrence of a deviation from the optimal conservation level, ensures voluntary compliance, provided a suitable choice of the capacity tax. We study the properties of this tax scheme and build an example using data on the scallop fishery in the Saint-Brieuc Bay (France) to illustrate our point.
Q22|A methodological note for the development of integrated aquaculture production models|Aquaculture production can yield significant economic, social and environmental effects. These exceed the financial costs and benefits aquaculture producers are faced with. We propose a methodology for the development of integrated production models that allow for the inclusion of the socio-economic and environmental effects of aquaculture into the production management. The methodology develops on a Social Cost-Benefit Analysis context and it includes three parts: i) environmental, that captures the interactions of aquaculture with the environment, ii) economic, that makes provision for the incorporation of economic determinants in the production models and iii) social, that introduces the social preferences to the production and management process. Alternatives to address data availability issues are also discussed. The methodology extends the assessment of the costs and benefits of aquaculture beyond pure financial metrics and beyond the quantification of private costs and benefits. It can also support the development of integrated models of aquaculture production that take into consideration both the private and the social costs and benefits associated with externalities and effects not appropriately captured by market mechanisms. The methodology can support aquaculture management and policies targeting sustainable and efficient aquaculture production and financing from an economic, financial, social and environmental point of view.
Q22|Harvesting a Remote Renewable Resource|In standard models of spatial harvesting, the resource is distributed over the complete domain and the agent is able to control the harvesting activity everywhere. In some cases, it is more realistic to assume that the resource is located at a single point and that the agent is required to travel. The agent faces a combined travelling–and–harvesting problem. We scrutinize this two-stage optimal control problem and characterise the optimal policy of the full travelling–and–harvesting problem.
Q22|The local effects of an innovation: Evidence from the French fish market|In this paper, we investigate the effect on quality, quantity and prices of an innovative fishing gear introduced for a subsample of vessels on a single wholesale fish market in France. Estimations are conducted using transaction data over the 2009-2011 period during which the innovation was introduced. Using a difference-in-differences approach around the discontinuity, we find that for the treated the innovation has a large effect on quality (29.2 percentage points) and prices (23.2 percentage points). A shift in caught fish species is observed and new targeted species are fished very intensively. We also quantify the treatment effect on the treated market from aggregate market data using factor models and a synthetic control approach. We find a sizable effect of the innovation on market quality which is consistent with non-treated vessels adapting their fishing practices to remain competitive. The innovation has no effect on market quantities and prices.
Q22|Is There A Market For Branded Gulf Of Mexico Oysters?| We administered an online choice experiment to a sample of U.S. raw oyster consumers to identify factors influencing preferences for Gulf of Mexico oysters, and to estimate willingness-to-pay for specific attributes, including harvest location / brand, price, size, taste (saltiness), and cultivation method (wild vs. farm-raised). This work was complemented by taste panels conducted in Point Clear (Alabama), Houston, and Chicago. During taste panels, local branded varieties dominate consumer choice, although these same varieties fare no better than other varieties under blind taste-tests. Online survey results indicate that Non-Gulf respondents are likely to require a price discount on Gulf varieties relative to local varieties, on the order of $3-9 per half-dozen, depending on the specific variety and other factors. Although most Gulf respondents chose the cheaper generic Gulf oyster over branded Gulf varieties, we still estimate positive price premia for branded Gulf varieties of up to $5 per half-dozen.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q22|Effects of wildlife resources on community welfare in Southern Africa|This paper demonstrates the importance of wildlife in the portfolio of environmental income in the livelihoods of poor rural communities living adjacent to a national park. The results show that wealthier households use more wildlife resources in total than do relatively poor households. However, poorer households derive greater proportional benefit than wealthier households from the use of wildlife resources. Excluding wildlife understates the relative contribution of environmental resources while at the same time overstating the relative contribution of farm and wage income. Wildlife income alone accounts for about a 5.5% reduction in the proportion of people living below the poverty line. Furthermore, wildlife income has an equalizing effect, bringing about a 5.4% reduction in measured inequality. Regression analysis suggests that the likelihood of belonging to a wealthier category of income increases with an increase in environmental income. As expected, household wealth significantly and positively affects environmental income generated by households. This seems to suggest that wildlife-based land reform also needs to empower poor households in the area of capital accumulation while imposing restraints on the use of capital investments by well-off households to harvest wildlife.
Q22|Threshold Effects in Meta-Analyses With Application to Benefit Transfer for Coral Reef Valuation|Policymakers and advocates often use benefit transfers to estimate the economic value of environmental amenities when primary valuation studies are infeasible. Benefit transfers based on meta-analyses, which synthesize site and methodological characteristics from valuation studies of similar underlying amenities, generally outperform traditional site-to-site transfers. We build on earlier meta-analyses of willingness-to-pay for tropical coral reef recreation by introducing a meta-regression model with threshold effects, with a goal of increasing transfer reliability. We estimate a threshold in coral reef quality and find that increases in live coral cover have a large impact on individuals' WTP for recreation at degraded coral reefs. Relaxing the assumption of users' constant valuation across the distribution of this characteristic improves the performance of coral reef benefit transfers in some instances: tests of convergent validity reveal that including the threshold effect reduces the mean transfer error and the interquartile range of transfer errors in 5 out of 8 tests.
Q22|Estimating a Total Demand Function for Sea Angling Pursuits|Sea angling is often over-looked in debates related to the sustainability of commercial fisheries, tourism and impacts on marine ecosystem service provision from coastal developments. This paper presents the estimation of a sea angling demand function for Irish waters. The negative binomial models also account for truncation and endogenous stratification; two issues that need to be controlled for when dealing with on-site sampled populations. Given the dispersed nature of sea angling activity, the chosen model does not focus on one specific site as is common in the literature for count data travel cost models but rather estimates the total demand for sea angling in the season, no matter where the angling takes place along the Irish coast. We use this empirical work to discuss the more general debate surrounding resource allocation between commercial fisheries and recreational anglers. The results indicate the high value of the Irish marine environment as a recreational angling resource.
Q22|Optimal over installation of wind generation facilities|This paper evaluates the economic benefits to over-installing turbines on capacity-constrained wind farm sites in order to capture more energy at low wind speeds. Although this implies curtailment at high wind speeds, we show that over installing generation facilities can increase returns to investors and reduce system costs. A detailed model-based analysis is developed using British data, with variations in the range of over installation, the renewable policy support systems (fixed feed-in tariffs or green certificate premia to wholesale energy prices) and the extent of replacement of fossil generation in the technology mix with wind. In the cases of premia to market prices, we use agent-based, computational learning and risk simulation to model market prices. Not only is over installation beneficial under fixed feed-in tariffs, but is more so under premia to market prices and increasingly so as wind replaces fossil generation.
Q22|An Empirical Test for Costs Subadditivity in the Fishery Sector|The seminal work by Baumol et al. (1982) has highlighted the importance of analyzing firms’ costs structure. This allows to design proper policy measures and to understand the impacts of those policies in markets. The note presents an original method and an application for testing costs subadditivity in the fishery sector, by using a system of supply functions under strict conditions and assumptions. The method is practical, though robust, and can be applied in the absence of detailed data on costs structures. Under stringent hypothesis (that delimit the application) they can be inferred from the supply functions. Subadditivity in costs, in fact, is a more proper economic definition (and methodological approach) than traditional economies of scale in fishery. The latter, in fact, does not depend from the vessel technology, but on the degree of quantity and variety of fish species in the ocean.
Q22|Impact du changement climatique sur lÕagriculture : dŽtermination de lÕexistence dÕun biais de prix dans les Žtudes ricardiennes|This study shows the existence of a price bias in the so-called ÒRicardianÓ studies inspired by Mendelsohn et al. (AER, 1994) and quantifies this bias. To do this, we use panel data on the 45 provinces of Burkina Faso over 12 years. The crops studied are maize, millet and sorghum. The analysis shows that the effects of climate variables on the yield and value of production per hectare of maize and millet are not the same, reflecting the presence of a price bias. In the case of Sorghum, the effects of climatic variables on yields and the value of production per hectare are practically the same, indicating the absence of statistically significant price bias. Quantifying the price bias in cases where it exists, ie for maize and millet shows that the more unfavorable the climate change, the greater the price bias will be. In the worst case, it reaches a gap of 2.05 percentage point for millet and 0.92 percentage point for maize. From this analysis, Ricardian in cross sectional or even panel studies assuming constant prices underestimate the impact of climate change by using income or value.
Q22|The welfare gain from switching to tax regulation of fisheries|Theoretical papers find that taxes are preferred over individual transferable quotas (ITQs) when fisheries regulators are uncertain about either biological growth or the extent of non-compliance with regulations. However, the size of the welfare gain from switching to taxes has not previously been investigated empirically. Based on estimated profit and growth functions, we simulate this gain for the Danish cod fishery in the Kattegat and find a welfare gain of less than 2%. We also develop a simple indicator which can be used to approximate the welfare gain of switching to tax regulation for other fisheries. The value of the indicator is calculated for a number of fisheries worldwide for which the necessary data have been published and we find that the gain from a switch to taxes is typically between 1.5% and 2.5% (in no case greater than 4.2%). We, therefore, conclude that the switch to tax regulation of fisheries, which has been recommended in prior theoretical literature, is of little practical importance.
Q22|Demand for seafood exports in Sri Lanka: Has Sri Lanka gained competitiveness after civil war|No abstract is available for this item.
Q22|How MMEY mitigates bio-economic impacts of climate change on mixed fisheries|This paper examines the effect of climate warming on the bio-economic performance of Bay of Biscay mixed fisheries and provides insights into the best management strategy for coping with global warming. To achieve this, a dynamic multi-species, multi-class, multi-fleets model is developed and calibrated using biological and environmental ICES and IPCC data. Fishing and economic data have been collected within the European DCF. The climate represented by the Sea Surface temperature is assumed to affect species recruitment. Three management strategies are then compared in terms of bio-economic outcomes: Status-Quo (SQ), Multi-species Maximum Sustainable Yield (MMSY), Multispecies Maximum Economic Yield (MMEY). Strategies are ranked with respect to two climate scenarios. Results exhibit that the SQ strategy is not sustainable and is characterized by a major decline of Sole. By contrast, the MMSY and the MMEY strategies improve the ecological state and economic performance of fisheries. Furthermore, the MMEY strategy provides higher bio-economic performances than MMSY. These bio-economic benefits are however altered by climate change effects. Under the MMEY, fleets with more diversified catches perform better facing climate change.
Q22|To What Extent Is Aquaculture Socially Beneficial? A Theoretical Analysis|This article offers a theoretical analysis of the impact that the introduction of aquaculture has on wild fish stocks and consumer utility, taking into account three key components: (1) the dependence of aquaculture on reduction fisheries for the feeding of the farmed species; (2) biological interactions between the wild edible species—the predator—and the wild feed species—the prey; and (3) consumer preferences for wild and farmed fish. Fisheries are in open access, while the aquaculture sector is competitive. We show that when biological interactions are moderate, the introduction of aquaculture is beneficial in the long run: it improves consumer utility and alleviates the pressure on the edible fish stock. Results are deeply modified when biological interactions are strong: the stock of edible wild fish is reduced and the introduction of aquaculture may even cause a decrease in consumer utility. We then explore the consequences of improving aquaculture efficiency and the sensitivity of consumer preferences to the farmed fish characteristics, in the case where biological interactions are absent. Lastly, we analyze how our outcomes on the entry of aquaculture are affected when the wild edible fishery is optimally regulated, in combination with different assumptions on the regulation of the feed fishery. Results are again conditional on the intensity of biological interactions.
Q22|The effect of buyers and sellers on fish market prices|This paper extends the traditional hedonic price specification to take into account the unobserved heterogeneity of sellers, buyers and seller–buyer matches. The specification is estimated using econometric techniques for non-nested panel data models on a data set of nearly 15 million transactions occurring in French wholesale fish markets over the 2002–2007 period. Results show that unobserved heterogeneity plays a significant role in price setting. For some species, its inclusion in price regressions changes the coefficients of quality-related fish characteristics. Fish characteristics are the main factors explaining price variations for many species, but time and buyer effects also play a significant role.
Q22|The local effects of an innovation: Evidence from the French fish market|In this paper, we investigate the effect on quality, quantity and prices of an innovative fishing gear introduced for a subsample of vessels on a single wholesale fish market in France. Estimations are conducted using transaction data over the 2009-2011 period during which the innovation was introduced. Using a difference-in-differences approach around the discontinuity, we find that for the treated the innovation has a large effect on quality (29.2 percentage points) and prices (23.2 percentage points). A shift in caught fish species is observed and new targeted species are fished very intensively. We also quantify the treatment effect on the treated market from aggregate market data using factor models and a synthetic control approach. We find a sizable effect of the innovation on market quality which is consistent with non-treated vessels adapting their fishing practices to remain competitive. The innovation has no effect on market quantities and prices.
Q22|Voluntary Management of Fisheries under an Uncertain Background Legislative Threat|We investigate the possibility for governance authorities to avoid a large part of regulatory costs, by simply backing up social norms with a threat of collective punishment. Specifically, we consider the case of fisheries in which the regulatory cap is to sustain an optimal conservation level. We identify a mandatory regulation such that, when it is used as a threat, it ensures that the cap is voluntarily implemented. The mandatory scheme is based on a incentive mechanism which secures the returns of the harvester, and a tax on potential capacity. From the status of mere threat, this mandatory regulation takes time to be enforced though. We show that such a tax scheme, even if it is applied randomly after the first occurrence of a deviation from the optimal conservation level, ensures voluntary compliance, provided a suitable choice of the capacity tax. We study the properties of this tax scheme and build an example using data on the scallop fishery in the Saint-Brieuc Bay (France) to illustrate our point.
Q22|Coalition Formation with Externalities: The Case of the Northeast Atlantic Mackerel Fishery in a Pre and Post Brexit Context|In this paper we apply the so-called partition function approach to study coalition formation in the North-east Atlantic mackerel fishery in the presence of externalities. Atlantic mackerel is mainly exploited by the European Union (EU), the United Kingdom (UK), Norway, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. Two games are considered. First, a four-player game where the UK is still a member of the EU. Second, a five-player game where the UK is no longer a member of the union. Each game is modelled in two stages. In the first stage, players form coalitions following a predefined set of rules. In the second stage, given the coalition structure that has been formed, each coalition choose the economic strategy that maximises its own net present value of the fishery given the behaviour of the other coalitions. The game is solved using backward induction to obtain the set of Nash equilibria coalition structures in pure strategies, if any. We find out that the current management regime is among the stable coalition structures in all eight scenarios of the four-player game, but in only one case of the five-player game. In addition, stability in the five-player game is sensitive to the growth function applied and the magnitude of the stock elasticity parameter.
Q22|Economic Effects of an Ocean Acidification Catastrophe|We assess the potential magnitude of the economic effects of an ocean acidification (OA) catastrophe by focusing on marine ecosystem services most likely to be affected. It is scientifically plausible that by 2200 OA could cause a complete collapse of marine capture fisheries, complete destruction of coral reefs, and significant rearrangement of marine ecosystems. Upper-bound values for losses from the first two effects range from 97 to 301 billion 2014 dollars per year (0.09 - 0.28% of current world GDP). We argue that aquaculture output would not be reduced, due to the high potential for adaptation by this young industry.
Q22|Income Opportunities and Sea Piracy in Indonesia: Evidence from Satellite Data|The effect of climatic variation on conflict and crime is well established, but less is known about the mechanism through which this effect operates. This study contributes to the literature by exploiting a new source of exogenous variation in climate to study the effect of fishermen's income opportunities on sea piracy. Using satellite data to construct a monthly measure of local fishing conditions it is found that better income opportunities reduce piracy. A wide range of approaches are employed to ensure that these effects are driven by income opportunities rather than other mechanisms through which climate could affect piracy. (JEL D74, J31, K42, O13, O17, Q22, Q54)
Q22|Using multiple imputation for a zero-inflated contingent valuation with a potentially biased sampling|No abstract is available for this item.
Q22|The Wealth of Ecosystems:Valuing Natural Capital in the Context of Ecosystem Based Management| This paper merges inclusive wealth accounting theory with ecosystem based management (EBM) to resolve two problems. First, we provide measures of an ecosystem’s contribution to larger scale sustainability accounts by enabling ecosystems to be better included in inclusive wealth measures. We show the ecosystems are better thought of as portfolios of assets, and the portfolio’s performance is depended on the performance of the underlying assets, including their interactions. Second, the wealth held in the ecosystem is an attractive headline index for EBM regardless of whether ecosystem wealth is ultimately included in a broader index. We generalize natural capital theory to approximate realized shadow prices (accounting prices) for multiple interacting stocks of biotic and abiotic assets and liabilities that comprise ecosystems. We apply our approach to the Baltic Sea ecosystem, focusing on the interacting community of three commercially important fish species; cod, herring and sprat. The accounting prices of the three species show decreasing patterns with larger stock accumulation. Our results reveal the “supporting value or regulation services” embodied in the shadow price of a species through its trophic influence on other species. Prey fish have greater shadow prices than would be expected based on market value and predatory fish have lower shadow prices than may be expected based on market value.
Q22|Tourism, Natural Resource Use and Livelihoods in Developing Countries: A Bioeconomic General Equilibrium Approach| Protecting degraded open-access natural resources while maintaining or improving individuals’ livelihoods is a major challenge, particularly in developing countries. Tourism is often viewed as a win-win solution that can shift natural resource users away from resource extraction and increase local incomes. Existing studies examining the impacts of tourism on natural resource use and livelihoods fail to account for the full suite of effects tourism has on local economies. We offer a new method for assessing the impacts of tourism growth by combining local economy-wide impact evaluation (LEWIE) techniques from development economics with bioeconomic modeling techniques from natural resource economics. We construct our “Bio-LEWIE” model using a novel data set of microeconomic and biological data from the western Philippines. We simulate the impact of a 10 percent increase in tourism expenditures on fishing pressure and local incomes for different socioeconomic groups (e.g., poor households versus nonpoor households). We find that if fish cannot be traded with outside markets, fishing pressure increases and the fish stock declines. The growth in tourism causes households’ real incomes to increase, however they decrease slightly over time due to the decline in the fish stock. In contrast, if fish can be imported, fishing pressure decreases and the fish stock recovers. Real incomes also increase in this scenario, including a small growth in real incomes over time as the fish stock recovers. However importing fish results in smaller overall gains in real incomes (particularly for fishing households), which is due to a leakage of money out of the local economy via fish imports. This model predicts the costs and benefits of tourism growth, when they will occur, and for whom. This framework can help policy-makers in the developing world find synergies between natural resource protection, sustainable livelihoods, and economic growth.
Q22|An International View on “Correcting the Whimsies of U.S. Fisheries Policy”| Daniel W. Bromley’s (2015) recent opinion piece in Choices raises some issues which we believe requires a response on behalf of the international fisheries economist profession. Bromley identifies some key problems with the U.S. fisheries policy, and the Individual Transferable Quota (ITQ) system in particular, which are not unique to the United States. In fact, the introduction of ITQs has occurred relatively recently in the United States, while other countries such as New Zealand have over time gained institutional experience with some of the issues raised by Bromley. As fisheries economists from New Zealand and Norway, we may be able to offer some insights.
Q22|Economic structure of fishing activity: An analysis of mackerel fishery management in the Basque Country| [EN] This paper analyses the activity of the Basque fleet during the mackerel fishing season and presents an economic analysis of the equilibrium of this fishery. It seeks to determine whether its eco-nomic structure represents an internal factor explaining the fishermen’s behaviour. The inverse demand function and the average cost function are therefore estimated. Moreover, the analysis conducted here also takes into account the institutional dimension by factoring in current fishery regulation measures. Conclusions are drawn as to whether the incentives provided by the management measures and the stra-tegy of fishermen are optimal on the basis of the estimated economic functions. [ES] Este trabajo analiza la actividad de la flota vasca durante la costera del verdel y presenta un análisis económico del equilibrio de esta pesquería. Se pretende determinar si su estructura económica representa un factor interno que explica el comportamiento de los pescadores. Así, se estiman la función inversa de demanda y la función de costes medios. Además, el análisis también considera la dimensión institucional, incorporando las actuales medidas de regulación de la pesquería. Se concluye analizando si los incentivos generados por las medidas de gestión y la estrategia de los pescadores son óptimos en base a las funciones económicas estimadas.
Q22|The Value of Country-of-Origin and Wild-Caught Labels: A Hedonic Analysis of Shrimp Retail Prices in the United States| The retail market for shrimp is dynamic with substantial competition between imports and domestic products. Country of origin and method of production (wild and/or farm-raised) labels are required for all seafood since April 4, 2005. But little is known about how these and other credence attributes are valued in the retail market. To estimate the value of these attributes, we use weekly store scanner data of unbreaded frozen shrimp products in 2013. An estimated hedonic model shows a premium for both home (product of USA), and price premium for fishing method (wild-caught), and a premium for the organic claim. The results contribute new insights regarding opportunities for differentiation by credence attributes which may lead to more sustainable and effective resource use along the value chain for shrimp.
Q22|Evaluating the Economic Profitability of Establishing an Aquaculture Research Facility. The case of Clemson University's Aquaculture Center| According to NOAA, imports account for over 90% of the value of seafood consumed in the US. The resulting trade deficit is more than $11 billion, and is expected to increase as demand for seafood products is increasing. Aquaculture can help reduce this deficit, create jobs, and support local economies. However, currently, aquaculture is a relatively small industry in the US. Land Grant institutions can educate consumers and producers, thus helping with the development of the industry. In addition to fulfilling their educational goals, universities may also benefit economically from the development of aquaculture facilities. The present study utilizes the Net Present Value (NPV) framework with Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate the economic viability of Clemson’s Aquaculture Center. The findings indicate that even with a 25% increase in the price of catfish and tilapia, the facility will still be profitable. However, there is a likelihood that the facility will not be profitable, if the initial investment cost exceeds $1,000,000, or the price of tilapia declines to below $2.79.
Q22|Diving Tourism and Fisheries in Marine Protected Areas: Market Values and New Approaches to Improve Compliance in the Maldives Shark Sanctuary| Marine protected areas are probably the most prevailing instruments available to reduce the over-exploitation of marine resources. However, economic incentives and a lack of acceptance of regulations of fishers can lead to illegal fishing activities, causing further over-exploitation with negative consequences for livelihood and food security of communities. There are indications that in some places, dive operators reduce incentives for illegal fishing through contributing to the economic development of the area, surveillance activities and social programs. This project aims at exploring the relationship between the diving tourism industry and illegal shark fisheries in the shark sanctuary of the Maldives in order to understand the capacities and incentives of diving tourism to improve fishers’ compliance. I will use survey techniques to determine the financial revenue of the shark diving industry and examine the historical development of its socio-economic importance. Surveys will also explore whether illegal fishing activities influence the trip demand of tourists and analyse what different circumstances are most likely to motivate dive operators to address illegal fishing through certain actions. Finally, I will use a Bayesian Network model to investigate what effects dive operators’ actions have on fishers’ compliance, the condition of shark populations and ultimately the number of tourists visiting the area. Results can help to diminish user conflicts and improve compliance of fishers in the Maldives. Hence, this project can contribute to the conservation of shark populations with positive outcomes for the local economy, community and marine ecosystems. My findings can be applied to other places that face similar problems like the shark sanctuary in the Maldives.
Q22|Resource-Dependent Livelihoods and the Natural Resource Base|The natural resource base, terrestrial and marine, provides rural households in lower-income countries with income, food, shelter, and medicines, which are variously gathered and hunted in common lands and waters. These resources may be actively managed, either by the government or local community; or they may be de facto open access, with little effort by governments to prevent what may be de jure illegal extraction. This review appraises the literature that encompasses the direct value of wild resources to rural households, the extent to which these resources mitigate poverty and inequality, and the importance of the institutional context. More recent literature increasingly addresses competing demands on the resource base, which both supports nearby livelihoods and enhances ecosystem services such as biodiversity; and the extent to which initiatives such as community-based payments for ecosystem services change how people interact with the resource base.
Q22|Financial and non-financial reporting in Romanian entities operating in agriculture, forestry, and fishery|Due to the increased interest for sustainability issues, entities that operate in the areas agriculture, forestry and fishery are exposed to a variety of ecological challenges. Moreover, such fields are generally of strategic importance for a country’s economy, which also increases their exposure to public debate. The present study aims to provide a detailed and accurate description of the financial and non-financial information made available by listed Romanian entities operating in agriculture, forestry and fishery. The research goes beyond the mere description of the content of shareholders’ reports. Its purpose is to assess the financial performance and stability of selected companies and to investigate the relationships between the financial well-being of such companies and the extent to which they disclose non-financial information. The sample consists of companies which operate in the business of fields agriculture, forestry or fishery and are listed at the Bucharest Stock Exchange in Romania.
Q22|Drought and Groundwater Management|This paper considers the problem of a water management authority faced with the threat of a drought that hits at an uncertain date. Three management policies are investigated: i) a laissez-faire (open-access) policy of automatic adjustment through a zero marginal private net benefit condition, ii) a policy of optimal dynamic management ignoring the threat of the drought and relying on automatic adjustments through a zero marginal social net benefit condition, iii) an economically optimal dynamic policy taking account of the threat of a drought. In particular, we show that the optimal pre-drought steady-state equilibrium stock size of water under policy iii) is smaller than under policy ii) and, hence, a precautionary stock size should not be built up prior to the drought.
Q22|Optimal Fishery with Coastal Catch|In many spatial resource models it is assumed that the agent is able to determine the harvesting activity over the complete spatial domain. However, agents frequently have only access to a resource at particular locations at which the moving biomass, such as fish or game, may be caught or hunted. To analyse this problem, we set up a simple optimal control model of boundary harvesting. Using the Pontryagin’s Maximum Principle we derive the associated canonical system, and numerically compute canonical steady states and optimal time dependent paths, and characterise the optimal control and the associated stock of the resource. Finally, we extend our model to a predator-prey model of the Lotka-Volterra type, and show how the presence of two species enriches the results of our basic model. For both models we illustrate the dependence of the optimal steady states and the optimal paths on the cost parameters.
Q22|Fisheries, fish pollution and biodiversity: choice experiments with fishermen, traders and consumers|Abstract The increasing rates of per capita consumption of fish around the world should be a matter of concern for those interested in the threats to fishing stocks, aquatic biodiversity and human health. Fish consumption has positive health benefits but also brings higher risks of intake of heavy metals for humans. This increase in the demand for fish products has also been accompanied with fishing practices that threaten biodiversity. This article aims at evaluating from an economic perspective how important are these health and biodiversity components for those in the fish value chain, from fishermen to final consumers, using an experimental approach to estimate, through conjoint valuation techniques, the economic value of these aspects in the decision making of these agents. We find that final consumers place a significant economic value to the reduction of exposure to mercury contamination in fish; we also show that consumers respond positively to an education campaign showing the effects of mercury contained in fish, and that this money value could be used to create campaigns that transmit better price signals throughout the chain value. On the other extreme, the fishermen, we find that they place a positive economic value in a reduction of contamination in their fish as well, which could be aligned with the results for consumers, creating opportunities for Pareto improving measures in the regulations and prices which could translate into lower demand for more contaminated fish.
Q22|Price premium of organic salmon in Danish retail sale|The year 2016 will be pivotal for organic aquaculture producers in EU, because it represents the deadline for implementing the complete organic life cycle in aquaculture production. Depending on the sturdiness of farms already producing, such a shift in the industry may affect production costs of exclusively using organic fry for production. If the profitability of the primary organic aquaculture producers should be maintained, then farmers must be able to correspondingly receive higher prices, transmitted through the value chain from the retail market. This study identifies the price premium for organic salmon in Danish retail sale using consumer panel scanner data from households by applying a random effect hedonic price model that permits unobserved household heterogeneity. A price premium of 20% was identified for organic salmon. The magnitude of this premium is comparable to organic labeled agricultural products and higher than that of eco-labeled capture fishery products, such as the Marine Stewardship Council. This indicates that the organic label also used for agricultural products may be better known and trusted among consumers than the eco-labels on capture fishery products.
Q22|Commodity price volatility under regulatory changes and disaster|We find that the EGARCH model best describes the dynamics of U.S. Gulf of Mexico red snapper daily dockside prices and find their reaction to shocks to be asymmetric, though news has an impact on volatility level in a direction contrary to that of financial asset prices. We also find that volume contains useful information for predicting volatility. However, unlike financial asset prices, though consistent with fish commodities prices, red snapper price volatility diminishes when the volume is high. Also, the effect of expected changes on transaction volume is more dominant than that of unexpected changes. Explicitly accounting for oil spill closures and the Individual Fishing Quotas (IFQ) program in other species as variance shift parameters significantly reduces volatility and improves the market efficiency response to shocks.
Q22|Catastrophes and ex post shadow prices—How the value of the last fish in a lake is infinity and why we should not care (much)|Catastrophic risk is currently a hotly debated topic. This paper contributes to this debate by showing two results. First, it is shown that for a certain class of optimal control problems, the derivative of the value function with respect to the initial state may approach infinity as the state variable goes to zero, even when the first-order partial derivatives of the integrand and transition functions are finite. In the process, it is shown that standard phase diagrams used in optimal control theory contain more information than generally recognized and that the value function itself may be easily illustrated in these diagrams. Second, we show that even if the value function has an infinite derivative at some point, it is not correct to avoid this point in finite time at almost any cost. The results are illustrated in a simple linear-quadratic fisheries model and proven for a more general class of growth functions.
Q22|Coalition formation in fisheries with potential regime shift|A system can undergo rapid regime shift in which the growth of natural resources suddenly and permanently declines. We examine how the threat of such a shift alters the strategic management of a common pool renewable resource. We consider exogenous and endogenous threats and examine their effects on both incentives to join a coalition and harvest decisions. We find that an exogenous threat of reduced resource growth may cause the coalition to grow in size, and, perhaps of most interest, we identify conditions under which members of the stable coalition reduce harvest while non-members increase harvest in response to the threat. In contrast, an exogenous threat of total stock collapse may destabilize coalitions, resulting in higher harvest from former members, but reduced harvest by non-members. When the threat of either type of shift is endogenous, the threat of regime shift can induce stable coalitions with more than two members. In particular, we identify cases in which the first best (full cooperation) is sustained as an equilibrium outcome. Finally, we find that the relation between the magnitude of the shift and the size of stable coalitions may be negative.
Q22|Determinants of the Atlantic salmon futures risk premium|A futures market has recently been established for Atlantic salmon, and in this paper we examine the risk premium in salmon futures prices. Recent studies suggest that industry-specific production factors as well as the basis can influence the relationship between spot and futures prices. Using Atlantic salmon futures and spot price data from 2006–2015, we analyze the impact of the futures-spot basis, seasonality, industry-specific variables, and demand uncertainty on the risk premium and spot price change. The results suggest that the basis and seasonality significantly explain the variation in the risk premium. Moreover, in contrast to studies on other animal production commodities, the basis seems more important for determining the risk premium, than for the spot price change.
Q22|A cod is a cod, but is it a commodity?|Cod is exported in traditional product forms, such as fresh, frozen, salted, dried, or as clipfish. This makes it difficult to compare price changes in the export market with the first-hand price of cod. All first-hand sales of cod in Norway are organized through sales organizations that are entitled to set minimum prices. New legislation states that the minimum price should be “market-based.” In this study, we use Lewbel's (1996) Generalized Composite Commodity Theorem (GCCT) as an empirical test of whether all seven product forms of cod can be aggregated into a representative price index. We find that the first-hand price of cod is cointegrated with the price index, forming a stable long-term relationship. In addition, we find weak evidence that price signals go from the first-hand price to the export market price. Cod prices are driven by supply. Finally, we find that there is asymmetry in the transmission of these price changes. A positive change in the first-hand price is almost twice as large as a negative price change, indicating that market prices rise twice as fast as the price declines. These findings are important for the whole whitefish industry in terms of price policy settings.
Q22|Fleet dynamics and capital malleability|When individual stay/exit decisions depend on the opportunity cost of exiting, capital malleability is endogenously determined by the instruments used for stock rehabilitation. In a General Equilibrium framework, we characterize the transitional dynamics caused by stock rehabilitation policies. We show that a management policy based on input controls generates less exit, a less productive fleet, and overcapitalization, as input controls require a higher number of firms to achieve the same biological targets. Using data from the Multiannual Plan for the Western Mediterranean, we show that the use of input controls generates a Spanish fleet around 14 percent higher than the one that would result from a non distortionary instrument.
Q22|Equity and ITQs: About Fair Distribution in Quota Management Systems in Fisheries|Fish stocks, as common pool resources, are more and more managed by giving fishermen exclusive access rights as Individual Transferable Quotas (ITQ). These have been widely discussed, with focus on social, economic and ecological issues. While equity aspects have been of great concern, there is very limited analysis about how to assess issues of equity and fair distribution when introducing ITQs. This paper applies an existing framework for assessing equity in resource use systems to tradable quota systems in fisheries. The framework defines the perspectives of distributive fairness, the stakeholders who are bound by fair practice rules, and instruments of fairness, and identifies metrics to assess equity in practice. We assess if the framework provides practical guidance for evaluating whether a given ITQ system operates under an equitable framework programme.
Q22|The Insurance Premium in the Interest Rates of Interlinked Loans in a Small-scale Fishery|Interest payments based on income flows are a common feature of informal loans. Such so-called `interlinked loans' can be seen as an insurance against very low disposable incomes, as interest payments are lowest when income turns out to be low. This paper examines whether interlinked loans indeed contain an insurance premium and how those premia are determined. A simple theoretical model predicts that interest rates of interlinked loans increase with income volatility when insurance premia exist. Based on data from a small-scale fishery in India, calculations show that on average, lenders receive 25% of the income, which corresponds to an average interest rate of 49% p.a.. A panel data analysis confirms theoretical predictions that interlinked loans contain an insurance component paid by the borrowers.
Q22|Trade and fisheries subsidies|Many renewable resource sectors are heavily subsidized and yet the resources are also seriously depleted. World Trade Organization members included subsidies in a key renewable resource sector (fisheries) in the Doha round of trade negotiations, which subsequently stalled. This paper develops a simple model to show why prospects for a deal on fisheries subsidies may be difficult. Typically international spillover effects create incentives among exporters to negotiate reductions in subsidies: one country's subsidy worsens other exporters' terms of trade. These incentives may not exist in fisheries for 3 reasons. First, open access fishery supply curves are backward bending and so if fisheries are depleted, subsidies raise prices (by reducing sustainable harvesting) and improve other exporters' terms of trade. Second, ecological constraints put an upper bound on sustainable harvesting. This means that subsidies that increase employment may have no effect on output and hence generate no international spillover effects if resources are well managed. And third, even if governments were compelled to reduce fishery subsidies, there may be no spillover benefits to trading partners because of policy substitution: governments would be motivated to weaken other regulations targeting the fish sector.
Q22|Drought and Groundwater Management|This paper considers the problem of a water management authority faced with the threat of a drought that hits at an uncertain date. Three management policies are investigated: i) a laissez-faire (open-access) policy of automatic adjustment through a zero marginal private net benefit condition, ii) a policy of optimal dynamic management ignoring the threat of the drought and relying on automatic adjustments through a zero marginal social net benefit condition, iii) an economically optimal dynamic policy taking account of the threat of a drought. In particular, we show that the optimal pre-drought steady-state equilibrium stock size of water under policy iii) is smaller than under policy ii) and, hence, a precautionary stock size should not be built up prior to the drought.
Q22|An empirical investigation of German tourist anglers’ preferences for angling in Denmark|"The quality of angling sites is important for attracting tourists who enjoy recreational angling. In this paper, we conduct an empirical analysis investigating which attributes of angling sites are particularly important for attracting tourist anglers from abroad. We conduct an online survey of 968 German anglers who have recently been abroad on a holiday trip in which they went angling. We focus on the particularly dedicated anglers who state that recreational angling is important for their choice of holiday destination. A stated choice experiment is employed to investigate their preferences for environmental attributes, catch attributes, and social relation/distance attributes of the angling site. We find that preferences are heterogeneous across different angler segments. Three distinct segments of tourist anglers are identified, characterised as “catch oriented"" anglers (57 %), “nature oriented” anglers (24 %) and “trophy oriented anglers (19 %)”. All three angler segments have the strong preferences for water quality. However, they differ with respect to catch preferences and preferences for social interaction on the angling site. The catch oriented focus on the hunting aspects of angling. A high catch rate as very important for them, but the size of fish is not important. Moreover this segment prefers angling in solitude without disturbance from other anglers. For the “nature oriented” it is very important that the angling takes place in ""natural"" conditions, the catches rates are not important but they hope to catch large fish, and it is no problem for this group if there are a few other anglers at the angling site. For the ""trophy oriented"" anglers it is very important to catch large fish, while the catch rate is of moderate importance and they do not mind if there are many anglers at the site. To attract tourist anglers an angling site manager may use this information to target marketing efforts towards segments of tourist that prefer the type and quality of angling characteristics of the angling site in the managers possession. Additionally, he may seek to adjust and improve the angling sites in a way that suits the preferences of specific segments."
Q22|Implications for fisheries management by inclusion of marine ecosystem services|The application of ecosystem based management of the marine resources and focus on ecosystem services will influence the methodologies used for assessing the resources as well as the proposed regulation of the fisheries and other marine resources. The paper makes a review of ecosystem services and ecosystem based fishery management with the purpose of integrating these elements in a bioeconomic model. As a part of the model development, a logistic predator-prey model is examined thoroughly. On this basis, a numerical model is created. The model can include several species at different trophic layers, hence simulation a small food web. The key purpose of the numerical analysis is to develop a practical tool that can assess the management policies when a broader range of ecosystem services, species interactions and externalities are taken into account. The model can include several species at different trophic layers and, hence, simulate a small food web, while at the same time assess the economic effects of fishing on this food web. In general, the analyses indicate that species modelled with interaction may sustain less fishing pressure than if they are modelled without species interaction. Besides interaction, the numerical model assesses how the economic result is affected by the inclusion of ecosystem services. This is done through the damage cost functions, which depends on effort and reduces the net value, and a set of non-market values, which are functions that depend on the stock of the species. The inclusion of these tends to favour reduction in effort levels, in some cases quite significantly. Management policies based on conventional MEY targets may in many cases rather well accommodate the broader range of ecosystem-based policy goals, due to the lower effort levels. The paper shows the shortcomings of conventional qualitative analytical approaches because of the complexities of marine ecosystems. Numerical models also show shortcomings, in particular because specific functional forms are used and data are short in many areas. However, it is shown that much insight can be gained from using such relatively simple models.
Q22|Optimal biodiversity erosion in multispecies fisheries|As marine ecosystems are under pressure worldwide, many scientists and stakeholders advocate the use of ecosystem-based approaches for fishery management. In particular, management policies are expected to account for the multispecies nature of fisheries. However, numerous fisheries management plans remain based on single-species concepts such as Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY) and Maximum Economic Yield (MEY), that respectively aim at maximizing catches and profits of single species or stocks. In this study, we assess the sustainability and profitability of multispecies MSY and MEY in a mixed fishery with technical interactions. First, we analytically show that multispecies MSY and MEY can induce overharvesting and extinction of species with low productivity and low monetary value. Second, we identify and discuss incentives on effort costs and landing prices, as well as technical regulations, that promote biodiversity conservation and more globally sustainability. Finally, a numerical example based on the coastal fishery in French Guiana illustrates the analytical findings.
Q22|Information on sellers and buyers characteristics added value to explain price formation at primary fish markets in managed French scallop fisheries|The aim of this article is to explore, through a hedonic approach, the factors that might explain the price variability for the French-managed fishery of scallop at primary fish markets. In addition to factors classically identified in the current literature like intrinsic product characteristics or markets situation, the characteristics of operators are tested. The relationships of loyalty between sellers and buyers, and market assiduity are notably considered.
Q22|Drought and groundwater management|This paper considers the problem of a water management authority faced with the threat of a drought that hits at an uncertain date. Three management policies are investigated: i) a laissez-faire (open-access) policy of automatic adjustment through a zero marginal private net benefit condition, ii) a policy of optimal dynamic management ignoring the threat of the drought and relying on automatic adjustments through a zero marginal social net benefit condition, iii) an economically optimal dynamic policy taking account of the threat of a drought. In particular, we show that the optimal pre-drought steady-state equilibrium stock size of water under policy iii) is smaller than under policy ii) and, hence, a precautionary stock size should not be built up prior to the drought.
Q22|Do you trust me? – Go Fish! A Study on Trust and Fisheries Management|This paper investigates trust among stakeholders in fisheries management. We asked the general public, environmental bureaucrats, and recreational and commercial fishers whether they believed various stakeholders have sufficient knowledge to take a stance regarding fisheries management issues in a choice experiment they themselves had just been exposed to. We found that the general public and recreational fishers tend to trust bureaucrats to have sufficient knowledge, while bureaucrats distrust the general public. The commercial fishers in our sample deviate from the other respondents with high self-trust and low trust in both the general public and bureaucrats. In addition, bureaucrats tend to think that their colleagues are more knowledgeable than them. When looking at observable characteristics, we find that, regardless of comparison group, males show higher trust in their own knowledge than do females, and those with higher education believe they are more knowledgeable than people in general.
Q22|Optimal fishing mortalities with age-structured bioeconomic model - a case of NEA mackerel|The effects of random environmental impacts on optimal exploitation of a fish population are investigated using both optimization and simulation, based on a discrete-time age-structured bioeconomic model. The optimization problem is solved as a non-linear programming problem in GAMS. First, a basic model structure and 6 different scenarios, dealing with two interactions between fish and environment, are introduced. Based on the simplest scenario, eight different parameter combinations are tested. Then the optimization problem is solved for each of the 6 scenarios for a period of 100 years in order to gain long term insights. The main finding is that higher volatility from the environment leads to higher net profits but together with a lower probability of actually hitting the mean values. Simulations are conducted with different fixed fishing mortality levels under 6 scenarios. It seems that a constant fishing mortality around 0.06 is optimal. In the end, a comparison is made between historical and optimal harvest for a period of 40 years. It turns out that in more than 70% of the time, the optimal exploitation offered by our optimization model dominates the historical one, leading to 43% higher net profit and 34% lower fishing cost on average.
Q22|A Bellman approach to periodic optimization problems|We consider an infinite horizon optimization problem with arbitrary but finite periodicity in discrete time. The problem can be formulated as a fix-point problem for a contraction operator, and we provide a solution scheme for this class of problems. Our approach is an extension of the classical Bellman problem to the special case of non-autonomy that periodicity represents. Solving such problems paves the way for consistent and rigorous treatment of, for example, seasonality in discrete dynamic optimization. In an illustrative example, we consider the decision problem in a fishery with seasonal fluctuations. The example demonstrates that rigorous treatment of periodicity has profound influence on the optimal policy dynamics compared to the case where seasonality is abstracted from by considering average effects only.
Q22|A bridge between continuous and discrete-time bioeconomic models: Seasonality in fisheries|We develop a discretization method to construct a discrete finite-time bioeconomic model, corresponding to bioeconomic models with continuous-time growth function, but allowing the analysis of seasonality in fisheries. The discretization method consists of three steps: first, we estimate a proper growth function for the continuous-time model with the Ensemble Kalman Filter. Second, we use the Runge-Kutta method to discretize the growth function. Third, we use the Bellman approach to analyze the optimal management of seasonal fisheries in a discrete-time setting. We analyze both the case of quarterly harvest and the case of monthly harvest, and we compare these cases with the case of annual harvest. We find that seasonal harvesting is a win–win optimal solution that provides higher harvest, higher optimal steady state equilibrium, and higher economic value than annual harvesting. We also demonstrate that the discretization method overcomes the errors and preserves the strengths of both continuous and discrete-time bioeconomic models.
Q22|Fiskefria områden ur ett samhällsekonomiskt perspektiv: En konceptuell analys|Huvudsyftet med föreliggande rapport är att på ett övergripande och konceptuellt plan beskriva innebörden av en samhällsekonomisk nytto- och kostnadsanalys, eller samhällsekonomisk bedömning, och hur en sådan kan och bör genomföras för att analysera samhällsnyttan av fiskefria områden. Vidare syftar rapporten till att exemplifiera vilken typ av empiriska data och metoder som finns tillgängliga för en sådan analys med hjälp av den fritidsfiskeundersökning som årligen görs i regi av Hav och Vattenmyndigheten.
Q22|Swedish no-take zones for fishing from an economic perspective – an empirical analysis|This report is an economic cost-benefit analysis for each of the five no-take zones for fishing set up in Sweden, namely, Gålö south of Stockholm, Storjungfrun-Kalvhararna outside Söderhamn, Havstensfjord, Vinga and southern Kattegat. The aim has been to the extent possible, quantify the benefits and costs associated with these no-take areas. Some benefits and costs have not currently been possible to quantifying and those have been given a qualitative description. The introduction of no-take zones for fishing focuses primarily on managing fish stocks for recreation and commercial fishing, where the focus is on the management of specific target, but the introduction can also affect economic benefits and costs that are not directly linked to fishing, for example positive impacts on biodiversity and the improvement of the ability to generate ecosystem services. Therefore the report presents an analysis of ecosystem services and focus on the socio-economic benefits of these potential improvements to bring to the community at large and for specific interest groups. In the report, it is easy to focus interest on the benefits and costs that can, with varying accuracy, be quantified monetarily. This may create a false sense of precision in net results for the various fishing areas. For example, the value of ecosystem values mentioned above can be significant, while they can only be expressed qualitatively. Further, there is significant uncertainty in the biological basis and the economic estimates. To take this into account to some extent this analysis has been made in the form of a scenario analysis with four scenarios for each area. To this has been added a sensitivity analysis for certain key parameters. One significant uncertainty in the economic estimates relate to the spatial population effects, i.e. how far the substitutional effects of a no-fishing zone extends. An extreme case would be they recreational fishermen who used to fish in the closed area will not increase their fishing in other areas. Another extreme case would mean that the reduction of fishing days as a consequence of the no-take zone is not matched by equally large increases in related areas. The real impact we have in this study not been able to analyze.
Q22|Recreational Fishing in Sweden in 2013 - Scope and value|This report is made on assignment from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. The purpose is to conduct an analysis of recreational fishing in Sweden based on a nationwide survey on the Swedish people's recreational fishing habits with respect to the year 2013.
Q22|Habitat quality and fish population: impacts of nutrient enrichment on populations of European perch off the east coast of Sweden|Degradation of marine ecosystems through e.g., eutrophication and climate change is a concern for sustainable fishery management world-wide, but studies on associated impacts on fish populations are rare. This study examined the effects of eutrophying nutrient loads on perch populations along the Swedish east coast. A modified Gordon-Schaefer logistic growth model was used for econometric estimation of perch populations in the study area, based on annual time series data for the period 1970-2014. Regression analysis using the fully modified ordinary least square (FMOLS) estimator revealed that phosphorus loads had significant effects on the perch population. A 40% decrease in phosphorus loads, as suggested by the international Copenhagen agreement, could increase the steady state perch population by 50%. Simple calculations showed that this could increase the discounted harvest value of the perch by 30%.
Q22|Examination of the Peruvian Anchovy Individual Vessel Quota (IVQ) System|The implementation of rights-based management programs is increasing worldwide yet there are few ex post evaluations, especially in developing country contexts. In this paper we examine changes following the implementation of a catch share system in the Peruvian anchovyfishery, which is the world's largest commercial fishery by volume. After implementation of the Individual Vessel Quota (IVQ) management system, we observe a shift toward higher-value products and a 97% increase in per-unit revenue from 2008 to 2013. We also find that landings are more spread out over the fishing season, with an increase in the number of fishing days. Additionally, fleet consolidation occurs over time with a shift toward larger vessels in the steel fleet. Finally, using cost estimates from a large fishing firm on the cost of steel vessel operation, we estimate variable harvesting profit increased from 34-41% of the ex-vessel price pre-IVQ to 63-65% post.
Q22|A laboratory assessment of the choice of vessel size under individual transferable quota regimes|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ajar12064-abs-0001""> This paper examines the effect of individual transferable quota regimes on technology choice, such as choice of vessel size, by using the laboratory experiment method. We find that even if vessel sizes change over time, the quota price can converge to the fundamental value conditioned on the vessels chosen. We also find that subjects choose their vessel type to maximise their profits based on the quota trading prices in the previous period. This result implies that the efficiency of quota markets in the beginning period is important because any inefficiency in quota markets may affect vessel sizes in ensuing periods. Moreover, we find that the initial allocations may significantly influence vessel sizes through two channels: first, a higher initial allocation to a subject increases the likelihood that the subject invests in a large-sized vessel; second, the quota price may be higher and more unstable under unequal allocation than under equal allocation; thus, whether the allocation is equal influences subjects' choice of vessel type."
Q22|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis|This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
Q22|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis|This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
Q22|Les préférences des consommateurs pour un écolabel. Le cas des produits de la mer en France|Une certification nationale reconnaissant la qualité écologique des Produits de la mer (PDM) tarde à voir le jour en France. Annoncé dans la loi Grenelle I en 2009, le décret relatif à l’écolabel public des produits de la pêche maritime n’a été publié que le 27 janvier 2012 alors que les obtentions d’écolabels privés se multiplient. Dans cet article, les facteurs influençant la perception des consommateurs pour les PDM écolabellisés sont étudiés à partir d’une enquête menée auprès de plus de 900 consommateurs français en 2010. Les résultats montrent que la préférence pour des PDM écolabellisés est plus marquée parmi les jeunes. Les caractéristiques liées au processus de production et de commercialisation comme l’attention portée à l’origine géographique des PDM, à leur caractère sauvage ou aquacole, à la technique de pêche et au degré d’exploitation des ressources, favorisent la demande d’information environnementale des consommateurs.
Q22|Les préférences des consommateurs pour un écolabel. Le cas des produits de la mer en France| A national labelling scheme recognising the environmental quality for seafood products is still expected in France. Announced by the Grenelle law of 2009, the by-law setting a public ecolabel has only been adopted on January 27th 2012. In the meantime, several private initiatives have already emerged. In this paper, the factors influencing the consumers’ perceptions for seafood eco-labels are analysed on the basis of a survey carried out on more than 900 consumers. Our results show a higher preference from young and educated citizens. The production process and marketing characteristics such as the attention paid to the geographical origin of seafood products, their farmed or wild origin, the fishing technique and the exploitation level of natural stocks, strengthen the preference for eco-labels.
Q22|Les préférences des consommateurs pour un écolabel. Le cas des produits de la mer en France|[paper in French] A national labelling scheme recognising the environmental quality for seafood products is still expected in France. Announced by the Grenelle law of 2009, the by-law setting a public ecolabel has only been adopted on January 27th 2012. In the meantime, several private initiatives have already emerged. In this paper, the factors influencing the consumers’ perceptions for seafood eco-labels are analysed on the basis of a survey carried out on more than 900 consumers. Our results show a higher preference from young and educated citizens. The production process and marketing characteristics such as the attention paid to the geographical origin of seafood products, their farmed or wild origin, the fishing technique and the exploitation level of natural stocks, strengthen the preference for eco-labels.
Q22|Valuing the Prevention of an Infestation: The Threat of the New Zealand Mud Snail in Northern Nevada| The Truckee/Carson/Walker River watershed in northern Nevada is under an imminent threat of infestation by the New Zealand mud snail, an aquatic nuisance species with the potential to harm recreational fisheries. We combine a utility-theoretic system-demand model of recreational angling with a Bayesian econometric framework to provide estimates of trip and welfare losses under different types of regulatory control policies. We find that such losses can be substantial, warranting immediate investments in preemptive strategies via public outreach and awareness campaigns.
Q22|Dynamic Effects of Grain and Energy Prices on the Catfish Feed and Farm Sectors| This study examines the dynamic effects of grain prices and energy prices on catfish feed prices and the price of food-sized catfish at the farm level. Using the autoregressive distributed lag model and bounds testing procedure, a long-run relationship between feed and farm prices and their determinants was confirmed. Given the effect of corn and soybean meal prices on catfish feed prices, and catfish fish feed prices on farm prices, the long-run responsiveness of feed prices to a percentage increase in U.S. ethanol production is 0.325, and the responsiveness of catfish farm prices is 0.064. Although both feed and farm prices increase with ethanol production, the relatively small responsiveness of farm prices when compared with feed prices suggests that catfish farmers are worse off. Results are conditional on ethanol production causing an increase in grain prices.
Q22|Valuing the Prevention of an Infestation: The Threat of the New Zealand Mud Snail in Northern Nevada|The Truckee / Carson / Walker River Watershed in Northern Nevada is under an imminent threat of infestation by the New Zealand Mud Snail, an aquatic nuisance species with the potential to harm recreational fisheries. We combine a utility-theoretic system-demand model of recreational angling with a Bayesian econometric framework to provide estimates of trip and welfare losses under different types of regulatory control policies. We find that such losses can be substantial, warranting immediate investments in preemptive strategies via public outreach and awareness campaigns.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q22|Dynamic Effects of Grain and Energy Prices on the Catfish Feed and Farm Sectors| This study examines the dynamic effects of grain prices and energy prices on catfish feed prices and the price of food-sized catfish at the farm level. Using the autoregressive distributed lag model and bounds testing procedure, a long-run relationship between feed and farm prices and their determinants was confirmed. Given the effect of corn and soybean meal prices on catfish feed prices, and catfish fish feed prices on farm prices, the long-run responsiveness of feed prices to a percentage increase in U.S. ethanol production is 0.325, and the responsiveness of catfish farm prices is 0.064. Although both feed and farm prices increase with ethanol production, the relatively small responsiveness of farm prices when compared with feed prices suggests that catfish farmers are worse off. Results are conditional on ethanol production causing an increase in grain prices.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q22|U.S. Demand for Source–Differentiated Shrimp: A Differential Approach| Estimates of price and scale elasticities for U.S. consumed shrimp are derived using aggregate shrimp data differentiated by source country. Own-price elasticities for all countries had the expected negative signs, were statistically significant, and inelastic. The scale elasticities for all countries were positive and statistically significant at the 1% level with only the United States and Ecuador having scale elasticities of less than one. For the most part, the compensated demand effects showed that most of the cross-price effects were positive. Our results also suggest that despite the countervailing duties imposed by the United States, shrimp demand was fairly stable.
Q22|Impact of Program Payments on Time Allocation and Farm Household Income| Using a model farm household resource allocation and data from the USDA-ERS Agricultural Resources Management Survey (ARMS), this study compares the effects of various categories of farm program payments on time allocation by farm operators and spouses. Results suggest that agricultural market transition payments (AMTA) increase leisure hours of both farm operators and spouses. Loan deficiency payments (LDP) and payments that combine market loan assistance (MLA) and disaster payments are shown to reduce leisure. The study also finds that AMTA payments exhibit a much higher degree of income transfer efficiency than the LDP and MLA payments.
Q22|Impact of Program Payments on Time Allocation and Farm Household Income| Using a model farm household resource allocation and data from the USDA-ERS Agricultural Resources Management Survey (ARMS), this study compares the effects of various categories of farm program payments on time allocation by farm operators and spouses. Results suggest that agricultural market transition payments (AMTA) increase leisure hours of both farm operators and spouses. Loan deficiency payments (LDP) and payments that combine market loan assistance (MLA) and disaster payments are shown to reduce leisure. The study also finds that AMTA payments exhibit a much higher degree of income transfer efficiency than the LDP and MLA payments.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q22|Institutions and Externalities in the Inland Fisheries of Bangladesh|Establishment of property rights over inland fisheries of Bangladesh has been able to internalize appropriation externalities. However, the agents have failed to internalize provision problems due to the physical characteristics of the resource systems. We have observed that the rules traditionally followed by the fishers are maintained and preserved by agents having exclusive property rights over the resource systems. The relationship between the agents and the fishers is not anonymous but of a patron-client type. Such outcome does not follow from the analysis of those who think that private property rights are the only solution to common-pool problems.
