Q23|Should Faustmann forecast climate change?|Climate change is predicted to substantially alter forest growth. Optimally, forest owners should take these future changes into account when making rotation decisions today. However, the fundamental uncertainty surrounding climate change makes predicting these shifts hard. Hence, this paper asks whether forecasting them is necessary for optimal rotation decisions. While climate-change uncertainty makes it theoretically impossible to calculate expected profit losses of not forecasting, we suggest a method utilizing Monte-Carlo simulations to obtain a credible upper bound on these losses. We show that an owner following a rule of thumb - ignoring future changes and only observing changes as they come - will closely approximate optimal management. If changes are observed without too much delay, profit losses and errors in harvesting are negligible. This means that the very complex analytical problem of optimal rotation with changing growth dynamics can be simplified to a sequence of stationary problems. It also implies the argument that boundedly-rational agents may behave “as if” being fully rational has traction in forestry.
Q23|Is Collective Titling Enough to Protect Forests? Evidence from Afro-descendant Communities in the Colombian Pacific Region|During the mid-1990s, one of the most ambitious land reforms in recent decades took place in Colombia. The reform recognized collective land rights of 5 million hectares by Afro-Colombian groups, with the dual goals of improving livelihoods and preserving valuable ecosystems. We estimate the impact of this collective land titling program on forest cover using panel data and a difference-in-difference empirical strategy. We find that overall, collective titling significantly reduces deforestation rates, but the effect varies substantially by sub-region. We observe that the larger effects are in Nariño and Valle del Cauca especially in places with higher deforestation threat, closer to the forest frontier, to roads, and to navigable rivers, as well as in places without illegal crops. Our qualitative analysis suggest that this might be the result of communities being able to expel private companies from their lands which is more challenging with actors promoting illegal crops. We conclude that under the adequate conditions, titling can lead to forest conservation.
Q23|Communal Property Rights and Deforestation|Almost a third of world’s forest area is under communal management. In principle, this arrangement could lead to a “tragedy of the commons” and therefore more deforestation. But monitoring outsider’s deforestation may be easier if the owner is a community rather than an individual. We study the effect of communal titling on deforestation in Colombia using a difference-in-discontinuities strategy that compares areas just outside and inside a title, before and after titling. We find that deforestation decreased in communal areas after titling. Interestingly, we find evidence of positive spillovers of reduced deforestation in nearby areas.
Q23|Bailing out environmental liabilities: moral hazard and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon|This paper discusses the emergence of moral hazard behavior in the context of a change in the Brazilian law that governs land use - the Forest Code. The Forest Code revision included benefits which relieved environmental liabilities for a specific group of landowners. We explore the fact that the Forest Code establishes two distinct legal regimes for landowners according to their adherence to the previous law. Basically, those that were not abiding by the former law gained special conditions to regularize the environmental liabilities, whereas those that were in accordance with the law did not receive any benefits. We argue that this latter group engaged in deforestation activities in the hope of also receiving bail outs in the future. We investigate our hypothesis using data on yearly deforestation from 2009 to 2017 by rural private properties in the Brazilian Amazon. Using a difference-indifferences approach, we first show that the new Forest Code has had a significant impact on deforestation. We then extend the analysis in order to demonstrate that hat landholders behave as if the law were non-binding. Moreover, we document increases only in livestock, but not in crop area. Finally, we conduct a counter-factual analysis which reveals that the Forest Code revision led to an additional loss of 533 thousand hectares between 2012 and 2017, which represents a loss of US$ 1.3 billion, taking no more than carbon emissions into consideration.
Q23|Market Segmentation by Certification: Quantity effects on tropical timber production|Eco-certification standards are increasingly used by industrial countries to impose import restrictions on goods produced by foreign suppliers. Import restrictions on eco-certified goods that prevent the trade of goods derived from unsustainable practices serve to segment global markets served by foreign producers into a conventional market and a certified market, altering market structure and equilibrium prices in a manner that potentially works against sustainability goals. In this paper, we examine the effect of forest certification on tropical timber production in Central Africa. Using panel data of timber production in Cameroon from 2003 to 2009, we show that conventional timber producers substantially increase harvest rates in response to eco-certification standards, and that this effect is strongest in less competitive timber markets. Moreover, we find eco-certification shifts production to forests with higher extraction costs and potentially higher marginal damages from timber extraction, exacerbating economic inefficiency.
Q23|Policy Effectiveness In Spatial Resource Wars: A Two-Region Model|"We develop a spatial resource model in continuous time in which two agents/players strategically exploit a mobile resource in a two-region setup. To counteract the overexploitation of the resource (the tragedy of commons) that occurs when players are free to choose where to fish/hunt/extract/harvest, the regulator can establish a series of spatially structured policies. We compare the equilibria in the case of a common resource with those that emerge when the regulator either creates a natural reserve, or assigns Territorial User Rights to the players. We show that, when the discount rate is close to its \critical value"", i.e. when technological and preference parameters dictate a low harvesting intensity/effort, the policies are ineffective in promoting the conservation of the resource and, in addition, they lead to a lower payoff for at least one of the players. Conversely, in a context of harsher harvesting intensity, the intervention can help to safeguard the resource, preventing extinction while also improving the welfare of both players."
Q23|Planning on a wider scale – Swedish forest owners’ preferences for landscape policy attributes|A tax-fund system has been proposed to advance Swedish forest conservation. We present a choice experiment with Swedish private forest owners on preferences for attributes of a tax-fund system. Focusing on three aspects: (i) freedom to choose set-asides, (ii) equity issues, and (iii) frequency of nature inventories, we find two groups of forest owners. The first is opposed to interventions that could curtail liberty and oppose frequent nature inventories, while a smaller group would derive positive utility from joint decision-making. A tax-fund system would need to be designed in a participatory manner to reconcile forest owners, forest industry, and conservationists.
Q23|On the Formulation of the Alternative Scenario in Cost-Benefit Analysis|In this note we discuss how a cost–benefit analysis could be formulated in a second-best world where lump-sum taxation is not available. The question is how the government’s budget is balanced. Different options are available. A value added tax or an income tax or a profit tax could be adjusted so as to balance the budget. Alternatively, expenditures on public or private goods are displaced. A variation occurs if the government has a policy target. For example, a certain number of hectares of valuable forest areas should be preserved. Then, the central part of a cost–benefit analysis is to compare the costeffectiveness of different policy instruments that can be used to achieve the target. However, there are also deadweight losses provided there are distortionary taxes. Such considerations also opens up for a broader formulation of the valuation question in willingness-to-pay experiments than one based on lump-sum taxation.
Q23|Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest|This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the world's most extensive rainforest, where Brazil's federal government issued a ‘Priority List’ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using ‘changes-in-changes’ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon. Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis. Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
Q23|Time Preference and the Great Depression: Evidence from Firewood Prices in Portland, Oregon|The present study gathers prices for firewood and estimates the premium paid for dry fuel, relative to green wood, on a monthly basis from 1922 to 1935. This premium conveys consumers’ willingness-to-pay for a good available for immediate consumption relative to the same good ready for use after roughly one year. Embedded in this premium are consumers’ time preferences. The paper documents time series variation in the dry fuel premium and associated time preference spanning the macroeconomic shocks before, during, and after the Great Depression. The dry fuel premium increased by a factor of four during the recession of 1923 to 1924, and fell by a factor of two following the Great Crash of October 1929. Key factors in determining the premium for dry fuel were variation in wages, inflation, stock market returns, and bond yields. This paper supports the uncertainty hypothesis as an explanation for the precipitous fall in consumption expenditures following the Great Crash of 1929.
Q23|Bosques en Bolivia: Una estimación espacial de los costos de la Deforestación|La deforestación en Bolivia se ha incrementado de manera considerable en los últimos años, la misma conlleva a emisiones de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad, variación del ciclo hidrológico, entre otras. El presente estudio tiene el objetivo de estimar el impacto de la deforestación y la de sus costos en términos monetarios. Debido a la complejidad de cada variable, se emplea distintas metodologías para cada una de ellas (emisión de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad y variación del ciclo hidrológico).La misma que consiste en una contabilidad de carbono y el uso del precio de carbono, además de un modelo BIOM de extrapolación de especies y el uso de elasticidad de consumo y riqueza absoluta de las especies para la cuantificación de los costos. Finalmente se hace uso de econometría espacial y el índice de escasez de agua para la variación del ciclo hidrológico. El análisis de los resultados es realizado en tres categorías: a nivel municipal, a nivel departamental y a nivel nacional para dos periodos de tiempo 1990-2000 y 2000-2010. Adicionalmente, en base a los resultados se formula conclusiones y recomendaciones sobre el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia. Los cuales determinan que el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia representa una cifra mayor al 10% del PIB de Bolivia.
Q23|Optimal Environmental Targeting in the Amazon Rainforest|This paper sets out an empirically-driven approach for targeting environmental policies optimally in order to combat deforestation. We focus on the Amazon, the worldâ€™s most extensive rainforest, where Brazilâ€™s federal government issued a â€˜Priority Listâ€™ of municipalities in 2008, to be targeted with more intense environmental monitoring and enforcement. In this setting, we first estimate the causal impact of the Priority List on deforestation using â€˜changes-in-changesâ€™ (Athey and Imbens, 2006), a flexible treatment effects estimation method, finding that it reduced deforestation by 40 percent and cut emissions by 39.5 million tons of carbon. Second, we develop a novel framework for computing targeted ex-post optimal blacklists. This involves a procedure for assigning municipalities to a counterfactual list that minimizes total deforestation subject to realistic resource constraints, drawing on the ex-post treatment effect estimates from the first part of the analysis. Accounting for spillovers, we show that the ex-post optimal list resulted in carbon emissions over 7.4 percent lower than the actual list, amounting to savings of more than $900 million, and emissions over 25 percent lower (on average) than a randomly selected list. The approach we propose is relevant for assessing both targeted counterfactual policies to reduce deforestation and quantifying the impacts of policy targeting more generally.
Q23|Money Growing on Trees: A Classroom Game about Payments for Ecosystem Services and Tropical Deforestation|Payments for ecosystem service programs use a market-based approach to pursue environmental goals. While they are common policy tools, key concepts that can determine their efficacy are nuanced and hard to grasp. We present a new interactive game that explores the functioning and implications of payments for ecosystem service programs. Participants play the role of rural households in a developing country. They decide individually or as groups whether to enter into contracts to receive payment from the United Nations REDD+ program to refrain from harvesting from a local forest. The game explores topics including: payments for ecosystem services programs; climate change; tropical deforestation; cost-effectiveness; additionality; contract fraud and enforcement; and community resource management. We provide customizable materials, a detailed reading list, and prompts for discussion.
Q23|Labor savings in agriculture and inequality at different spatial scales: The expansion of oil palm in Indonesia|Labor saving innovations are essential to increase agricultural productivity, but they might also increase inequality through displacing labor. Empirical evidence on such labor displacements is limited. This study uses representative data at local and national scales to analyze labor market effects of the expansion of oil palm among smallholder farmers in Indonesia. Oil palm is labor-saving in the sense that it requires much less labor per unit of land than alternative crops. The labor market effects depend on how oil-palm-adopting farm households reallocate the saved labor time; either to the off-farm sector or to cultivating additional land. If adopters increase their labor supply to the off-farm sector, employment and wages of rural laborers might decrease. This is especially true for female agricultural laborers, who are often employed in alternative crops but less in oil palm, as their labor productivity in this particular crop is lower than that of men. However, our results suggest that oil palm adoption in Indonesia largely led to the cultivation of additional land, entailing higher agricultural labor demand, especially for men. At the same time, the oil palm boom caused broader rural economic development, providing additional employment opportunities also in the non-agricultural sector, thus absorbing some of the female labor released from agriculture. Overall employment rates did not decrease, neither for men nor for women. While this is good news from economic and social perspectives, the cropland expansion contributes to deforestation with adverse environmental effects. Policies to curb deforestation are needed. Forest conservation policies should go hand-in-hand with measures to further improve rural non-agricultural employment opportunities, to avoid negative socioeconomic effects for poor rural laborers, and women in particular.
Q23|Spatial resource wars: A two region example|We develop a spatial resource model in continuous time in which two agents strategically exploit a mobile resource in a two-locations setup. In order to contrast the overexploitation of the resource (the tragedy of commons) that occurs when the player are free to choose where to fish/hunt/extract/harvest, the regulator can establish a series of spatially structured policies. We compare the three situations in which the regulator: (a) leaves the player free to choose where to harvest; (b) establishes a natural reserve where nobody is allowed to harvest; (c) assigns to each player a specific exclusive location to hunt. We show that when preference parameters dictate a low harvesting intensity, the policies cannot mitigate the overexploitation and in addition they worsen the utilities of the players. Conversely, in a context of harsher harvesting intensity, the intervention can help to safeguard the resource, preventing the extinction and also improving the welfare of both players.
Q23|WeChat - using social media for the assessment of tourist preferences for environmental improvements in China|Environmental valuation studies with tourists have been very popular already over a long period of time. Tourists are an important stakeholder group with respect to the decision if some environmental project in a tourist region should be realized or not. Typically such studies are organized as face-to-face surveys conducted in the respective vacation areas. Tourists are asked their willingness to pay (e.g. in terms of higher entrance fees for certain amenities on site or a mark-up on accommodation prices etc.) for the implementation of an environmental project or preservation measure in that area. Based on theoretical considerations we argue that in the special case of tourist surveys internet-based surveys are preferable to face-to-face surveys under validity aspects as well as under the aspect of the representativeness of the survey results. Based on an empirical valuation study we conducted in Southwest China we illustrate the practical problems arising in the context of internet surveys in developing or threshold countries.
Q23|Incentivising Participation and Spatial Coordination in Payment for Ecosystem Service Schemes: Forest Disease Control Programs in Finland|This paper considers the problem of designing PES-type contracts to encourage participation and spatial coordination amongst private forest owners in Finland. The aim of the policy is to increase efforts to mitigate risks from invasive forest pests and diseases. Such control actions yield spill-over benefits to other landowners and to wider society, meaning that the level of privately-optimal disease control is likely to be less than the socially-optimal level. The policy designer may wish to encourage spatial coordination in the uptake of such PES-type contracts, as spatial coordination delivers an increase in the effectiveness of control measures on disease risks. We conducted a choice experiment with private forest owners in Finland in October 2016. The study elicited the preferences of woodland owners with respect to the design of forest disease control contracts, and gauged their willingness to cooperate with neighbouring forest owners within the framework of such programs.
Q23|Spillover effects of blacklisting policy in the Brazilian Amazon|We analyse the effects of the Priority Municipalities List, that indicates the primary targets of environmental police monitoring, on deforestation of municipalities in the neighbourhood of the listed. We argue that being a neighbour to a priority municipality causes an exogenous variation in environmental authorities’ presence, and use a difference-in-differences estimator to determine the impact of such presence on deforestation. As an innovative feature, we introduce a spatial version of this estimator to correct spatial dependence. Our estimations show that the net effect of treatment is a decrease in deforestation of 15% to 36%. This result is robust to changes in the measure of deforestation as well as in the neighbourhood criteria. Estimates also indicate that effects get weaker the greater the distance to the priority municipality.
Q23|Logging Concessions, Certification & Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon: Forest Impacts from Combinations of Development Rights & Land-use Restrictions|In this paper, we use geospatial data and difference-in-differences models to identify the deforestation effects, during 2000-2013, of the leading forest policies in the Peruvian Amazon: i) logging concessions, ii) third-party certification of concessions, and iii) Protected Areas (PAs). We find that on average logging concessions have no effect on tree-cover loss, while the PAs do reduce loss. Further, the PAs allowing limited private extraction save more forest than do more restrictive PAs. Certification has an impact (reduces loss) only in the single region where concessions reduce loss, suggesting a complementarity of third parties with private and public efforts to govern concessions. Our results suggest roles for private rights within conservation, given oversight.
Q23|A tale of REDD+ projects. How do location and certification impact additionality?|Since the emergence of the REDD+ mechanism, hundreds of projects have emerged around the globe. Much attention has been given to REDD+ projects in the literature, but the conditions under which they are likely to be efficient ares till not well known. In this article, we study how the location of REDD+ projects is chosen and how those location choices influence project additionality. Based on a sample of six REDD+ projects in Brazil, we propose an empirical analysis of the location choices and estimate additionality in the first years of implementation using impact evaluation techniques. In order to explain the heterogeneity of the empirical results, we present a simple theoretical model and show that project location is strongly influenced by the type of project proponent, which appears to be a good proxy for its objectives, whether oriented toward environmental impacts, development impacts, or external funding. Our results suggest that (1) the incentives behind REDD+ certification mechanisms can lead to low environmental efforts or an investment in areas that are not additional, (2) location biases are dependent on the REDD+ project manager's type, and (3) the existence of a location bias does not necessarily preclude additionality.
Q23|Guyana’s REDD+ Agreement with Norway: Perceptions of and Impacts on Indigenous Communities|This report examines the impact of the REDD+ agreement between Guyana and Norway on indigenous communities in the country. Through literature review, analysis of secondary data, and interviews with indigenous chiefs and other informed stakeholders, it aims to understand the concerns, hopes, and fears of indigenous communities at the start of the agreement, and the effects, if any, that communities have faced from REDD+. Concerns at the inception of the agreement focused on long-standing issues with land rights, and a sense of lack of consultation. There were hopes, however, in the potential economic benefits that could accompany REDD+. Implementation of REDD+ in Guyana has proved slow, and the cash (or other benefits) received by communities has been small. Deforestation has risen—due to increased mining activity—and costs incurred by REDD+ have been minimal. This has created an overall air of scepticism regarding the future of the initiative. Future developments of REDD+ could be stronger through its indirect effect on changing donor actions, and broader policy thinking in Guyana; but major challenges exist in creating an opt-in mechanism that is fair for all indigenous communities, integrating REDD+ with the extractives industries such as mining, and keeping a focus on low-carbon development in the light of major new oil finds.
Q23|Does Deforestation Increase Malaria Prevalence? Evidence from Satellite Data and Health Surveys|Deforestation has been found to increase malaria risk in some settings, while a growing number of studies have found that deforestation increases malaria prevalence in humans, suggesting that in some cases forest conservation might belong in a portfolio of anti-malarial interventions. However, previous studies of deforestation and malaria prevalence were based on a small number of countries and observations, commonly using cross-sectional analyses of less-than-ideal forest data at the aggregate jurisdictional level. In this paper we combine fourteen years of high-resolution satellite data on forest loss with individual-level survey data on malaria in more than 60,000 rural children in 17 countries in Africa, and fever in more than 470,000 rural children in 41 countries in Latin America, Africa, and Asia. Adhering to methods that we pre-specified in a pre-analysis plan, we tested ex-ante hypotheses derived from previous literature. We did not find that deforestation increases malaria prevalence nor that intermediate levels of forest cover have higher malaria prevalence. Our findings differ from most previous empirical studies, which found that deforestation is associated with greater malaria prevalence in other contexts. We speculate that this difference may be because deforestation in Africa is largely driven by the slow expansion of subsistence or smallholder agriculture for domestic use by long-time residents in stable socio-economic settings rather than by rapid clearing for market-driven agricultural exports by new frontier migrants as in Latin America and Asia. Our results imply that at least in Africa anti-malarial efforts should focus on other proven interventions such as bed nets, spraying, and housing improvements. Forest conservation efforts should focus on securing other benefits of forests, including carbon storage, biodiversity habitat, clean water provision, and other goods and services.
Q23|Competing or Complementary Strategies? Protecting Indigenous Rights and Paying to Conserve Forests|In 2007, the UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) endorsed the Bali Action Plan to pay for reductions in tropical deforestation. While many saw these initiatives as complementary, others considered the Bali Action Plan a threat to indigenous peoples’ rights. This paper reviews the history of efforts to protect indigenous rights and to pay for conserving forests and analyzes how they might be competing or complementary strategies. It then presents country experiences that show indigenous peoples have achieved tangible political benefits in many countries and internationally by using their leverage over and participation in Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation Plus (REDD+) negotiations. Nevertheless, these experiences also show that insisting on preconditions for REDD+ national performance payments may have inadvertently harmed indigenous peoples by contributing to delays in implementation. Today, the movements for indigenous rights and for slowing deforestation are inextricably entwined. Whereas critics fear implementation of REDD+ will harm indigenous peoples, it is the failure of REDD+ programs to influence national action to slow deforestation which represents the greater risk. In this way, the two movements face a common challenge to refocus attention on the national policies and actions that must change to protect both indigenous rights and tropical forests.
Q23|Carbon offsets out of the woods? Acceptability of domestic vs. international reforestation programmes in the lab|Following the entry into force of the Paris Agreement in November 2016, governments around the world are now expected to turn their nationally determined contributions into concrete climate policies. Given the global public good nature of climate change mitigation and the important cross-country differences in marginal abatement costs, distributing mitigation efforts across countries could substantially lower the overall cost of implementing climate policy. However, abating emissions abroad instead of domestically may face important political and popular resistance. We ran a lab experiment with more than 300 participants and asked them to choose between a domestic and an international reforestation project. We tested the effect of three informational treatments on the allocation of participants’ endowment between the domestic and the international project. The treatments consisted in: (1) making more salient the cost-effectiveness gains associated with offsetting carbon abroad; (2) providing guarantees on the reliability of reforestation programmes; (3) stressing local ancillary benefits associated with domestic offset projects. We found that stressing the cost-effectiveness of the reforestation programme abroad did increase its support, the economic argument in favour of offsetting abroad being otherwise overlooked by participants. We relate this finding to the recent literature on the drivers of public support for climate policies, generally pointing to a gap between people's preferences and economists’ prescriptions.
Q23|Analysing Institutional Set-up of Forest Management in Pakistan|This study analyses the institutional set-up of forest management in Pakistan, focusing on the North West Frontier Province, which houses 40 percent of the total forestlands. These areas have faced significant deforestation in the past. It is feared that if nothing is done to check this process, these forests will soon disappear. The study argues for the Property Rights School of thought that the roots of environmental problems are to be traced to inadequate and ill-defined property institutions. The study develops a normative criterion, describing the conditions that are essential for optimal utilisation and conservation of a resource, to be used in assessing the present situation. The analysis indicates that there are problems in the ownership structure, in the enforcement of property rules, as well as in the management system. It is concluded that the present institutional set-up is inappropriate to achieve the objective of forest conservation, and changes in this set-up are suggested. The study puts forward ‘collective management’ as an alternative institutional set-up.
Q23|Reassessing forest products demand functions in Europe using a panel cointegration approach| In a panel of European countries, we analyse paper products, sawnwood and wood panels consumption data. With this object, we use a classical demand model where national consumption depends on real GDP and real prices. In contrast to previous panel estimations in the literature, we highlight non-stationarity time series which can lead to spurious regressions. We explicitly take into account the issue by using recent panel cointegration techniques. Cointegration is present for printing paper and fibreboard, though less clear cut for other products. Then we estimate demand elasticities and find that GDP elasticities are significantly lower than estimates from the literature. Finally, we simulate the implications of modified demand elasticities by using a partial equilibrium model of the forest sector. For most products, changes in elasticities would lead to lower projected demand and lower prices over a 20-year time horizon. Lower demand for solid wood and wood fibre would lead to less tensions with fuel wood- and wood-based chemical markets. In a context of rising interest for renewable bio-based products, updated long-term demand models contribute to the analysis of the forest sector’s sustainability.
Q23|Determinants of Amazon Deforestation: The role of Off-Farm Income|This paper aims at assessing the determinants of Amazon deforestation, with an emphasis on the role played by off-farm income. We first present a microeconomic model which relates off-farm income to deforestation patterns. We then test the empirical implications by using data on the 2006 Brazilian Agricultural Census. Our results suggest that an increase in off-farm income tends to reduce deforestation. This may be explained by the fact that greater off-farm opportunities tends to increase the opportunity cost of farm labor. Results also show that smallholders are less responsive to the increase in the returns of off-farm activities than large ones, which is in line with our hypothesis of labor market imperfections regarding off-farm activities.
Q23|Does the expansion of biofuels encroach on the forest?|In this paper, we explore the role of biofuel production on deforestation in low- and middle-income countries. Since the 2000s, biofuel production has been rapidly developing to address issues of economic development, energy poverty and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. However, the sustainability of biofuels is being challenged, particularly at the environmental level, due to their impact on deforestation and the GHG emissions they can generate as a result of land-use changes. In order to isolate the impact of bioethanol and biodiesel production among classic determinants of deforestation, we used a fixed effects panel model of 112 low- and middle-income countries between 2001 and 2012. Firstly, we found a positive relationship between bioethanol production and deforestation in these countries, among which we highlighted the specificity of Upper-Middle-Income Countries (UMICs). An acceleration of incentives for the production of biofuels from 2006 onwards enabled us to highlight higher marginal impacts for the production of bioethanol in the case of low- and middle-income countries and UMICs. Secondly, for low- and middle-income countries, these results are not significant before 2006. Thirdly, biodiesel production appears to have an impact on deforestation before 2006 on both subsamples. These last two results seem surprising and could be related to the role of biofuel production technologies and the crop yields used in their production.
Q23|Heat or power: How to increase the use of energy wood at the lowest cost?|We compute the optimal subsidy level for fuelwood consumption that makes it possible to achieve the French biomass energy consumption target. For this purpose, we model the competition and trade-offs between the consumption of fuelwood for heat (FW-H) and the consumption of fuelwood for electricity (FW-E). To do so, we couple a forest sector model with an electricity simulation model, and we test different scenarios combining FW-H and FW-E that account for contrasting potential increases in the carbon price and the potential reduction in the number of nuclear plants. We assess the implications of these scenarios on (1) the budgetary costs for the government, (2) industrial wood producers' profits, (3) cost savings in the power sector for the different scenarios tested, and (4) the carbon balance.
Q23|Designing REDD+ contracts to resolve additionality issues|To address the issue of potential information asymmetries inherent in the estimation of deforestation baselines required by the current Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation+ (REDD+) scheme, we offer a theoretical analysis of an extended scheme relying on the theory of incentives. We compare two types of contracts: a deforestation-based contract and a policy-based contract. Each of them implies a dramatically different information rent/efficiency trade-off due to domestic implementation and transaction costs. If the contract is deforestation-based (resp. policy-based), information rents are awarded to countries with the ex ante lowest (resp. highest) intended deforestation. We show that a general contract can be offered to recipient countries in which the type of instrument proposed is endogenous, independent of the historical trend, unlike the current REDD+ mechanism. Dividing countries into two groups corresponding to the deforestation-based instrument and the policy-based instrument helps the donor country to obtain efficient deforestation and avoided deforestation levels.
Q23|Spatial resource wars: A two region example|We develop a spatial resource model in continuous time in which two agents strategically exploit a mobile resource in a two-location setup. In order to contrast the overexploitation of the resource (the tragedy of commons) that occurs when the player are free to choose where to fish/hunt/extract/harvest, the regulator can establish a series of spatially structured policies. We compare the three situations in which the regulator: (a) leaves the player free to choose where to harvest; (b) establishes a natural reserve where nobody is allowed to harvest; (c) assigns to each player a specific exclusive location to hunt. We show that when preference parameters dictate a low harvesting intensity, the policies cannot mitigate the overexploitation and in addition they worsen the utilities of the players. Conversely, in a context of harsher harvesting intensity, the intervention can help to safeguard the resource, preventing the extinction and also improving the welfare of both players.
Q23|A tale of REDD+ projects. How do location and certification impact additionality?|Since the emergence of the REDD+ mechanism, hundreds of projects have emerged around the globe. Much attention has been given to REDD+ projects in the literature, but the conditions under which they are likely to be efficient are still not well known. In this article, we study how the location of REDD+ projects is chosen and how those location choices influence project additionality. Based on a sample of six REDD+ projects in Brazil, we propose an empirical analysis of the location choices and estimate additionality in the first years of implementation using impact evaluation techniques. In order to explain the heterogeneity of the empirical results, we present a simple theoretical model and show that project location is strongly influenced by the type of project proponent, which appears to be a good proxy for its objectives, whether oriented toward environmental impacts, development impacts, or external funding. Our results suggest that (1) the incentives behind REDD+ certification mechanisms can lead to low environmental efforts or an investment in areas that are not additional, (2) location biases are dependent on the REDD+ project manager’s type, and (3) the existence of a location bias does not necessarily preclude additionality.
Q23|Do redlisted species follow Benford's law?|"Benford's law describes how different numbers are distributed as first figures in statistics. The law states, for example, that the number 1 should be the first digit in 30.1% of cases, the figure 2 in 17.6% of the cases and the figure 9 in 4.6% of the cases. If Benford's law is violated, it may be an indication that the numbers may be manipulated, or more generally of low quality. Possibly the most high-profile case is the investigation of the Greek macroeconomic accounts. The Stability and Growth Pact of the EU imposes certain constraints on member countries budget deficits, and there were concerns about the Greek economy in the 2000s. According to some observers, it was ""well-known"" among EU-officials that the Greece numbers were ""cooked"". It is then of some interest to note that the Greek macroeconomic data were those that showed the most significant deviation from Benford's law, compared to all other EU-countries, according to the analysis of Rauch et al (2011). Analysis of the law has used different data sets: Sandron (2003) studies the population of 198 countries (good agreement); Ley (1996) finds that one-day returns for some American indexes follow the law; Gonzalez-Garcia and Pastor (2010) shows that macroeconomic data generally follows Benford's law. Nigrini & Mittelmaier (1997) produces a test for accounting fraud analysis. According to Stigler's (1980) law, the name of the discoverer is often different from the name of the law; it is seemingly widely acknowledged that Newcomb (1881) already made the discovery. Fellman (2014) provides a comprehensive review of the literature. Intuitively, the law does not work well for certain types of data, such as length of humans, where the majority of the numbers start with 1 and a few with 2. We must also have a large data base, so that we have ""enough"" variation in the data. It is not a very intuitive law, although there are some attempts to show that the law follows from certain mathematical arguments. Our approach here is just to apply the law to a certain data-set and explore whether or not it holds true. The law does not prove that the quality of data is bad, but it is sufficiently well tested in so many contexts that a deviation from the law merits a closer investigation of the data generating process."
Q23|The Infinitely Worried Forest Owner: Key Biotopes and Forest Certification in a Faustmann Model|In this note, we consider a case when a forestry property may lose its market value through “political risk”, illustrated here by it being classified as containing a key biotope. If a key biotope is found on a forest property in Sweden, the wood is almost impossible to sell. We show how the Faustmann formula is modified in this case and identify a “balance sheet” effect and document the incentive properties (the “kill an owl, save a logger” effect observed in the Spotted Owl controversy). The theory seems to have some empirical support, given observed changes in bank lending contracts and alleged changes in forester's behavior to reduce the ”political risk.”
Q23|Social risks of forest fires: a methodological proposal for their monetary evaluation|The risk of forest fire in Portugal ranks among the highest in Europe. In recent times, fears have risen over the incidence of major forest fires with a scale and dimension that generate extremely high economic, environmental and social costs. Combatting this type of fire represents a particularly difficult and expensive objective and, in some cases, with a far from desirable level of efficiency. Particularly due to the national context characterised by severe budgetary restrictions, guaranteeing greater effectiveness and efficiency in forest fire prevention and fighting represents core objectives. One of the ways of improving the decision making process involves the monetary estimation of the total costs caused by fires and their respective risk levels, thus the cost of the risk of fire (in the sense of the economic cost calculated from the perspective of society in contrast to the concept of economic cost calculated according to the private ownership perspective) and that includes the probability of the incidence of fire and its propagation and the total cost of the damage that incorporates both the specific social costs, the economic cost and the environmental cost. This working paper holds the objective of contributing towards the conceptual and methodological discussion around this theme.
Q23|Wilderness Conservation and the Reach of the State: Evidence from National Borders in the Amazon|Preserving wilderness ecosystems in developing countries is challenging because their remote location places them far from state control. We investigate this using 30x30 meter satellite data to determine how Amazonian deforestation changes discretely at the Brazilian international border. In 2000, Brazilian pixels were 30 percent more likely to be deforested, and between 2001 and 2005 annual Brazilian deforestation was more than 3 times the rate observed across the border. In 2006, just after Brazil introduces policies to reduce illegal deforestation, these differences disappear. These results demonstrate the power of the state to affect whether wilderness ecosystems are conserved or exploited.
Q23|Biodiversitatea patrimoniului natural montan. Provocările prezentului și perspective durabile de acțiune<BR>[Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives]|Între zonele montane și biodiversitate există o legătură directă și indisolubilă: zonele montane reprezintă, poate, cel mai important izvor de eco-sisteme la nivel global, adevărate laboratoare științifice, de cercetare și cunoaștere a evoluției și distribuției speciilor și organismelor vii, a relațiilor dintre acestea, a adaptării lor la diferite medii și a influențelor hotărâtoare ale acțiunilor umane care au condus la actualele schimbări climatice. Munții funcționează ca adevărate refugii pentru speciile endemice afectate de acțiunile umane necontrolate, în timp ce pajiștile alpine sunt expuse pierderii practicilor tradiționale de pășunat. Regiunile montane, diverse și complexe, sunt elementele centrale ale politicilor de mediu și dezvoltare durabilă, problemele lor și dificultățile de adaptare la noile schimbări climatice necesitând măsuri adecvate, rapide și, mai ales, permanente (susținute continuu). Munții aparțin, de regulă, geografiei mediului, dar, deopotrivă, pot fi analizați și din perspectivă economică, socială, culturală etc., multidisciplinaritatea lor fiind recunoscută atât de mediul academic-universitar, cât și de factorii decizionali implicați în politicile de dezvoltare teritorială. Recent, Noua Geografie Economică (New Economic Geography) promovată intens pe plan global, consideră dezvoltarea economică și socială a regiunilor montane ca fiind una deosebit de importantă: zonele montane sunt surse importante de materii prime și materiale necesare producției și consumului de bază (agricultură, industrie, servicii), aspect ce afectează, în condițiile actuale, atât biodiversitatea, cât și nivelul de viață al comunităților locale. Perspectiva economică este deosebit de importantă atât la nivelul marilor grupuri de interese regionale, cât mai ales la nivel local, pentru comunitățile dependente direct și permanent de resursele și condițiile oferite de munte. Din ce în ce mai vizibil, impactul negativ al activităților economice asupra zonei montante, atât de înaltă cât și de joasă altitudine, trebuie să conducă spre o viziune comună și o abordare durabilă a stării biodiversității acesteia, deoarece, afectarea unui habitat poate atrage după sine distrugerea întregului echilibrul ecologic, și așa atât de fragil, în prezent. Pornind de la considerentele prezentate mai sus, articolul oferă o imagine generală asupra relației dintre biodiversitatea zonelor montane și implicațiile dezvoltării economice și sociale asupra acesteia, apelând, în principal, la surse documentare naționale și internaționale, la date și informații statistice, care vin să completeze imaginea globală a evoluției relației, în timp și spațiu.
Q23|Park Life: Assessing the need to Understand User Group Needs when Balancing Commercial Enterprise with Biodiversity Conservation|This report outlines and reviews the findings of a collaborative project between researchers at The University of East Anglia (UEA) and Brandon Country Park. The former were commissioned to undertake two surveys to elicit the opinions of current users and stakeholders regarding their perceptions of the park, with particular emphasis on how this improves their mental, physical and social well-being. Information was then used to identify how the facility might be improved. 200 surveys were conducted through July 2016, asking questions which referred to park usage, attitudes and socio-demographic status. These responses were combined with a qualitative focus group, and using these mixed-methods field experiment techniques provided an in-depth examination of user perspectives on how to best manage this woodland amenity. The overall results pinpoint some key interactions between the key mental and physical benefits of such a facility, and yet the trade-offs that these human sources of welfare may create for wider biodiversity conservation.
Q23|Integrating non-timber objectives into bio-economic models of the forest sector: a review of recent innovations and current shortcomings|This paper gives an overview of non-timber objective modelling in forest sector models (FSM) research through a systematic literature review followed by an in-depth narrative review. Originally conceived to perform projections of timber supply and wood products markets, FSM have been growingly used for forest and climate policy analysis. For this purpose, they have gradually integrated objectives other than timber production, such as habitat conservation, carbon sequestration and bioenergy production. We identify these non-timber objectives and elicit technical innovations that have enabled their integration into FSM. We also discuss their current limits and the new perspectives they bring for a better economic-environmental assessment of forest policies. Results show that the study of non-timber objectives is a growing topic in FSM research, with bioenergy production and climate change mitigation as the most commonly studied. However, there are discrepancies regarding the respective contributions of different families of models, and not all non-timber objectives have been integrated to the same degree. On the one hand, bioenergy production has been thoroughly integrated through marginal modifications of the market component of models. On the other hand, the modelling of carbon sequestration and habitat protection entails deeper changes, such as the addition of new resources to the models, an increase in the complexity of the objective function and associated constraints, or the use of tools and models outside the FSM.
Q23|An economic comparison of adaptation strategies towards a drought-induced risk of forest decline|Drought is a source of stress affecting forest growth and resulting in financial losses for forest owners and amenity losses for society. Due to climate change, such natural event will be more frequent and intense in the future. In this context, the objective of the paper is to compare, from an economic perspective, different forest adaptation strategies towards drought-induced risk of decline. For that purpose, we focus on a case study of a forest of beech in Burgundy (France) and, we studied several adaptation options: density reduction, reduction of the rotation length and substitution by Douglas-fir. We also considered two levels of drought risk (intermediate and low soil water capacity) and two climatic scenarii from IPCC (RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5). We combine a process-based forest-growth simulator (CASTANEA) with a traditional forest economics approach. The results showed that adaptation provided the best economic return in most of the scenario considered. Combining strategies appears as a relevant way to adapt forest towards a drought-induced risk of forest decline. The interest to consider two disciplinary fields was also demonstrated with beneficial scenarii in an ecological perspective that were not in an economic one and reversely.
Q23|Export tariffs combined with public investments as a forest conservation policy instrument|The forest conservation policy instrument REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation) is designed to compensate governments of tropical countries for their efforts to conserve forests. Food insecure countries that are specialized in agriculture and have weak political institutions, are likely to face difficulties to enforce forest conservation. This article explores in how far export tariffs on agricultural goods combined with public investments, could be used as a forest conservation policy mix in such contexts. We first show empirically that structural constraints to forest conservation policies are particularly pronounced in one third of countries where REDD+ programs are planned to be rolled out. We then develop a two sector competing land use model with a domestic food producing and an exporting agricultural sector. We show that it is possible to combine export tariffs with public investments such that deforestation decreases, while agricultural production levels and food prices remain constant.
Q23|Can the Global Forest Sector Survive 11 °C Warming?| It is well known that the forestry sector is sensitive to climate change but most studies have examined impacts only through 2100 and warming of less than 4°C. This is the first timber analysis to consider possible climate change impacts out to 2250 and warming up to 11°C above 1900 levels. The results suggest that large productivity gains through 2190 lead to a continued expansion of the global timber supply. However, as carbon fertilization effects diminish and continued warming causes forestland to continue to shrink, warming above 8°C is predicted to become harmful to the forest sector.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q23|Why are Private Forest Owners not Adopting Natura 2000 ? A Survey of Motivations|"A survey of private forest owners on adoption of the Natura 2000 charter has been designed to allow respondents to state motives for non-adoption. These motives fall into five main categories: Economic, Compatibility with own practices, Control over one's property, Information and "" no motive "". Using a mixed logit model, we can show that owners of properties at least in part in N2000, significantly evoke the Control motive more often than the other owners; that is not the case of the other motives. Owners who are convinced their properties have a remarkable feature are significantly less likely to evoke the Control motive. We argue that these findings might be appropriated by environmental managers to induce adoption of the N2000 Charter. Abstract A survey of private forest owners on adoption of the Natura 2000 charter has been designed to allow"
Q23|Product quality and sustainability: The effect of international environmental agreements on bilateral trade|This paper addresses the impact of sustainability in production on international trade. In particular, it examines the effect of the International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA) on tropical timber trade. The empirical analysis is based on a gravity equation in a difference‐in‐difference setting, which is estimated by a panel Heckman's selection model. This accounts for the potentially systematic selection of trading partners into timber trade activity. We then conduct a comprehensive comparative static analysis solving the structural gravity model with and without the ITTA. This allows us to determine the trade impact of an ITTA‐induced increase in sustainability for participating as well as for third countries. We find that countries participating in the ITTA exhibit a significant and substantial increase in trade values ranging from 4% to 6%. Furthermore, we observe that this effect is more pronounced for smaller member countries. Non‐ITTA countries are confronted with reduced values of tropical timber trade flows.
Q23|The Role of Customary Knowledge in Contemporary Forestry: Experiences from the Kajang Customary Community in Indonesia|"""Objective – This article analyses the co-existence of customary forest knowledge and management with contemporary forest policies, management, and the prevailing legal/regulatory framework. In addition, this article explores the extent to which customary forest knowledge and management have endured over time. Methodology/Technique – This research uses a conceptual approach based on perspective and doctrines from laws studies. Findings – Kajang's customary community has and implements moral principles as customary knowledge in forest resource management, such as respect towards nature, cosmic solidarity and the concern of nature; a simple way of living and life in harmony with nature. The several principles are supposed to be valuable basic for finding out the new ethical attitudes oriented to forest sustainability. The principles and the customary knowledge can be the strong basic for forest law development in Indonesia because it grows within the community. Novelty – The research embodied in this article examines how customary forest knowledge can inform the development of contemporary forest policies, management, and laws/regulations."""
Q23|PES Impact and Leakages over Several Cohorts: The Case of the PSA-H in Yucatan, Mexico|We assess the impact of the PSA-H, a payment for environmental services scheme implemented in Mexico over the 2005–2012 period. By studying several cohorts of program beneficiaries we are able to shed light on the permanence of the program’s impact. Based on the exploitation of 2.5 to 20 m resolution SPOT images and ejido surveys carried out in 76 ejidos located in the Cono Sur of Yucatan, we find that the program’s effects cease on lands after they are withdrawn from the program. We also find evidence of leakages. We discuss these results for future impact evaluations and from a policy perspective.
Q23|Attitude towards Risk and Production Decision: An Empirical analysis on French private forest owners|This paper deals with the forest owner's attitude towards risk and the harvesting decision in several ways. First, we propose to characterize and quantify the forest owner's attitude towards risk. Second, we analyze the determinants of the forest owner's risk attitude. Finally, we determine the impact of the forest owner's risk attitude on the harvesting decision. The French forest owner's risk attitude is tackled by implementing a questionnaire, including a context-free measure borrowed from experimental economics. The determinants of the forest owner's risk attitude and harvesting decision are estimated through a recursive bivariate ordered probit model. We show that French forest owners are characterized by a relative risk aversion coefficient close to 1. In addition, we found that the forest owner's risk aversion is influenced positively and significantly by gender (female), age, and willingness to protect the environment, while the percentage of forest income in the total patrimony of the forest owner has a negative effect. Finally, we obtain that the forest owner's risk aversion positively and significantly impacts the harvesting decision.
Q23|Addressing Contextual and Location Biases in the Assessment of Protected Areas Effectiveness on Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazônia|Using a remotely sensed pixel data set, we develop a multilevel model and propensity score weighting with multilevel data to assess the impact of protected areas on deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. These techniques allow taking into account location bias, contextual bias and the dependence of spatial units. Our results show that the hierarchical structure of the database matters and should be considered in the assessment of protected areas effectiveness. Our results also suggest that protected areas have slowed down deforestation between 2005 and 2009, whatever the type of governance. The effectiveness of protected areas differs according to socioeconomic and environmental variables measured at municipal level. For instance, indigenous protected areas are found to be marginally more efficient than sustainable use areas and integral use areas. Protected Areas that were more recently implemented are also found to avoid more deforestation than older ones. This corroborates the idea that recently created protected areas in the Brazilian Amazon have a greater agricultural potential.
Q23|Why are Private Forest Owners not Adopting Natura 2000 ? A Survey of Motivations|A survey of private forest owners on adoption of the Natura 2000 charter has been designed to allow respondents to state motives for non-adoption. These motives fall into five main categories: Economic, Compatibility with own practices, Control over one’s property, Information and “no motive”. Using a mixed logit model, we can show that owners of properties at least in part in N2000, significantly evoke the Control motive more often than the other owners; that is not the case of the other motives. Owners who are convinced their properties have a remarkable feature are significantly less likely to evoke the Control motive. We argue that these findings might be appropriated by environmental managers to induce adoption of the N2000 Charter.
Q23|The importance of Ostrom’s Design Principles: Youth group performance in northern Ethiopia|Youth unemployment and migration are growing challenges that need more political attention in many countries, particularly countries with rapid population growth and economic transformation. Proactively mobilizing the youth as a resource in the creation of sustainable livelihoods can potentially be a win-win-win solution that Ethiopia is currently attempting. The new youth employment strategy includes allocation of rehabilitated communal lands to youth groups. This study investigates the extent to which Ostrom’s Design Principles (DPs) are followed and matter for the early performance of youth groups in terms of their stability, trust and overall performance. Data from a census of 742 youth groups in five districts in Tigray in northern Ethiopia is used. This study utilizes econometric methods to assess correlations between the DPs and a range of early performance indicators. The study contributes to the limited literature on local collective action utilizing large samples. We find a high degree of compliance with the DPs. Some of the DPs appeared more important for early performance of the youth groups. The Ethiopian youth group approach to mobilize landless and unemployed youth is promising and should be tested elsewhere. Further longitudinal research is needed on the Ethiopian model as it is still at an early stage of testing as most groups are less than five years old.
Q23|Can conservation agriculture save tropical forests? The case of minimum tillage in Zambia|Minimum tillage (MT) is a key component in the promotion of conservation agriculture (CA). This paper asks whether MT reduces cropland expansion and thus deforestation. We develop a simple theoretical household model of land expansion, and test hypotheses by estimating a double hurdle model using household survey data from 368 smallholders in rural Zambia. We find that about 19% of the farmers expanded cropland into forests, clearing an average of 0.14 ha over one year. Overall, MT adoption does not significantly reduce deforestation among households in our sample, while labor availability stimulate expansion. Yield augmenting agricultural technologies (such as MT) may not reduce expansion unless combined with other forest conservation measures.
Q23|Amazonian farmers’ response to fire policies and climate change|Despite a fall in deforestation, frequency and severity of fires in the Brazilian Amazon are rising, causing huge carbon emissions, biodiversity losses and local economic costs. The ignition sources are anthropogenic and mostly related to the accidental spread of agricultural fires. Fire risk mitigation is a coordination problem with strategic complementarities: a farmer’s benefit of mitigation depends on complementary action of other farmers. We experimentally assess ex-ante the impact of two different policies under varying exogenous drought risk scenarios. Command and control is more effective than payments for environmental services in promoting coordination, possibly because of participants’ risk aversion (to the fine) and a local demand for justice and law enforcement. We also find evidence of a human-mediated self-reinforcing loop of drought and fires: droughts increase the exogenous component of fire risk, giving farmers less incentives to mitigate fire risk coming from their own farms.
Q23|Policies for forest landscape management – A conceptual approach with an empirical application for Swedish Conditions|Habitat loss and habitat fragmentation are major factors leading to forest biodiversity decline. This paper discusses landscape planning as strategy to improve connectivity in a landscape with a heterogeneous distribution of ecologically valuable areas across land owners. A tax-fund system is proposed, that following the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, tries to spread the burden of conservation equally across land owners while optimizing the environmental outcome. Design options of such a tax-fund system are discussed along the lines of a simple theoretical model. Financial effects of a tax-fund system are computed for a small model landscape set in Sweden. Two design questions stand out as particularly important. The first is whether the policy is intended to be self-sustained among the land owners or if the budget can be supplemented by general tax money. The second is whether the land owners or the relevant authority select the stands for conservation set-aside.
Q23|Innovation And Sustainability In The Mexico Paper Industry, Innovacion Y Sustentabilidad De La Industria De Papel En Mexico|The objective of this research is to analyze the paper industry in Mexico. We highlight innovation oriented towards the environment preservation inside a leading firm in the sector. This is a qualitative study of technological innovation within one of the biggest firms in the Mexican paper industry. This company was selected for its evolution and growth in national and global markets. Information was collected by interviewing managers and top executives. The business areas analyzed are production and distribution. Moreover, we examine the innovation made by these departments. The achievements accomplished by the company are presented. We particularly note innovation of their processes and compliance with Mexican and international environmental norms. These norms preserve the rivers, lakes, air and forests
Q23|Modelling the choice between and the costs of multiple-use vs. specialized forest management|Forests provide ecosystem services jointly with timber production. In some cases, private forest owners implement management actions in order to enhance the provision of such services. They may get direct benefits from this decision such as private amenity values or effects on (e.g., hunting), they may have altruist traits in their utility function for providing public goods (e.g., biodiversity conservation, carbon sequestration), or they may be incited for by a public authority and compensated for the costs. Specifically, this paper focuses on the decision of setting aside forest land. It raises the more general question of the efficiency of multiple-use vs. specialized management of forest lands. We propose an econometric analysis to identify factors of the set-aside choice and to measure the impact of this decision on forest management costs. A flexible cost function is modelled and estimated for both types of management. The percentages of old/mature deciduous and old/mature coniferous forests are used as biodiversity and carbon indicators. Results show that the set-aside choice depends on the landowners’ income and on their socio-economic characteristics. Set-aside decision has a significant and positive impact on the management costs. This implies that the additional private and public benefits achieved from specialized relative to multiple-use management should exceed this cost premium.
Q23|Economic analysis of postwindthrow forest management: the cut-or-keep decision rule|Wind storms are one of the most important risks for forest management. After a storm hits a forest stand the forest owner has two possibilities: clear cut and start a new rotation or keep the standing trees until maturity. We compute the Land Expectation Value (LEV) under the risk of windthrow and introduce an endogenous rule to account for this decision. We compare the result with the alternative - often used in the literature- of clear cut and replant by default after each storm. We calibrated our model to represent maritime pine plantations in south-western France. Our results show that roughly 75% of the time it is profitable to keep the standing trees until maturity. So doing the forest owner may increase payoffs by up to 90% when the economic risk (i.e. probability of having a storm) is high. Although payoffs are sensitive to economic risk, the optimal rotation age does not change much with significant increases in the risk probability.
Q23|Economic analysis of natural forest disturbances: A century of research|Natural disturbances have always affected forest ecosystems, altering or disrupting the flows of goods and services provided by forests. In response, people have had to adapt their economic activities and decisions to take such hazards into account and to limit their consequences. In this paper, we conduct a survey on how economic analysis deals with such an issue, considering the different natural hazards affecting forests. Our database (described in and publicly available from Data in Brief website Montagné-Huck and Brunette (2018)) includes 340 papers collected from 1916 to 2014. This literature review allows synthesizing the existing knowledge, characterizing forest disturbances and identifying gaps in the literature.
Q23|Quelle diversité des moyens de gestion des forêts privées familiales de France ?|Ce travail s’intéresse aux propriétés forestières privées familiales de France métropolitaine dans lesquelles le propriétaire, personne physique individu ou couple autoconsommateur de bois de feu, s’investit sans que cela soit son activité principale. Nous étudions les paramètres d’accès aux divers moyens de gestion forestière à la disposition des propriétaires forestiers privés familiaux. La structure des données est pour cela précisée à partir des proximités statistiques entre caractéristiques de la propriété forestière, caractéristiques socioéconomiques des propriétaires, gestion de la forêt, vente des bois et choix gestionnaires étudiés. Deux groupes principaux de propriétaires sont soulignés selon leurs moyens de gestion. La distribution de ces deux groupes dans les régions de la métropole est également explicitée. Ces éléments permettent de préciser des pistes régionalisées pour pérenniser et développer la gestion des propriétés forestières privées familiales, accroître la récolte de bois et plus globalement une offre de services écosystémiques de façon ciblée.
Q23|Facilitating Carbon Offsets from Native Forests|This note aims to help firms looking to offset their Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. Emissions reductions from native forestry sequestration are already recognised in the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and it is ‘shovel ready’ to generate native forest offsets. 10,000 Ha of post-1989 native forest land would sequester 65,000 tonnes of CO2-e annually on average over 50 years, and would be eligible to earn 65,000 NZUs per year under the ETS. Native forestry also has a wide range of associated environmental, cultural, social and economic co-benefits. It is certainly possible for more native afforestation to occur at present, and within the existing policy framework; however, challenges do still exist. These include: a lack of awareness; limited access to capital; the complexity of the ETS; policy uncertainty; and some specific policy settings. The New Zealand business community can play an important role in solving these problems. Businesses can help influence government policy and have the capital and capacity to play a facilitating role in the market.
Q23|Including Forestry in an Emissions Trading Scheme: Lessons from New Zealand|New Zealand is the first, and still the only, country to include forest landowners as full and, in some cases, mandatory participants in a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions trading scheme (ETS), the NZ ETS. Carbon sequestration by forestry continues to be an important part of New Zealand’s contribution to its global obligations to reduce emissions. This paper describes the policy changes to the NZ ETS since 2008 that directly affect forestry; assesses the effectiveness of the scheme; explores who is benefiting from it; and outlines issues facing forestry in the NZ ETS moving forward. We find that forest owners have responded to the financial incentives from the NZ ETS in a rational way. Both afforestation and deforestation decisions appear to have been influenced by the emissions price and/or expectations about the emissions price in the future. However, the scheme has been beset by challenges. The collapse in the global carbon price and, associated with this, the proliferation of international Kyoto credits of questionable environmental integrity, combined with the government decision to delay New Zealand’s delink from international markets until 2015, greatly reduced the price signal for forestry from the NZ ETS from 2012 to 2015. A weak price signal, coupled with ongoing policy uncertainty surrounding the NZ ETS, has limited the effectiveness of the scheme in achieving its forestry goals. Prospects going forward are more positive particularly if the current reform of the ETS can create clear predictable price signals and better manage the complexity of forestry rewards and liabilities, particularly as faced by smaller landowners who are not professional foresters but could potentially participate and reforest.
Q23|Robust modelling of the impacts of climate change on the habitat suitability of forest tree species|In Europe, forests play a strategic multifunctional role, serving economic, social and environmental purposes. However, forests are among the most complex systems and their interaction with the ongoing climate change – and the multifaceted chain of potential cascading consequences for European biodiversity, environment, society and economy – is not yet well understood. The JRC PESETA project series proposes a consistent multi-sectoral assessment of the impacts of climate change in Europe. Within the PESETA II project, a robust methodology is introduced for modelling the habitat suitability of forest tree species (2071-2100 time horizon). Abies alba (the silver fir) is selected as a case study: a main European tree species often distributed in bioclimatically complex areas, spanning over various forest types and with multiple populations adapted to different conditions. The modular modelling architecture is based on relative distance similarity (RDS) estimates which link field observations with bioclimatic patterns, projecting their change under climate scenarios into the expected potential change of suitable habitat for tree species. Robust management of uncertainty is also examined. Both technical and interpretation core aspects are presented in an integrated overview. The semantics of the array of quantities under focus and the uneven sources of uncertainty at the continental scale are discussed (following the semantic array programming paradigm), with an effort to offer some minimal guidance on terminology, meaning and methodological limitations not only of the proposed approach, but also of the broad available literature – whose heterogeneity and partial ambiguity might potentially reverberate at the science-policy interface. ► How to cite: ◄ de Rigo, D., Caudullo, G., San-Miguel-Ayanz, J, Barredo, J.I., 2017. Robust modelling of the impacts of climate change on the habitat suitability of forest tree species. Publication Office of the European Union, Luxembourg. 58 pp. ISBN:978-92-79-66704-6 , https://doi.org/10.2760/296501
Q23|Land use, forest preservation and biodiversity in Asia|Continuous increase in one side of human populations and on the other side on the number of extinct and endangered species in Asia requires appropriate land use and forest preservation. Forests provide a number of benefits such as regulation of global climate and ecosystems, provision of raw materials and wild foods for local communities, watershed protection for a region, national income from ecotourism, carbon sequestration, being a landscape and habitat of rare species. This introduction provides summary for land use, forest preservation and biodiversity policy in Asia.
Q23|Environment Case Study: Forestry and Water Management in Thailand: A Win Win Situation|The article offers a critique for the argument that forest clearing by the people in the upper areas of the watershed is the main reason for decrease in water supply. Instead he considers increased demand of water for agricultural activity especially during dry season by both upstream and downstream areas as the main cause of water shortage. Thus unlike previous studies, who blame people from upper lands for water shortage, he talks about the fair share of scare resources and rights protection for upstream farmers.
Q23|Evaluation of Romania's potential for producing renewable energy from agriculture and forestry|Renewable energy production is an alternative to traditional energy resources that are being depleted, these new resources will gradually replace the exhausting energies by combining the three main features of the present century, so that sustainable development, energy security and environmental protection become defining elements in terms of renewable energy production. The energy sector communicates and is closely linked to the economic sector, the defining resource with a major influence on the economy being oil, where its exhaustion and other natural energy resources would lead to economic and political instability, which is why it is necessary to highlight the possibility of substitution exhaustible resources through different sources of renewable energies: solar, wind, microhydro, geothermal and biomass. In view of the above, we will highlight Romania's potential in the production of renewable energy from biomass, the materials provided by the agricultural sector and the forestry sector, but also the energy consumption in agriculture and forestry, as well as the type of biofuel used (liquid or solid), which draws a parallel between the two categories of biofuels obtained from the same resource. We will also highlight Romania's position in the European Union in this field, highlighting the national and European objectives on this issue.
Q23|The Policy Challenge of Creating Forest Offset Credits: A Case Study from the Interior of British Columbia| This paper provides an overview of the role that forestry activities can play in mitigating climate change. The price of carbon offset credits is used for incentivizing a reduction in the release of CO2 emissions and an increase in sequestration of atmospheric CO2 through forestry activities. Forestland owners essentially have two options for creating carbon offset credits: (1) avoid or delay harvest of mature timber; or (2) harvest timber and allow natural regeneration or regeneration with ‘regular’ or genetically-enhanced growing stock, storing carbon in post-harvest products, using sawmill and potentially logging residues to generate electricity. In this study, a model representative of the Quesnel Timber Supply Area (TSA) in the BC interior is developed. The objective is to maximize net discounted returns to commercial timber operations (and sale of downstream products) plus the benefits of managing carbon fluxes. The model tracks carbon in living trees, organic matter, and, importantly, post-harvest carbon pools and avoided emissions from substituting wood for non-wood in construction or wood bioenergy for fossil fuels. Model constraints ensure that commercial forest management is sustainable, while carbon prices incentivize sequestration to ensure efficient mitigation of climate change. The results are confirmed more generally by comparing the carbon fluxes derived from the integrated forest management model with those from a Faustmann-Hartman rotation age model that explicitly includes benefits of storing carbon. One other question is addressed: If carbon offsets are created when wood biomass substitutes for fossil fuels in power generation, can one count the saved emissions from steel/cement production when wood substitutes for non-wood materials in construction?
Q23|Economic Valuation of Forest Ecosystem Services in Kenya: Implication for Design of PES Schemes and Participatory Forest Management|Forest ecosystem services are critical for human well-being as well as functioning and growth of economies. However, despite the growing demand for these services, they are hardly given due consideration in public policy formulation. The values attached to these services by local communities are also generally unknown in developing countries. Using a case study of the Mau forest conservancy the study applied a choice experiment technique employing the efficient design criteria to value salient forest ecosystem services among forest adjacent communities. The values attached to various ecosystem services were estimated using the conditional logit, random parameter logit model and random parameter logit model with interactions. The results revealed high level of preference heterogeneity across households and that communities would prefer conservation programs that would guarantee them improved forest cover, reduced flood risk and high water quality and quantity for drinking but would experience a loss in welfare for choosing an alternative with medium wildlife population. One significant finding from the study is the altruistic nature of forest adjacent communities as revealed by the high willingness to pay for flood mitigation showing that they are not just concerned with the private benefits accruing to them but also the welfare of the society. Overall, we found that there is much appreciation for the role of forest ecosystem services and that forest adjacent communities are more pro conservation mainly motivated by the direct use and non-use values. In terms of policy, the information forms a basis for the design of market based incentives such as PES and the roll out, design and implementation of participatory forest management. Policy makers also need to focus on policy options with higher mean welfare impacts to deepen community involvement in forest conservation while taking into account the heterogeneity in preferences to ensure equity.
Q23|Determinants of Successful Collective Management of Forest Resources: Evidence from Kenyan Community Forest Associations|Participation of local communities in management and utilization of forest resources through collective action has become widely accepted as a possible solution to failure of centralized top down approaches to forest conservation. Developing countries have thus resorted to devolution of forest management through initiatives such as Participatory Forest Management (PFM) and Joint Forest Management (JFM). In Kenya, under such initiatives, communities have been able to self-organize into community forest associations (CFAs). However, despite these efforts and increased number of CFAs, the results in terms of ecological outcomes have been mixed with some CFAs failing and others thriving. Little is known about the factors influencing success of these initiatives. Using household level data from 518 households and community level data from 22 CFAs from the Mau forest conservancy, the study employed logistic regression, OLS and Heteroscedasticity based instrumental variable techniques to analyze factors influencing household participation levels in CFA activities and further identified the determinants of successful collective management of forest resources as well as the link between participation level and success of collective action. The results show that success of collective action is associated with level of household participation in CFA activities, distance to the forest resource, institutional quality, group size, salience of the resource and education level of the CFA chairperson among others. We also found that collective action is more successful when CFAs are formed through usersâ€™ self-motivation with frequent interaction with government institutions and when the forest cover is low. Factors influencing household level of participation are also identified. The study findings points to the need for: a robust diagnostic approach in devolution of forest management to local communities considering diverse socio-economic and ecological settings; government intervention in revival and re-institutionalizing existing and infant CFAs in an effort to promote PFM within the Mau forest and other parts of the country; and intense effort towards design of a mix of incentive schemes to encourage active and equal household participation in CFA activities.
Q23|Welfare and Environmental Impact of Incentive Based Conservation: Evidence from Kenyan Community Forest Associations|This paper focuses on whether the provision of landless forest-adjacent communities with options to grow appropriate food crops inside forest reserves during early stages of reforestation programmes enable vertical transition of low income households and conserves forests. We consider the welfare and environmental impact of a unique incentive scheme known as the Plantation Establishment and Livelihood Improvement Scheme (PELIS) in Kenya. PELIS was aimed at deepening community participation in forestry, and improving the economic livelihoods of adjacent communities. Using data collected from 22 Community Forest Associations and 406 households, we evaluated the mean impact of the scheme on forest cover and household welfare using matching methods and further assessed the heterogeneous impact of the scheme on household welfare using the endogenous quantile treatment effects model. The study revealed that on average, PELIS had a significant and positive impact on overall household welfare (estimated between 15.09% and 28.14%) and on the environment (between 5.53% and 7.94%). However, in terms of welfare, the scheme cannot be defended on equity grounds as it has inequitable distributional impacts on household welfare. The scheme raises welfare of the least poor than the poorest and marginalizes sections of the community through elite capture and lack of market linkages.
Q23|Shutdown Decision of Firms Based on Variable Costs and Demand|The forest products industry in Alabama, the second largest manufacturing sector of the state, has been experiencing a recession in production, number of establishments and employees since the mid-1990s. This study investigates the determinants of this decline in the industry, using a county-level panel dataset that spans the period between 1996 and 2012. Four sub-sectors were analyzed separately, including the logging, wood, paper, and furniture manufacturing sectors. Results suggest that increases in average variable cost, rather than decreases in demand, were more strongly associated with the recession as measured by the number of operating establishments. Decomposition analysis indicates that the cost of materials, rather than labor, contributes more to the decline in the number of forest sector establishments in the state. This could be because increases in labor costs, such as wage increases, are accompanied by increases in labor productivity.
Q23|Promovendo a subericultura? A política florestal de Espanha e Portugal (1852-1914)|Portugal currently leads worldwide all the facets of the cork business, from the forest market, through manufacturing and the trade of cork products. This scenario is enhanced with the fact that in Portugal the cork oak trees have the best conditions for their development. However, up to 1930s, this role was played by other countries, especially by Spain, and is important to understand the factors that contributed to this situation. Recent historiography has highlighted the public policies pursued by Portugal during the Estado Novo, in comparison with those followed by the Franco regime, as one of the main reasons for the rise of the portuguese cork sector, which includes forestry policy. Therefore, it’s important to carry out a similar exercise for the chronology in question, thus the aim of this work is to analyze, in a comparative perspective, the nineteenth-century forest and cereal policies of Portugal and Spain, in the latter case due to the implications that cereal protectionism had towards the cork oak forests. Legislative sources, technical reports and official agricultural statistics were used, and it was concluded that there was no clear advantage derived from any agroforestry public policy by the spanish cork industry compared to the portuguese one. In the matter of fact, as we will demonstrate, both States procedured with great similarity.
Q23|On the Valuation of the Causes and Consequences of Environmental Damages : Evidence from a Field Experiment (revision of CentER DP 2017-029)|Standard economic theory assumes that agents’ valuation of economic outcomes is independent of the process via which these outcomes are produced. Yet Bulte, Gerking, List, and de Zeeuw (2005) found that causes in addition to outcomes matter in valuation. Using a field experiment I test whether drawing people’s attention to the role they play in the process of environmental degradation affects their willingness to pay for mitigation, and how this compares the activities undertaken by others. I do so by eliciting contributions to a reforestation program in an environmentally valuable area in Ethiopia. I implement three different conditions which allow me to measure the impact on contributions of emphasizing (i) the contributions of others to forest conservation, and (ii) the role of the respondents themselves in the forest degradation process. I find that learning about the efforts of others does not affect contributions while emphasizing the respondents’ negative role in the process actually increases contributions. Extant literature notes that including information on human-caused environmental damage in contingent valuation surveys does indeed increases the WTP values. This was, however, attributed to ‘outrage effect’ – that is, because respondents are upset, they contribute more to environmental goods. In a somewhat different setting this study finds evidence that people’s contributions also increase significantly and substantially if attention is drawn to their own responsibility in the deforestation and desertification process, suggesting, the ‘responsibility effect’ is also important in valuation.
Q23|Spatial Valuation of Forests’ Environmental Assets: An Application to Andalusian Silvopastoral Farms|We develop a model that estimates spatially allocated environmental asset values for the simultaneous provision of seven ecosystem services. We examine the effect of heterogeneous spatial and economic factors on asset figures, and identify potential forestry abandonment problems when continuing with forestry activity becomes unprofitable for the landowner. Our results show a relevant spatial variability according to forest species distribution and structure. We examine potential trade-offs among silvopastoral provisioning services, water, and carbon sequestration services. Results forecast the abandonment of forestry activity and quantify the significant impact of discount rates and prices on asset values.
Q23|An Empirical Analysis of Hunting Lease Pricing and Value of Game in Sweden|Game species generate considerable benefits to society in terms of hunting values, tourism, and maintenance of ecosystem balance. This paper seeks to estimate hunting values for multiple hunted species by disentangling the role of wildlife harvesting opportunities from other factors that affect hunting lease prices. We examine the determinants of hunting lease prices in Sweden using both spatial and nonspatial econometric techniques. Our analysis confirms considerable hunting values for fallow deer and wild boar. Also, the study reveals the presence of spatial spillovers in lease prices, implying that landowners have little scope for exerting monopoly power on the hunting lease market.
Q23|Forest Loss and Economic Inequality in the Solomon Islands: Using Small-Area Estimation to Link Environmental Change to Welfare Outcomes|To study welfare effects of environmental change, data from household surveys may be linked to remote sensing data. Using spatial aggregation to link risks ecological fallacy, since surveys are usually representative for areas larger than the spatial scale of decision-making units. This paper uses survey-to-census imputation to estimate welfare indicators for small areas to study the effect of deforestation on subsequent inequality in the rural Solomon Islands. This country depends on logging for almost half of foreign exchange and one-sixth of government revenue, and most forested land remains under customary ownership. A sharp increase in log exports, to seven times the sustainable yield, and a major shift in export destinations as other countries withdrew from the tropical log trade represents an exogenous shock that helps to identify effects of deforestation on inequality rather than the reverse relationship. A standard deviation increase in the rate of forest loss over 2000 to 2012 raises the Gini index of inequality in 2013 by one-third of a standard deviation. Mean incomes and poverty rates are also higher, implying that deforestation makes some households richer while others become poorer. These precisely estimated effects would be obscured using more spatially aggregated data.
Q23|Are Bilateral Conservation Policies for the Białowieża Forest Unattainable? Analysis of Stated Preferences of Polish and Belarusian Public|Transboundary nature protected areas constitute a considerable proportion of all the existing spatial forms of biodiversity protection. There is a considerable literature on allocation of funds to preserving nature shared by several countries, though less research on the economic benefits that citizens attach to protected transboundary land nature on the other side of the border. We are trying to find out and compare preferences towards increased protection of domestic and foreign segments of the Białowieża Forest, stated by samples of Polish and Belarusian citizens. Whilst Poles on average are willing to pay for an increased passive protection, on their side of the border, most Belarusians seem to be satisfied with the status quo. There is even an apparent mutual disutility derived from the perspective of co-financing bilateral passive protection programmes in the Białowieża Forest. The results can to some extent be explained by a strict border division, by differences in welfare or by behavioural reasons.
Q23|Is Forest Landscape Restoration Socially Desirable? A Discrete Choice Experiment Applied to the Scandinavian Transboundary Fulufjället National Park Area|Landscape restoration can improve functionality of land cover patches as green infrastructure, which is essential to ensure the provision of a diverse range of ecosystem services. However, so far designation of protected areas in Fennoscandia has focused primarily on remnant patches of naturally dynamic forests, and not on landscape level restoration. We applied stated preference methodology to assess citizens’ preferences for forest landscape restoration in a cross-border region primarily managed for the industrial forestry, and – at the same time – hosting the transboundary Fulufjället National Park, shared between Sweden and Norway. There is scope for improving green infrastructure functionality by landscape restoration in adjacent forest areas, and including them into the National Park, which aims at gradual restoration of natural processes. In both countries, 54% and 55% choices made, respectively, indicated willingness to pay for extending the National Park by some area of forest landscape restoration.
Q23|Roads & SDGs, tradeoffs and synergies: Learning from Brazil's Amazon in distinguishing frontiers|To reduce SDG tradeoffs in infrastructure provision, and to inform searches for SDG synergies, the authors show that roads' impacts on Brazilian Amazon forests varied significantly across frontiers. Impacts varied predictably with prior development - prior roads and prior deforestation - and, further, in a pattern that suggests a potential synergy for roads between forests and urban growth. For multiple periods of roads investments, the authors estimate forest impacts for high, medium and low prior roads and deforestation. For each setting, census-tract observations are numerous. Results confirm predictions for this kind of frontier of a pattern not consistent with endogeneity, i.e., short-run forest impacts of new roads are: small for relatively high prior development; larger for medium prior development; and small for low prior development (for the latter setting, impacts in such isolated areas could rise over time, depending on interactions with conservation policies). These Amazonian results suggest 'SDG strategic' locations for infrastructure, an idea the authors note for other frontiers while highlighting major differences across frontiers and their SDG opportunities.
Q23|The Policy Challenge of Creating Forest Offset Credits: A Case Study from the Interior of British Columbia| This paper provides an overview of the role that forestry activities can play in mitigating climate change. The price of carbon offset credits is used for incentivizing a reduction in the release of CO2 emissions and an increase in sequestration of atmospheric CO2 through forestry activities. Forestland owners essentially have two options for creating carbon offset credits: (1) avoid or delay harvest of mature timber; or (2) harvest timber and allow natural regeneration or regeneration with ‘regular’ or genetically-enhanced growing stock, storing carbon in post-harvest products, using sawmill and potentially logging residues to generate electricity. In this study, a model representative of the Quesnel Timber Supply Area (TSA) in the BC interior is developed. The objective is to maximize net discounted returns to commercial timber operations (and sale of downstream products) plus the benefits of managing carbon fluxes. The model tracks carbon in living trees, organic matter, and, importantly, post-harvest carbon pools and avoided emissions from substituting wood for non-wood in construction or wood bioenergy for fossil fuels. Model constraints ensure that commercial forest management is sustainable, while carbon prices incentivize sequestration to ensure efficient mitigation of climate change. The results are confirmed more generally by comparing the carbon fluxes derived from the integrated forest management model with those from a Faustmann-Hartman rotation age model that explicitly includes benefits of storing carbon. One other question is addressed: If carbon offsets are created when wood biomass substitutes for fossil fuels in power generation, can one count the saved emissions from steel/cement production when wood substitutes for non-wood materials in construction?<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q23|Private Capital, Public Goods: Forest Plantations' Investment in Local Infrastructure and Social Services in Rural Tanzania|With the rapid expansion of private forest plantations worldwide, their impacts on local development are under scrutiny by NGOs and researchers alike. This study investigates the impacts of private forest plantations on local infrastructure and social services in rural Tanzania. We take a comparative approach involving households living in villages adjacent to private forest plantations and households in villages adjacent to a state-owned plantation. We use survey data from 338 households to analyze their perceptions about the impacts of the plantations on the number and quality of roads, bridges, and health centers, as well as on school enrolment and quality of education. We triangulate the results from a logistic regression model with observations of the size and quality of infrastructure and social services in the villages and with findings from focus group discussions. The results show that the private forest plantations have positively affected local infrastructure and social services in adjacent villages. The results suggest that large-scale private forest plantations can contribute to rural development in developing countries. We highlight the importance of taking into account the perceptions of various groups in society when assessing the sustainability of forestry investments and their impacts on local communities.
Q23|Up in Smoke: The Influence of Household Behavior on the Long-Run Impact of Improved Cooking Stoves|Laboratory studies suggest that improved cooking stoves can reduce indoor air pollution, improve health, and decrease greenhouse gas emissions in developing countries. We provide evidence, from a large-scale randomized trial in India, on the benefits of a common, laboratory-validated stove with a four-year follow-up. While smoke inhalation initially falls, this effect disappears by year two. We find no changes across health outcomes or greenhouse gas emissions. Households used the stoves irregularly and inappropriately, failed to maintain them, and usage declined over time. This study underscores the need to test environmental technologies in real-world settings where behavior may undermine potential impacts. (JEL D12, O12, O13, Q53, Q54, Q55)
Q23|Land inequality and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon|The aim of this paper is to demonstrate the relationship between land inequality and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. Therefore, it is developed an occupational choice model where an individual decides whether to become a farmer in an already established place or to move in search of economic opportunities and land to clear at the agricultural frontier. This model provides theoretical predictions that are tested empirically. Based on data from 515 municipalities, this paper estimates a Tobit model in order to test the theoretical predictions. Basically, it has been shown that there is little statistical evidence to support the existence of a direct relationship between land inequality and deforestation. Nevertheless, when one takes into account the effects of land inequality on deforestation through its interaction with credit and land reform policies, it can be shown that the pattern of land distribution, indeed, plays a role for deforestation. There is a positive relationship between credit and deforestation in more unequal places. Furthermore, this paper provides evidence that land reform in more unequal municipalities reduces deforestation. Hence, it is clear that there is a role for government to increase social welfare and reduce deforestation rates.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q23|Strategic carbon taxation and energy pricing under the threat of climate tipping events|An appropriate design of climate mitigation policies such as carbon taxes may face a lot of challenges in reality, e.g., the strategic behavior of fossil fuel producers, and huge uncertainty surrounding the climate system. This paper investigated the effect of possible climate tipping events on optimal carbon taxation and energy pricing, taking into account the strategic behavior of energy consumers/producers and the uncertainty of tipping points through a stochastic dynamic game. The game was solved numerically to get some insights into the equilibrium carbon taxation and energy pricing strategies under the threat of possible tipping events. The results suggest that the sudden occurrence of tipping events will shift the carbon tax upwards but shift the (wellhead) fuel price downwards, which generates an overall effect of a sudden increase in the consumer price. The irreversibility of the damage caused by a tipping point implies more aggressive carbon taxation. Moreover, the design of climate policy should adjust to tipping probabilities, damage uncertainty, and types of tipping events.
Q23|Modeling the marginal value of rainforest losses: A dynamic value function approach|The economic value of a rainforest is modeled as a dynamic asset subject to fire risk and potential increase in dryness. I solve two Bellman equations, for unburnt and for already burnt forest, to derive analytically tractable expressions for the total expected, spatially differentiated, asset value of the forest in each state assuming constant growth and forest loss rates over time. I derive the marginal expected discounted value loss when losing a small additional piece of forest, at any alternative site in the forest. Marginal forest value is found to increase when the risk of forest fire increases due to forest fragmentation when forest is lost locally; and also when forest dryness, affecting forest values negatively, increases upon forest fragmentation. Both forest fire risk and dryness serve as “multipliers” on the basic services return loss, both within and outside of the forest. Increased forest fire risk is found to reduce average rainforest value by reducing their future expected lifespans and current returns; but to increase marginal forest value by making primary forest loss avoidance more valuable. I calibrate the model including the impact of the forest fire risk component on forest value, with multipliers in a typical range 1.3–1.5.
Q23|Divergence in stakeholders' preferences: Evidence from a choice experiment on forest landscapes preferences in Sweden|A great deal of biodiversity can be found in private forests, and protecting it requires taking into consideration the preferences of key stakeholders. In this study, we examine divergence in stakeholders' preferences for forest attributes across the general public, private non-industrial forest owners and public and private forest officials in Sweden by conducting a discrete choice experiment. Our results indicate that citizens have a positive valuation of biodiversity protection. Moreover, their valuation is statistically significantly higher than those of forest owners. Interestingly, our results suggest that both forest owners and forest officials have a strong orientation towards production, with higher valuation than the general public of the common management practice of even aged stands and clear felling. Even though the Swedish Forestry Act regards production and environmental goals as equally important, we find that forest officials prefer management practices that promote production rather than biodiversity protection.
Q23|Invasive Species Impacts on Human Well-being Using the Life Satisfaction Index|Invasive alien species are known to be disruptive to the natural environment and can lead to sharp reductions in environmental quality, thereby affecting social welfare. However, little is known about how subjective well-being, in particular, is impacted by invasive species. This is troubling because it precludes credible empirical considerations of the full-range of social externalities when setting invasive species management policy. To address this knowledge gap, this paper provides the first estimates of invasive species impacts on subjective well-being using the life satisfaction (“happiness”) index. The approach is applied to the invasive emerald ash borer (EAB), a particularly virulent ash tree attacking pest in North America. Using a repeated cross-sectional fixed effects design, the impact of EAB detection on life satisfaction (LS) is estimated for individuals living in 189 counties in 15 US states over 2005–2011. Results suggest that after EAB detection, LS is reduced by 0.127 on a 4-point scale [95% CI: −0.002, −0.252]. The magnitude of impacts are greatest after a 5-year lag and are largest among young adults (18–24years).
Q23|Payment for multiple forest benefits alters the effect of tree disease on optimal forest rotation length|Forests deliver multiple benefits both to their owners and to wider society. However, a wave of forest pests and pathogens is threatening this worldwide. In this paper we examine the effect of disease on the optimal rotation length of a single-aged, single rotation forest when a payment for non-timber benefits, which is offered to private forest owners to partly internalise the social values of forest management, is included. Using a generalisable bioeconomic framework we show how this payment counteracts the negative economic effect of disease by increasing the optimal rotation length, and under some restrictive conditions, even makes it optimal to never harvest the forest. The analysis shows a range of complex interactions between factors including the rate of spread of infection and the impact of disease on the value of harvested timber and non-timber benefits. A key result is that the effect of disease on the optimal rotation length is dependent on whether the disease affects the timber benefit only compared to when it affects both timber and non-timber benefits. Our framework can be extended to incorporate multiple ecosystem services delivered by forests and details of how disease can affect their production, thus facilitating a wide range of applications.
Q23|Modelling Land Use, Deforestation, and Policy: A Hybrid Optimisation-Heterogeneous Agent Model with Application to the Bolivian Amazon|We introduce a hybrid simulation model (‘SimPachamama’) designed to explore the complex socio-environmental trade-offs of alternative policy bundles and policy sequencing options for stemming deforestation and reducing poverty in tropical countries. Designed and calibrated to the initial conditions of a small forest village in rural Bolivia, the model consists of: (a) an optimising agricultural household module of heterogeneous agents that make individually optimal land-use decisions based on factor endowments and market conditions; (b) an encompassing general equilibrium ‘shell’ module that endogenously determines wages and links the agricultural labour market and rural-urban migration rates; and (c) a novel user-controlled policy-maker module that allows the user to make ‘real time’ choices over a variety of public and environmental policies that in turn impact land use, welfare, and migration. Over a 20-year simulation period the results highlight trade-offs between reductions in deforestation and improvements in household welfare that can only be overcome either when international REDD payments are offered or when decentralized deforestation taxes are implemented. The sequencing of policies plays a critical role in the determination of these results.
Q23|Impact of inefficient quota allocation under the Canada-U.S. softwood lumber dispute: A calibrated mixed complementarity approach|In this paper, a spatial price equilibrium model developed to shed new light on the economic impact of restrictive trade sanctions adopted in the Canada-U.S. softwood lumber dispute. Mixed complementarity programming is used to solve a 21-region, global trade model that is calibrated to 2011 observed bilateral trade flows using positive mathematical programming. In addition, the model employs a mechanism for analyzing the effects of the tariff rate quota used in the 2006 Softwood Lumber Agreement (SLA). It is estimated that the SLA created an annual deadweight loss of $28 million, paid by U.S. consumers. The quota constrained Alberta lumber producers while BC producers had excess quota. The lack of a proper mechanism for capturing quota rent, such as a tradable quota scheme or quota auction resulted in the survival of high-cost firms, perhaps to the detriment of lower-cost firms in Alberta. In the absence of SLA, it is estimated that Alberta would supply an additional 9% of Canadian softwood lumber to the U.S., eroding the supply share of all other regions while improving aggregate welfare.
Q23|Long-term event study of timber real estate investment trust conversions|The long-term financial performance of four timber real estate investment trust (REIT) conversions in the United States is evaluated by an event study with one-, two-, and three-year event windows. Three types of benchmarks are used in gauging the abnormal returns. The first benchmark is a portfolio of firms that are closest in size and book-to-market ratio to the timber REITs, the second is a portfolio of pre-conversion timber firms, and the third is an equal-weighted timber exchange traded fund (ETF) comprised of selected forest firms. Four approaches are used to calculate abnormal returns. Buy-and-hold abnormal returns and cumulative abnormal returns measure the preliminary abnormal returns, zero-investment portfolio approach with rolling regression evaluates the market-based risk premiums, and panel data analyses capture the relative advantages of REITs over their competitors within the timber industry. On average, annualized abnormal returns of 0.5% and 8.9% are identified before and after the REIT conversions. There is no difference between variances of pre- and post-event annualized abnormal returns. Therefore, structural changes have added values to the timber firms in the long run.
Q23|Logging concessions, certification and protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon: forest impacts from development rights and land-use restrictions|Economic activities (agriculture, logging, mining) drive tropical forest loss, so balancing development and conservation involves tradeoffs â€“ as well as synergies. Conservation policies, such as protected areas (PAs), may save more forest when they include some development rights (Pfaff et al. 2014). There is less evidence about when development policies, such as logging concessions, include some conservation restrictions. The right to log creates an incentive for private firms to defend their forest assets, although firms could raise or reduce forest loss depending upon their capacities to defend, their motivations to log and public oversight. Reduced loss may be rewarded through voluntary certification or third-party oversight of logging practices, whose impact we hypothesize depends upon firmsâ€™ logging motivations and their capacities to restrict loss. To shed empirical light, we examine forest impacts from rights and restrictions within the Peruvian Amazon during 2000-2013, removing biases using location and year effects. Compared to control forests outside of concessions and PAs, we find PAs reduce tree-cover loss âˆ’ while those PAs that include development rights save more forest than strict PAs, for each region. Logging concessions reduce forest loss in Madre de Dios, yet they increase loss in Ucayali. Certification has an impact â€“ 1% reduction in 2000-2013 forest loss âˆ’ only in Madre de Dios, consistent with higher certification impacts if private firms choose to restrict loss.
Q23|Q - Quemas y chaqueo|Resumen de la situación de la deforestación en Bolivia, 1990 - 2015
Q23|Emisiones Netas de Carbono Provenientes de la Deforestación en Bolivia durante 1990-2000 y 2000-2010: Resultados de un modelo de “Contabilidad de Carbono”|Este documento de investigación estima las emisiones netas de carbono provenientes del cambio en el uso de tierra en Bolivia durante los periodos 1990 – 2000 y 2000 – 2010 utilizando un modelo de contabilidad de carbono que incluye deforestación, degradación de bosques, regeneración de bosques, descomposición y recomposición gradual de carbono, así como la heterogeneidad de los contenidos de carbono sobresuelo y bajo-tierra en una grilla de 10 por 10 km. El enfoque permite elaborar mapas detallados de emisiones netas por región y por tipo de vegetación. Se estima que las emisiones netas de CO2 provenientes del cambio en el uso de tierra en Bolivia incrementaron de 65 millones de toneladas por año durante 1990-2000 a 93 millones de toneladas por año durante la década del 2000-2010, aproximadamente. Se encontró que las emisiones de CO2 per cápita y por unidad de PIB se mantienen estables entre los periodos señalados. Sin embargo, si se considera la evidencia de un incremento de la biomasa en bosques maduros, las emisiones netas de CO2 descienden hasta cerca de cero.
Q23|Bailouts and the Preservation of Competition: The Case of the Federal Timber Contract Payment Modification Act|We estimate the value of competition in United States Forest Service (USFS) timber auctions, in the context of the Reagan administration's bailout of firms that faced substantial losses on existing contracts. We use a model with endogenous entry by asymmetric firms, allowing survivors to respond to the exit of bailed-out firms by entering more auctions and for these marginal entrants to have lower values than firms that would choose to enter in any event, a selective entry effect. Observed asymmetries and selective entry contribute to us finding that the bailout may have increased USFS revenues in subsequent auctions quite substantially.
Q23|The ISO 14001 Standard and Firms’ Environmental Performance: Evidence from the U.S. Transportation Equipment Manufacturers| Manufacturers have relied on environmental management systems to meet government environmental regulations, enhance their environmental performance, and reduce their impact on the environment. We investigate the impact of ISO 14001 certification on manufacturers’ toxic release levels. We applied the censored quantile instrumental variable estimator (CQIV) to data on U.S. transportation equipment manufacturing subsector facilities. Results show that for large firms, encouraging voluntary adoption of ISO 14001 might be an effective government strategy to reduce on-site pollution. However, for small firms and for the purpose of reducing off-site pollution, other economic incentives or regulations might be warranted.
Q23|Farmers and their groves: How efficient are farms with forested land?| This study examines the performance of the forested land ownership by farmers in Poland this paper compares the efficiency of farms reporting a portion of their operated land as a forest with those that do not own any forested land. Using FADN data, the study focuses first on cost efficiency, which was estimated using the fixed effects stochastic cost frontier model (Kumbakhar and Knox Lovell, 2003). A generalized multiproduct translog cost function (Caves, Christensen, and Tretheway, 1980) was selected to represent the deterministic part of the cost function because it imposes fewer a-priori restrictions than other functional forms commonly used for the task. The efficiency scores (i.e., the fixed effects) were subject to further analysis, to establish the differences between farms with and without forest land (where forest land was measured as the proportion of the total farm area that was under forest land). The results strongly indicated, both in aggregate and considering estimates by farm type, that most of the farms with forest land were relatively less efficient than farms without them. Because the average farm size has been steadily increasing (although it remains relatively small) in response to a decreasing farm numbers in Poland, while the commercial agricultural production contracts in some peripheral areas without creating a shortage of food or agricultural commodities, there is an opportunity to reallocate land from its current uses to reforestation on farms already managing small groves. The speed of reallocating land will, however, depend greatly on ability of forested land to generate a stream of income. Given the FADN data, the transfer of all remaining agricultural land operated by farms with forested acreage to reforestation would add about 170 thousand hectares of privately owned forests in Poland. Additionally, the transition of farms owing woodlands may lead to their new role in the national environmental policy and efforts to cut the greenhouse gas emissions.
Q23|What Drives the Potential Supply of Timber Residues from Private Lands?| Timber residues, a wood production byproduct, are a low cost source of biomass that avoids the environmental and food market consequences of other energy feedstocks. We studied the effect that price, acreage owned, bio-energy attitudes, environmental amenities, and environmental disamenities have on the decision to harvest for non-commercial private forest owners in northern Michigan and Wisconsin. Over 60% of landowners were willing to provide timber residues at timber harvest or stand improvement (tree thinning) at prices starting at just $15 per acre. Important drivers of willingness to supply timber residues include the price offered for timber residue, single-species forest acreage owned, duration on land, and the aversion to environmental disamenities. The propensity to supply timber residues was highest among educated owners of larger scale, single-species forest who made less than $133,000/year.
Q23|Carbon Storage and Bioenergy: Using Forests for Climate Mitigation|The carbon mitigation literature has separately considered using forests to store carbon and as a source of bioenergy. In this paper, we look at both options to reach a 2°C mitigation target. This paper combines the global forest model, GTM, with the IAM WITCH model to study the optimal use of forestland to reach an aggressive global mitigation target. The analysis confirms that using both options is preferable to using either one alone. At first, while carbon prices are low, forest carbon storage dominates. However, when carbon prices pass $235/tCO2, wood bioenergy with CCS becomes increasingly important as a mechanism to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. The use of both mechanisms increases global forestland at the expense of marginal cropland. While the storage program dominates, natural forestland expands. But when the wood bioenergy program starts, natural forestland shrinks as more forests become managed for higher yields.
Q23|Economic Analysis of Carbon Sequestration under Risks in Forest management| Internalizing carbon value for forest landowners has the potential to increase carbon supply in forests and mitigate CO2 in the atmosphere. In this study, we developed a modified Hartman model to investigate how payments of carbon offsets impact the optimal management of hardwood forests in Kentucky considering price uncertainty and the risk of catastrophic events such as fire or storm damage. An Expected Value (E-V) model was used to conduct a sensitivity analysis of landowner aversion to price uncertainty. Best management strategies were examined to achieve maximized financial return for landowners in the face of both catastrophic risk and price variability.
Q23|Forest Management, Public Goods, and Optimal Policies|This review examines the provision of public goods and the prevention of negative externalities in forest management. It focuses on three issues: (a) biodiversity conservation and maintenance, (b) the role of forestry in carbon policies, and (c) internalizing negative water externalities. Public goods and negative externalities appear differently under different forest management regimes. A distinction is made between even-aged management, defined by the rotation framework, and uneven-aged management, defined by continuous cover models. Although the review focuses mostly on analytical models, it briefly considers recent numerical models relying on the detailed description of forest management. Both conventional instruments and new payments for ecosystem services are discussed.
Q23|Resource-Dependent Livelihoods and the Natural Resource Base|The natural resource base, terrestrial and marine, provides rural households in lower-income countries with income, food, shelter, and medicines, which are variously gathered and hunted in common lands and waters. These resources may be actively managed, either by the government or local community; or they may be de facto open access, with little effort by governments to prevent what may be de jure illegal extraction. This review appraises the literature that encompasses the direct value of wild resources to rural households, the extent to which these resources mitigate poverty and inequality, and the importance of the institutional context. More recent literature increasingly addresses competing demands on the resource base, which both supports nearby livelihoods and enhances ecosystem services such as biodiversity; and the extent to which initiatives such as community-based payments for ecosystem services change how people interact with the resource base.
Q23|¿Parques de papel? Áreas protegidas y deforestación en Colombia|Este documento estudia el efecto de las áreas protegidas -naturales y étnicas- en la deforestación en Colombia utilizando imágenes satelitales de deforestación para el periodo 2001-2012. El análisis combina dos metodologías: regresiones discontinuas en las áreas declaradas antes de 2001 (largo plazo) y diferencias en diferencias en las más recientes (corto plazo). Los resultados muestran que en general las áreas protegidas han sido efectivas a la hora de frenar la deforestación. Estos efectos se mantienen y en el largo plazo se amplifican en zonas densamente pobladas y cercanas a las carreteras, lo cual sugiere que, en un contexto en el que abundan las actividades ilegales, las áreas protegidas son menos efectivas cuando la presencia del Estado es limitada. ******ABSTRACT: This paper assesses the effects of protected areas in Colombia using forest loss satellite-imagery for the period 2001-2012. We combine two strategies: regression discontinuity for protected areas created before 2001 (long run) and differences in differences for areas create afterwards (short run). Overall, results indicate that protected areas have a significant effect at reducing deforestation. These effects hold and are amplified in the long run near densely populated areas and roads, which suggests that, in a context of abundant illegal activities, protected areas are limited by weak state presence.
Q23|Transboundary Pollution in Southeast Asia: Welfare and Avoidance Costs in Singapore from the Forest Burning in Indonesia|Forest burning in Indonesia results in severe episodes of “seasonal haze” in neighboring Singapore. We offer the first causal analysis of the transboundary health effects of the Indonesian forest burning. Using a two-stage approach and instrumenting for air pollution with satellite fire data, we estimate the impacts of the Indonesian fires on Singaporean polyclinic attendances for acute upper respiratory tract infections and acute conjunctivitis. We also estimate the change in electricity demand in Singapore attributable to the fires, finding that demand increases as people respond to haze episodes by staying indoors. We estimate partial health and avoidance costs of US$333 million from January 2010 to June 2016. Our estimates suggest avoidance behavior is significant, accounting for over three quarters of our estimate.
Q23|Impact Evaluation in a Landscape: Protected Natural Forests, Anthropized Forested Lands and Deforestation Leakages in Madagascar's Rainforests|This paper analyzes deforestation leakages from natural rainforests to anthropized habitats following the creation of Protected Areas in Madagascar. A simple theoretical framework highlights that a conservation constraint does not necessarily create deforestation leakages on secondary forests. An original dataset is built combining fine scale vegetation cover images and spatialized census data over the period 2000 to 2012. Cover images allow us to distinguish a mosaic of landscapes. Multilevel panel regressions and matching techniques indicate a causal effect of Protected Areas on deforestation leakages. Though Protected Areas reduce deforestation in protected natural forests, forest clearing is mostly reported on other types of anthropized forests. Our results demonstrate the limitations of Porter-like mechanism in agricultural innovation. They also support the hypothesis of a conservation dilemma: protecting biodiversity may come at the expense of the welfare of locals who rely on local (provisioning) ecosystem services.
Q23|The economic analysis of the forest transition|The forest transition describes a reversal or turnaround in longrun land-use trends for a country or region from a period of net forest area loss to net gain. Such forest recovery has occurred in high-income economies, and increasingly in developing countries. Although this process has been studied extensively by geographers, social scientists and historians, only recently has it been analyzed by economists. This contribution has focused on how competing land use values result in changing patterns of use that lead to an increase or decrease in forest cover. A simple model of forest transition is developed to illustrate this approach in the literature. Empirical applications attempt to explain the underlying economic factors, including governance and institutions, which determine the long-run transition in land use values and patterns. The various findings of these analyses have important policy implications, including for REDD+ and other forest recovery programs.
Q23|Take What You Can: Property Rights, Contestability and Conflict|Weak property rights are strongly associated with underdevelopment, low state capacity and civil conflict. In economic models of conflict, outbreaks of violence require two things: the prize must be both valuable and contestable. This paper exploits spatial and temporal variation in contestability of land title to explore the relation between (in) secure property rights and conflict in the Brazilian Amazon. Our estimates suggest that, at the local level, assignment of secure property rights eliminates substantively all land related conflict, even without changes in enforcement. Changes in land use are also consistent with reductions in land related conflict.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q23|Kurz zum Klima: Zur Entwicklung und Zukunft der weltweiten Wälder|Der Beitrag gibt einen Überblick zur Entwicklung und Zukunft der weltweiten Wälder und stellt die Programme zur Wiederaufforstung vor, die dem Klimawandel und dem Artenschwund entgegenwirken sollen.
Q23|Asset retirement with infinitely repeated alternative replacements: Harvest age and species choice in forestry|At what age should productive assets be retired? How should replacements be chosen when they differ in their uncertain ability to generate future incomes? As a particular version of that problem, we study the tree harvesting decision with two possible replacement species whose values as timber are stochastic and whose growth functions are deterministic. In the single-rotation (Wicksell) problem starting with a bare piece of land (an empty shop), it is optimal to choose and plant one species immediately if its current value is sufficiently high relative to that of the other species (the alternative equipment). However, if the species are insufficiently price-differentiated, it is preferable to leave the land vacant (the shop empty) despite the opportunity cost of doing so. In the repeated version of the problem, it is never optimal to leave the land bare provided the cost of replacement is null. Furthermore, the optimal harvest (tree retirement) age not only depends on the price and current productivity of the trees in place but also on the price and productivity of the other species, because it may replace the current one. The harvest age reaches a peak at some critical threshold of the relative price that signals the necessity to switch to the alternative species; indeed this is when the opportunity cost of choosing one alternative replacement over the other is the highest. The land value (and also the value of the firm) is similar to an American option with free boundary, infinite expiry period, and endogenous payoff. The paper highlights the opportunity cost of alternative replacement options, and the central role of their volatility in both asset-retirement and replacement-choice decisions. All results are derived analytically; a numerical treatment by the penalty method completes the resolution.
Q23|Forest land value and rotation with an alternative land use|We solve Faustmann's problem when the land manager plans to switch from the current tree species to some alternative species or land use. Such situations occur when the value of the alternative increases relative to the value of the species currently in place. The paper characterizes the land value function and the optimum rotations, highlighting the differences between this non-autonomous problem and the traditional Faustmann problem. We show that, from one harvest to the next until the switch, rotations can be constant and equal to the Faustmann rotation, or increasingly higher than the Faustmann rotation, or decreasingly lower. In the last two situations, the higher the number of previous harvests of the currently planted species before the switch to the alternative use, the closer the last rotation is to the Faustmann rotation.
Q23|¿Parques de papel? Áreas protegidas y deforestación en Colombia|Este documento estudia el efecto de las áreas protegidas -naturales y étnicas- en la deforestación en Colombia utilizando imágenes satelitales de deforestación para el periodo 2001-2012. El análisis combina dos metodologías: regresiones discontinuas en las áreas declaradas antes de 2001 (largo plazo) y diferencias en diferencias en las más recientes (corto plazo). Los resultados muestran que en general las áreas protegidas han sido efectivas a la hora de frenar la deforestación. Estos efectos se mantienen y en el largo plazo se amplifican en zonas densamente pobladas y cercanas a las carreteras, lo cual sugiere que, en un contexto en el que abundan las actividades ilegales, las áreas protegidas son menos efectivas cuando la presencia del Estado es limitada. ******ABSTRACT: This paper assesses the effects of protected areas in Colombia using forest loss satellite-imagery for the period 2001-2012. We combine two strategies: regression discontinuity for protected areas created before 2001 (long run) and differences in differences for areas create afterwards (short run). Overall, results indicate that protected areas have a significant effect at reducing deforestation. These effects hold and are amplified in the long run near densely populated areas and roads, which suggests that, in a context of abundant illegal activities, protected areas are limited by weak state presence.
Q23|Logistic Regression In Modelling Some Sustainable Development Phenomena|Technological innovations of the last decade have led to a real explosion of data and a practically unlimited capacity to create and to store them, remodelling day to day life. This paper analyses theoretical models for qualitative variables used in sustainable development. More exact and detailed information on natural resources are vital to the state, as well as to environmental agencies and to the private sector. The type of forest vegetation is one of the basic characteristics that are recorded and analysed in order to maintain the ecological balance. Generally, the type of forest vegetation is either recorded directly by the agents, or by tele-detection. Both techniques are costly both in financial and time terms or even impossible to do. Predictive models offer an alternative to obtain this data. Although linear regression models are used on a wide scale by biologists and ecologists, these models are inadequate when the dependent variable is qualitative.. Logit models are a natural complement to regression models, where the endogenous variable is a qualitative variable, a situation that may be obtained or not, or a category of a classification. The popularity of logit models is explained by the multivariate nature of the models and the easiness with which they can be interpreted.
Q23|The effect on forestation of the collective forest tenure reform in China|The Chinese government has allowed collective village forest land to pass into individualized ownership. The purpose was to alleviate rural poverty and stimulate investment in forests. Using data collected from 288 villages, in eight provinces, over three years, this paper measures the effect of the individualization on one aspect of forest investment, forestation. Because villages voted on the reform, we identify the causal effect of the reform by an instrumental variable estimator based on the countywide decision to offer the reform package. We find an increase in forestation of 7.68% of forest land in the year of the reform.
Q23|The effects of government spending on deforestation due to agricultural land expansion and CO2 related emissions|This paper examines the effect of changes in government spending level and composition on deforestation due to agricultural land expansion and related carbon dioxide emissions. Our theoretical model shows an unintended consequence from increased government spending and widening social safety nets in developing countries where agricultural land expansion significantly affects forest cover: there is an increase in deforestation and carbon dioxide emissions from land use change. Our empirical tests show that an increase in total government spending significantly increases forest land clearing for agricultural production in the short run leading to more carbon dioxide emissions. However, there is no long-run statistically significant effect on the steady-state forest cover and carbon dioxide emissions.
Q23|Buying spatially-coordinated ecosystem services: An experiment on the role of auction format and communication|Procurement auctions are one of several policy tools available to incentivise the provision of ecosystem services and biodiversity conservation. Successful biodiversity conservation often requires a landscape-scale approach and the spatial coordination of participation, for example in the creation of wildlife corridors. In this paper, we use a laboratory experiment to explore two features of procurement auctions in a forest landscape: the pricing mechanism (uniform vs. discriminatory) and availability of communication (chat) between potential sellers. We modify the experimental design developed by Reeson et al. (2011) by introducing uncertainty (and hence heterogeneity) in the production value of forest sites as well as an automated, endogenous stopping rule. We find that discriminatory pricing yields to greater environmental benefits per government dollar spent, chiefly because it is easier to construct long corridors. Chat also facilitates such coordination but also seems to encourage collusion in sustaining high prices for the most environmentally attractive plots. These two effects offset each other, making chat neutral from the viewpoint of maximizing environmental effect per dollar spent.
Q23|Price trends and volatility scenarios for designing forest sector transformation|Potential scenarios for the forest bioeconomy are heavily reliant on price assumptions; in particular, any abrupt changes in prices have a profound impact on the relevancy of any sector analysis. The objective of this paper was to demonstrate a new forest sector approach for incorporating price uncertainties in order to improve our assessment of investment decision making alternatives. Methodologically, we linked a multivariate generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity model (mGARCH (1,1)) with three global land use scenarios that are of strategic importance to the forest bioeconomy. The three scenarios were formulated as i) a business as usual scenario, ii) a high biomass usage scenario and iii) a no-growth scenario. Our results indicate an upward trend in prices over time for all three scenarios and for most woody biomass commodities. Under all scenarios, price volatility in the forest sector would be smaller than that for the fossil fuel energy (i.e. oil and natural gas). Price volatilities from fossil fuel markets are positively influencing woody biomass price volatility and positively influencing pulp volatility. These results are discussed in the context of a case study describing investment alternatives for a district heating facility with options for: woody biomass, natural gas, or heating oil.
Q23|Modeling household cooking fuel choice: A panel multinomial logit approach|We use three rounds of a rich panel data set to investigate the determinants of household cooking fuel choice and energy transition in urban Ethiopia. We observe that the expected energy transition did not occur following economic growth in Ethiopia during the decade 2000–2009. Regression results from a random effects multinomial logit model, which controls for unobserved household heterogeneity, show that households' economic status, price of alternative energy sources, and education are important determinants of fuel choice in urban Ethiopia. The results also suggest the use of multiple fuels, or ‘fuel stacking behavior’. We argue that policy makers could target these policy levers to encourage transition to cleaner energy sources.
Q23|Regional woody biomass supply and economic impacts from harvesting in the southern U.S|Demand for woody biomass from the southern United States (US) is increasing because of its reliability in supply, recent developments in co-firing and biofuel conversion technologies, overseas pellet demand, and the expected economic impacts from reorienting the forestry sector towards energy feedstock production. This research examines the interaction between a set of woody biomass harvesting sources (logging residue, non-merchantable, and merchantable roundwood) and wood types (hardwood, planted softwood, and natural softwood), and the impacts harvest costs have on the extraction of these materials in the southern US. The expected woody biomass availability and its geographic distribution are determined with a cost minimizing linear programming model. The marginal cost of woody biomass supply is determined for different energy production targets, subject to satisfying conventional wood demand. Given derived industry supply curves, the economic impacts of the sector are analyzed using the IMpact analysis for PLANning model (IMPLAN) at the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) level. The results suggest that forest biomass for energy production is projected to be available over a much wider price range with logging, residue, and non-merchantable and merchantable roundwood in these regions. Supply of hardwood and softwood biomass from merchantable roundwood is expected to increase if these materials can be harvested for non-conventional uses. Development of harvesting woody biomass from logging residue, non-merchantable, and merchantable timber has positive effects on local economies, bringing with it employment opportunities to some BEA regions.
Q23|Productivity, resource endowment and trade performance of the wood product sector|This paper analyzes the determinants of international trade of wood products, considering three main groups: woodworking products, pulp and paper and wooden furniture. We extend the Heckscher-Ohlin-Vanek (HOV) framework in order to take into account the forest resource endowment as well as industrial performance factors. Empirical tests are based on data on European countries between 1995 and 2007. The HOV hypothesis is partially confirmed in that the forest resource endowment is a significant determinant for explaining differences in net trade of two products (pulp and paper and furniture) but not for woodworking products. In addition, empirical tests also show the limits of the HOV model for explaining international trade of wood products. Indeed, factors reflecting industrial performance of wood sectors, including total factor productivity and average labor cost, have a significant role in determining differences in net trade of wood products.
Q23|Examining heterogeneity and wildfire management expenditures using spatially and temporally descriptive data|Increasing costs of wildfire management have highlighted the need to better understand suppression expenditures and potential tradeoffs of land management activities that may affect fire risks. Spatially and temporally descriptive data is used to develop a model of wildfire suppression expenditures, providing new insights into the role of spatial and temporal heterogeneity in determining expenditures. Incorporating heterogeneity improves model fit and predictive ability over a model with data based on the point and time of fire ignition. The model is potentially useful for providing expenditure information for simulated fire applications and post-season evaluation of suppression activities.
Q23|Global trade impacts of increasing Europe's bioenergy demand|European governments are rapidly turning to biomass to comply with the EU's legislated renewable energy targets for 2020 and 2030. To do so, EU member states will likely have to increase imports of biomass from timber rich regions, which will undoubtedly disrupt international wood product markets. In this study, a static global forest trade model of coniferous wood products is used to examine the effects of expanded demand for wood pellets in Europe to generate reliable electricity. Positive mathematical programming (PMP) is used to calibrate the model to 2012 bilateral trade flows. To assess the impact of increased wood-pellet demand on global forest products, we consider a scenario where EU demand for wood pellets doubles. Model results suggest increases in the world prices of industrial roundwood (1%), particleboard ($34/m3), fibreboard ($30/m3), pulp ($65/t) and pellets (71% to 128%), while the prices of sawnwood and plywood & veneer are projected to fall by $12/m3 and $4/m3, respectively. The gains and losses are unevenly distributed between timber rich and timber poor regions; Russia, Canada and the U.S. experience large net welfare gains of $706 million, $544 million and $416 million, respectively, while Asia loses $1.8 billion. In the forest products sector, the gains outweigh losses with economic benefits increasing by some $4.9 billion, but this is a cost to the consumers of electricity and/or taxpayers in the regions implementing these renewable energy policies. The price of wood pellets is projected to rise between $107 and $154 per tonne. The findings highlight the need to account for the interconnections among softwood forest products globally.
Q23|Carbon mitigation potential of the French forest sector under threat of combined physical and market impacts due to climate change|(1) To quantify the contribution of the French forest-wood product chain in terms of carbon sequestration and substitution when accounting for both the physical impacts (shifts in tree growth and mortality rates) and the market impacts (increased demand of harvested wood products (HWP)) of climate change (cc) and the subsequent forest managers adaptations; (2) To assess the uncertainty of the impacts on the above carbon balance and on forest allocation; and (3) To assess the role of managers’ expectations toward these future, uncertain but highly anticipated, impacts.
Q23|Forests in the Finnish low carbon scenarios|Finland is committed to the EU goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from the 1990 levels by 2050. We examine the potential role of the forests in fulfilling this goal in Finland. We base our analysis on the six scenarios that supported the parliamentary process of preparing Energy and Climate Roadmap 2050 for Finland to which we contributed by providing the assessment of forest sector development. While the scenario paths show that a systemic change to achieve the 80% target is possible with the increasing use of wood for energy being an important tool to cut emissions, our projections here show that an increase in forest carbon sink alone could play at least as important a role in improving the carbon balance. As the Finnish forests are growing clearly more than the projected removals of wood biomass are, Finland's carbon balance in full carbon accounting might become negative already before 2040 thanks to the forest sink. The forest growth might come to offset all other emissions sources even without other measures and still allow an increase in the use of wood for materials and energy. Nevertheless also other emission saving measures are needed because there is currently a cap which limits the use of LULUCF sinks as an emission reduction tool, and because of the fact that at some future point of time the forest sink will saturate while being vulnerable to many risks at the meantime.
Q23|Faustmann vs. real options theory – An experimental investigation of foresters’ harvesting decisions|Among the most complex decisions in forestry is the decision of when to harvest a stand. Many investment theories have been established and adjusted to maximize profit, yet limited knowledge is available regarding the predictive power of theories. Understanding foresters’ harvesting behavior, however, is important for forest management and policy support. Thus, the question arises as to what extent risky harvesting decisions comply with economic theories. Therefore, we conduct an incentive-based economic experiment with 107 forestry decision makers in order to analyze this research question. This approach is well-established in the field of behavioral economics since it has the advantage of analyzing certain economic parameters isolated from further aspects of the decision situation. We use the Faustmann–Pressler–Ohlin theorem and a real options approach as normative benchmarks. The present study provides evidence that none of the examined theories fully comply with the observed behavior. However, the harvesting behavior coincides significantly more with the real options theory than with the Faustmann–Pressler–Ohlin theorem. It can thus be stated that a higher degree of education leads to decisions that are more in accordance with the real options theory.
Q23|Optimal forest management with sequential disturbances|Previous work in forest management under uncertainty has been based on the assumption that landowners face a risk of only one damaging event during any forest rotation, with the main result being that landowners choose shorter rotation ages. These models are universal in an assumption that, should the disturbance arise in a given rotation, the landowner salvages what is possible through a harvest and replants to begin a new rotation. However, a real possibility exists that multiple disturbances may occur in one rotation, with the landowner retaining the damaged stand thereby waiting through the first or even a subsequent disturbance to harvest and begin a new rotation. We develop a new approach for rotations models and choices that allows more than one event and flexibility in the timing of harvest, where tree recovery and damage may make continuance of the rotation, rather than starting over, a rent maximizing strategy. We thereby generalize the highly-cited body of literature based on Paul Samuelson's and William Reed's seminal contributions. Results demonstrate that failure to consider these new features leads to suboptimal harvest decisions and highly suboptimal land rent values. Important parameters are found to be arrival rates of future disturbances and survival proportions and growth rates after each disturbance.
Q23|Could the Faustmann model have an interior minimum solution?|The growth of an even-aged stand usually follows a S-shaped pattern, implying that the growth function is convex when stand age is low and concave when stand age is high. Given such a growth function, the Faustmann model could in theory have multiple optima and hence an interior local minimum solution. To ensure that the rotation age at which the first derivative of the land expectation value equals zero is a maximum, it is often assumed that the growth function is concave in stand age. Yet there is no convincing argument for excluding the possibility of conducting the final harvest before the growth function changes to concave. We argue that under normal circumstances the Faustmann model does not have any interior minimum. It is neither necessary nor proper to assume that the growth function is concave in the vicinity of the optimal rotation age. When the interest rate is high, the optimal rotation may lie in the interval on which the growth function is convex, i.e. before volume or value growth culminates.
Q23|On the economics of forests and climate change: Deriving optimal policies|First-best optimal forest sector carbon policy is examined. Using a forest and energy sector model with a carbon cycle module we show that the renewability and carbon neutrality arguments do not warrant emission free status of wood use. As a general optimality principle, the release of carbon is penalized by a tax and carbon capture is subsidized. However, under the biomass stock change carbon accounting convention, the land owners pay for the roundwood emissions and, to avoid double counting, the use of roundwood is treated as emission free. Yet, the carbon accounting convention followed does not affect the equilibrium outcome. The bioenergy from harvest residues is not emission free either. Furthermore, we show that an optimal policy subsidizes the production of wood products for their carbon sequestration. Correspondingly, carbon removals by biomass growth are subsidized and the harvest residue generation taxed. Numerical solution of the model shows that, although the use of wood is not emission free, it is optimal to increase the use of wood, possibly also in the energy sector. Before the wood use can be increased, the forest biomass will be increased. This carbon sink decreases the net emissions until the forest resources reach a new equilibrium.
Q23|Designing hunting regulation under population uncertainty and self-reporting|A number of methods exist for estimating the size of animal populations. All methods generate an uncertain estimate of population size, and have different properties, which can be taken into account when designing regulation. We consider hunting regulation when the population size is uncertain and when the self-reported bag is used to estimate the population size. The properties of a population tax and a tax on self-reported bag are analyzed and we begin by considering a baseline situation with full certainty and no use of self-reporting for population size estimation. Here individual hunters self-report a bag on zero and a population tax alone can secure an optimum. Next we show that when facing uncertain population size, a risk-averse hunter will self-report part of the bag to reduce the uncertain population tax payment, making both tax instruments necessary for reaching an optimum. Finally, when self-reported bag is used to estimate population size, we also show that it is optimal for hunters to report a part of the bag and both instruments are again necessary for reaching an optimum.
Q23|Absent neighbours and passive shareholders – The issue of residency and involvement in the management of a forest common|The Swedish forest commons can be regarded as self-organized community groups which jointly manage a forest resource. However, previous studies point out the diminishing role and engagement of shareholders in terms of governance, thereby challenging some vital design principles of robust common-pool resource institutions. We assume that major reasons for this is associated with socio-demographic changes meaning a large proportion of shareholders do not live in the area. Therefore this study compares resident and non-resident shareholder participation in and perceptions about their common, as well as assesses their engagement in the management of one major forest common in Northern Sweden. To this end a questionnaire survey was conducted together with regular consultations with the common's board and staff to discuss shareholder participation and other major issues concerning the common.
Q23|Community forest management, gender and fuelwood collection in rural Nepal|This paper investigates how Forest User Group (FUG) management of community forests and household characteristics influence household allocation of male and female labor to fuelwood collection in rural Nepal. FUG collection bans are found to displace both landed and landless female fuelwood collection labor to other forests that are typically further away, but lower restrictions do not. A higher female FUG executive committee share has both conservation and equity enhancing effects by lowering the likelihoods that landless, Dalit, landed and non-Dalit women collect in other forests, and increasing the likelihood landless males collect in the FUG forest.
Q23|Is forest carbon sequestration at the expense of bioenergy and forest products cost-efficient in EU climate policy to 2050?|Forest management affects the quantity of CO2 emissions in the atmosphere through carbon sequestration in standing biomass, carbon storage in forest products and production of bioenergy. The main question studied in this paper is whether forest carbon sequestration is worth increasing at the expense of bioenergy and forest products to achieve the EU emissions reduction target for 2050 in a cost-efficient manner. A dynamic cost minimisation model is used to find the optimal combination of carbon abatement strategies to meet annual emissions targets between 2010 and 2050. The results indicate that forest carbon sequestration is a low-cost abatement method. With sequestration, the net present costs of meeting EU carbon targets can be reduced by 23%.
Q23|Situating community forestry enterprises within New Institutional Economic theory: What are the implications for their organization?|Community forestry enterprises (CFEs) have gained considerable traction with rural development and forestry practitioners as models for community development, poverty alleviation, and conservation. This paper uses New Institutional Economic theory to identify the key organizational features and potential inherent weaknesses of CFEs. NIE theory focuses on arguments of economic efficiency, specifically transaction cost reductions that serve as incentives for collective action by groups of owners. Examples are given to show how the organization of CFEs reduced transaction costs stemming from interactions with industrial loggers and service providers. However, the creation of these community enterprises goes beyond simple transaction cost reductions and economic justifications. Additional unquantifiable benefits, such as self-determination, control over resources that communities have historically used, application of acquired skills, political representation, and application of acquired skills to name a few, are also secured through community ownership. These benefits however do not come without a cost. As enterprises where ownership rights are incomplete or ill-defined and which do not operate with the incentives of investor-owned firms, CFEs have little to no initial capital pool and experience considerable investment limitations due to limited wealth, horizon problems, and unsolved issues with moral hazard vis-à-vis banks. CFEs also face important management and collective decision-making challenges. In spite of their institutional weaknesses, it is apparent that many societies have decided that the benefits of community ownership far outweigh their ownership costs. State intervention and policy have played an important role in building the necessary supportive framework for the development of these enterprises. NIE as a dominant model for understanding alternative entrepreneurial forms was useful for identifying some important aspects of CFEs that, in a profit-driven economy, can constitute weaknesses that place them at a disadvantage with investor-owned firms. This analysis informs where policy should be targeted if CFEs are to be supported and fostered.
Q23|Timber price dynamics after a natural disaster: Hurricane Hugo revisited|Timber prices in the area struck by a natural disaster such as a hurricane or pest infestation are known to drop sharply immediately following the disaster, only to recover after about a year or so. Previous research attributes the rapid recovery to shifts in supply and demand curves. Our analysis suggests the more probable explanation is rotation in the curves. Supply and demand shifts come into play in the second and third years as rebuilding from the hurricane begins in earnest, and as timber inventory is rebuilt in response to elevated price expectations. But for the period in which price recovery occurs, model simulations based on data for Hurricane Hugo indicate the major causal factors of the observed price dynamics are curve rotation and trade with the surrounding undamaged region. Inventory-based supply shifts, the previously-identified causal factor, play a minor role in the observed price dynamics. Getting the causal factors right is important for predicting the price effects of forest inventory shocks, and for proper measurement of their welfare effects.
Q23|Global paper market forecasts to 2030 under future internet demand scenarios|The Global Forest Products Model (GFPM) was applied to forecast the effect of increased per capita Internet adoption on the global paper products industry to 2030. Two scenarios were examined: (a) full per capita Internet adoption by 2100, and (b) more rapidly by 2050. Global newsprint consumption is estimated to be 34.2–37.1 million tonnes lower in 2030 than in the US Forest Service 2010 Resources Planning Act report, and the 2010 report from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Similarly, global printing and writing paper consumption is forecasted to be 76.7–87.1 million tonnes lower by 2030. By including controls for per capita Internet use in the demand equations for print based media, this article reflects the recent declines in global paper product consumption. Out-of-sample forecasts over a two-year period indicate global model prediction errors from 0 to 3%, depending on the product and exogenous assumptions. The results highlight the importance of considering market evolution in long-term global forecasting, and a failure to account for future rates of Internet adoption will result in an upward bias on paper product market forecasts.
Q23|The emergence of forest age structures as determined by uneven-aged stands and age class forests|This article explores the question under which conditions trees are managed in even- or uneven-aged stands or age class forests, respectively. The problem of uneven-aged management within stands and forests can be reduced to the analysis of simultaneous optimal times of harvest and regeneration of interdependently growing trees. Restricting attention to a market environment, a forest investment model is developed which accounts for the opportunity to manage trees or stands individually. As a consequence, age class forests evolve as the optimal compromise between two opposing effects. They allow for a combination of the advantages of uneven-aged management by utilizing differences in tree growth on a larger scale and of even-aged management by exploiting locally effective positive inter-tree dependencies on a smaller scale. Accordingly, the emergence of the forest structure is determined by the dynamics in the balance of value growth and impact rate differences.
Q23|Behavioral determinants of supply chain integration and coexistence|Economic theory considers physical production characteristics and related property rights as key determinants of the organization of an industry. Yet, we frequently observe coexisting governance modes within industries and firms, even when the transaction attributes of a commodity are homogenous. We test whether risk and time preferences, price expectations, and trust in supply chain types can explain variations and coexistence in governance. Specifically, we experimentally elicit economic preferences of forest managers in the Swiss wood sector. We find that all behavioral dimensions are related to the choice of sales channel. Most importantly, trust and expectations are key determinants in transferring property rights, while risk aversion, patience, and ownership structure explain the existence of plural forms at the firm level.
Q23|The potential of REDD+ for carbon sequestration in tropical forests: Supply curves for carbon storage for Kalimantan, Indonesia|We study the potential of tropical multi-age multi-species forests for sequestering carbon in response to financial incentives from REDD+. Following existing carbon crediting schemes, the use of reduced impact logging techniques (RIL) allows a forest manager to apply for carbon credits whereas conventional logging (CL) does not. This paper is the first to develop a Hartman model with selective cutting in this setting that takes additionality of carbon sequestration explicitly into account. We apply the model using data for Kalimantan, Indonesia, for both private and government forest managers. The latter have a lower discount rate and are exempt from taxes. RIL leads to less damages on the residual stand than CL and has lower variable but higher fixed costs. We find that a system of carbon credits through REDD+ can increase carbon stored per hectare by 15.8% if the forest is privately managed and by 22% under government management if the carbon price equals the average 2015 price in the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme. Interestingly, awarding carbon credits to carbon stored in end-use wood products does not increase the amount of carbon stored, nor Land Expectation Value.
Q23|Preference and WTP stability for public forest management|The assumption of the stability of preferences is fundamental to consumer theory and the use of cost-benefit analysis. Many papers within the stated preferences literature have tested this assumption, and have found mixed results. Individuals may become more sure of their preferences as they repeat a valuation task or purchase decision; they may also learn more about prices and quantities of substitutes or complements over time, or about other relevant characteristics of both the good being valued, and alternatives in their choice sets. In this paper, we test for the stability of preferences and willingness to pay for attributes of forest management both within one survey and between two different moments of time. The “within survey” test compares a set of responses from individuals over the sequence of the first 12 and the second 12 choices in a stated preference survey. The “between two different moments of time” test compares responses from the same people over a period of 6months. Non-parametric analysis reveals little clear trending in choices across these sets, although a higher consistency for status quo choices than for enhanced environmental management choices is apparent. Overall, we reject the strictest test of the equivalence of WTP distributions between choice sets. However, we also find that respondents' mean willingness to pay is fairly stable both within survey and between moments of time. Such differences as emerge are mainly driven by the changes in variances of WTP and by imperfect correlations of individual-specific WTP between choice sets.
Q23|Comparing the financial performance of timber REITs and other REITs|The return and risk characteristics of three types of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in the United States are evaluated by the intertemporal capital asset pricing model (CAPM) and the multivariate generalized autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (GARCH) model. The three types of REITs are timber REITs, which focus on timberland management; specialized REITs, which focus on properties that are specialized in a single use; and common REITs, which consist of all REITs except specialized REITs. Results from the intertemporal CAPM demonstrate that REITs behave like procyclical small and value stocks. Results from multivariate GARCH model show that the conditional volatilities of REITs rise more after good news and REITs as a whole respond positively to past shocks. Despite being a part of specialized REITs, timber REITs have large market capitalizations and no excess returns, and are insensitive to recessionary shocks. Timber REITs have the smallest unconditional variance and are most vulnerable to idiosyncratic shocks.
Q23|On a forest as a commodity and on commodification in the discipline of forestry|This essay revolves around two dates separated by a decade: a retrospective look based on Samuelson (1976), and a prospective one that relies on Mitra-Wan (1985–1986). It concerns a tension between two communities: to understand the basis of this dissonance, and to open lines of communication that seek to dispel it. More specifically, it relies on two frameworks (Walrasian general equilibrium theory, as in Arrow-Debreu-McKenzie-Uzawa-Gale-Nikaido-Kuhn and others, and the Ramseyian theory of optimal growth, as in Samuelson-Solow-Cass-Koopmans-Uzawa-Srinivasan and others), formalized and continually refined in the last half of the 20th century to deal with interaction and with time, both essential considerations in any kind of economics of forestry. It also gives prominence to the Muir- Pinchot controversy at the very beginning of the 20th century, and thereby underscores its relevance to current ongoing tensions and anxieties regarding issues of sustainability and global-warming. From a purely analytical point of view, it alludes in passing to the potential relevance to forestry economics of mean field theories in physics, and of subgame-perfect equilibria in the theory of non-cooperative games.
Q23|Optimal rate of paper recycling|This paper uses a dynamic land allocation model combined with the infinite rotation problem to determine theoretically, the recycling rate that maximizes the forest area and, thus, the number of trees under social management thereby integrating both positive externalities generated by the forest and social costs of not recycling. The results suggest that, when the recycling rate is low, increasing it to its optimal level will result in more land area being devoted to forestry and, thus, more trees. However, increasing it beyond its optimal level will reduce the number of trees in the long run. In addition, the recycling rate that maximizes the forest area is optimal in the sense that it also maximizes the social net benefit. An application shows that increasing the recycling rate up to its optimal level considerably increases the forest area. The increase in the social net benefit is very small.
Q23|Forest loss, monetary compensation, and delayed re-planting: The effects of unpredictable land tenure in China|Over the past 65 years, forest tenure in China has oscillated unpredictably between private and village property regimes. This policy-induced uncertainty has distorted the harvesting decisions of individuals granted rights to grow trees and has lowered the value of China׳s forest output. We provide an analytical framework for assessing these effects quantitatively. Understanding the consequences of this policy-induced uncertainty is particularly important since China is currently engaged in an ambitious plan to increase its domestic supply of timber. To conduct this analysis, we extend the literature on forestry economics when there is a risk of loss due to forest fire or pests. We (1) take account of the possibility that replanting can only resume after an interval of uncertain length (with immediate replanting as a special Case); (2) investigate the effects of compensation for such losses based only on the net value of the stand of trees at the time of the loss; and (3) compare it to compensation that would leave the wealth and rotation decisions of the farmer unaffected by the presence of uncertainty.
Q23|The market for conservation and other hostages|A “conservation good” (such as a tropical forest) is owned by a seller who is tempted to consume (or cut), but a buyer benefits more from conservation. The seller prefers to conserve if the buyer is expected to buy, but the buyer is unwilling to pay as long as the seller conserves. This contradiction implies that the market for conservation cannot be efficient and conservation is likely to fail. A leasing market is inefficient for similar reasons and dominates the sales market if and only if the consumption value and the buyer's protection cost are large. The theory thus explains why optimal conservation often fails and why conservation abroad is leased, while domestic conservation is bought.
Q23|How much do alternative cookstoves reduce biomass fuel use? Evidence from North India|Despite widespread global efforts to promote clean cookstoves to achieve improvements in air and forest quality, and to reduce global climate change, surprisingly little is known about the degree to which these actually reduce biomass fuel consumption in real-world settings. Using data from in-house weighing of fuel conducted in rural India, we examine the impact of cleaner cookstoves – most of which are LPG stoves – on three key outcomes related to solid fuel use. Our results suggest that using a clean cookstove is associated with daily reductions of about 4.5kg of biomass fuel, 160 fewer minutes cooking on traditional stoves, and 105 fewer minutes collecting biomass fuels. These findings of substantial savings are robust to the use of estimators with varying levels of control for selection, and to alternative data obtained from household self-reports. Our results support the idea that efforts to promote clean stoves among poor rural households can reduce solid fuel use and cooking time, and that rebound effects toward greater amounts of cooking on multiple stoves are not sufficient to eliminate these gains. We also find, however, that households who have greater wealth, fewer members, are in less marginalized groups, and practice other health-averting behaviors, are more likely to use these cleaner stoves, which suggests that socio-economic status plays an important role in determining who benefits from such technologies. Future efforts to capture social benefits must therefore consider how to promote the use of alternative technologies by poor households, given that these households are least likely to own clean stoves.
Q23|Agricultural landowners’ response to incentives for afforestation|Previous research has shown that afforestation of agricultural land is a relatively low-cost option compared to energy-based approaches for mitigating net carbon dioxide emissions, and that financial incentives affect landowner behavior and can be used to increase carbon sequestration on private land. In this paper we use stated preference data from private landowners in the Pacific Northwest region of the U.S. to examine the key factors affecting participation in an incentive program for carbon sequestration through afforestation. We also estimate the corresponding potential for carbon sequestration and its cost. Our results suggest that incentive payments would significantly and positively affect landowners’ level of enrollment in a tree planting program.
Q23|Deforestation, leakage and avoided deforestation policies: A spatial analysis|This paper analyses the impact of several avoided deforestation policies within a patchy forested landscape. Central is the idea that one neighbour's deforestation actions may impact the returns to deforestation in nearby patches. We determine the impact of each policy in terms of avoided deforestation and leakage levels at the landscape scale through modelling and simulations. Avoided deforestation policies at a landscape level are respectively: two Payment for Environmental Services (PES) policies, one focused on deforestation hotspots, the second being equally available to all agents; a conservation area; and, an agglomeration bonus. Because our model accommodates spatial interactions in the absence of a deforestation policy, it is possible that a spatial policy can affect both within-intervention areas and outside-intervention spatial spillovers in terms of leakage across different landowners’ forest patches. These two different elements of the total extent of displacement across the full landscape have not been considered before. Our contribution is twofold. In terms of methodology, we expand the concept of leakage in accounting for direct impacts to adjacent patches and spatial spillovers over the landscape, and we provide a measure of leakage in a dynamic manner for policy assessment. From our analytical model and simulations, we show that leakage is sensitive to the spatial distribution of forest patch types. The two PES policies are the most cost-effective policies regarding avoided deforestation. The agglomeration bonus policy is efficient at the expense of a higher cost, whilst the conservation area policy is efficient when patches with similar characteristics are gathered.
Q23|Effects of Protected Areas on Forest Cover Change and Local Communities: Evidence from the Peruvian Amazon|Protected areas are a cornerstone of forest conservation in developing countries. Yet little is known about their effects on forest cover change or the socioeconomic status of local communities. This paper assesses whether “win–win” scenarios are possible—that is, whether protected areas can both stem forest cover change and alleviate poverty. We examine protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon during the early 2000s. We find that protected areas reduce deforestation. We do not find a robust effect on poverty. Protected areas that allow sustainable extractive activities are more effective in reducing deforestation but less effective in reducing poverty.
Q23|Efectos potenciales de los certificados ambientales sobre la cobertura forestal de los cafetales en México|En este trabajo se simula el efecto potencial de los certificados de café orgánico y café de sombra, como instrumentos para conservar la cobertura forestal de los cafetales mexicanos. Las plantaciones tradicionales de café en México están caracterizadas por emplear una cobertura de árboles nativos de los bosques y selvas, por lo que son asociadas con la provisión de algunos servicios ambientales de estos ecosistemas, especialmente el de hábitat para la biodiversidad. Sin embargo, la búsqueda de mayores beneficios económicos incentiva a los productores a adoptar métodos de cultivo más intensivos, que generan contaminación y empobrecen la cobertura forestal de sus parcelas. Ante esta situación las iniciativas de certificación ambiental de café buscan revertir esta tendencia, mediante la creación de mercados especializados en los que se paga un mayor precio a los cafeticultores que recurren a métodos productivos más sustentables. Para el análisis, se especifica un modelo dinámico de maximización de beneficios en el que un productor representativo elige entre distintas tecnologías, incluyendo una alternativa ambientalmente sustentable (certificada). Cada tecnología es caracterizada por una función de producción en la que la cobertura forestal afecta de manera distinta la productividad total de los factores. Así, simulando el estado actual de los cafetales mexicanos, es posible identificar la mejor opción tecnológica para cada uno de ellos y conocer el nivel de cobertura forestal que resulta de su uso. El efecto potencial de los certificados se obtiene de comparar estos resultados con los de un escenario hipotético en el que no existe la tecnología certificada. Finalmente, se simulan escenarios en los que se incluyen instrumentos de política como complemento de la certificación ambiental.
Q23|"Common Resources Management and the ""Dark Side"" of Collective Action: an Impact Evaluation for Madagascar’s Forests"|"A sufficient level of collective action between community members is often presented as a strong pre-requisite to sustainably governing local common property resources(CPR). What if in some contexts instead, strong collective action led to short-term depletion of CPR instead of their sustainable use? This paper brings to light causal evidence on the environmental impact of establishing community-managed forests in Madagascar and highlights the complexities underlying collective action in their sustainable management. I compile fine-scale deforestation data over 15 years, use a unique spatial census of locally managed CPR and mobilize firsthand field data from four case studies to show that transferring management rights to local communities has failed to decrease deforestation. Instead, the policy has led to an increase in deforestation in some areas, often when collective action was strong, not when it was weak. This is what I call the possible ""dark side"" of collective action."
Q23|Carbon Storage and Bioenergy: Using Forests for Climate Mitigation| The carbon mitigation literature has separately considered using forests to store carbon and as a source of bioenergy. In this paper, we look at both options to reach a 2°C mitigation target. This paper combines the global forest model, GTM, with the IAM WITCH model to study the optimal use of forestland to reach an aggressive global mitigation target. The analysis confirms that using both options is preferable to using either one alone. At first, while carbon prices are low, forest carbon storage dominates. However, when carbon prices pass $235/tCO2, wood bioenergy with CCS becomes increasingly important as a mechanism to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. The use of both mechanisms increases global forestland at the expense of marginal cropland. While the storage program dominates, natural forestland expands. But when the wood bioenergy program starts, natural forestland shrinks as more forests become managed for higher yields.
Q23|Amazonian Deforestation, Environmental Kuznets Curve and Deforestation Policy: A Cointegration Approach|"Brazilian Amazon deforestation rate is found to display a unit root and to be cointegrated with Brazilian GDP and its square – An Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC). Although, it is not the first time that such an EKC is detected, this may be the first such time-series evidence. Detecting an EKC is hampered by several econometric issues that have been shown to lead to possibly spurious results in cross-section and panel contexts, but are satisfactorily addressed in a cointegrated (time-series) framework. Alternative theories for explaining the deforestation path are rejected. There is evidence that the "" Action Plan "" of the Brazilian government against deforestation had an important effect. These results are in contrast to the economics literature on an EKC in emissions such asCO2, but appear to be consistent with a geographical sciences literature that considers that deforestation declines when alternative activities become available."
Q23|Forest Owners Motivations for Adopting Programs of Biodiversity Protection|"The results of a survey of private forest owners on adoption of a number of current programs, that include biodiversity protection to some degree, are presented. Adoption amounts to 22% for all the programs jointly, and is shown to depend on economic, social and ethical motives, with significant crowding-out between the economic and ethical motives, but not with social motives. Adoption of each program is strongly negatively correlated to each other. Nearly no respondent adopted the Natura 2000 program. The results constitute a test of the "" reputational crowding-out "" theory of Bénabou and Tirole (2006)"
Q23|Un survol de la théorie des biens communs|This article proposes a review of the economic theory of common goods. The conditions under which the ?Tragedy of the commons? prevail are examined. The several examples of the Tragedy such as the climate change, the deforestation, the urban congestion and the fiscal deficit are scrutinized. In each case, public policies are more often considered than institutional agreements between stakeholders or market approaches. Codes JEL : Q54, Q58, R41, R48, Q23, Q28, H63, H77.
Q23|Amazonian Deforestation, Environmental Kuznets Curve and Deforestation Policy: A Cointegration Approach|Brazilian Amazon deforestation rate is found to display a unit root and to be cointegrated with Brazilian GDP and its square – An Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC). Although, it is not the first time that such an EKC is detected, this may be the first such time-series evidence. Detecting an EKC is hampered by several econometric issues that have been shown to lead to possibly spurious results in cross-section and panel contexts, but are satisfactorily addressed in a cointegrated (time-series) framework. Alternative theories for explaining the deforestation path are rejected. There is evidence that the “Action Plan” of the Brazilian government against deforestation had an important effect. These results are in contrast to the economics literature on an EKC in emissions such asCO2, but appear to be consistent with a geographical sciences literature that considers that deforestation declines when alternative activities become available.
Q23|Forest Owners Motivations for Adopting Programs of Biodiversity Protection|The results of a survey of private forest owners on adoption of a number of current programs, that include biodiversity protection to some degree, are presented. Adoption amounts to 22% for all the programs jointly, and is shown to depend on economic, social and ethical motives, with significant crowding-out between the economic and ethical motives, but not with social motives. Adoption of each program is strongly negatively correlated to each other. Nearly no respondent adopted the Natura 2000 program. The results constitute a test of the “reputational crowding-out” theory of Bénabou and Tirole (2006)
Q23|Impact Evaluation in a Landscape: Protected Natural Forests, Anthropized Forested Lands and Deforestation Leakages in Madagascar's Rainforests|This paper analyzes deforestation leakages from natural rainforests to anthropized habitats following the creation of Protected Areas in Madagascar. A simple theoretical framework highlights that a conservation constraint does not necessarily create deforestation leakages on secondary forests. An original dataset is built combining fine scale vegetation cover images and spatialized census data over the period 2000 to 2012. Cover images allow us to distinguish a mosaic of landscapes. Multilevel panel regressions and matching techniques indicate a causal effect of Protected Areas on deforestation leakages. Though Protected Areas reduce deforestation in protected natural forests, forest clearing is mostly reported on other types of anthropized forests. Our results demonstrate the limitations of Porter-like mechanism in agricultural innovation. They also support the hypothesis of a conservation dilemma: protecting biodiversity may come at the expense of the welfare of locals who rely on local (provisioning) ecosystem services.
Q23|Evaluation of the Impact of Forest Certification on Environmental Outcomes in Sweden|Voluntary forest certification is an increasingly popular tool allowing producers who meet stringent environmental standards to label their products in the marketplace and potentially achieve greater market access and receive higher prices for their products. The voluntary nature of certification programs implies, however, that it is difficult to determine the effects of forest certification due to selection bias. This paper contributes to the impact evaluation of forest certification by estimating the effects of certification of non-industrial private forest owners in Sweden – one of the countries with the largest total area of certified forests. We rely on official forest inventory data at the plot level, information on certification status, and standard impact evaluation methods to identify the causal effect of certification on three environmental outcomes: environmentally important areas preserved during the felling, number of trees and high stumps left after the felling, and area set aside for conservation purposes. Moreover, we analyze the effect of the two most important certification schemes: the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). Our results indicate that certification has not improved any of these outcomes. Furthermore, we find no differences between the FSC and PEFC schemes. Our findings suggest that for forest certification to have an effect, the standards should be tightened and the monitoring and enforcement of forest certification schemes strengthened.
Q23|Technological innovation systems for biorefineries – A review of the literature|The concept of a bioeconomy can be understood as an economy where the basic building blocks for materials, chemicals and energy are derived from renewable biological resources. Biorefineries are considered an integral part of the development towards a future sustainable bioeconomy. The purpose of this literature review is to synthesize current knowledge about how biorefinery technologies are being developed, deployed, and diffused, and to identify actors, networks and institutions relevant for these processes. A number of key findings can be obtained from the literature. First, investing more resources in R&D will not help to enable biorefineries to cross the ‘valley of death’ towards greater commercial investments. Second, while the importance and need for entrepreneurship and the engagement of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is generally acknowledged, there is no agreement how to facilitate conditions for entrepreneurs and SMEs to enter into the field of biorefineries. Third, visions for biorefinery technologies and products have focused very much on biofuels and bioenergy with legislation and regulation playing an instrumental role in creating a market for these products. But there is a clear need to incentivize non-energy products to encourage investments in biorefineries. Finally, policy support for biorefinery developments and products are heavily intertwined with wider discussions around legitimacy and social acceptance.
Q23|Youth as Environmental Custodians: A Potential Tragedy or A Sustainable Business and Livelihood Model?|Youth unemployment and migration is a growing challenge that needs more political attention in many countries in the world, particularly countries with rapid population growth and economic transformation. Proactively mobilizing the youth as a resource in the creation of sustainable livelihoods can potentially be a win-win-win solution that Ethiopia is currently attempting with its new youth employment strategy and high ambitions to transform the country’s economy into a Green Economy. If it succeeds, it can set an example for other countries in the world to follow. This paper gives and overview of the youth program and the basic ideas and challenges.
Q23|Pay little, get little; pay more, get a little more: A framed forest experiment in Tanzania|How do different levels of individual payments for environmental services (PES) affect intrinsic and social motivations for forest conservation? Does introducing small PES crowd out these motivations? This paper presents findings from framed field experiments (FFE) conducted with local forest users in Tanzania. The payoff structure represents a common-pool resource situation; participants' payoffs depend on the number of trees harvested, and aggregate over-harvesting can harm future harvest. Four levels of individual PES are tested in a between-group design: no (0%), low (20%), medium (60%) and full (100%) PES, where the level is relative to the harvest value. We observe lower than theoretically predicted harvest rates at no, low and medium PES, while the opposite is true at full PES. The results suggest that low PES has little impact on local forest use in Tanzania and has on aggregate no significant effect on intrinsic and social motivations. Increasing payments has a negative, but diminishing effect on harvest rates.
Q23|No sense of ownership in weak participation: a forest conservation experiment in Tanzania|Sense of ownership is often advocated as an argument for local participation within the epistemic development and nature conservation communities. Stakeholder participation in initiating, designing or implementing institutions is claimed to establish a sense of ownership among the stakeholders and subsequently improve the intended outcomes of the given institution. Theoretical and empirical justications of the hypothesis remain scarce. A better understanding of the eects of local participation can motivate more extensive and stronger participation of local stakeholders and improve institutional performance. This paper applies theories from psychology and behavioral economics to better understand sense of ownership. The empirical investigation is a framed eld experiment, in the context of tropical forest conservation and payments for environmental services in Tanzania. The results lend little support to the hypothesis in this context. The participation treatment in the experiment is weak, and a possible explanation is that sense of ownership is sensitive to the form of participation.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q23|Hedging with trees: Tail-hedge discounting of long-term forestry returns|Tail-hedge discounting is based on decomposition of returns from long-term investments in a fraction (gamma) that is correlated with consumption and another that is not. The first part is discounted at a discount rate that includes a risk premium, the other with the risk-free rate. We estimate gamma for forestry on Swedish data for stumpage prices and GDP per capita 1909–2012. We demonstrate that the result considerably changes the expected present value of medium-term and long-term forest investments.
Q23|When Not in the Best of Worlds: Uncertainty and Forest Carbon Sequestration|It is argued that the forest can provide low-cost options to reduce the atmospheric CO2 concentration. However, many dimensions of the future dynamics of the forest, and its interactions with climate change are still not well understood. This paper provides new insights into how these types of uncertainties affect the optimal climate policy. We model uncertainty over several key forest parameters by using the novel state-contingent approach. Our main results show that the importance of including optimal forest controls in climate policy increases when the dynamics of the forest are uncertain. Ignoring uncertainties concerning the forest will lead to biased estimates of the social costs of carbon and be misleading when evaluating climate policies. Conversely, recognizing forest uncertainties and its potential to mitigate climate change will lead to a robust policy where the cost of uncertainty to a large extent can be avoided.
Q23|Mitigating Climate Change with Forest Climate Tools|This paper develops the FRICE, a framework that determines optimal levels of forest climate tools in the context of global climate policy. The paper integrates afforestation and avoided deforestation into the well-known global multi-regional integrated assessment model, RICE-2010. The paper finds that climate forest tools can play an essential role in global climate policy and that this role is increasingly important under stringent temperature targets. Under a 2C temperature target, the model reveals that emission reductions from avoided deforestation are quickly exhausted whereas afforestation is capable of substantially reducing emission reductions in both the medium and long run. The model also indicates that the most significant reductions in emissions from avoided deforestation and afforestation can be achieved by focusing policy efforts on tropical forests.
Q23|Pricing Forest Carbon: Implications of Asymmetry in Climate Policy|In this paper, we use an integrated assessment model to examine the implications of not recognizing, and partially recognizing forest carbon in climate policy. Specifically, we investigate the impact of an asymmetric carbon policy that recognizes emissions from fossil fuels while ignoring emissions from forests. We additionally investigate the relative importance of not recognizing positive emissions from a reduction in the stock of forest biomass, or of not recognizing negative emissions from the growth of forest biomass. We show that asymmetric carbon policies lead to lower levels of welfare, as well as higher emissions and carbon prices. This occurs because the forest resource will be allocated inefficiently under these carbon policies. Broadly, we find that when the social planner does not account for neither positive or negative forest emissions, the planner will set bioenergy levels that are too high and afforestation and avoided deforestation levels that are too low. Our results further reveal that not recognizing forest emissions leads to larger welfare losses than not recognizing sequestration.
Q23|Fungi diversity in Swedish forests: impact of site quality on standing volume and variability in forest growth|The impact of biodiversity on forest ecosystem function and provision of ecosystem services has been investigated by many studies, but not the stability in these impacts. This paper calculates the effect of a fungi indicator, forest site quality, on standing volume and variability in forest growth in different forest regions in Sweden. We account for management practices, make use of time series data for a period of approximately 50 years, and estimate forest growth functions totally and for different regions in Sweden. Uncertainty is calculated as the conditional variance in forest growth rate, and the biodiversity indicator together with management practices are used as explanatory variables. Fully modified OLS is used to account for serial correlation and non-stationarity in the variables. The results show that the fungi diversity indicator adds positively to forest growth and growth rate, but increases uncertainty in the growth rate.
Q23|The Role of the Forest in Climate Policy|This thesis consists of an introductory part and four papers related to the optimal use of forest as a mitigation strategy. In Paper [I], I develop the FOR-DICE model to analyze optimal global forest carbon management. The FOR-DICE is a simple framework for assessing the role of the boreal, tropical, and temperate forests as both a source of renewable energy and a resource to sequester and store carbon. I find that forests play an important role in reducing global emissions, especially under ambitious climate targets. At the global level, efforts should focus on increasing the stock of forest biomass rather than increasing the use of the forest for bioenergy production. The results also highlight the important role of reducing tropical deforestation to reduce climate change. In Paper [II], I develop the FRICE to investigate the role of two key efforts to increase the stock of forest biomass, namely, afforestation and avoided deforestation. FRICE is a multi-regional integrated assessment model that captures the dynamics of forest carbon sequestration in a transparent way and allows me to investigate the allocation of these actions across space and time. I find that global climate policy can benefit considerably from afforestation and avoided deforestation in tropical regions, and in particular in Africa. Avoided deforestation is particularly effective in the short run while afforestation provides the largest emissions reductions in the medium run. This paper also highlights the importance of not solely relying on avoided deforestation as its capacity to reduce emissions is more limited than afforestation, especially under more stringent temperature targets. In Paper [III], we investigate how uncertainties linked to the forest affect the optimal climate policy. We incorporate parameter uncertainty on the intrinsic growth rate and climate effects on the forest by using the state-contingent approach. Our results show that forest uncertainty matters. We find that the importance of including forest in climate policy increases when the forest is subject to uncertainty. This occurs because optimal forest response allows us to reduce the costs associated with uncertainty. In Paper [IV], we explore the implications of asymmetries in climate policy arising from not recognizing forest carbon emissions and sequestration in the decision-making process. We show that not fully including carbon values associated with the forest will have large effects on different forest controls and lead to an increase in emissions, higher carbon prices, and lower welfare. We further find, by investigating the relative importance of forest emissions compared to sequestration, that recognizing forest emissions from bioenergy and deforestation is especially important for climate policy.
Q23|Forest Products Exports And Economic Growth: Evidence From Rich Countries|The forest sector contributes a significant share to national income. The existence and magnitude of causal relationships between forest product exports and economic growth is thus important to understand not least for policy issues. It has vital implications for policy-makers enacting proper development strategies. This causality is usually analyzed using the export-led economic growth hypothesis. International trade is affecting economic growth through enhanced competition and specialization. Export, more specifically, foster economic growth via the accumulation of foreign exchange, by stimulating efficient investments in the right sectors and by allowing for improved economies of scale. Surprisingly, practically no studies have been done analyzing the forest products export-led economic growth hypothesis. Thus, the current study fills an important gap in the literature. The study attempts to test the forest product export-led growth hypothesis for 22 economies over the period 1970 to 2011. Various generations of panel unit root and cointegration tests are applied. The time frame and the selection of countries are purely dictated by the availability of data and the amount of existing productive forest area. The econometric tests are based on augmented Dickey-Fuller unit root and cointegration tests. These tests are necessary before assessing the impact of forest product exports on GDP. The connection between economic growth and forest products exportation is analyzed using an error correction model (ECM) based panel causality test structure. The ECM is subsequently used to estimate short- and long-run elasticities. The series are found to be integrated of order one and cointegrated, especially when applying the third-generation tests. Uni-directional causality running from forest product exports to economic growth is uncovered in the both the short-run and the long-run. Moreover, forest products exportation is found to positively affect economic growth. The short-run elasticity reveals positive and significant income elasticity. A 1% increase in forest product exports will lead to a 0.022% increase in economic growth in the short-run and 0.002% in the long-run. The regional dummy is also significant and positive, implying that countries with significant forest land coverage are bound to experience higher economic growth. The findings will help policymakers in their projections and implementing natural resource and forest policies. Unidirectional causality implies forest product exports can be used to predict economic growth in both short-run and long-run but not vice versa. In general, the results support the ELG hypothesis. Promotion of forest product exportations can lead to a multiplier effect.
Q23|Responses to Changes in Domestic Water Tariff Structures: A Latent Class Analysis on Household-Level Data from Granada, Spain|A problem that affects the estimation of water demand functions is the presence of unobserved individual heterogeneity, which means that a common demand function is unlikely to represent the behavior of all users. We implement Latent Class Models to estimate water demand functions for four groups of users who are classified according to their unobservable preferences. This more flexible approach makes it possible to distinguish four different response patterns to changes in the drivers of water use, including different price elasticities. These results should be of particular interest to regulators who would like to tailor water demand management policy to heterogeneous users. Our analysis exploits household-level panel data on residential water demand and consumers’ characteristics obtained by combining information from a survey of 1,465 domestic users in the city of Granada and bimonthly price and consumption data supplied by this city’s water supplier from the period 2009–2011. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2016
Q23|Confronting the Food–Energy–Environment Trilemma: Global Land Use in the Long Run|Economic, agronomic, and biophysical drivers affect global land use, so all three influences need to be considered in evaluating economically optimal allocations of the world’s land resources. A dynamic, forward-looking optimization framework applied over the course of the coming century shows that although some deforestation is optimal in the near term, in the absence of climate change regulation, the desirability of further deforestation is eliminated by mid-century. Although adverse productivity shocks from climate change have a modest effect on global land use, such shocks combined with rapid growth in energy prices lead to significant deforestation and higher greenhouse gas emissions than in the baseline. Imposition of a global greenhouse gas emissions constraint further heightens the competition for land, as fertilizer use declines and land-based mitigation strategies expand. However, anticipation of the constraint largely dilutes its environmental effectiveness, as deforestation accelerates prior to imposition of the target. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2016
Q23|Stochastic Integrated Assessment of Ecosystem Tipping Risk|Abstract One of the major potential consequences of climate change is damage to earth’s ecosystems, damage which could manifest itself in the form of tipping risks. We establish an economic growth model of ecosystem tipping risks, set in the context of possible forest dieback. We consider different specifications of impacts arising from the forest dieback tipping point, specifications such as changes in the system dynamics of the forests, changes in the forest mass, and impacts on economic output. We also consider endogenous and exogenous tipping point probabilities. For each specification we compute the optimal policies for forest management and emission control. Our results show qualitative differences in patterns of post-tipping event, optimal forest harvest, and either precautionary or aggressive pre-tipping event harvest patterns, a feature consistent with the findings of the existing literature. Optimal control of deforestation and carbon dioxide emission reduction also exhibits varied patterns of post- and pre-tipping levels depending on the nature of the tipping risk. Still, today’s optimal policy is one of more stringent emissions control in presence of a potential forest dieback tipping point.
Q23|Determinants of insurance demand against forest fire risk: an empirical analysis of French private forest owners|In this article, we estimate the demand of French private forest owners for forest insurance against fire risk. For this purpose, we combine experimental data and real-world data on forest owners’ characteristics. Our econometric approach consists in estimating both insurance participation and coverage-level decisions, while accounting for sample selection issues. Our results clearly show that the type of public assistance is a significant determinant in the insurance decision. Other attributes of the experiment such as the expected loss only explain coverage-level decisions, whereas the existence of an ambiguity concerning the probability of fire occurrence positively affects both insurance participation and coverage-level decisions.
Q23|Designing species-specific conservation contracts in a heterogeneous landscape with unobservable conservation costs and benefits|Paying for species-specific conservation requires to encourage landowners to provide both habitat suitability in order to establish conservation networks, and species protection in order to maintain its presence. We investigate the possibility to define differentiated contracts for species-specific conservation when both conservation costs and benefits are unobservable and heterogeneous. We develop a common-value principal-agent model, in which the principal’s preferences for both types of conservation benefits is explicitly taken into account. The level of effective protection benefits provided by an agent is captured by her level of unobservable protection costs. We analytically demonstrate the possibility to define differentiated conservation payments despite a non-responsiveness situation, known to usually lead to bunching equilibria. Results of numerical landscape-scale simulations show that contracts derived from a common-value model can perform better than those derived from a classic adverse selection model. We find differentiated contracts, which are closer to first-best ones and show interesting cost-effectiveness performances.
Q23|Material flow analysis of the forest-wood supply chain: a consequential approach for log export policies in France|In the context of national policies for climate mitigation and energy transition, the forestwood sector is drawing increasing attention, not only for energy wood but also for longer-life timber products. At the same time, part of the French timber transformation industry suffers from difficulties to adapt to recent changes on global markets, which translates into net exports of raw wood and imports of transformed products, detrimental to both the trade balance and the local creation of wealth. This article first aims at objectifying this situation by undertaking the first material flow analysis of the French forest-wood supply chain. We then evaluate the potential consequences of various scenarios of raw wood exports reduction policies, namely subsidies for consumption or transformation and taxation of exports, on both economic outcomes for the different actors and material flows. We thus provide an example of coupling material flow analysis with economic modeling in an attempt to move from the diagnostic phase to the assessment of possible actions within a decision-making perspective.
Q23|What drives livelihoods’ strategies in ruralareas? Evidence from the Tridom Conservation Landscape using Spatial Probit Analysis|Very few scientific studies have focused on the determinants of households’ livelihoods’ strategies in the Congo Basin. The aim of this paper is to understand which factors drive the choice of portfolio activities in rural regions. More precisely, the role of human, financial, natural and location assets in the portfolio choice is investigated. A unique dataset is used from our recent survey with 1035 random and stratified households in 108 villages of the Tridom landscape to investigate household preferences between (1) specialization and diversification strategies, (2) land-conversion and non-land-conversion activities, and (3) between strategies relying on forest vs other strategies. Our results show significant similarities on the likelihood of households living in the same neighborhood to prefer a given livelihoods strategy. Beside socioeconomic characteristics, the existence of human-wildlife conflict, as well as the indigenousness, directly leads household’s heads to make the choice of diversified strategies, or to choose activities related to land-conversion. These choices lead to some significant spillover effects on the likelihood of neighboring household’s heads to adopt the same strategies.
Q23|Are ecosystem services complementary or competitive? An econometric analysis of cost functions from private forests in Vietnam|Forest ecosystem services (FES) provisioning and management in Vietnam is highly rated in the Vietnamese’s environmental agenda. The main rationale of private forest management is to maximise profit from timber and non-timber forest products (NTFPs) production. From a social point of view there is an under-supply of positive forest externalities (or non-marketed ecosystem services). The paper contributes to the ecosystem services (ES) literature by assessing the production cost structure, i.e., the cost of marketed production and provision of carbon and biodiversity, based on a survey of private forest owners in the Hoa Binh Province. The econometric analysis is carried out applying a dual cost function approach to analyse the trade-off between forestry costs and ecological performance. This is, to our knowledge, the first time such an approach is applied to estimate the production relationship between marketed outputs and non-marketed ES in the forest sector. This approach appears to be appropriate for handling the multiple joint outputs of production in forest. It allows us to estimate marginal costs and other cost measures such as cost complementarities in production of multiple ES. Our results indicate that there is complementarity in the provision of timber and carbon sequestration and therefore, policies enhancing carbon sequestration in private forest in Vietnam can be implemented without additional costs for the forest owner. We also find that keeping deadwood had no significant cost and was complementary with NTFP, but could increase the marginal cost of producing timber. This means that biodiversity can be enhanced without additional costs on the condition of limited quantity of deadwood.
Q23|Corporate Leadership, Multilevel Enforcement and Biodiversity Regulation|Globalization incentives the rise of non-state actors in unprecedented ways along with the creation of transnational arenas which are neither international (intergovernmental) nor national (domestic), but transborder political processes where firms, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), states and social communities set up rules and provide governance mechanisms to enforce those at local level. The article is anchored in the idea that public-private governance matters where the primary driver is the market incentive. We test the hypotheses that public-private cooperation at local level is based on shared knowledge and expertise among firms, civil society and state authority dealing with a natural resource which comes from the Brazilian biodiversity. The central argument of this article is that the construction of a transnational arena to discuss issues such as sustainability, environment and social welfare determines the formation of a complex institutional environment, enforcement mechanisms and compliance which are heterogeneously dispersed. This paper develops a case study based on the leadership of Beraca in providing local governance for natural inputs.NGOs and companies have developed the ability to act as enforcers as they interpret the public international/national regulation and develop an expertise through ‘best practices’ that are applied to enforce biodiversity regulation at the local level through a multilevel system that operates transnationally.
Q23|Contribution of Mangroves to Marine Fisheries in India|Mangroves support and enhance fisheries by serving as a breeding ground and nursery habitat for marine life. The mangrove-fishery link has been well established in the ecological literature. This paper, however, employs an economic analysis to examine the role of mangroves in increasing marine fish output in India. In particular, the effectiveness of mangroves in increasing marine fish production is analysed using secondary data on marine fish production and fishing inputs. The results based on econometric analysis indicate that mangroves contribute significantly to the enhancement of fish production in the coastal states of India. Further, the paper also analyses the contribution of mangroves to commercial marine fisheries output in India and the same is estimated to be in the range of 23 – 34 percent, which in economic terms is valued between Rs. 1.46 – 2.15 lakhs per hectare in 2012-13 prices. The relative contribution of mangroves to total fish catch estimated in the Indian context is comparable to that estimated in other countries.
Q23|Cash for Carbon: A Randomized Controlled Trial of Payments for Ecosystem Services to Reduce Deforestation|This paper evaluates a Payments for Ecosystem Services (PES) program in western Uganda that offered forest-owning households cash payments if they conserved their forest. The program was implemented as a randomized trial in 121 villages, 60 of which received the program for two years. The PES program reduced deforestation and forest degradation: Tree cover, measured using high-resolution satellite imagery, declined by 2% to 5% in treatment villages compared to 7% to 10% in control villages during the study period. We find no evidence of shifting of tree-cutting to nearby land. We then use the estimated effect size and the social cost of carbon to value the delayed CO2 emissions, and compare this benefit to the program's cost.
Q23|Simultaneous Allocation of Bundled Goods through Auctions: Assessing the Case for Joint Bidding|We study the costs and benefits of allowing joint bidding in multiple simultaneous first price sealed bid auctions for bundled goods with private values. Joint bidding raises the prospect of higher allocative efficiency but also reduces the number of bidders, resulting in an ambiguous net impact on seller revenue. The research was carried out using laboratory experiments in which groups of up to six buyers competed for eight bundles of two separable goods each. The main results show that in our experimental environment, allowing joint bidding increases efficiency by 11.3% and revenue by 9.4%. The research has immediate applications to the sale of public forest stands that arbor a mixture of species. For this reason, we explore how the results are affected by excess supply, the presence of dominant firms, and the removal of an allocation rule requiring multiple bidders under certain circumstances.
Q23|Институциональные Аспекты Развития Лесного Комплекса Беларуси<BR>[Institutional aspects of development of forestry complex in Belarus]|В статье обосновывается потребность институциональных преобразований лесного комплекса. Выполнен анализ факторов развития рынка древесного сырья, обозначено место и роль государственной практики его регулирования; раскрыта роль корневых цен как фактора социально-экономического развития лесного хозяйства Беларуси; обозначены условия формирования инновационной активности организаций лесного сектора. The author grounds the necessity of institutional transformation of the forestry complex. The factors for the development of the market of wood raw material are analyzed, the place and the role of state practice for its regulation are indicated. The author describes the role of root prices as factors of socio-economic development of forestry of Belarus. Auspicious conditions for innovative development of the forestry complex are suggested.
Q23|The Faustmann model under storm risk and price uncertainty: A case study of European beech in Northwestern France|International, economic and environmental contexts in this century are strongly affected by risks and uncertainties. Due to the long-term nature of forest investment, forest managers must integrate risks and uncertainties into their decisions. Our objective is to build a decision support tool to optimize forest management under multiple risks: extreme events and price variations. Our method integrates, into an economic model, different types of models on forest growth, price functions, predicted storm intensity and intervals, and damage functions. A numerical simulation applied to European beech (Fagus sylvatica) in Northwestern France shows that price variation as between 1974 and 2016 produces higher economic loss than does storm damage. We conclude on the need to concentrate forest policy on the development of new technologies and wood industry practices to increase the value of this natural resource. However, future climate change may well influence storm frequency and intensity, and this places limits on our conclusions.
Q23|Local Labor Markets And Natural Resources: A Synthesis Of The Literature|A primary way that natural resources affect a locality is through the demand for labor, with greater extraction requiring more workers. Shifts in labor demand can be measured through changes in employment and earnings, the main labor market outcomes, or through changes in the population and income, more generally. These changes may spillover into the nonresource economy, leading to greater overall effects or possibly crowd out; be spread unequally across the population, thereby altering the distribution of income and the poverty rate; or influence educational attainment, as people choose between additional schooling and work. In this review, the literature linking natural resources to local labor markets is synthesized by organizing existing studies according to their resource measurement and the outcomes that they consider. This synthesis provides an accessible guide to a literature that has boomed in recent years. It also identifies promising avenues for future research and lays a foundation to further generalize the evidence through an eventual metaâ€ analysis.
Q23|Valuing Ecosystem Services: A Case Study of Pakke Tiger Reserve of Arunachal Pradesh, India|Arunachal Pradesh state of India has about twelve percent of its geographical area under protected area network against the national average of five percent. Pakke Tiger Reserve (PTR) forms an important portion of this network in the state. Tropical forest ecosystem of this reserve provides a continual flow of vital life supporting ecological, economic, social and cultural services at regional, national and global level. Economic valuation of these services can be used as a tool to estimate true value of natural capital contained therein and help in framing appropriate public policy emphasizing more investments in wildlife sector. An effort has been made in the present paper to make a conservative estimate of major ecosystem services emanating from this reserve. Annual flow benefits worth Rs 8.25 billion and stock worth Rs 144.30 billion make it a unique asset in the North East region of the country. Nature based tourism has immense potential in this reserve, which has not been explored yet fully to ensure livelihood and ecological security to the local communities.
Q23|Multiple Use Values and Convergence of Optimal Harvesting Policies|Heaps (1995) developed a multiple use forestry maximum principle to describe the optimal harvesting of uneven aged forests when both wood values and nontimber values are considered. He identifies the optimal steady state age distributions (as normal forests) but was unable to show that optimal harvesting policies generate age class distributions that converge to such steady states. Now Heaps (2015) has a rigorous proof of this convergence result when only wood values are considered. This paper extends this proof to incorporate nontimber values as well. It also clariÖes the assumptions that need to be made to get the convergence result.
Q23|Microfinance and ecosystems conservation How green microfinance interacts with Socio- Ecological systems Lessons from Proyecto CAMBio in Nicaragua and Guatemala|Environmental degradation is the result of complex human-environment dynamics, often sustained by socio-economic inequalities. Recently microfinance has been proposed to be an interesting tool to support environmental protection strategies that aim at once to foster rural development and promote ecosystems conservation or adaptation to climate change. In this paper we provide one of the first analysis of the link between microfinance and ecosystems conservation. We base our analysis on the assessment of the first large-scale microfinance programme for biodiversity conservation: Proyecto CAMBio. Our empirical analysis exploits a unique set of secondary and primary data collected by the authors in Nicaragua and Guatemala. We introduce a theoretical framework and a practical methodology to assess such programme, and we apply it to our case studies. Even if with different peculiarities, the two cases studied show that microfinance for ecosystems conservation has good potentialities to introduce environmental elements in the rural activities of small farmers and in the products provided by microfinance institutions, and it is an interesting path to pursue. However, they also underline that choices and actions of rural households and local financial intermediary institutions are strongly influenced by habits and local dominant development pathways, which are among the main causes of socio-economic inequalities and environmental degradation. Green Microfinance per se does not seem to be able to revert such dangerous dynamics while, interacting with them without a proactive strategy, it risks to have no effect or eventually support the causes of environmental degradation. We then call for a renewed proactive role of green microfinance for ecosystems that, articulating with local actors and territorial dynamics, should aim not only at providing a green product to individual farmers, but instead support new alliances and collective, socially informed, actions to redirect the habits that support environmental degradation towards environmentally friendly and socioeconomic inclusive rural development.
Q23|Green Microfinance and Ecosystem Services - A quantitative study on outcomes and effectiveness|There has been growing interest lately in the role of microfinance to support environmental management of micro-enterprises and poor households. Worldwide, the number of green microfinance projects increases, yet there seems to be little discussion on how effective green microfinance is in achieving its environmental goals. This paper aims to position itself in this debate. We look at the first large-scale green microfinance programme for biodiversity conservation: Proyecto CAMBio. It consists of a combination of credits, technical assistance and conditional payments for environmentally friendly agricultural activities (PES). We focus on its implementation in Nicaragua by the microfinance institution FDL and the NGO Nitlapan. We perform an in-depth econometric analysis of a survey we conducted on a sample of 128 rural producers. We assess the clients’ characteristics that influenced the evolution of the environmental value of their farm –as defined by the indicators we used– on a span of five years, and we assess Proyecto CAMBio’s possible role in this evolution. Moreover, we further look into the effectiveness of PES in rewarding environmental betterment. Factors such as the decision to change the main economic activities, or clients’ strategies or opportunities in land accumulationappear to have the strongest influence on the evolution of the environmental value of the clients’ farm. While the project per se, even if carefully implemented in agreement with its guidelines and well performing at financial level, does not appear to have significantly influenced the evolution of the environmental value of the clients’ farm. Moreover, the PES does not seem to reward environmental improvement while instead it rewards the more credit-worthy activities, producers with more access to land and credit and in addition producers that plant fewer trees per hectare. With these results, we underline the importance of the local territorial dynamics and the complexity of the socio-environmental systems against a vision based simply on single economic actors. From our results it appears that green microfinance, without strategic articulation with local actors and broader territorial dynamics, would tend to (indirectly) support preexisting socioeconomic structures and the possibly related environmental degradation processes. We hence call for a more proactive engagement of green microfinance in the territorial dynamics and with local actors with the aim to support more sustainable livelihood trajectories and development pathways.
Q23|Carbon dynamics related to tree planting on new areas in Norway|Extensive tree planting on new areas has been suggested as a climate policy measure in Norway. This paper presents some preliminary calculations related to carbon dynamics of such a measure when the tree planting takes place on areas with relative young birch forests. The main finding, which is robust to several sensitivity analyses, is that after the tree planting project has been initiated, there will be a period of approximately 25 - 30 years with increased accumulation of CO2 in the atmosphere. The reason is that clear cutting of existing vegetation and treeplanting initially will give a significant pulse emission. However, after that initial period with increased accumulation of CO2 in the atmosphere, the project will lead to reduced accumulaiton of CO2, due to the growth of the new trees and the corresponding carbon capture. This is also a robust result.
Q23|Economic valuation of coastal and marine ecosystem services in the 21st century: an overview from a management perspective|This report aims to provide, through an extensive review of the literature, a comprehensive overview of the knowledge base regarding the valuation of coastal and marine ecosystem services (ES), placing emphasis on the analysis of both the policy implications of current studies as well as existing challenges. We aim to contribute not only to the role that economic valuation can play in the management of these ecosystems, but also to promote discussion among social and ecological researchers about further research needs. The report aims to serve as a basis to build a common language which is crucial to improve the sustainability of natural resources.
Q23|Economics of invasive pests and diseases: a guide for policy makers and managers|Invasive pests and diseases are a growing threat to agricultural crops, livestock and forests worldwide. In this report, we look at the contribution that economics can make to developing policies to counter the risks of such pests and diseases. First, though, we review some of the evidence on the nature of this problem.. Thus the results presented here have important implications for the way in which the real options approach is applied to determine optimal timing of disease control given uncertainty in future disease progression.
Q23|What a Difference a Stochastic Process Makes: Epidemiological-Based Real Options Models of Optimal Treatment of Disease|Abstract The real options approach has been used within environmental economics to investigate the impact of uncertainty on the optimal timing of control measures to minimise the impacts of invasive species, including pests and diseases. Previous studies typically model the growth in infected area using geometric Brownian motion (GBM). The advantage of this simple approach is that it allows for closed form solutions. However, such a process does not capture the mechanisms underlying the spread of infection. In particular the GBM assumption does not respect the natural upper boundary of the system, which is determined by the maximum size of the host species, nor the deceleration in the rate of infection as this boundary is approached. We show how the stochastic process describing the growth in infected area can be derived from the characteristics of the spread of infection. If the model used does not appropriately capture uncertainty in infection dynamics, then the excessive delay before treatment implies that the full value of the option to treat is not realised. Indeed, when uncertainty is high or the disease is fast spreading, ignoring the mechanisms of infection spread can lead to control never being deployed. Thus the results presented here have important implications for the way in which the real options approach is applied to determine optimal timing of disease control given uncertainty in future disease progression.
Q23|The Effects of Invasive Pests and Diseases on Strategies for Forest Diversification|Diversication of the tree species composition of production forests is a frequently advocated strategy to increase resilience to pests and diseases, however there is a lack of a general framework to analyse the impact of economic and biological conditions on the optimal planting strategy in the presence of tree disease. To meet this need we use a novel bioeconomic model to quantitatively assess the eect of tree disease on the optimal planting proportion of two tree species. We nd that diversifying the species composition can reduce the loss from disease even when the benet from the resistant species is small. However this key result is sensitive to a pathogen's characteristics (probability of arrival, time of arrival, rate of spread of infection) and the costs (damage of the disease to the susceptible species and reduced benet of planting the resistant species). This study provides an exemplar framework which can be used to help understand the eect of a pathogen on forest management strategies.
Q23|Transaction-Based Timberland Investment Returns|Using property-level data of 1987 quarter 1–2014 quarter 2 provided by the National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries (NCREIF), transaction-based timberland indices are constructed via the Heckman procedure. Results show that liquidity of private-equity timberland assets varies with business cycles; variance of transaction-based timberland indices is twice as large as that of the appraisal-based NCREIF Timberland Index; the role of private-equity timberland in a mixed portfolio is overstated by using the appraisal-based index; and the average of estimated ask and bid prices well captures the mean price of identified timberland sales, although timberland sellers reserve higher prices than buyers.
Q23|Determinants of Forest Degradation under Private and Common Property Regimes: The Case of Ethiopia|This study considers the endogenous determination of land ownership systems to rigorously compare differences in the changes in forest quality between private and common property regimes. By employing the propensity score matching method, we found that there was significantly less forest degradation in private property areas than in common property areas. We also found that good accessibility, a flat surface, and good light conditions significantly induced forest deterioration in private property areas. In contrast, we found completely opposite results for common property areas.
Q23|The Impact of Residential Development Pattern on Wildland Fire Suppression Expenditures|Despite a growing body of literature on the economics of wildland fire suppression, the effect of development pattern in the wildland-urban interface (WUI) has received only cursory treatment. We model the relationship between fire suppression expenditures and the spatial pattern of residential development using data from 281 fires in the northern Rocky Mountains. We find that the effect of WUI development on suppression expenditures is dependent on the spatial pattern of development. Our results suggest that policies to control the spatial pattern of WUI development can be nearly as effective as policies that completely restrict WUI development.
Q23|Using Geographically Weighted Choice Models to Account for the Spatial Heterogeneity of Preferences|In this paper, we investigate the use of geographically weighted choice models for modelling spatially clustered preferences. We argue that this is a useful way of generating highly‐detailed spatial maps of willingness to pay for environmental conservation, given the costs of collecting data. The data used in this study come from a discrete choice experiment survey of public preferences for the implementation of a new national forest management and protection programme in Poland. We combine these with high‐resolution spatial data related to local forest characteristics. Using locally estimated discrete choice models we obtain location‐specific estimates of willingness to pay (WTP). Variation in these estimates is explained by characteristics of the forests close to where respondents live. These results are compared with those obtained from a more typical, two stage procedure which uses Bayesian posterior means of the mixed logit model random parameters to calculate location‐specific estimates of WTP. We find that there are indeed strong spatial patterns to the benefits of changes to the management to national forests. People living in areas with more species‐rich forests and those living nearer bigger areas of mixed forests have significantly different WTP values than those living in other locations. This kind of information potentially enables a better distributional analysis of the gains and losses from changes to natural resource management, and better targeting of investments in forest quality.
Q23|Economic Development and Forest Cover: Evidence from Satellite Data|We use satellite data on forest cover along national borders in order to study the determinants of deforestation differences across countries. We combine the forest cover information with data on homogeneous response units, which allow us to control for cross-country geoclimatic differences when assessing the drivers of deforestation. Income per capita appears to be the most robust determinant of differences in cross-border forest cover and our results present evidence of the existence of decreasing effects of income on forest cover as economic development progresses.(authors' abstract)
