Q24|Comparing Pollution Where You Live and Play: A Hedonic Analysis of Enterococcus in the Long Island Sound|Hedonic property value methods typically examine the effect of water quality on home prices by focusing on waters nearest a home. While this captures any aesthetic values households may hold for water quality improvements, it may not fully reflect recreational values, particularly for nearby residents that do not live on the waterfront. This study is the first to compare the conventional approach of examining how property prices vary with the quality of waters closest to a home, versus water quality levels at the closest point of access for recreation (i.e., the beach). Using spatial econometric models, we conduct a hedonic analysis of residences within five kilometers of the Long Island Sound. Due to an aging infrastructure, high levels of precipitation often lead to sewage overflows, resulting in high counts of enterococcus – a bacterial indicator of fecal pollution. We also estimate the effect of subsequent beach closures, which we posit as an alternative and more salient signal of local water quality to residents. In line with previous literature, we find that enterococcus levels at waters nearest a home negatively affect home prices within 1 kilometer. However, this effect becomes insignificant when controlling for levels at the nearest beach. In contrast, enterococcus at the closest beach yields a negative 0.03% to 0.02% elasticity that extends 2.5 km. Controlling for beach closures suggests negative effects as far as 3.5 km from beaches. Our findings demonstrate that the impact of water quality on home prices may extend further than previously suggested by the literature, at least at large iconic waterbodies like the Sound.
Q24|Understanding the emergence of an industry through the lens of Social Movements and Entrepreneurial Communities|Industry emergence is a complex phenomenon. Entrepreneurship literature has been characterized by individualistic explanations (‘hero’ entrepreneurs) that have been complemented by institutional approaches including the existence of functioning ecosystems. Sociology studies could offer alternative explanations for industry emergence. We draw from the concepts of Social Movements and Entrepreneurial Communities for framing the process of industry emergence in its initial phase. We synthesize the theoretical research on Social Movements, Entrepreneurial communities and industry emergence in an effort to develop a common conceptual framework that will help to better understand the pre-emergence of an industry. Our main contribution lies in understanding entrepreneurship and thus industry emergence as a community process in which multiple actors result eventually in a reduced number of early start-ups, which give rise to a new industry. In addition, we propose that the type of movement will lead to different enablers and barriers of industry emergence.
Q24|El bicentenario: una mirada entre la historia económica y la economía política|En el marco del Bicentenario de la independencia de Colombia, el Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), en alianza con el periódico Portafolio, ha presentado una serie de reflexiones sobre la trayectoria económica que ha atravesado el país, en aras de entender los retos del futuro y las lecciones aprendidas del pasado. El contenido es muy amplio incluyendo temas que han jugado un rol clave en la historia del país, como el café, la violencia, la tierra, hasta temas que son menos conocidos pero deberían formar parte de la reflexión colectiva, como el papel de la mujer, los estudios sectoriales, o el desarrollo de largo plazo. El lector no tiene que esperarse una narración univoca, ni un recorrido lineal: estos escritos son reflexiones que vienen de investigadores con enfoques teóricos y metodológicos muy diferentes, como tradición en la Universidad Nacional. Así, ensayos de análisis económico de las instituciones son acompañados por reflexiones de análisis marxiano aplicado, y la cliometría se entrelaza a la finanza pública. Por la misma razón, decidimos no proponer una estructura interpretativa o una organización del contenido, prefiriendo reportar los escritos en el orden cronológico en el cual aparecieron en el portal del periódico. *** In the framework of the Bicentennial of the independence of Colombia, the Centro de Investigaciones para el Desarrollo (CID), in alliance with the newpaper Portafolio, has gathered a series of reflections about the economic trajectory that the country has gone through, for the sake of understanding the challenges of the future and the lessons learned from the past. The content is very broad including issues that have played a key role in the history of the country, such as coffee, violence, land, and issues that are less known but should be part of collective reflection, such as the role of women, sectoral studies, or long-term development. The reader should not expect a univocal narrative, nor a linear perspective: these texts are reflections that come from researchers with very different theoretical and methodological approaches, as a tradition at the Universidad Nacional. As a result, economic analysis of the institutions goes hand by hand with applied Marxian analysis, and the cliometry is intertwined with public finance. For the same reason, we decided not to propose an interpretative structure or an organization of the content, opting for an order of presentation that follows the chronological order in which they appeared in the newspaper's portal.
Q24|Prices vs. percentages: Use of tradable green certificates as an instrument of greenhouse gas mitigation|The paper analyzes the problem of achieving a target path of emission reductions in the electricity sector, using a scheme of tradable green certificates (TGC). There are two types of generation, renewable and fossil. The latter causes the emissions. The paper also examines effects from emission regulation on construction of new renewable generation capacity. Outcomes are compared with an emission fee and a subsidy. The analytical results are simulated with a numerical model and social surplus are calculated for the different instruments. Two versions of the percentage requirement are devised for the TGC scheme. Results show that the target path of emission reductions is achievable, but incentives for new renewable generation capacity will be sub-optimal, regardless of the version of the percentage requirement. The TGC scheme is neither the most accurate nor the most cost-efficient, instrument but it does lead to a smaller reduction of social surplus than a subsidy.
Q24|Urban proximity, demand for land and land prices in Malawi|We assess the spatial and intertemporal change patterns of farmland prices using per hectare minimum willingness to accept (WTA) sales and rental prices in Malawi. We use three rounds of nationally representative household farm panel data from the Living Standards Measurement Surveys (LSMS), collected in 2010, 2013 and 2016. We study price changes by splitting the sample in quintiles based on distance from the nearest major city, building on the von Thünen theory and urban growth model. Generally, WTA land prices decrease with distance from urban areas. However, WTA land sales prices increased more sharply between 2010 and 2013 in rural areas (+100% vs. +30% in urban proximity). Conversely, by 2016 land sales prices were again, like in 2010, about three times as high in areas near urban centres compared to remote rural areas. Even though sales prices declined in remote rural areas from 2013 to 2016, rental prices remained high. Using farm level population pressure, we show that local population pressure is a driver of WTA land prices, which is an indicator of land scarcity challenges and a growing demand for land. Although a policy focus in the past decade within Africa has been on the new demand for large scale land transfers in rural areas, we see that shadow land prices in smallholder agriculture in Malawi were affected by this sharp increase in demand as well as by increasing population pressure and urbanization. With growing land scarcity, land markets are becoming more important and need to be factored in when formulating development policies that aim to improve access to land and land use efficiency in both peri-urban and rural areas.
Q24|A CLEWS Nexus Modeling Approach to Assess Water Security Trajectories and Infrastructure Needs in Latin America and the Caribbean|This working paper presents an up-to-date and prospective assessment of water security throughout the LAC region with a focus on infrastructure needs, to aid in strategic thinking towards planning and management in key water-using sectors such as agriculture, energy and water supply. This assessment is grounded on a physically-based analysis of water supply and demand, highlights the climate-land-energy-water-socioeconomics (CLEWS) nexus contributions to water security in the region, and addresses uncertainty in projections and their implications through a variety of potential future scenarios of climate change and socioeconomic development in the region.
Q24|Economy-wide analysis of food waste reductions and related costs|Reducing food waste has become a policy priority in recent years as many studies show that a significant amount of food is wasted at various stages of the food supply chain. However, the economic impacts of food waste reduction have not been studied in depth as most of the studies in the literature ignore the cost and feedback effects. The aim of this report is to develop a general framework to analyse the economic impacts of reducing food waste in EU28 in both a global and a regional context in support of the EU policy making process on food waste reduction. For the purposes of this study, we employ the CGEBox toolbox which is a flexible, extendable, and modular code basis for CGE modelling. The default configuration of CGEBox used in this study covers the global economy with a detailed representation of the agriculture and food production sector whereas the EU28 is modelled at NUTS-II level. The impact of a food waste reduction equal to 5% of the intermediate input use of food processing sectors under two different cost assumptions is analysed in the scenarios. Firstly, in the cost neutral scenario, we assume that the cost of reducing food waste is equal to the monetary savings for the food processing industry. Secondly, in the pessimistic scenario, we assume that the cost of reducing food waste is twice as much as the cost savings made by reducing food waste. The results suggest that a unilateral commitment by the EU to reducing food loss and waste would most likely decrease the competitiveness of the EUâ€™s food processing. Reduced demand for primary agricultural inputs would shrink the EUâ€™s agricultural sectors, putting pressure on farm incomes and land prices. The contribution to global food security would be very minor. The impact on emissions relevant to climate change at global level is also minor, with a very limited contribution within the EU.
Q24|Bosques en Bolivia: Una estimación espacial de los costos de la Deforestación|La deforestación en Bolivia se ha incrementado de manera considerable en los últimos años, la misma conlleva a emisiones de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad, variación del ciclo hidrológico, entre otras. El presente estudio tiene el objetivo de estimar el impacto de la deforestación y la de sus costos en términos monetarios. Debido a la complejidad de cada variable, se emplea distintas metodologías para cada una de ellas (emisión de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad y variación del ciclo hidrológico).La misma que consiste en una contabilidad de carbono y el uso del precio de carbono, además de un modelo BIOM de extrapolación de especies y el uso de elasticidad de consumo y riqueza absoluta de las especies para la cuantificación de los costos. Finalmente se hace uso de econometría espacial y el índice de escasez de agua para la variación del ciclo hidrológico. El análisis de los resultados es realizado en tres categorías: a nivel municipal, a nivel departamental y a nivel nacional para dos periodos de tiempo 1990-2000 y 2000-2010. Adicionalmente, en base a los resultados se formula conclusiones y recomendaciones sobre el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia. Los cuales determinan que el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia representa una cifra mayor al 10% del PIB de Bolivia.
Q24|The Effects of Land Markets on Resource Allocation and Agricultural Productivity|We assess the effects of land markets on misallocation and productivity by exploiting policy-driven variation in land rentals across time and space arising from a large-scale land certification reform in Ethiopia, where land remains owned by the state. Our main finding from detailed micro panel data is that land rentals substantially reduce misallocation and increase agricultural productivity. Our evidence builds from an empirical difference-in-difference strategy, an instrumental variable approach, and a calibrated quantitative macroeconomic framework with heterogeneous household-farms that replicates, without targeting, the empirical effects. These effects are nonlinear, impacting more farms farther away from efficient operational scale, consistent with our theory. Using our model, we find that more active land markets reduce inequality, an important concern for the design of land policy. We also find that the positive effects of land markets are mainly driven by formal market rentals as opposed to informal rentals. Finally, our analysis also provides evidence that land markets increase the adoption of more advanced technologies such as the use of fertilizers.
Q24|Unraveling local preferences and willingness to pay for different management scenarios: A choice experiment to Biosphere Reserve management|Economic valuation of ecosystem services has emerged as a valuable tool to promote conservation and sustainable land management. Our study adds to this literature, by reporting the results of a discrete choice experiment used to analyse local population preferences and willingness-to-pay for selected ecosystem services resulting from different management scenarios in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve (Biscay, Spain). The ecosystem services considered include quality of water bodies, agricultural production, native forest protection, biodiversity, and recreation. The results indicate that the local population is willing to financially support a new management plan focused on the improvement of ecosystem health and landscape multifunctionality and sustainability, with recreation being the least valued ecosystem service. These findings may be used to inform conservation and management policies to maximize social well-being. They can also help to prioritize investments and allocation of funding and hence minimise land use conflicts.
Q24|Implementing result-based agri-environmental payments by means of modelling|From a theoretical point of view, result-based agri-environmental payments are clearly preferable to action-based payments. However, they suffer from two major practical disadvantages: costs of measuring the results and payment uncertainty for the participating farmers. In this paper, we propose an alternative design to overcome these two disadvantages by means of modelling (instead of measuring) the results. We describe the concept of model-informed result-based agri-environmental payments (MIRBAP), including a hypothetical example of payments for the protection and enhancement of soil functions. We offer a comprehensive discussion of the relative advantages and disadvantages of MIRBAP, showing that it not only unites most of the advantages of result-based and action-based schemes, but also adds two new advantages: the potential to address trade-offs among multiple policy objectives and management for long-term environmental effects. We argue that MIRBAP would be a valuable addition to the agri-environmental policy toolbox and a reflection of recent advancements in agri-environmental modelling.
Q24|Food for fuel: The effect of the US biofuel mandate on poverty in India|More than 40% of US grain is used for energy due to the Renewable Fuel Mandate (RFS). There are no studies of the global distributional consequences of this purely domestic policy. Using micro‐level survey data, we trace the effect of the RFS on world food prices and their impact on household level consumption and wage incomes in India. We first develop a partial equilibrium model to estimate the effect of the RFS on the price of selected food commodities—rice, wheat, corn, sugar, and meat and dairy, which together provide almost 70% of Indian food calories. Our model predicts that world prices for these commodities rise by 8–16% due to the RFS. We estimate the price pass‐through to domestic Indian prices and the effect of the price shock on household welfare through consumption and wage incomes. Poor rural households suffer significant welfare losses due to higher prices of consumption goods, which are regressive. However, they benefit from a rise in wage incomes, mainly because most of them are employed in agriculture. Urban households also bear the higher cost of food, but do not see a concomitant rise in wages because only a small fraction of them work in food‐related industries. Welfare losses are greater among urban households. However, more poor people in India live in villages, so rural poverty impacts are larger in magnitude. We estimate that the mandate leads to about 25 million new poor: 21 million in rural and 4 million in the urban population.
Q24|Evolving Practice in Land Demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
Q24|Nachhaltiges Landmanagement vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels als Aufgabe der räumlichen Planung: Eine Evaluation im planerischen Mehrebenensystem an den Beispielen der Altmark und des Landkreises Lüchow-Dannenbergs|Die Ressource Fläche ist weltweit begrenzt. Ein nachhaltiges Landmanagement ist, nicht nur vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels, erforderlich, um den verschiedenen Interessen an der Fläche gerecht zu werden. Bestehende Funktionen auf der Fläche, beispielsweise die Produktion von Nahrungsmitteln oder Rohstoffen sowie die Sicherung von Gewerbe- und Siedlungsgebieten unter Beachtung des Schutzes der Biodiversität, sind unter Anbetracht des Klimawandels zu sichern. Klimaschutzmaßnahmen wie der Schutz und die Entwicklung von Treibhausgassenken, beispielsweise Moore und Wälder, müssen neben Klimaanpassungsmaßnahmen, wie Hochwasserschutzflächen, mit den bestehenden Anforderungen an die Fläche vereint werden. Die räumliche Planung, so der Ausgangspunkt der Dissertation, kann durch die sektorübergreifende Betrachtung bei einem nachhaltigen Landmanagement vor dem Hintergrund des Klimawandels eine zentrale Aufgabe übernehmen. Die vorliegende Arbeit definiert räumliche Planung als formelle Raumordnung und informelle Raumentwicklung. Demnach umfasst räumliche Planung neben formellen planerischen Prozessen im Mehrebensystem der Raumplanung auch informelle planerische Strukturen und Prozesse. Ziel der räumlichen Planung ist es, Abwägungsprozesse zwischen den verschiedenen Interessen an einem Raum durchzuführen und damit Flächeninanspruchnahmen zu koordinieren. Durch das Mehrebenensystem der räumlichen Planung werden auf den verschiedenen Verwaltungsebenen planerische Festlegungen getroffen und in die nächste Ebene übertragen, konkretisiert oder als Grundlage verwendet. In diesem Gegenstromprinzip arbeitet die räumliche Planung auf verschiedener Maßstabsebene. Die räumliche Planung strebt in ihrem Ursprungsgedanken eine interessensabgewogene Raumgestaltung an. Sie versucht, verschiedene Sektoren und Ansprüche an den Raum zu vereinen und die Schutzgüter sowie Ressourcen langfristig zu schützen und zu sichern. [...]
Q24|The Spatial and Temporal Diffusion of Agricultural Land Prices|In the last decade, many parts of the world experienced severe increases in agricultural land prices. This price surge, however, did not take place evenly in space and time. To better understand the spatial and temporal behavior of land prices, we employ a price diffusion model that combines features of market integration models and spatial econometric models. An application of this model to farmland prices in Germany shows that prices on a county-level are cointegrated. Apart from convergence toward a long-run equilibrium, we find that price transmission experiences short-term adjustments caused by neighboring regions.
Q24|Soil resource and the profitability and sustainability of farms: A soil quality investment model|There is a growing public concern for soils and the maintenance or enhancement of soil quality. Actually, soil resource plays a central role in issues regarding food security and climate change mitigation. Through their practices, farmers impact the physical, biological and chemical quality of their soils. However, in a strained economic environment, farmers face a trade-off between short term objectives of production and profitability, and a long term objective of soil resource conservation. In this article, we investigate the conditions under which farmers have a private interest to preserve the quality of their soil. We also characterize the optimal management strategies of soil quality dynamics. We use a simplified theoretical soil quality investment model, where farmers maximise their revenues under a soil quality dynamics constraint. In our production function, soil quality and productive inputs are cooperating production factors. In addition, productive inputs have a detrimental impact on soil quality dynamics. It appears that in some cases, farmers have a private and financial interest in preserving the quality of their soil at a certain level, since it is an endogenous production factor cooperating with productive inputs. However, situations can occur wherein the cooperative production benefits of soil quality and productive inputs are smaller than the marginal deterioration of soil quality due to productive inputs. In this case, one cannot draw conclusions about the existence of an equilibrium.
Q24|Economic Values of Coastal Erosion Management: Joint Estimation of Use and Passive Use Values with Recreation Demand and Contingent Valuation Data|Revealed and stated preference survey data from North Carolina households are utilized to estimate a joint structural microeconometric model of recreation demand and willingness-to-pay (WTP) for coastal erosion management among beach visitors and non-visitors. We test for and reject weak complementarity, implying existence of non-use values associated with management of North Carolina’s coastal resources. We find stronger preferences for shoreline retreat (median WTP = $22.20 per household, per year) as a management strategy relative to beach nourishment (WTP = $7.45) and substantially weaker preferences for shoreline armoring (WTP = $0.09). Shoreline retreat exhibits much larger estimates of non-use values, whereas non-use values for shoreline armoring are negative. Minimizing negative environmental impacts of erosion management increases WTP over 200%. Our data permit estimates of marginal value of incremental beach width accruing to beach users and non-users (which ranges from $0.23 and $0.47 per meter). Key Words: recreation; demand; beach; erosion; management; economic; value
Q24|Logging Concessions, Certification & Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon: Forest Impacts from Combinations of Development Rights & Land-use Restrictions|In this paper, we use geospatial data and difference-in-differences models to identify the deforestation effects, during 2000-2013, of the leading forest policies in the Peruvian Amazon: i) logging concessions, ii) third-party certification of concessions, and iii) Protected Areas (PAs). We find that on average logging concessions have no effect on tree-cover loss, while the PAs do reduce loss. Further, the PAs allowing limited private extraction save more forest than do more restrictive PAs. Certification has an impact (reduces loss) only in the single region where concessions reduce loss, suggesting a complementarity of third parties with private and public efforts to govern concessions. Our results suggest roles for private rights within conservation, given oversight.
Q24|Evolving practice in land demarcation|This paper analyzes social choice with respect to the demarcation of land boundaries, distinguishing between physical and legal demarcation. In contrast with the influential “land administration” literature and the World Bank’s policy guidelines, the analysis supports voluntary—instead of mandatory—demarcation as well as non-integrated services for land administration. Consistent with these theoretical arguments, the paper empirically verifies that demarcation conflicts play a lesser role in title-, land- and property-related litigation, which seems to increase in all these areas after physical demarcation is made mandatory. Relying on World Bank data, it also observes that linking and merging cadastres and land registries does not correlate with lower transaction costs.
Q24|Land Use and Decentralized Government: A Strategic Approach for Playing a Short-Sighted Equilibrium|This paper presents a simple strategic model (defined as a shortsighted game) to highlight the incentives for local governments to allow the exploitation of land in areas not suitable for such exploitation due to environmental or other risks. Municipal discretionary policy inevitably produces strategic complementarities and guides individuals to use the land (to choose the most beneficial “shortsighted” Nash equilibrium). In light of these results, it seems possible to state that the definition of non-exploitable territory and the decisions concerning it should not be left to local governments.
Q24|Efectos de las decisiones de inversión en la formalización de tierras de los hogares rurales colombianos|Este trabajo estima la efectividad de las inversiones permanentes en predios sobre la formalización de tierras de hogares rurales, en el contexto de la ley de reforma agraria colombiana. Utilizando un modelo de probabilidad lineal con efectos fijos de hogar, se encuentra que un aumento de 1% en estas inversiones aumenta en 0.22% la probabilidad de formalización, en tres microrregiones colombianas entre el 2010 y el 2016. Además, se propone una posible solución a sesgos por simultaneidad y selección entre la inversión y la formalización, con variables rezagadas e instrumentando con choques de precipitación. La investigación ofrece una explicación sobre la permanencia en la informalidad de los pequeños productores, a pesar de la creación de políticas que promueven la formalización.
Q24|Tierras, poder político y violencia en Cereté, Chinú, Ciénaga de Oro y Sahagún: un breve recuento histórico y condiciones actuales|Este trabajo estudia los procesos históricos bajo las cuales se han configurado las condiciones actuales de cuatro municipios pertenecientes a la región Atlántica Media de la Encuesta Longitudinal Colombiana de la Universidad de los Andes (ELCA). El artículo analiza con evidencia histórica cuatro procesos fundamentales: la fallida transición de una economía agraria a una moderna, la distribución y tenencia de la tierra, la relación entre la economía hacendataria y el poder político, y el surgimiento de la movilización y violencia. El análisis muestra que la debilidad estatal y la adjudicación de baldíos permitieron la concentración de la tierra alrededor de aquellas familias que accedieron rápidamente al poder político. Pese a los intentos de reforma adelantados a nivel central, el proceso de concentración continuó a lo largo del siglo XX y permitió a estas familias cooptar los espacios de representación a través de la adopción del clientelismo moderno, compatible con el patronazgo agrario que caracterizó la organización social de dichos municipios desde el siglo XIX. Esto llevó a la movilización del campesinado y a diferentes formas de violencia a lo largo del siglo XX, además del estancamiento económico y social que viven estos municipios actualmente. El estudio usa fuentes primarias que van desde documentos oficiales y no oficiales del siglo XIX hasta las estadísticas de la ELCA para la última década.
Q24|Open space preservation in an urbanization context|The objective of this paper is to address the question of open space preservation in an urbanization context. We study the possibility of preserving two different types of open spaces, large open spaces at cities' outskirt and small intra-urban open spaces. Thus we contribute to the debate of land sharing versus land sparing in a urban context. We analyze these questions by way of a theoretical microeconomics framework taking into account both households' preferences for open space and regulator's interest for the preservation of ecosystem services. We compare land use patterns at private equilibrium and when the social planner maximizes social welfare.
Q24|Reassessing forest products demand functions in Europe using a panel cointegration approach| In a panel of European countries, we analyse paper products, sawnwood and wood panels consumption data. With this object, we use a classical demand model where national consumption depends on real GDP and real prices. In contrast to previous panel estimations in the literature, we highlight non-stationarity time series which can lead to spurious regressions. We explicitly take into account the issue by using recent panel cointegration techniques. Cointegration is present for printing paper and fibreboard, though less clear cut for other products. Then we estimate demand elasticities and find that GDP elasticities are significantly lower than estimates from the literature. Finally, we simulate the implications of modified demand elasticities by using a partial equilibrium model of the forest sector. For most products, changes in elasticities would lead to lower projected demand and lower prices over a 20-year time horizon. Lower demand for solid wood and wood fibre would lead to less tensions with fuel wood- and wood-based chemical markets. In a context of rising interest for renewable bio-based products, updated long-term demand models contribute to the analysis of the forest sector’s sustainability.
Q24|Neighborhood effects in the Brazilian Amazônia: Protected areas and deforestation|This article investigates whether protected areas are efficient instruments against deforestation in the Brazilian Amazônia. A Dynamic Spatial Durbin Model taking into account both the location bias and the spatial spillover effects between municipalities allows to assess the impact of the different types of protected areas (integral protected areas, sustainable protected areas and indigenous lands) on deforestation. We show that deforestation decisions are strategic complements. The econometric results differ according to the type of protected area. It is shown that: i) integral protected areas and indigenous lands allow for reducing deforestation; ii) sustainable use areas do not help to reduce deforestation; and iii) the spillover effects generated by integral protected areas and indigenous lands lead a reduction in deforestation in their vicinity. A 10% increase in the surface area of integral protected areas (indigenous lands) allows an estimated 9.32 sq. km (10.08 sq. km) of avoided deforestation.
Q24|Property Rights to Frontier Land and Minerals: US Exceptionalism|Property rights are the most fundamental institution in any society. They determine who has decision-making authority over assets and who bears the costs and benefits of those decisions. They assign ownership, wealth, political influence, and social standing. They make markets possible; define timelines; and provide incentives for investment, innovation, and trade. They mitigate the losses of open access and provide the basis for long-term economic growth. Economists and economic historians have long recognized the importance of secure property rights for economic outcomes. Other political economy, philosophy, historical, and legal literatures emphasize different, but critical attributes based on how property rights are allocated and to whom. The linkages among the social, political, and economic effects are examined here with respect to US and Latin American frontier land and minerals. Property rights were sharply different across the two frontiers with apparent long-term consequences for economic growth, innovation, wealth distribution, private investment in public goods, as well as social and political stability. The distinct assignment of property rights to land and minerals is likely a basis for long-term US exceptionalism in economic performance, individualism, mobility, and optimism. The mechanisms through which property rights to land in a frontier society affect outcomes in a contemporary, highly urban one are complex. Because property rights to land were broadly distributed, Americans could participate in capital markets using land as collateral. This ability shaped opinions regarding markets, capitalism, and individual opportunity. In the 21st century, these critical attributes may be eroding, inviting more analysis from economists and economic historians.
Q24|The Critical Role Of Markets In Climate Change Adaptation|Markets, especially land markets, can facilitate climate change adaptation through price signals. A review of research reveals that urban, coastal, and agricultural land markets provide effective signals of the emerging costs of climate change. These signals encourage adjustments by both private owners and policy officials in taking preemptive action to reduce costs. In agriculture, they promote consideration of new cropping and tillage practices, seed types, timing, and location of production. They also stimulate use of new irrigation technologies. In urban areas, they motivate new housing construction, elevation, and location away from harm. They channel more efficient use of water and its application to parks and other green areas to make urban settings more desirable with higher temperatures. Related water markets play a similar role in adjusting water use and reallocation. To be effective, however, markets must reflect multiple traders and prices must be free to adjust. Where these conditions are not met, market signals will be inhibited and market-driven adaptation will be reduced. Because public policy is driven by constituent demands, it may not be a remedy. The evidence of the National Flood Insurance Program and federal wildfire response illustrates how politically difficult it may be to adjust programs to be more adaptive.
Q24|The Short-Run and Long-Run Effects of Resources on Economic Outcomes: Evidence From the United States 1936-2015|This paper draws on a new state-level panel dataset and a model of domestic Dutch disease to examine the short-run and long-run effects of oil & natural gas, coal, and agricultural land endowments on state economies during 1936-2015. Using a flexible shift-share estimation approach, where the shift is national resource employment and the share is state resource endowment, we find that different resources had different short-run effects in different time periods, across increases and decreases in resource employment, and across different outcomes. Using long differences, we find that long-run population growth was an important margin of adjustment over 1936-2015. States with larger coal and agricultural endowments per square mile experienced significantly slower population growth than states with smaller endowments per square mile. Resource endowments had no effect on long-run growth in per capita income.
Q24|Federal Lands, Opportunity Costs, and Bureaucratic Management|The federal government owns and administers 472, 892,659 acres or 21% of the land area of the lower US, making it both the country’s largest land owner and among the largest by a central government among western democracies. This condition is surprising, given that the US generally is viewed as more oriented toward private property rights and markets. The land largely is managed by the US Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, staffed by unelected, career civil servants who hold tenure to their positions. Access and use regulations are administered by agency officials who have wide latitude under all-purpose legislation passed by Congress. Their actions are influenced by bureaucratic incentives and by lobby groups seeking to influence federal land policy. General citizens have little information about how policies are determined and only costly recourse to challenge them. Other than the comparatively small, 27,400,000 acres in National Parks, most of the land has no important amenity values nor apparent major externalities associated with use. These lands were to be transferred to private claimants under 19th century land laws. This paper examines how this vast area came to be withheld by the federal government and the role of the environmental movement in the process. Market failure and externalities were asserted justifications, but there is no strong supportive evidence. Although externalities were possible, the most obvious solution was to define property rights more completely. This option was and remains rejected by politicians, agency officials, and those lobby groups that sought permanent management and control over federal lands. Sustained-yield was an overarching objective, but it is a biological and not an economic concept and the human welfare outcomes of bureaucratic management may be large.
Q24|Land Cover Change and Conversions: Methodology and Results for OECD and G20 Countries|Changes in the biophysical characteristics of natural habitats – that can be measured with data on land cover – are the best proxy to monitor pressures on ecosystems and biodiversity. This paper presents a suite of indicators that track land cover change over time in a globally consistent manner. The indicators, including an OECD Green Growth headline indicator, represent the Organisation's most recent effort to monitor pressures on ecosystems and biodiversity, using state-of-the-art data and techniques. Results are presented for OECD and G20 countries over 1992-2015 using global multi-period datasets.
Q24|Integration and Analysis of Resource Inventory Data for Risk Assessments of Environmental Contamination in Mixed Use Landscapes in Pakistan|This paper examines the various metals that are associated with land contamination for instances arsenic, cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel, and mercury that are well known as the ingredient of contamination of the ecology in the region where there is a high rate of anthropogenic burden. The study investigates land contamination in Pakistan's context. The researches have used the quantitative method to analyze the most recent literature available on the land contamination of Pakistan following funnel approach. The three main steps followed to analyze are first, assessment of the site initially, secondly, assessment of the exposure of the contaminated site that also contains a survey of few places and the amount of contamination found and lastly, remediation of the site. The finding revealed that the contamination in Pakistan is both men made as well due to the terrain they belong to that contains various anthropogenic elements, which are harmful to live beings. Additionally, it is evident that the different elements, which can cause soil contamination, are higher in many places in Pakistan than the standard or tolerable rate mentioned by WHO and other survey board. Lastly, the paper confirms that the pollution can be reduced only if there is a reduction in the man made cause of the land contamination such as oil spill and other industrial emissions that constitute most of Pakistan’s land contamination.
Q24|Application of Optimized SFCL and STATCOM for the Transient Stability and LVRT Capability Enhancement of Wind Farms|In this paper, the combined superconducting fault current limiter (SFCL) and STATCOM are used to improve transient stability and low-voltage ride-through (LVRT) capability of wind turbine generation system (WTGS). The SFCL absorbs the accelerating energy of the generator, and therefore, improves the WTGS transient stability. Also, STATCOM helps the restore connecting point voltage to improve LVRT capability by reactive power compensation (RPC) after fault clearing. The optimization problem of SFCL resistance and STATCOM capacity is formulated based on the transient stability and LVRT capability of WTGS. The Simulation study shows the superior improving LVRT capability of combined SFCL and STATCOM over individual SFCL or STATCOM. Also, the requirement capacity of STATCOM for RPC is significantly reduced. PSCAD/EMTDC software(V4.2) is used for simulation.
Q24|Can the visible and invisible hands coexist in land pricing?|This study addresses state intervention in land pricing. Theoretical modelling identifies risk aversion as the determining factor for the coexistence of the visible and invisible hands. Our empirical tests using Chinese data confirm the absence of this coexistence. Exploring the micro-foundation of this “two-hand” model and extending the Lucas critique, we illustrate the impossibility of this coexistence under the land regime of state ownership in a market environment: state interference in land pricing causes people to drastically alter their expectations and neutralizes their risk aversion, leading to the deactivation of the stochastic discount factor and the market mechanism. This work provides a “risk aversion” approach to the causes of “state failure” and implies that under state ownership of land, the distortion of land prices is inevitable.
Q24|Forestland and household welfares in North Central Provinces, Vietnam|This paper investigates the effects of forestland on household income, poverty and inequality among households in Vietnam’s poorest rural districts, the North Central Provinces, using data from the Quantitative Socio-Economic Survey for Emission Reduction-Program (ERP) Provinces Areas [QSESERPA]. Local people are extremely poor, with 54% living below the poverty line. Forest income constitutes about 17% of their total income; only wage income (37%) ranks higher. Surprisingly, those better off depend on forest income more than the poor do. Such income is comprised mainly of non-timber forest plants (77%), followed by timber products (18%). Our micro-econometric analysis indicates that gaining access to more forestland would increase household per capita income and reduce the incidence and intensity of poverty, even after controlling for all other variables in the model. In addition, we find that forest income was the second largest contributor to overall income inequality and had the largest marginal effect on it. A policy implication here is that increasing the access of the poor to forest resources and improving their efficiency in forest management could have a substantial effect on income, poverty and inequality in the study area.
Q24|Comparison between ideal and estimated pv parameters using evolutionary algorithms to save the economic costs|Micro grids are now emerging from lab modules sites into commercial markets, driven by technological improvements, falling costs, a proven track record, and growing recognition of their benefits. Their main contribution is to improve reliability and resilience of electrical grids, to manage the addition of distributed clean energy resources like wind and solar photovoltaic (PV) generation to reduce fossil fuel emissions, and to provide electricity in areas not served by centralized electrical infrastructure. In between, the popularity of photovoltaic panel is not deniable. In this paper, the ideal and practical electrical model of PV is being discussed. Due to significant role of the PV parameters, they are assessed by several heuristic methods and the results are compared. Hence an optimal method for parameter estimation is discussed that can be used in micro grid simulations to reach to an optimal quiescent working condition.
Q24|Soil resource and the profitability and sustainability of farms: A soil quality investment model| There is a growing public concern for soils and the maintenance or enhancement of soil quality. Actually, soil resource plays a central role in issues regarding food security and climate change mitigation. Through their practices, farmers impact the physical, biological and chemical quality of their soils. However, in a strained economic environment, farmers face a trade-off between short term objectives of production and profitability, and a long term objective of soil resource conservation. In this article, we investigate the conditions under which farmers have a private interest to preserve the quality of their soil. We also characterize the optimal management strategies of soil quality dynamics. We use a simplified theoretical soil quality investment model, where farmers maximise their revenues under a soil quality dynamics constraint. In our production function, soil quality and productive inputs are cooperating production factors. In addition, productive inputs have a detrimental impact on soil quality dynamics. It appears that in some cases, farmers have a private and financial interest in preserving the quality of their soil at a certain level, since it is an endogenous production factor cooperating with productive inputs. However, situations can occur wherein the cooperative production benefits of soil quality and productive inputs are smaller than the marginal deterioration of soil quality due to productive inputs. In this case, one cannot draw conclusions about the existence of an equilibrium.
Q24|Fire and the Distribution and Uncertainty of Carbon Sequestered as Aboveground Tree Biomass in Yosemite and Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks|Fire is one of the principal agents changing forest carbon stocks and landscape level distributions of carbon, but few studies have addressed how accurate carbon accounting of fire-killed trees is or can be. We used a large number of forested plots (1646), detailed selection of species-specific and location-specific allometric equations, vegetation type maps with high levels of accuracy, and Monte Carlo simulation to model the amount and uncertainty of aboveground tree carbon present in tree species (hereafter, carbon) within Yosemite and Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks. We estimated aboveground carbon in trees within Yosemite National Park to be 25 Tg of carbon (C) (confidence interval (CI): 23–27 Tg C), and in Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Park to be 20 Tg C (CI: 18–21 Tg C). Low-severity and moderate-severity fire had little or no effect on the amount of carbon sequestered in trees at the landscape scale, and high-severity fire did not immediately consume much carbon. Although many of our data inputs were more accurate than those used in similar studies in other locations, the total uncertainty of carbon estimates was still greater than ±10%, mostly due to potential uncertainties in landscape-scale vegetation type mismatches and trees larger than the ranges of existing allometric equations. If carbon inventories are to be meaningfully used in policy, there is an urgent need for more accurate landscape classification methods, improvement in allometric equations for tree species, and better understanding of the uncertainties inherent in existing carbon accounting methods.
Q24|Late Neolithic Agriculture in Temperate Europe—A Long-Term Experimental Approach|Long-term slash-and-burn experiments, when compared with intensive tillage without manuring, resulted in a huge data set relating to potential crop yields, depending on soil quality, crop type, and agricultural measures. Cultivation without manuring or fallow phases did not produce satisfying yields, and mono-season cropping on freshly cleared and burned plots resulted in rather high yields, comparable to those produced during modern industrial agriculture - at least ten-fold the ones estimated for the medieval period. Continuous cultivation on the same plot, using imported wood from adjacent areas as fuel, causes decreasing yields over several years. The high yield of the first harvest of a slash-and-burn agriculture is caused by nutrient input through the ash produced and mobilization from the organic matter of the topsoil, due to high soil temperatures during the burning process and higher topsoil temperatures due to the soil’s black surface. The harvested crops are pure, without contamination of any weeds. Considering the amount of work required to fight weeds without burning, the slash-and-burn technique yields much better results than any other tested agricultural approach. Therefore, in dense woodland, without optimal soils and climate, slash-and-burn agriculture seems to be the best, if not the only, feasible method to start agriculture, for example, during the Late Neolithic, when agriculture expanded from the loess belt into landscapes less suitable for agriculture. Extensive and cultivation with manuring is more practical in an already-open landscape and with a denser population, but its efficiency in terms of the ratio of the manpower input to food output, is worse. Slash-and-burn agriculture is not only a phenomenon of temperate European agriculture during the Neolithic, but played a major role in land-use in forested regions worldwide, creating anthromes on a huge spatial scale.
Q24|Estate Crops More Attractive than Community Forests in West Kalimantan, Indonesia|Smallholder farmers and indigenous communities must cope with the opportunities and threats presented by rapidly spreading estate crops in the frontier of the agricultural market economy. Smallholder communities are subject to considerable speculation by outsiders, yet large-scale agriculture presents tradeoffs that they must navigate. We initiated a study in Sintang, West Kalimantan in 2012 and have returned annually for the last four years, building the baselines for a longer-term landscape approach to reconciling conservation and development tradeoffs in situ. Here, the stakeholders are heterogeneous, yet the land cover of the landscape is on a trajectory towards homogenous mono-cropping systems, primarily either palm oil or rubber. In one village on the frontier of the agricultural market economy, natural forests remain managed by the indigenous and local community but economics further intrude on forest use decisions. Conservation values are declining and the future of the forest is uncertain. As such, the community is ultimately attracted to more economically attractive uses of the land for local development oil palm or rubber mono-crop farms. We identify poverty as a threat to community-managed conservation success in the face of economic pressures to convert forest to intensive agriculture. We provide evidence that lucrative alternatives will challenge community-managed forests when prosperity seems achievable. To alleviate this trend, we identify formalized traditional management and landscape governance solutions to nurture a more sustainable landscape transition.
Q24|Toward a Global Classification of Coastal Anthromes|Given incontrovertible evidence that humans are the most powerful agents of environmental change on the planet, research has begun to acknowledge and integrate human presence and activity into updated descriptions of the world’s biomes as “anthromes”. Thus far, a classification system for anthromes is limited to the terrestrial biosphere. Here, I present a case for the consideration and validity of coastal anthromes. Every coastal environment on Earth is subject to direct and indirect human modification and disturbance. Despite the legacy, ubiquity, and pervasiveness of human interactions with coastal ecosystems, coastal anthromes still lack formal definition. Following the original argument and framework for terrestrial anthromes, I outline a set of coastal anthrome classifications that dovetail with terrestrial and marine counterparts. Recognising coastal environments as complex and increasingly vulnerable anthropogenic systems is a fundamental step toward understanding their modern dynamics—and, by extension, realising opportunities for and limits to their resilience.
Q24|Characterizing Islandscapes: Conceptual and Methodological Challenges Exemplified in the Mediterranean|Islands across the world have evolved at the interface between land and sea, thus comprising landscapes and seascapes. Many islands have also been influenced by anthropogenic factors, which have given rise to mosaics of anthromes ( sensu Ellis and Ramankutty). These elements of landscapes, seascapes, and cultural impacts in varied proportions, generate unique environments which merit a unique term: islandscapes. The use of the term islandscape is advocated as the only term which encompasses all of the constituent components of an island, in a holistic manner. The aim of the paper is to evaluate the applicability of existing landscape and seascape character assessment methodologies in an island context, and to propose a methodological framework for mapping the space which defines the term ‘islandscape’. The challenges and opportunities stemming from the use of the term are exemplified with reference to the Mediterranean islands.
Q24|Anthropogenic Landscapes, Human Action and the Process of Co-Construction with other Species: Making Anthromes in the Anthropocene|We are in the Anthropocene. For millennia, human actions have been shaping the world to the degree that they are inscribed in the geological and ecological record. Recently, this has been occurring with increasing speed and influence. This means we need to be asking integrative and effective questions about the world and how we relate to and in it. Human niche construction has broad and deep effects not just on landscapes and environments, but on the myriad of other beings sharing space with us. Humans are self-appointed ecosystem managers and lead actors in seeking sustainability for planetary and local ecosystems. In order to accomplish this, we need to better understand how anthromes are shaped, inhabited and altered. To this end, we present two different examples of anthropogenic landscapes; one in Ethiopia and one in Bali, Indonesia. These are landscapes that are co-constructed by multiple species through complex webs of ecologies, economies and histories and represent the way that humans are drawn into relationships with non-humans; relationships which in turn alter landscapes.
Q24|Resistance and Contingent Contestations to Large-Scale Land Concessions in Southern Laos and Northeastern Cambodia|Over the last decade, there have been considerable concerns raised regarding the social and environmental impacts of large-scale land concessions for plantation development in various parts of the world, especially in the tropics, including in Laos and Cambodia. However, there is still much to learn about the various connections and interactions associated with reactions to what are often referred to as “land grabs”, and the ways they are associated or not associated with broader social movements and networks opposed to land grabbing. There is also the need to develop language for discussing these circumstances, something I aim to contribute to in this article. Here, I present four different cases of types of resistance, or what I refer to as contingent contestations, to land concessions in southern Laos and northeastern Cambodia (two from each country), focusing on the perspectives and associated strategies of smallholder farmers, but without ignoring broader issues. I consider the roles of locals in these contestations, through emphasizing the importance of histories, identities/ethnicities, politics, and geography in determining the types of responses to these land deals that emerge, and the strategies that are adopted for contesting these developments.
Q24|Identifying Employment Subcenters: The Method of Exponentially Declining Cutoffs|The standard method of identifying subcenters is due to Giuliano and Small. While simple, robust and easy to apply, because it uses absolute employment density and employment cutoffs, it identiﬁes “too few” subcenters at the metropolitan periphery. This paper presents a straight forward modiﬁcation to this method aimed at remedying this weakness. The modiﬁcation entails using cutoffs that decline exponentially with distance from the metropolitan center, thereby giving consideration to the employment density of a location relative to that of its locality. In urban studies, there is a long history of estimating employment density “gradients”, the exponential rate at which employment density declines with distance from the metropolitan center. These density gradients differ substantially across metropolitan areas and across time for a particular metropolitan area. Applying our method to Los Angeles, Calgary and Paris, we have found that using cutoffs that decline exponentially at one-half the estimated density gradients achieves an appealing balance between subcenters identiﬁed close to the metropolitan center and those identiﬁed at the metropolitan periphery. Many other methods of subcenter identiﬁcation have been proposed that use sophisticated econometric procedures. Our method should appeal to practitioners who are looking for a simple method to apply.
Q24|Multi-Criteria Assessment of Land Cover Dynamic Changes in Halgurd Sakran National Park (HSNP), Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Using Remote Sensing and GIS|Halgurd Sakran National Park (HSNP) is Iraq’s first designated national park, located in the Kurdistan Region, which has suffered multiple armed conflicts over the past decades. This study assesses how vegetation dynamics have affected the landscape structure and composition of the core zone of the park over the last 31 years. Spatio-temporal changes in land cover were mapped for three points in time using remote sensing, geographic information systems (GIS), and landscape metrics. Land cover changes were mapped using random forest classifications of satellite images from Landsat 5 TM, Landsat 7 ETM+, and Landsat 8 LDCM acquired in 1984, 1998, and 2015. Five landscape pattern metrics were analysed at class and landscape levels in order to quantify landscape patterns arising from land use and land cover (LULC) change in HSNP using FRAGSTATS 4.2. These landscape pattern metrics were patch metrics, area metrics, shape metrics interspersion/juxtaposition and contagion metrics and diversity metrics. Significant changes in cultivated areas after 1991 were observed, which indicate the role of anthropogenic activities in land cover change. Areas of bare surface and forest lands declined and became more fragmented in 1984 and 1998 while, at the same time, cultivated areas increased, with a continuing fragmentation of pasture land. Internal migration of people was one of the major drivers of LULC change. The results reveal that significant LULC changes in terms of composition and spatial structure over the 31-year period have occurred in the designated protected area. Landscape metrics were able to assess the trend of spatial patchiness over the studied period. A discussion of the significance of changes in land use systems for understanding the causes and consequences of change is provided.
Q24|Characterizing Spatial Neighborhoods of Refugia Following Large Fires in Northern New Mexico USA|The spatial patterns resulting from large fires include refugial habitats that support surviving legacies and promote ecosystem recovery. To better understand the diverse ecological functions of refugia on burn mosaics, we used remotely sensed data to quantify neighborhood patterns of areas relatively unchanged following the 2011 Las Conchas fire. Spatial patterns of refugia measured within 10-ha moving windows varied across a gradient from areas of high density, clustered in space, to sparsely populated neighborhoods that occurred in the background matrix. The scaling of these patterns was related to the underlying structure of topography measured by slope, aspect and potential soil wetness, and spatially varying climate. Using a nonmetric multidimensional scaling analysis of species cover data collected post-Las Conchas, we found that trees and forest associates were present across the refugial gradient, but communities also exhibited a range of species compositions and potential functions. Spatial patterns of refugia quantified for three previous burns (La Mesa 1977, Dome 1996, Cerro Grande 2000) were dynamic between fire events, but most refugia persisted through at least two fires. Efforts to maintain burn heterogeneity and its ecological functions can begin with identifying where refugia are likely to occur, using terrain-based microclimate models, burn severity models and available field data.
Q24|Conservation Benefits of Tropical Multifunctional Land-Uses in and Around a Forest Protected Area of Bangladesh|Competing interests in land for agriculture and commodity production in tropical human-dominated landscapes make forests and biodiversity conservation particularly challenging. Establishment of protected areas in this regard is not functioning as expected due to exclusive ecological focus and poor recognition of local people’s traditional forest use and dependence. In recent years, multifunctional land-use systems such as agroforestry have widely been promoted as an efficient land-use in such circumstances, although their conservation effectiveness remains poorly investigated. We undertake a rapid biodiversity survey to understand the conservation value of four contrasting forms of local land-use, namely: betel leaf ( Piper betle ) agroforestry; lemon ( Citrus limon ) agroforestry; pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) agroforestry; and, shifting cultivation–fallow managed largely by the indigenous communities in and around a highly diverse forest protected area of Bangladesh. We measure the alpha and beta diversity of plants, birds, and mammals in these multifunctional land-uses, as well as in the old-growth secondary forest in the area. Our study finds local land-use critical in conserving biodiversity in the area, with comparable biodiversity benefits as those of the old-growth secondary forest. In Bangladesh, where population pressure and rural people’s dependence on forests are common, multifunctional land-uses in areas of high conservation priority could potentially be used to bridge the gap between conservation and commodity production, ensuring that the ecological integrity of such landscapes will be altered as little as possible.
Q24|Understanding Land Use and Land Cover Dynamics from 1976 to 2014 in Yellow River Delta|Long-term intensive land use/cover changes (LUCCs) of the Yellow River Delta (YRD) have been happening since the 1960s. The land use patterns of the LUCCs are crucial for bio-diversity conservation and/or sustainable development. This study quantified patterns of the LUCCs, explored the systematic transitions, and identified wetland change trajectory for the period 1976–2014 in the YRD. Landsat imageries of 1976, 1984, 1995, 2006, and 2014 were used to derive nine land use classes. Post classification change detection analysis based on enhanced transition matrix was applied to identify land use dynamics and trajectory of wetland change. The five cartographic outputs for changes in land use underlined major decreases in natural wetland areas and increases in artificial wetland and non-wetland, especially aquafarms, salt pans and construction lands. The systematic transitions in the YRD were wetland degradation, wetland artificialization, and urbanization. Wetland change trajectory results demonstrated that the main wetland changes were wetland degradation and wetland artificialization. Coastline change is the subordinate reason for natural wetland degradation in comparison with human activities. The results of this study allowed for an improvement in the understanding of the LUCC processes and enabled researchers and planners to focus on the most important signals of systematic landscape transitions while also allowing for a better understanding of the proximate causes of changes.
Q24|Can Community Forests Be Compatible With Biodiversity Conservation in Indonesia?|Forest lands in Indonesia are classified as state lands and subject to management under agreements allocated by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry. There has been a long-standing tension between the ministry and local communities who argue that they have traditionally managed large areas of forest and should be allowed to continue to do so. A series of recent legal and administrative decisions are now paving the way for the allocation of forests to local communities. There is a hypothesis that the communities will protect the forests against industrial conversion and that they will also conserve biodiversity. This hypothesis needs to be closely examined. Conservation of biodiversity and management for local benefits are two different and potentially conflicting objectives. This paper reviews examples of forests managed by local communities in Indonesia and concludes that there is very limited information available on the conservation of natural biodiversity in these forests. I conclude that more information is needed on the status of biodiversity in community managed forests. When forests are allocated for local management, special measures need to be in place to ensure that biodiversity values are monitored and maintained.
Q24|Hydrological Response to ~30 years of Agricultural Surface Water Management|Amongst human practices, agricultural surface-water management systems represent some of the largest integrated engineering works that shaped floodplains during history, directly or indirectly affecting the landscape. As a result of changes in agricultural practices and land use, many drainage networks have changed producing a greater exposure to flooding with a broad range of impacts on society, also because of climate inputs coupling with the human drivers. This research focuses on three main questions: which kind of land use changes related to the agricultural practices have been observed in the most recent years (~30 years)? How does the influence on the watershed response to land use and land cover changes depend on the rainfall event characteristics and soil conditions, and what is their related significance? The investigation presented in this work includes modelling the water infiltration due to the soil properties and analysing the distributed water storage offered by the agricultural drainage system in a study area in Veneto (north-eastern Italy). The results show that economic changes control the development of agro-industrial landscapes, with effects on the hydrological response. Key elements that can enhance or reduce differences are the antecedent soil conditions and the climate characteristics. Criticalities should be expected for intense and irregular rainfall events, and for events that recurrently happen. Agricultural areas might be perceived to be of low priority when it comes to public funding of flood protection, compared to the priority given to urban ones. These outcomes highlight the importance of understanding how agricultural practices can be the driver of or can be used to avoid, or at least mitigate, flooding. The proposed methods can be valuable tools in evaluating the costs and benefits of the management of water in agriculture to inform better policy decision-making.
Q24|Analysis of Vegetation Phytosociological Characteristics and Soil Physico-Chemical Conditions in Harishin Rangelands of Eastern Ethiopia|The objective of this study is to analyse the phytodiversity, distribution, herb biomass and physico-chemical conditions of the vegetation system in the context of communal continuous open grazing and enclosed grazing management practices in the Harishin rangelands of Eastern Ethiopia. A total of 58 herbaceous species and 11 woody species were recorded in the study area. Analysis of Importance Value Index for two management practices was represented by different combinations of species with varied dominance. The herbs’ diversity–dominance curve revealed a lognormal distribution in both managements practices. The overview of distribution patterns for most of the species layer showed contiguous growth and a clumped distribution pattern. Species diversity, richness, herb biomass, basal cover and soil physico-chemical attributes showed a distinct separation in relation to grazing management practices. Based on the findings, one can conclude that the establishment of enclosures has a positive impact in restoring rangeland vegetation diversity, distribution, in increasing herb productivity and in boosting soil fertility.
Q24|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Land in 2016|The editors of Land would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2016.[...]
Q24|Will Biodiversity Be Conserved in Locally-Managed Forests?|Recent decades have seen a rapid movement towards decentralising forest rights and tenure to local communities and indigenous groups in both developing and developed nations. Attribution of local and community rights to forests appears to be gathering increasing momentum in many tropical developing countries. Greater local control of forest resources is a response to the failure of government agencies to exercise adequate stewardship over forests and to ensure that the values of all stakeholders are adequately protected. We reviewed evidence of the impact of decentralised forest management on the biodiversity values of forests and conclude that special measures are needed to protect these values. There are trade-offs between shorter-term local needs for forest lands and products and longer-term global needs for biodiversity and other environmental values. We present evidence of local forest management leading to declining forest integrity with negative impacts on both local forest users and the global environment. We advocate greater attention to measures to ensure protection of biodiversity in locally-managed forests.
Q24|The Politics of Land Use in the Korup National Park|Recently, the call to combine land change science (LCS) and political ecology (PE) in the study of human-environment interactions has been widely discussed by scientists from both subfields of geography. In this paper, we use a hybrid ecology framework to examine the effects of conservation policies on the environment and the livelihood of the people of the Korup National Park (KNP). Using techniques in both PE and LCS, our results show that conservation policies, politics, and population are the primary drivers of environmental change in the KNP. We conclude by arguing that a deeper understanding can be garnered by combining LCS and PE approaches to analyze and contribute to the people and parks debate.
Q24|Habitat Loss on Rondon’s Marmoset Potential Distribution|The Amazon basin is one of the most biologically diverse places on earth. However, agricultural expansion and infrastructure development have led to widespread deforestation that threatens the survival of many taxa. Conservation strategies to contest these threats include protected areas and environmental legislation. Nevertheless, the basic biology of many taxa is largely unknown, which poses an immense challenge when devising effective strategies to safeguard such species in the long-term. This is particularly true for primates. Monkeys from the genus Mico are poorly studied with half of the currently known species being described after 1976, and their distribution and threats remain poorly understood. Using the model Maxent, we re-evaluated the distribution range for Rondon’s marmoset, one of the most threatened species in this genus. Our results estimated a distribution that is 15,500 km 2 smaller than previously described for this species (68,649 km 2 ). Furthermore, much of its modeled distribution (71%) lies outside of protected areas. Agriculture expansion and infrastructure development have converted/destroyed 20,532 km 2 of forest within its range (38%) mainly in areas without protection. Another 10,316 km 2 of forest is projected to be cleared by 2040 under current deforestation patterns. The expected cumulative loss of over 50% of its range size in the coming 15 years raise awareness about the threaten category of this species. In the absence of new protected areas, it remains to be seen whether Rondon’s marmoset can be effectively conserved in remaining fragments of forest in farmlands.
Q24|Urban Growth Dynamics in Perth, Western Australia: Using Applied Remote Sensing for Sustainable Future Planning|Earth observation data can provide valuable assessments for monitoring the spatial extent of (un)sustainable urban growth of the world’s cities to better inform planning policy in reducing associated economic, social and environmental costs. Western Australia has witnessed rapid economic expansion since the turn of the century founded upon extensive natural resource extraction. Thus, Perth, the state capital of Western Australia, has encountered significant population and urban growth in response to the booming state economy. However, the recent economic slowdown resulted in the largest decrease in natural resource values that Western Australia has ever experienced. Here, we present multi-temporal urban expansion statistics from 1990 to 2015 for Perth, derived from Landsat imagery. Current urban estimates used for future development plans and progress monitoring of infill and density targets are based upon aggregated census data and metrics unrepresentative of actual land cover change, underestimating overall urban area. Earth observation provides a temporally consistent methodology, identifying areal urban area at higher spatial and temporal resolution than current estimates. Our results indicate that the spatial extent of the Perth Metropolitan Region has increased 45% between 1990 and 2015, over 320 km 2 . We highlight the applicability of earth observation data in accurately quantifying urban area for sustainable targeted planning practices.
Q24|Do Community-Managed Forests Work? A Biodiversity Perspective|Community-managed reserves (CMRs) comprise the fastest-growing category of protected areas throughout the tropics. CMRs represent a compromise between advocates of nature conservation and advocates of human development. We ask whether CMRs succeed in achieving the goals of either. A fixed reserve area can produce only a finite resource supply, whereas human populations exploiting them tend to expand rapidly while adopting high-impact technologies to satisfy rising aspirations. Intentions behind the establishment of CMRs may be admirable, but represent an ideal rarely achieved. People tied to the natural forest subsist on income levels that are among the lowest in the Amazon. Limits of sustainable harvesting are often low and rarely known prior to reserve creation or respected thereafter, and resource exhaustion predictably follows. Unintended consequences typically emerge, such as overhunting of the seed dispersers, pollinators, and other animals that provide services essential to perpetuating the forest. CMRs are a low priority for governments, so mostly operate without enforcement, a laxity that encourages illegal forest conversion. Finally, the pull of markets can alter the “business plan” of a reserve overnight, as inhabitants switch to new activities. The reality is that we live in a hyperdynamic world of accelerating change in which past assumptions must continually be re-evaluated.
Q24|Forest Cover Changes in Lao Tropical Forests: Physical and Socio-Economic Factors are the Most Important Drivers|Lao People’s Democratic Republic (PDR) has been experiencing significant forest depletion since the 1980s, but there is little evidence to demonstrate the major causes and underlying drivers for the forest cover changes. In this study, we investigated the relationship between forest cover decrease and increase in the south of Lao PDR between 2006 and 2012 and selected physical and socio-economic factors. We used a map of forest cover changes derived from analysis of Landsat ETM+ imagery in 2006 and 2012, together with socio-economic and physical environmental data from the national authorities. The study area has experienced noticeable forest cover changes: both forest decreases and increases were unevenly distributed throughout the region. Logistic regression models were used to test relationships between forest cover decrease or increase and selected physical and socio-economic factors. Forest clearance was associated strongly with elevation, distance to main roads and shifting cultivation practices. Meanwhile, forest cover increase was more likely to correlate with rubber plantations. Native forest and shifting cultivation lands were vulnerable to being converted into rubber plantations. This research provides much-needed information on which to base forestry policy and decision making to minimize and prevent current deforestation, as well as manage potential risks in the future.
Q24|A bio-economic analysis for land-uses and biodiversity in metropolitan France|Dealing with the erosion of terrestrial biodiversity has become of key importance in order to ensure ecosystems sustainability. Agricultural and forestry activities are one major anthropogenic driver of this decline. The underlying land-use changes result in the alteration of species habitats. Current agricultural and forestry public policies exhibit drawbacks in terms of biodiversity conservation. Reconciling economic and ecological objectives of such public policies thus remains an ongoing critical challenge. In that respect, this paper presents the impacts of contrasted public policy scenarios within a dynamic and spatialized bio-economic framework applied to metropolitan France. We assessed ecological performances through 5 indicators accounting for various structural and functional components of the biodiversity while economic performances refer to land-use incomes. We demonstrate that long-term synergies between ecological and economic performances can emerge, especially within extensive-farming scenarios. Our results underline the necessary adaptation of land-use public policies by taking into account the biodiversity component being supported. We advocate the use of biodiversity indicators into the public decision-making process.
Q24|The Impact of Earthquake/Tsunami Threat on Land Prices in Padang, West Sumatera, Indonesia|"""Objective – In this study, the impact of earthquake/tsunami threat on land prices is measured using the Hedonic Price Method (HPM). The location of the research is in Padang, West Sumatra. The subject of study is land owners who purchased their land later than September 30, 2009. Methodology/Technique – The linear model and Double-log model with Ordinary Least Square (OLS) are used to estimate variable. Findings – The findings reveal that the Linear model have five variables with a significant effect. Those variables are: (1) Environmental quality, (2) Distance to the seafront, (3) Distance to educational facilities, (4) Availability of clean water and (5) Position of the land, whereas the double-log model also have 5 variables: (1) Distance to the seafront, (2) Distance to educational facilities, (3) Access to evacuation routes, (4) Availability of clean water and (5) Position of the land. Novelty – The possibility of earthquake and tsunami threat in the future has raised a new parameter associated with the environment in the city of Padang, namely land distance towards the seafront. The findings of the study contribute the understanding in land pricing."""
Q24|From Land Grants to Loan Farms: Property Rights and the Extent of Settlement in Dutch South Africa, 1652-1750|This paper examines a paradox in the formation of property rights in land in the early settlement of the Dutch Cape Colony. In 1652, the Dutch East India Company (VOC) established an outpost at the Cape of Good Hope to serve VOC ships sailing between Europe and Asia. Over the next 75 years, the outpost expanded into a full-fledged VOC colony. As a thin but growing population expanded land claims to graze sheep and cattle. The VOC initially promoted settlement by extending well-specified and enforced land grants in restricted zones. But by 1714 it transitioned to accommodate rapidly expanding settlement with a more loosely specified form of property rights, the loan farm. We develop a profit-maximizing monopsony model to explain the VOC choice to transition from land grant to loan farm. We conclude that the decline in the population size and ability of the Khoikhoi, a first people who inhabited the Cape, to resist Dutch incursion was critical to the transition, as it lowered the government costs of enforcement and enabled the rapid expansion of the pastoral economy.
Q24|Private eradication of mobile public bads|We consider analytically the non-cooperative behavior of many private property owners who each controls the stock of a public bad, which can grow and spread across spatial areas. We characterize the conditions under which private property owners will control or eradicate, and determine how this decision depends on property-specific environmental features and on the behavior of other landowners. We show that high mobility or lower control by others result in lower private control. But when the marginal dynamic cost of the bad is sufficiently large, we find that global eradication may be privately optimal – in these cases, eradication arises in the non-cooperative game and is also socially optimal so there is, in effect, no externality.
Q24|Respondent Uncertainty and Ordering Effect on Willingness to Pay for Salt Marsh Conservation in the Brest Roadstead (France)|This paper explores the potential link between the sensitivity of willingness to pay (WTP) to the order of presenting bid amounts in contingent valuation questions (ordering effect) and respondent uncertainty. The resource being valued is a public project to protect salt marshes against the spread of an invasive aquatic plant in the Brest roadstead (France). Valuation uncertainty is captured through a variant of payment card format where respondents are given the opportunity to report their WTP as either a single value (Option A) or an interval of values (Option B). The ordering effect is tested using both parametric models that ignore and control for the potential sample selection bias related to the choice between Option A and Option B, as well as non-parametric models. The results suggest that (1) respondents place substantial WTP values on salt marsh conservation, and (2) the ordering effect is linked to respondent uncertainty since only uncertain respondents react differently to changes in the order of presenting bid amounts. Specifically, for uncertain respondents, putting bid amounts in ascending order yields lower welfare estimates than putting bid amounts in descending order or random order. Policy recommendations and options to deal with ordering effect are discussed.
Q24|Global Economic Growth and Agricultural Land Conversion under Uncertain Productivity Improvements in Agriculture|We study how stochasticity in the evolution of agricultural productivity interacts with economic and population growth at the global level. We use a two-sector Schumpeterian model of growth, in which a manufacturing sector produces the traditional consumption good and an agricultural sector produces food to sustain contemporaneous population. Agriculture demands land as an input, itself treated as a scarce form of capital. In our model both population and sectoral technological progress are endogenously determined, and key technological parameters of the model are structurally estimated using 1960-2010 data on world GDP, population, cropland and technological progress. Introducing random shocks to the evolution of total factor productivity in agriculture, we show that uncertainty optimally requires more land to be converted into agricultural use as a hedge against production shortages, and that it significantly affects both optimal consumption and population trajectories.
Q24|Institutional arrangements governing wetland utilization and conservation in communal areas of Zimbabwe|Wetland degradation and loss has persisted in developing countries due to existence of poor institutional frameworks supporting wetland governance. Therefore, wetland ecosystem services that support the livelihoods of most subsistence populations in rural areas are concomitantly lost. This paper explores the nature and consequences of institutional arrangements governing wetland access, utilization and conservation in six communal wetlands in Zimbabwe. Data were collected through a household survey targeting one hundred and twenty-three household heads, sixty teenagers and key informant interviews. The results of the study indicate a complex, multi-institutional involvement and the roles and relationship of participating institutions often compromise wetland resources conservation as a result of conflicts, confusion and tensions exacerbated by divergent motives. There is no homogeny in the number of institutions determining utilization at each wetland nor their degree of influence on management decisions;a situation reflecting inconsistency in existing institutional structure at communal level. Given the proximity of traditional leaders and wetland committees to the people and wetlands and the poor participation of government agencies, an institutional structure which places local institutions at the core of the governance system should be formulated. This shouldbe complemented by a clear framework which promotes co-ordination of institutional roles and clarification of their relationships in order to minimize discord in execution of their duties; a situation that currently contributes todegradation of wetland ecosystems. The necessary policy and legal framework to support such institutional framework should be put in place and resources for its operations made available. Classification JEL: Q01, Q15, Q24, Q25, Q28
Q24|Indicators on Terrestrial and Marine Protected Areas: Methodology and Results for OECD and G20 countries|This paper details a methodology for calculating the extent of terrestrial and marine protected areas recorded in the World Database on Protected Areas by country, type and IUCN management categories. The method allows the data on protected areas to be summarised in a harmonised and more detailed way than is currently available, without requiring any additional reporting by countries. When used in combination with other information about protected areas, this new indicator can help better understand the extent and focus of countries’ conservation efforts.
Q24|Fiscal Instruments for Sustainable Development: The Case of Land Taxes|Economists argue that land rent taxation is an ideal form of taxation as it causes no deadweight losses and has therefore no adverse effects on growth. Nevertheless, pure land rent taxation is rarely applied and, if so, revenues collected remain rather small. Property taxes share some of the characteristics of land taxes and generate small revenues, inter alia also in developing countries. This report revisits the case of land taxation for developing countries that are often characterized by large informal sectors, low public spending and poor tax or land administration institutions. We first provide a comprehensive overview of direct and indirect welfare and development effects of land rent taxation, ranging from increased efficiency in the fiscal system and in financing infrastructure, over environmental effects due to changes in land use to distributional effects. Barriers and constraints of implementing land taxes are also discussed, particularly the existence of a land registry, the role of administrative costs, compliance, evasion and political economy aspects. We extend this review with an in-depth analysis of current land tax systems and reform options in six case study countries. For four countries, we provide an additional quantitative analysis based on micro-simulations with household data that allow us to quantify revenues and distributional effects of various land tax regimes. Our main finding is that land taxes provide a large and untapped potential for financing governments. Formalizing and securing land tenure by establishing a land registry is a pre-condition that further provides substantial co-benefits for various sustainable development objectives. Widespread concerns regarding the feasibility and costs of implementing land taxes are rarely valid, as land taxes are in these aspects comparable to other taxes. Political will and investment in the quality of administration are, however, decisive. Considering some key principles in designing the land tax can help reduce administrative costs, avoid adverse distributional effects and increase compliance.
Q24|Cost-effectiveness of buying land for conservation versus paying land-users for conservation measures – the case of preserving an oligotrophic lake in a Natura 2000 area in North Germany|Cost-effective implementation of measures to conserve biodiversity is often a major target of conservation organisations, and choosing the correct mode of governance can be important in this context. Nature conservation organisations can, in principle, choose between two distinct modes of governance to implement conservation activities: they can (1) buy desired areas of interest and implement conservation measures themselves (buy option), or (2) offer payments to landowners to incentivize them to voluntarily preserve or create habitat on their land (compensation option). In this paper we analyse the cost-effectiveness of these two modes of governance in a case study on a conservation project in a Natura 2000 area in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. The actual costs of the buying option are compared with the potential costs of implementing the compensation option. We developed a costing framework to compare the costs of both options over time, given they generate the same ecological results on an identical project area. We find that the cost-effective solution depends, among other things, on the conservation timeframe considered and on cost components such as transaction costs, leasehold rent and land prices.
Q24|Profiles of rural households in the North—East Development region of Romania. case studies|The rural household epitomizes the central socioeconomic unit of the vernacular village. The territorial resources, livestock and human capital shape the particular features of each place and zone. The present study relies upon field research, namely a questionnaire undertaken in 354 rural households across the counties from the North-east Development Region. The main conclusions highlight visible zonal differences among them, all with clear distinctive features that draw the traditional element of each zone.
Q24|Numerical Computation of Flow Reattachment Lengthovera Backward-Facing Step at High Reynolds Number|Investigation of flow separation and reattachment length over a backward facing step are such as the subjects of fundamental fluid dynamics research. The purpose this study is measurement of reattachment length on backward facing step. For this purpose, unsteady flow over a step was simulated in a 2-D by using Computational Fluid Dynamic. Then, secondary flow was added to the 1/3 height of step. In order to, the effect of angles of 15°, 30°, 45° and 90°, expansion ratios of 1.5, 2, 3 and 4, pressure coefficient and Reynolds number with 75000 over backward facing stepwere investigated. To verify the numerical model, the velocity profile using different turbulence models was compared with experimental values in a sudden expansion. The results showed that RNG k-ε turbulent model was selected as the most suitable model to predict recirculation flow over backward facing step. The results of numerical analysis indicated that the reattachment length increase with increasing step angle, expansion ratio and Reynolds number. Also with increasing Reynolds number, when secondary flow is added to 1/3 height of step, the eddy diameters and the length of recirculation flow zone decrease. Moreover, increasing pressure coefficient led to increasing the reattachment length.
Q24|Il Consumo di Suolo. Un Focus sull’Europa|Il contributo indaga patterns spaziali, drivers ed impatti del fenomeno consumo di suolo con un focus sul territorio europeo. Particolare attenzione è dedicata agli effetti del land take, che tendono a interessare tanto la scala locale (ad esempio, qualità delle acque di falda, dissesto idrogeologico, calo della produzione alimentare) quanto quella globale in modo diretto o indiretto (ad esempio, cambiamento climatico, land grabbing, sicurezza alimentare).
Q24|La desecación de las Tablas de Daimiel (1750-1987): cambios agrarios e impactos medioambientales a partir de la interpretación del registro sedimentario|Located in a semi-arid zone of the central Iberian Peninsula, the Tablas de Daimiel National Park is a wetland of international significance that has experienced intense agricultural pressure since the eighteenth century. The impact of this is recorded in the sediments within the wetland, which have been studied by means of surveys. Several sediment anomalies have been found that were caused by an increase in agricultural activities, distinguishing this wetland from natural sedimentary behaviour. Four phases of significant disturbance have been established: the first drainage project in the 1750s, an increase in cultivated area in the surrounding land during the second half of the nineteenth century, a drainage attempt during the Spanish Second Republic and a final degradation in the second half of the twentieth century. Dated with some uncertainty due to the laboratory methods used, these disturbances have been corroborated by historical sources. In conclusion, one can establish that deforestation in the surrounding land, changes in land use, continual ploughing and drainage projects are all crucial in explaining the impoverishment of this wetland.
Q24|A fixed effects logit model of rural land conversion and zoning|Abstract We examine the effect that public facilities moratorium and minimum lot size zoning have on the conversion of rural land to residential subdivisions in fast-growing exurban areas using a natural experiment approach. Zoning ordinances are the most common growth control policy at the local level and are hypothesized to be one of the most important factors in determining the likelihood of residential development. We investigate the role of minimum lot size zoning by taking advantage of plausibly exogenous changes in zoning policies that altered the developable status of some rural land parcels in an exurban county of Ohio. A discrete-choice econometric model of land use conversion is estimated with a parcel-level temporal dataset, using conditional maximum likelihood estimation to account for the panel structure of the data and fixed effects to control for unobserved heterogeneity. Empirical evidence indicates that minimum lot size zoning has a negative effect on the likelihood of rural land conversion and that this effect is large in magnitude. Specifically, we find that a parcel that is subject to a minimum lot size zoning is between 4.4 and 6.4% less likely to be converted to residential land use. In comparison, results from a pooled model, in which the unobserved heterogeneity is left uncontrolled, suggest that minimum lot size zoning has a relatively small negative effect on the conversion probability of undeveloped land parcels. Thus, estimates that do not control for unobserved heterogeneity are likely biased toward zero.
Q24|Regulation versus subsidies in conservation with a self-interested policy maker|Abstract This article examines the following case. A set of countries produce goods from labor, government input and natural resources. Because the conservation of natural resources in any country yields utility (e.g., through biodiversity) in every country, and because there is no benevolent international government, a resident of the countries is chosen as the regulator to whom conservation policy is delegated. The countries influence the regulator by their political contributions. In this common agency setup, the following result is proven: as long as the minimum conservation standards are implemented, conservation subsidies are welfare decreasing, involving excessive conservation. This suggests that there should be no “co-financing” for designated conservation sites in the EU NATURA 2000 project.
Q24|How Valuable are National Parks? Evidence from a Proposed National Park Expansion in Alaska|We estimate the national average passive use value for Alaskan National Parks. Passive use refers to the value that individuals get from the existence of a public good without actually using it. We fi eld a questionnaire asking respondents, using the contingent valuation method, how much they would pay for a 5% expansion of Denali National Park. We fi nd that respondents are willing to pay $115 to $409 for this expansion, according our preferred speci cations. Respondents answers to questions about what motivated their support and questions about their connections to Alaska indicate that support for the expansion is driven by passive use values.
Q24|Specification of Spatial-Dynamic Externalities and Implications for Strategic Behavior in Disease Control|We propose a novel, distance- and density-dependent specification of externalities that captures spatial dynamics within and between neighboring land parcels. We use this specification to model the short- and long-distance diffusion and control of an infectious disease in two privately owned and ecologically connected vineyards. Using computational experiments to generate individual and aggregate payoffs, our results suggest that ignoring the within-parcel spatial dynamics in the model may overestimate the social cost of an externality. We find that increased resource value heterogeneity, defined as the difference in grape prices received by the two vineyards, has a detrimental impact on aggregate payoffs.
Q24|Food security, food safety and pesticides: China and the EU compared|To control pests that may damage crops during production, storage or transportation, chemical pesticides are usually used. On the one hand, the use of pesticides can help to reduce yield losses caused by pests, pathogens, and weeds and thereby help feed the world’s population; on the other hand, such agricultural practices can profoundly affect limited natural resources. Starting from these premises, the main objective of this paper is to explore the relationship between food security and food safety, while pointing out the role played in this relationship by pesticides, focusing on the case studies of the EU and China. To this purpose, the paper outlines the international framework on pesticides and the legal framework in the EU and China, analyzes pesticide markets, and considers the concerns related to their use. The overview of the situation in the EU and China allows us to identify challenges and opportunities for future developments in terms of food security and safety and food trade relationships between Europe and China. Tension and mutual disputes have occurred in the past due to increasing risks for consumers and workers handling pesticides, food scandals and difficulties in the mutual recognition of food quality certification schemes, which call for sustainable production methods.
Q24|Roads & SDGs, tradeoffs and synergies: Learning from Brazil's Amazon in distinguishing frontiers|To reduce SDG tradeoffs in infrastructure provision, and to inform searches for SDG synergies, the authors show that roads' impacts on Brazilian Amazon forests varied significantly across frontiers. Impacts varied predictably with prior development - prior roads and prior deforestation - and, further, in a pattern that suggests a potential synergy for roads between forests and urban growth. For multiple periods of roads investments, the authors estimate forest impacts for high, medium and low prior roads and deforestation. For each setting, census-tract observations are numerous. Results confirm predictions for this kind of frontier of a pattern not consistent with endogeneity, i.e., short-run forest impacts of new roads are: small for relatively high prior development; larger for medium prior development; and small for low prior development (for the latter setting, impacts in such isolated areas could rise over time, depending on interactions with conservation policies). These Amazonian results suggest 'SDG strategic' locations for infrastructure, an idea the authors note for other frontiers while highlighting major differences across frontiers and their SDG opportunities.
Q24|Indirect land use change (iLUC) revisited: An evaluation of current policy proposals|The contribution of biofuels to save greenhouse gas emissions has been challenged over the last years. A still unresolved question is how to quantify emissions from indirect land use change (iLUC). In this article we discuss the implications of uncertainties on the current policy proposals in the European Union (EU). We conclude that it is inappropriate to calculate crop-specific iLUC-emissions and to include them into binding regulation. We argue that modelling results, particularly crop-specific ones, should not be used for policy decisions. Our discussion of the current EU policy proposal suggests that a combination of an increase in the minimum emissions savings threshold and limits to biofuel production are a safe way to ensure with a high degree of certainty a climate mitigation impact of biofuels.
Q24|Export tariffs combined with public investments as a forest conservation policy instrument|The forest conservation policy instrument REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation) is designed to compensate governments of tropical countries for their efforts to conserve forests. Food insecure countries that are specialized in agriculture and have weak political institutions, are likely to face difficulties to enforce forest conservation. This article explores in how far export tariffs on agricultural goods combined with public investments, could be used as a forest conservation policy mix in such contexts. We first show empirically that structural constraints to forest conservation policies are particularly pronounced in one third of countries where REDD+ programs are planned to be rolled out. We then develop a two sector competing land use model with a domestic food producing and an exporting agricultural sector. We show that it is possible to combine export tariffs with public investments such that deforestation decreases, while agricultural production levels and food prices remain constant.
Q24|Conjunctive On- and Off-farm Surface Water Investment influence on Crop Mix and Groundwater Use on an Agricultural Landscape| The use of surface water to replace groundwater for irrigation is often viewed as an effective approach for reducing groundwater overdraft on an agricultural landscape. The expected increase in the aquifer volume in the presence of surface water does not occur unless the off-farm water price is low enough to generate a significant shift away from groundwater. There is a change in the crop pattern toward more irrigation intensive crops, and the net effect can be a rise in groundwater extraction.
Q24|Return on investment in irrigation practices in response to the rate of adoption on an agricultural landscape| Concerns about groundwater depletion from conventional agricultural irrigation in the Mississippi Delta have led to the technological innovation of more-efficient irrigation practices. With Arkansas being the largest producer of rice and the tenth largest producer of soybeans in the United States, the irrigation demand of these crops has put pressure on producers to find ways to irrigate more efficiently. Research into water conserving irrigation techniques has helped preserve water resources, maintain yields, and maximize farm profits. As groundwater levels in the Delta continue to decrease, the price of pumping water increases, making the prospect of investment in new technologies more attractive. The paper will address potential returns on investment in efficient irrigation practices for furrow irrigated soybeans and flood irrigated rice. The depletion of the aquifer and the return on investment from efficient irrigation practices depends on the well-pumping decision of farms across the landscape. More farms adopting the efficiency-enhancing practices will increase the return on investment in those practices because these methods stabilize groundwater levels across the landscape. We explore how the rate of adoption of efficient irrigation practices on the landscape ultimately influence the return on investment.
Q24|Grassland Easement Evaluation and Acquisition: an Integrated Framework| Efficient grassland easement management requires correct evaluation and cost-effective acquisition of easements. We develop an integrated theoretical framework to study grassland easement evaluation and acquisition. Grassland tracts can be either kept under grass gaining grazing returns or converted to cropland generating cropping returns. Under a two-period framework, grassland owners choose an optimal action from ‘convert now,’ ‘ease now,’ and ‘wait and see’ in period one to maximize total expected returns over the two periods, while taking easement payment from an easement agency as given. The easement agency, however, aims to maximize the increase in expected environmental benefits arising from a budget-constrained easement acquisition program. We find that a mean preserving spread of the difference between cropping returns and grazing returns increases the value from action ‘wait and see’ and the minimum easement payment that landowners are willing to accept (i.e., the easement value). This change will decrease conversion probability in period one. If distribution of cropping returns and grazing returns undergo a shift such that they become larger in the supermodular order sense, then the easement value decreases and the period-one conversion probability increases. Therefore, the easement value and period-one conversion probability may go opposite directions, which indicates that an assumption commonly used in conservation literature (i.e., the larger the conversion probability the higher the easement value) may not hold. Solutions to the easement agency’s problem show that a grassland tract whose owner chooses ‘wait and see’ in period one should not be acquired in that period. An easement acquisition index is developed to rank acquisition priority for different grassland tracts.
Q24|The Effects of Land Markets on Resource Allocation and Agricultural Productivity|We assess the role of land markets on factor misallocation in Ethiopia--where land is owned by the state--by exploiting policy-driven variation in land rentals across time and space arising from a recent land certification reform. Our main finding from detailed micro data is that land rentals significantly reduce misallocation and increase agricultural productivity. These effects are nonlinear across farms--impacting more those farms farther away from their efficient operational scale. The effect of land rentals on productivity is 70 percent larger when controlling for non-market rentals--those with a pre-harvest rental rate of zero. Land rentals significantly increase the adoption of new technologies, especially fertilizer use.
Q24|Analysing Adoption of Soil Conservation Measures by Farmers in Darjeeling District, India|The study attempts to assess the key determinants of the decision to adopt soil conservation. The study area is Teesta River Watershed, in Darjeeling District in the Eastern Himalayas. In this watershed, there have been soil conservation interventions both by the individual farmers on their own farm and by the government at the sub-watershed level. The data for this study was collected through a primary survey conducted during 2013. The distinguishing feature of our analysis is that it explicitly accounts for possible neighbourhood effects in influencing adoption. This is captured both by identifying adoption practices among farmers who are immediately upstream, and using spatial econometric techniques that incorporate the spatial distance between neighbouring farms. We use Bayesian formulation of a standard probit model in conjunction with Markov Chain Monte Carlo to estimate the model. The findings suggest strong and positive evidence of neighbourhood impact on farmers in making soil conservation decisions. We also examine if adoption decisions differ between farmers residing in treated and untreated sub-watershed and conclude that they do not. Knowledge about the magnitude and extent of spatial dependency can help the Government in designing better policies to promote the adoption of soil conservation practices at a lower cost.
Q24|Fondo de Tierras del Acuerdo Agrario de la Habana: Estimaciones y propuestas alternativas|El primer punto del Acuerdo de La Habana [y del Teatro Colón], “Hacia un nuevo campo colombiano: una reforma rural integral”, promueve la asignación de tierras a familias campesinas que carecen de tierra o tienen tierra insuficiente. Para esto, propone la creación de un Fondo de Tierras, que será destinado a la adjudicación de tierras, y la formalización de la propiedad. Tres son los objetivos de este documento. Primero, el documento realiza un análisis histórico de los procesos de adjudicación de tierras emprendidos por el Estado colombiano desde finales del siglo XIX hasta hoy. Segundo, estima la oferta de tierras disponible para alcanzar los objetivos del Acuerdo Agrario. Tercero, hace una exploración tentativa de la demanda potencial de tierras. El total de hectáreas potencialmente disponibles para el Fondo de Tierras es 2.7 millones. Tras añadir los baldíos y otras tierras de dominio estatal adjudicables, la oferta de tierras podría incrementar entre 3.9 y 5.3 millones hectáreas. La formalización de predios restituidos a la población desplazada podría alcanzar 4.6 millones de hectáreas. Al añadir las tres fuentes, la asignación de tierras en el marco del acuerdo agrario podría ascender entre 11.2 y 12.6 millones de hectáreas.
Q24|Land inequality and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon|The aim of this paper is to demonstrate the relationship between land inequality and deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. Therefore, it is developed an occupational choice model where an individual decides whether to become a farmer in an already established place or to move in search of economic opportunities and land to clear at the agricultural frontier. This model provides theoretical predictions that are tested empirically. Based on data from 515 municipalities, this paper estimates a Tobit model in order to test the theoretical predictions. Basically, it has been shown that there is little statistical evidence to support the existence of a direct relationship between land inequality and deforestation. Nevertheless, when one takes into account the effects of land inequality on deforestation through its interaction with credit and land reform policies, it can be shown that the pattern of land distribution, indeed, plays a role for deforestation. There is a positive relationship between credit and deforestation in more unequal places. Furthermore, this paper provides evidence that land reform in more unequal municipalities reduces deforestation. Hence, it is clear that there is a role for government to increase social welfare and reduce deforestation rates.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q24|When Does Public Information Undermine the Efficiency of Reverse Auctions for the Purchase of Ecosystem Services?|Government agencies that conduct reverse auctions related to the Payment of Ecosystem Services (PES) traditionally provide a significant amount of public information about past auction results. This information includes not only the amount of money spent by the government but also can include various information about the accepted bids. This research uses induced-value experiments to evaluate the effect of past auction information on seller (landholder) rent seeking. Results suggest that sellers use this public information and learn how to secure higher rents. However, when sellers are given information only about the buyer's (government agency's) budget, they secure lower rents. Results also suggest that relative budget size affects rents and that budget stochastic variability in the presence of market information diminishes the effect. Thus, in the presence of public information and equivalent total outlays, variable budgets are more likely than stationary budgets to achieve auction fiscal efficiency—the measure of whether the auction achieves the greatest PES benefits given its limited budget. Finally, this research finds that auctions with greater heterogeneity in seller opportunity costs are likely to be less fiscally efficient than when the distribution is more homogeneous.
Q24|Identifying the impacts of critical habitat designation on land cover change|The US Endangered Species Act (ESA) regulates what landowners, land managers, and industry can do on lands occupied by listed species. The ESA does this in part by requiring the designation of habitat within each listed species’ range considered critical to their recovery. Critics have argued that critical habitat (CH) designation creates significant economic costs while contributing little to species recovery. Here we examine the effects of CH designation on land cover change. We find that the rate of change from 1992 to 2011 in developed (urban and residential) and agricultural land in CH areas was not significantly different compared to similar lands without CH designation, but still subject to ESA regulations. Although CH designation on average does not affect overall rates of land cover change, CH designation did slightly modify the impact of land cover change drivers. Generally, variation in land prices played a larger role in land cover decisions within CH areas than in similar areas without CH designation. These trends suggest that developers may require a greater than typical expected return to development in CH areas to compensate for the higher risk of regulatory scrutiny. Ultimately, our results bring into question the very rationale for the CH regulation. If it is for the most part not affecting land cover choices, is CH helping species recover?
Q24|Using National Statistics to Increase Transparency of Large Land Acquisition: Evidence from Ethiopia|Almost a decade after the rise in land demand triggered by the 2007/08 commodity price boom, most potential target countries still lack access to relevant information on a routine basis. This has reduced their ability to effectively regulate, monitor, and attract responsible investors rather than speculators in their effort to increase agricultural productivity and have benefits accrue to the host communities. The example of Ethiopia shows how building on existing data collection efforts allows to address this challenge and help formulate policies that guide the path forward. Using the 2013/14 nationally representative smallholder and commercial farm surveys, we find that (i) for most crops commercial farms’ yields are higher than smallholders’, with a peak in the 10–20-ha bracket; (ii) commercial farms create few permanent jobs (with just one permanent job per 20ha) and use only 55% of the land transferred to them; and (iii) after a peak in 2008, formation of new commercial farms is down to the pre-2007 levels. These findings imply that having reliable data on commercial farms, collected on regular intervals, could generate feedback loops for policy formulation and also provide vital information to assess and take regulatory actions aimed at improving the performance and attracting higher levels of investment to the sector.
Q24|Optimal rice land protection in a command economy|Agricultural land protection (ALP) is a standard policy response to growing food security concerns driven by urbanisation, population growth and uncertainty over climate change. However, if not supported by rigorous analysis, at least in terms of the correct scale of protection, ALP may result in a misallocation of resources, hampering economic efficiency and prosperity. Examining rice land policy in Vietnam, this paper aims to determine the optimal level of rice land protected against other crops and evaluates the impact of adopting the optimal policy. With a stochastic optimization model built on top of a computable general equilibrium framework and microsimulation techniques, applied to Vietnam's social accounting matrix and household survey data, we find that converting part of protected rice land into other crops enhances economic efficiency. While the efficiency gain could amount to billions of dollars, income inequality only improves slightly. Overall, the policy is relatively pro-rich, implying a trade-off between poverty reduction and economic efficiency for Vietnam, making some households in already poor areas worse off. Though calibrated to a specific case, our approach can be applied in land-use planning generally, highlighting the relevant tradeoffs and the search for needed optimal land-use policies.
Q24|Logging concessions, certification and protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon: forest impacts from development rights and land-use restrictions|Economic activities (agriculture, logging, mining) drive tropical forest loss, so balancing development and conservation involves tradeoffs â€“ as well as synergies. Conservation policies, such as protected areas (PAs), may save more forest when they include some development rights (Pfaff et al. 2014). There is less evidence about when development policies, such as logging concessions, include some conservation restrictions. The right to log creates an incentive for private firms to defend their forest assets, although firms could raise or reduce forest loss depending upon their capacities to defend, their motivations to log and public oversight. Reduced loss may be rewarded through voluntary certification or third-party oversight of logging practices, whose impact we hypothesize depends upon firmsâ€™ logging motivations and their capacities to restrict loss. To shed empirical light, we examine forest impacts from rights and restrictions within the Peruvian Amazon during 2000-2013, removing biases using location and year effects. Compared to control forests outside of concessions and PAs, we find PAs reduce tree-cover loss âˆ’ while those PAs that include development rights save more forest than strict PAs, for each region. Logging concessions reduce forest loss in Madre de Dios, yet they increase loss in Ucayali. Certification has an impact â€“ 1% reduction in 2000-2013 forest loss âˆ’ only in Madre de Dios, consistent with higher certification impacts if private firms choose to restrict loss.
Q24|Land-use regulations, property values, and rents: Decomposing the effects of the California Coastal Act|Land-use regulations can lower real estate prices by imposing costs on property owners, but may raise prices by restricting supply and generating amenities. We study the effects of the California Coastal Act, one of the nation’s most stringent land-use regulations, on the price and rental income of multifamily housing. The Coastal Act applies to a narrow section of the California coast, allowing us to compare properties just on either side of the jurisdictional boundary. The setting is advantageous for the study of land-use regulation: boundary location is plausibly exogenous, which we confirm with historical data on boundary placement, and orthogonal to other jurisdictional divisions. We decompose the effects of the regulation into (i) a neighbor effect, the value of restrictions on adjacent properties, (ii) a local effect, which reflects the net effect of own-lot restrictions and the neighbor effect, and (iii) an external effect, the value of amenities generated by restrictions on all properties within the regulated area. Our analysis of multifamily housing prices reveals local and external effects of approximately +6% and +13%, respectively. We use data on rental income to estimate a zero neighbor effect. Together with evidence on building ages and assessed building and land values, this suggests that property owners anticipate that the Coastal Act will provide protection from undesirable development on adjacent properties, even though material differences have not yet appeared.
Q24|Q - Quemas y chaqueo|Resumen de la situación de la deforestación en Bolivia, 1990 - 2015
Q24|Emisiones Netas de Carbono Provenientes de la Deforestación en Bolivia durante 1990-2000 y 2000-2010: Resultados de un modelo de “Contabilidad de Carbono”|Este documento de investigación estima las emisiones netas de carbono provenientes del cambio en el uso de tierra en Bolivia durante los periodos 1990 – 2000 y 2000 – 2010 utilizando un modelo de contabilidad de carbono que incluye deforestación, degradación de bosques, regeneración de bosques, descomposición y recomposición gradual de carbono, así como la heterogeneidad de los contenidos de carbono sobresuelo y bajo-tierra en una grilla de 10 por 10 km. El enfoque permite elaborar mapas detallados de emisiones netas por región y por tipo de vegetación. Se estima que las emisiones netas de CO2 provenientes del cambio en el uso de tierra en Bolivia incrementaron de 65 millones de toneladas por año durante 1990-2000 a 93 millones de toneladas por año durante la década del 2000-2010, aproximadamente. Se encontró que las emisiones de CO2 per cápita y por unidad de PIB se mantienen estables entre los periodos señalados. Sin embargo, si se considera la evidencia de un incremento de la biomasa en bosques maduros, las emisiones netas de CO2 descienden hasta cerca de cero.
Q24|Tradeoffs among multiple ecosystem services and economic returns from groundwater depletion on a farm landscape| Groundwater overdraft has long-run consequences for the crops grown, the economic viability of the agricultural community, and the ecosystem services from the landscape. We investigate how groundwater scarcity affects the tradeoff of economic returns and ecosystem services (namely, groundwater supply, surface water quality, and greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions) in the Mississippi Delta farm production region of Arkansas, USA. As groundwater is more depleted, farmers are turning to conjunctive water management with on-farm reservoirs and tail water recovery. Distinct objectives either for economic returns and for ecosystem service guide whether on-farm reservoirs are built amidst a backdrop of cropping and irrigation decisions. Reservoirs enable the landscape to sustain a higher level of economic returns and ecosystem services. This is done through a synergy of economic returns, groundwater conservation, and GHG reductions that lowers irrigation costs and reduces the fuel combustion and associated GHGs from groundwater pumping.
Q24|"""Too small to farm, too big to mow”: The impact of large-lot zoning on the exurban landscape"| This study looks for one unintended consequence of large-lot zoning: the possibility that it will increase the amount of land converted from rural land cover to suburban lawn, even as it reduces the number of homes that are built in a community. This is one definition of “urban sprawl.” Few zoning studies consider selection bias in the choice of the zoning treatment. When the dependent variable measures parcel development (0 or 1) or land cover change (% of land converted), controls for selection bias are even less common, because these models employ nonlinear link functions. The present study uses inverse propensity score weighting to control for selection bias across six zoning classes in a study of the percentage of land cover change in northwestern New Jersey from 1995 to 2002
Q24|Perceived, measured, and estimated soil fertility in east Africa: Implications for farmers and researchers| Bringing together emerging lessons from biophysical and social sciences as well as newly available data, we take stock of what can be learned about the relationship among perceived soil fertility, measured soil fertility, and farmer management practices in east Africa. We identify the correlates of Kenyan and Tanzanian maize farmers’ reported perceptions of soil fertility and assess the extent to which these subjective assessments reflect measured soil chemistry. Our results offer evidence that farmers base their perceptions of soil quality and soil type on crop yields. We also find that, in Kenya, farmers’ reported soil type is a reasonable predictor of several objective soil fertility indicators while farmer-reported soil quality is not. In addition, in exploring the extent to which publicly available soil data are adequate to capture local soil chemistry realities, we find that there is still immense value to the time-consuming collection of soil samples where highly accurate soil measures are important to research objectives. However, in the estimation of agricultural production or profit functions, where the focus is on averages and where there is low variability in the soil properties, there may be limited value to including any soil information in the analysis.
Q24|The ISO 14001 Standard and Firms’ Environmental Performance: Evidence from the U.S. Transportation Equipment Manufacturers| Manufacturers have relied on environmental management systems to meet government environmental regulations, enhance their environmental performance, and reduce their impact on the environment. We investigate the impact of ISO 14001 certification on manufacturers’ toxic release levels. We applied the censored quantile instrumental variable estimator (CQIV) to data on U.S. transportation equipment manufacturing subsector facilities. Results show that for large firms, encouraging voluntary adoption of ISO 14001 might be an effective government strategy to reduce on-site pollution. However, for small firms and for the purpose of reducing off-site pollution, other economic incentives or regulations might be warranted.
Q24|Adaptation to natural disasters through the agricultural land rental market: evidence from Bangladesh|We examine the effects of natural disaster exposure on agricultural households who simultaneously make rent-in and rent-out decisions in the land rental market. Our econometric approach accounts for the effects of disaster exposure both on the adjustments in the quantity of operated land (i.e. extensive margin) and agricultural yield conditional on the land quantity adjustments (i.e. intensive margin), based on selectivity-corrected samples of rental market participants. Employing a household survey dataset from Bangladesh, we find that farmers were able to ameliorate their losses from exposure to disasters by optimizing their operational farm size through participation in the land rental market. These results are robust to alternative specifications. This suggests that the land rental market may be an effective instrument reducing disaster risk, and post-disaster policies should take into account this role more systematically.
Q24|Dynamic modeling of bundled tillage-crop choices: impact of soil erodibility on the interactions between continuous conservation tillage and crop rotations in Iowa| Recent agronomic and soil science research draws attention to the importance of continuous conservation tillage (CCT), as many environmental benefits of this conservation tillage are realized only when it is used continuously over a period of years. However, little is known about the dynamics of farmers’ tillage choices. To address the need for quantitative estimates of time patterns of tillage practices and the factors that affect the use of CCT, the paper to be presented develops and estimates a dynamic model of bundled tillage-crop choices for the state of Iowa. We develop a first-order, four-state Markov chain model of tillage-crop dynamics for corn and soybean production systems. We assume that matrixes of transition from one tillage-crop state to another could vary by county but remain stationary from 1992 to 1997, and use quadratic programming to estimate the transition matrix for each of the 99 counties in the state using county-average, year–and crop–specific tillage data from Conservation Technology Information Center for 1992-1997. Analysis of Variance of the estimated county-specific transition matrixes shows that CCT occurs more often on Highly Erodible Land (HEL) when compared to other cropland. Also, the county-average probabilities of rotational conservation tillage (RCT), i.e., the farming systems in which CT is rotated with conventional tillage systems, are higher in the counties that have higher proportion of HEL. In addition, we identified a significant effect of crop rotations on tillage dynamics: the cropland under corn monoculture is less likely to be in RCT when compared to land in corn-soybean rotation. The results of the study indicate that both natural conditions (soil erodibility) and other economic choices (crop rotations) affect farmers’ choices of CCT and RCT in Iowa.
Q24|The effect of endangered species regulations on local employment: Evidence from the listing of the lesser prairie chicken| The U.S. Endangered Species Act is often criticized as pitting people against species by conserving habitat at the cost of jobs. Critics of current conservation policies argue that the protection of species is stripping landowners of their property rights and putting people in industries tied to resource extraction out of jobs. While changes in employment are important measures of the public costs of endangered species protection, relatively little is known about the labor market impacts of listing a species under the Endangered Species Act. We examine changes in employment associated with the lesser prairie chicken, an imperiled bird that was listed as threatened in May 2014. Using monthly county-level employment data and variation in potential prairie chicken habitat, we apply a difference-in-differences strategy to measure the employment impacts of the listing decision. We find evidence that employment declined after the listing by about 1% in counties with habitat relative to non-habitat areas. We also find that the impact is proportional to habitat, so counties with the most prairie-chicken habitat experienced the largest impacts on employment.
Q24|The Debate about Farm Nitrates and Drinking Water|No abstract is available for this item.
Q24|Inconvenient Truths about Landowner (Un)Willingness to Grow Dedicated Bioenergy Crops|No abstract is available for this item.
Q24|The feasibility, costs, and environmental implications of large-scale biomass energy|What are the feasibility, costs, and environmental implications of large-scale bioenegry? We investigate this question by developing a detailed representation of bioenergy in a global economy-wide model. We develop a scenario with a global carbon dioxide price, applied to all anthropogenic emissions except those from land use change, that rises from $25 per metric ton in 2015 to $99 in 2050. This creates market conditions favorable to biomass energy, resulting in global non-traditional bioenergy production of ~150 exajoules (EJ) in 2050. By comparison, in 2010, global energy production was primarily from coal (138 EJ), oil (171 EJ), and gas (106 EJ). With this policy, 2050 emissions are 42% less in our Base Policy case than our Reference case, although extending the scope of the carbon price to include emissions from land use change would reduce 2050 emissions by 52% relative to the same baseline. Our results from various policy scenarios show that lignocellulosic (LC) ethanol may become the major form of bioenergy, if its production costs fall by amounts predicted in a recent survey and ethanol blending constraints disappear by 2030; however, if its costs remain higher than expected or the ethanol blend wall continues to bind, bioelectricity and bioheat may prevail. Higher LC ethanol costs may also result in the expanded production of first-generation biofuels (ethanol from sugarcane and corn) so that they remain in the fuel mix through 2050. Deforestation occurs if emissions from land use change are not priced, although the availability of biomass residues and improvements in crop yields and conversion efficiencies mitigate pressure on land markets. As regions are linked via international agricultural markets, irrespective of the location of bioenergy production, natural forest decreases are largest in regions with the lowest barriers to deforestation. In 2050, the combination of carbon price and bioenergy production increases food prices by 3.2%–5.2%, with bioenergy accounting for 1.3%–3.5%.
Q24|Agricultural and non-agricultural determinants of Italian farmland values| Interest towards farmland market has been increasing in recent years. In developing countries there is a rising concern about land being purchased by foreign investors, while in the developed world the debate is focused on whether agricultural factors are still the main determinants of land values or not. This work assesses the determinants of land values in Italy using TSCS data techniques during the time span 1992-2013. In Italy farmland values have historically been influenced more by natural characteristics of the land than agricultural prices. However, lately non-agricultural factors have been increasing their importance. We find that the main determinants of Italian farmland prices are population density, GDP per capita, land productivity, agricultural prices and farm subsidies. In the case of vineyards, changing rainfall patterns due to climate change have also a significant impact. Environmental regulations for livestock farms positively affects arable land values.
Q24|Effects of Climate Variability and Change on Agricultural Production: The Case of Small-Scale Farmers in Kenya| Agriculture is the mainstay of the Kenyan economy with an estimated GDP share of 26 percent in 2012, and thus remains an important contributor to employment and food security of rural populations. Climate variability and change have adversely affected this sector. This situation is expected to worsen in the future if the latest findings of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) are anything to go by. We estimate the effect of climate variability and change on crop revenue and on maize and tea revenue separately using household panel data collected between 2000 and 2010 in rural Kenya. Effect of climate variability and change is estimated using a fixed effects estimator. Findings show that climate variability and change affect agricultural production but differs across different crops. Temperature has negative effect on crop and maize revenues but positive one on tea while rainfall has negative effect on tea incomes. Long-term effects of climate change on crop production are larger than short-term effects, requiring farmers to adapt effectively and build their resilience. We find that tea relies on stable temperatures and consistent rainfall patterns and any excess would negatively affect the production. Climate change will adversely affect agriculture in 2020, 2030 and 2040 with greater effects in tea sector if nothing is done. Therefore, rethinking about the likely harmful effects of rising temperature and increasing rainfall uncertainty should be a priority in Kenya. It is important to invest in adaptation measures at national, county and farm level as well as implementing policies that prevent destruction of the natural environment in order to address the challenges posed by climate variability and change.
Q24|Deforestation Rate in the Long-run: the Case of Brazil|In this article we study the long-run average rate of forest conversion in Brazil. Deforestation results from the following trade-off: on the one hand, the uncertain value of benefits associated with forest conservation (biodiversity, carbon sequestration and other ecosystem services), on the other hand, the economic profits associated with land development (agriculture, ranching, etc.). We adopt the model by Bulte et al. (2002) as theoretical frame for studying land conversion and then derive, following Di Corato et al. (2013), the associated long-run average rate of forest conversion. We then identify the parameters to be used in our model. The object of our simulation is Brazil and 27 states. Our aim is to compute under several scenarios the time required to develop the remaining forested land in these states. We provide potential future scenarios, in terms of forest coverage, for the next 20, 100 and 200 years. Our results suggest that the uncertainty characterizing forest benefits plays a relevant role in deterring deforestation. We find that these benefits, if growing at a sufficiently high rate, may significantly slow down the conversion process. In contrast, a higher volatility accelerates the process of deforestation. We indicate the Brazilian states where forests are expected to be saturated earlier. In this respect, we find that forestland currently available may be expected to be fully converted within a 200-year horizon.
Q24|Land Requirement, Feedstock Haul Distance, and Expected Cost Consequences of Restricting Switchgrass Production to Marginal Land| Energy crop production has been proposed for land of poor quality to avoid competition with food production and negative indirect land use consequences. The objective of this study was to determine the land area requirements, biomass transportation distance, and expected cost consequences of restricting switchgrass biomass production, for use as biofuel feedstock, to marginal land relative to unrestricted land use. The USA soils capability classification system was used to differentiate between high quality land (Class I) and land of marginal quality (Class IV). Switchgrass biomass yield distributions were simulated for each of four land capability classes for counties in the Eastern Oklahoma case study region. For a 70 million gallons per year cellulosic ethanol biorefinery, restricting land use to capability Class IV (defined as marginal) increases the quantity of land required to support the biorefinery by 47%; increases biomass trucking distance by 218%; increases cost to delivery feedstock by 13%; and increases the expected cost to produce a gallon of ethanol by $0.19. In the absence of government restrictions, for-profit companies are not likely to limit energy crop production to land of marginal quality.
Q24|Restricting Switchgrass Biomass Feedstock Production to Marginal Land to Limit Competition with Food Production| Production of switchgrass as a dedicated energy crop in the U.S. was proposed as a way to produce valuable products on millions of acres that had been bid from traditional crop production by a variety of federal programs. The objective of the present study is to determine the expected economic consequences in terms of cost to deliver biomass feedstock, from restricting switchgrass production to marginal land for a case study region, when (a) land use is restricted to class IV; (b) land use is restricted to classes III and IV; and (c) use of land capability classes I, II, III, and IV is permitted. A mathematical programming model was constructed and solved to determine the optimal quantity, location, and quality of the land leased. For the case study region, restricting land use to only capability class IV increases the land requirement by 44% and increases the cost to deliver feedstock by 32% compared to when switchgrass production is permitted on land classes I-IV.
Q24|Externalities, Profit, and Land Stewardship: Conflicting Motives for Soil and Water Conservation Adoption Among Absentee Landowners and On-farm Producers| Best-worst scaling, also called maximum-difference scaling, is used to rank the most important to least important benefits and characteristics of a conservation practice during the adoption decision-making processes of agricultural producers and non-farming/absentee landowners. Both groups are found to rank and value the attributes and reasons for adoption of conservation practices differently at the 95% significance level. Producers rank “practice benefits the farm ecosystem” as the most important consideration when making conservation practice decisions on their operation 29.7% of the time. This is followed closely by the attribute, “practice improves profit,” which is chosen as the best reason by 29.4% of producers. Non-farming/absentee landowners rank, “practice benefits the farm ecosystem” as the most important factor 33.4% of the time, but they choose, “practice improves profit” only 23.4%. This difference, combined with variations in the rankings of the reasons for adopting conservation practices between the two groups reinforces the importance of land tenure in decision making. This indicates the need for both new extension educational efforts and economic incentives to reduce negative externalities from sediment loading and eutrophication that could be ameliorated from increased adoption of soil and water conservation.
Q24|Evaluating Benefits and Costs of Cover Crops in Cotton Production System in Northwest Louisiana| Cover crop adoption by producers as part of a production cycle depends on their objectives regrading time management, cost vs benefits, and environmental obligations. A myriad of studies that examined the economics of cover crops found them to be often idiosyncratic, i.e., results depend on the region, weather patterns, soil type, and management practices. The studies determined that lack of long-term economic outlook for the incorporation of cover crops as one of the factors for their minimal adoption in many parts of the country. Thus, we aim to assess the economic impact of long-term adoption of cover crops as part of a production cycle. Partial budgeting tool, CoverCropEconomics, is used to generate the overall costs and benefits. The data on agronomic variables, i.e., yield, organic matter, applied nitrogen, soil microbial counts, and among others are obtained from a 30-year cover crop research conducted in Northwest Louisiana. The research reported a significant increase in yield for crops planted following cover crops. Additionally, research shows improvements in soil nitrogen and soil organic matter suggesting added profits to the farmer. Accounting for those economic and agronomic variables, overall long term net benefits of incorporating cover crops amount to 1,354 per acre, with majority of the benefits contribution through yield increase of cash crop. The results can be useful for conservation agencies to evaluate their current incentive payments toward cover crop adoption.
Q24|Brinkmanship on the Commons: A Laboratory Experiment Related to African Pulaar Herders| Heterogeneous forage utilization by free ranging livestock in Senegal have been observed. This research addresses the changes in production practices and short run strategic implications of remittance investment in livestock. The resulting model is one of brinksmanship leading to a war-of-attrition over resource use. Laboratory experiments demonstrate heterogeneous outcomes ranging from cooperative economically efficient to heavier exploitation of the resource. Though consistent with the findings from past long run analyses, these results are largely due to mixed strategies and behavioral attributes, such as assertive and aggressive behaviors not previously identified.
Q24|The Presence Of Conservation Reserve Program Contracts And Their Effect On Kansas Agricultural Land Values| Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) contracts take land out of production for at least ten years, hindering production flexibility in exchange for a guaranteed annual payment. This article analyzes the question of whether having a CRP contract on a parcel of land changes that parcel’s value by employing a hedonic model using data from 2005-2014 on agricultural land sales in Kansas. Results indicate CRP contracts reduce sale price by an average of 11 percent. However, the reduction in sale price is larger in periods of high farm profitability and smaller in periods of low farm profitability.
Q24|Improving Access to Livestock Markets for Sustainable Rangeland Management| Productivity of rangelands in Kenya is affected by increasing crop farming especially in more fertile range areas. Among the key factors driving the encroachment of crops on rangelands are the changing opportunities brought about by markets. We hypothesize that the existing market inefficiencies characterizing livestock markets, especially the price disincentives that livestock producers face, are major risks rangelands face. To analyze the effect of livestock market conditions on rangeland management, we draw on household survey and economic modeling tools. We find that traders’ rent seeking behavior and high transport costs act as disincentives to livestock producers’ participation in livestock markets and influence their decisions in seeking alternative rangeland uses to sustain livelihoods. However, improved livestock market access enhances livestock producers’ livelihoods and the stewardship of the ecosystems thus reducing pastoralists’ vulnerability to ecological climate variability associated with rangelands.
Q24|An agent based analysis of the impacts of land use restriction and network structures on participation in conservation reserve programs| Conservation covenants are a policy tool for biodiversity and environmental conservation on private lands. They are associated with the withdrawal of development rights by the landholder over a particular piece of land in exchange for financial benefits. Previous studies suggest that existing network structure could influence an individual’s decision to enrol in conservation programs, but there is a lack of comparative analysis of network types to promote more cost-effective results. In this paper, we develop an agent based simulation model to demonstrate the evolution and impact of future land use restrictions on the enrolment of landholders in conservation covenant programs under different network structure. We observe that the nature of the network has a significant impact on program performance. We obtain a lower response to (and higher cost of) conservation covenanting programs when agents are part of a random matching network compared to other networks options. On the other hand, program costs are lower when agents are part of a local uniform matching network. The outcomes indicate that it might be beneficial for the representations to conduct network analysis the project planning stage to fix their programs more attractive to the landowners.
Q24|Economics of Coastal Erosion and Adaptation to Sea Level Rise|This article provides a review and synthesis of geoeconomic models that are used to analyze coastal erosion management and shoreline change. We outline a generic framework for analyzing risk-mitigating and/or recreation-enhancing policy interventions within a dynamic framework, and we review literature that informs the nature and extent of net benefit flows associated with coastal management. Using stated preference analysis, we present new estimates on household preferences for shoreline erosion management, including costs associated with ecological impacts of management. Lastly, we offer some guidance on directions for future research.
Q24|The economic analysis of the forest transition|The forest transition describes a reversal or turnaround in longrun land-use trends for a country or region from a period of net forest area loss to net gain. Such forest recovery has occurred in high-income economies, and increasingly in developing countries. Although this process has been studied extensively by geographers, social scientists and historians, only recently has it been analyzed by economists. This contribution has focused on how competing land use values result in changing patterns of use that lead to an increase or decrease in forest cover. A simple model of forest transition is developed to illustrate this approach in the literature. Empirical applications attempt to explain the underlying economic factors, including governance and institutions, which determine the long-run transition in land use values and patterns. The various findings of these analyses have important policy implications, including for REDD+ and other forest recovery programs.
Q24|Forest land value and rotation with an alternative land use|We solve Faustmann's problem when the land manager plans to switch from the current tree species to some alternative species or land use. Such situations occur when the value of the alternative increases relative to the value of the species currently in place. The paper characterizes the land value function and the optimum rotations, highlighting the differences between this non-autonomous problem and the traditional Faustmann problem. We show that, from one harvest to the next until the switch, rotations can be constant and equal to the Faustmann rotation, or increasingly higher than the Faustmann rotation, or decreasingly lower. In the last two situations, the higher the number of previous harvests of the currently planted species before the switch to the alternative use, the closer the last rotation is to the Faustmann rotation.
Q24|Social And Ethical Challenges Of Using Biomass - A Renewable Energy Source|Biomass, along with other renewable energy sources (solar, wind power, hydropower, etc.) is the alternative energy to conventional energy sources. The need of alternative energy sources is given by the increase in energy demand associated with the reduction of conventional sources. They are supplemented by society efforts for reducing the global warming. Thus the biomass use is enthusiastically received and supported by numerous development policies. Nevertheless, the use of biomass to obtain energy involves negative effects on society and also on the environment, generating concerns about the ethics of human actions. All these concerns regarding the biomass use can be prevented and ameliorated by a legislative framework that integrates among the economic and environmental, social and ethical principles. Because without a set of ethical principles aimed at fairness between individuals, social responsibility and also intrinsic value of the biosphere, challenges and problems generated by the use of renewable resources will be intensified
Q24|Collective Property Leads to Household Investments: Lessons From Land Titling in Afro-Colombian Communities|In the developing world, collective land titling has become an important tool for recognizing the historical presence of ethnic communities and safeguarding their rights to occupy and manage their territories. However, little is known about the average impact of these titling processes on the well-being of these communities. In this paper we attempt to estimate the impact of collective land titling in territories inhabited by Afro-descendent communities in Colombia. We compare rural districts in titled areas with rural districts in untitled areas that are similar in all the relevant observable characteristics. We find that the collective titling process in the Chocó region has caused an increase in average household per capita income, a decrease in extreme poverty, larger investments in housing, higher attendance rates among children in primary education, and a decrease in housing overcrowding. Our results suggest that collective land titling creates a more secure natural resource base and a longer time horizon for households in collective territories, which leads to investment in their private physical and human capital.
Q24|La Propiedad Colectiva Mejora las Inversiones de los Hogares: Lecciones de la Titulación de Tierras a las Comunidades Afrocolombianas|La titulación colectiva de la tierra n el mundo en desarrollo se ha convertido en una importante herramienta para reconocer la presencia histórica de las comunidades étnicas y salvaguardar sus derechos a ocupar y administrar sus territorios. Sin embargo, poco se conoce sobre el impacto promedio de estos procesos de titulación sobre el bienestar de estas comunidades. En este trabajo se intenta estimar el impacto de la titulación colectiva de la tierra en los territorios habitados por comunidades afro descendientes en Colombia. Mediante una estimación del Análisis de Covarianza (ANCOVA), comparamos veredas (distritos sub-municipales rurales) que tienen áreas con titulación colectiva de tierras frente a veredas que no tienen áreas tituladas colectivamente y que son similares en todas las características observables. Encontramos que el proceso de titulación colectiva en el departamento del Chocó ha causado un aumento en el promedio del ingreso per cápita de la familia, mayores inversiones en vivienda, mayores tasas de asistencia para los niños en educación primaria, y una disminución en el hacinamiento en el hogar. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la titulación colectiva crea una base de recursos naturales más segura y un mayor horizonte de tiempo para las familias en los territorios colectivos, que conduce a la inversión privada en su capital físico y humano.
Q24|Conservación de la naturaleza en propiedad privada: las Reservas Naturales de la Sociedad Civil en el Valle del Cauca|Las Reservas Naturales de la Sociedad Civil en Colombia cumplen un papel importante en la conservación de ecosistemas. En este trabajo se investiga por qué los dueños de áreas privadas en el departamento del Valle del Cauca conservan la naturaleza en sus propiedades. Se consideran las explicaciones entre la teoría económica de la elección racional, la teoría económica sobre los comportamientos altruistas y recíprocos, y la teoría de la psicología social sobre los valores de orientación cultural. Las razones predominantes para la conformación de las reservas naturales son el interés propio y la valoración de la naturaleza de sus dueños
Q24|El papel de la infraestructura rural en el desarrollo agrícola en Colombia|La agricultura ha sido históricamente una actividad prioritaria en Colombia. Su desempeño depende primordialmente de la productividad, la cual parece estar correlacionada con los bienes públicos del sector. En el trabajo se estiman las coberturas de los principales bienes de infraestructura y se evalúan sus efectos sobre el rendimiento y el área sembrada de dieciséis cultivos cosechados en diversas regiones del país. Utilizando modelos de emparejamiento (Propensity Score Matching) se encuentra que el rendimiento de una tercera parte de los cultivos ha sido impactado positivamente por los distritos de riego y drenaje. También revela que el mejor acceso a los centros de acopio y la red de vías terciarias afectan positivamente las áreas sembradas de la mayor parte de los cultivos. Una reasignación de los recursos del Estado hacia la provisión de infraestructura rural es crucial para el desarrollo agrícola del país.
Q24|Land requirements, feedstock haul distance, and expected profit response to land use restrictions for switchgrass production|Energy crop production has been proposed for land of poor quality to avoid competition with food production and negative indirect land use consequences. The objective of this study was to determine the land area requirements, biomass transportation distance, and expected profit consequences of restricting switchgrass biomass production, for use as biofuel feedstock, to marginal land relative to unrestricted land use. The USA soils capability classification system was used to differentiate between high quality land and land of marginal quality. Fifty years of historical weather data were used in combination with a biophysical simulation model to estimate switchgrass biomass yield distributions for land of different quality for counties in the case study region. A mathematical programming model was designed and solved to determine the economic consequences. For the levels of biofuel price considered ($0.50, $0.75 and $1.00/L), and a 262.5ML/year biorefinery modeled, restricting land use to marginally productive capability Class IV soils, increases the quantity of land optimally leased by 42 to 52%; increases biomass trucking total transportation distance by 115 to 116%; and reduces the expected net returns by $11 to $15M/year compared to when land use is unrestricted. In the absence of government restrictions, for-profit companies are not likely to limit energy crop production to land of marginal quality.
Q24|How well do degree days over the growing season capture the effect of climate on farmland values?|Farmland values have traditionally been valued using seasonal temperature and precipitation but degree days over the growing season offer a more compact alternative. We find that degree days and daily temperature are interchangeable over the growing season. However, the impact of degree days in spring and summer is quite different. Climate effects outside the growing season are also significant. Cross sectional evidence suggests seasonal temperature and precipitation are very important whereas temperature extremes have relatively small effects.
Q24|Could the Faustmann model have an interior minimum solution?|The growth of an even-aged stand usually follows a S-shaped pattern, implying that the growth function is convex when stand age is low and concave when stand age is high. Given such a growth function, the Faustmann model could in theory have multiple optima and hence an interior local minimum solution. To ensure that the rotation age at which the first derivative of the land expectation value equals zero is a maximum, it is often assumed that the growth function is concave in stand age. Yet there is no convincing argument for excluding the possibility of conducting the final harvest before the growth function changes to concave. We argue that under normal circumstances the Faustmann model does not have any interior minimum. It is neither necessary nor proper to assume that the growth function is concave in the vicinity of the optimal rotation age. When the interest rate is high, the optimal rotation may lie in the interval on which the growth function is convex, i.e. before volume or value growth culminates.
Q24|Optimal rate of paper recycling|This paper uses a dynamic land allocation model combined with the infinite rotation problem to determine theoretically, the recycling rate that maximizes the forest area and, thus, the number of trees under social management thereby integrating both positive externalities generated by the forest and social costs of not recycling. The results suggest that, when the recycling rate is low, increasing it to its optimal level will result in more land area being devoted to forestry and, thus, more trees. However, increasing it beyond its optimal level will reduce the number of trees in the long run. In addition, the recycling rate that maximizes the forest area is optimal in the sense that it also maximizes the social net benefit. An application shows that increasing the recycling rate up to its optimal level considerably increases the forest area. The increase in the social net benefit is very small.
Q24|Tenure Insecurity and Investment in Soil Conservation. Evidence from Malawi|Tenure insecurity can have important consequences for the conservation of natural resources. This paper focuses on two main sources of tenure insecurity, informal short-term tenancy contracts, and customary gender-biased inheritance practices. Using a large plot-level dataset from Malawi, the analysis employs a linear probability model with household fixed effects and finds that both sources of insecurity have a negative effect on soil conservation investments. These findings suggest that future land reforms should deal with the informality of the land rental market and address the gap between users and owners of land created by existing customary practices.
Q24|Effects of Protected Areas on Forest Cover Change and Local Communities: Evidence from the Peruvian Amazon|Protected areas are a cornerstone of forest conservation in developing countries. Yet little is known about their effects on forest cover change or the socioeconomic status of local communities. This paper assesses whether “win–win” scenarios are possible—that is, whether protected areas can both stem forest cover change and alleviate poverty. We examine protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon during the early 2000s. We find that protected areas reduce deforestation. We do not find a robust effect on poverty. Protected areas that allow sustainable extractive activities are more effective in reducing deforestation but less effective in reducing poverty.
Q24|Controllare l’impossibile. Urbanistica e consumo di suolo nella sfida per la città futura|Le politiche europee, che prevedono l’azzeramento dei consumi di suolo entro il 2050, rendono necessaria una riflessione sulle esperienze messe in atto nei differenti contesti territoriali sui temi legati alla salvaguardia ambientale. Gli autori si concentrano in particolare sui vari meccanismi, prevalentemente di tipo market based, che utilizzano il trasferimento dei diritti edificatori per la tutela del suolo, mettendo in luce limiti ed opportunità rispetto ai tradizionali strumenti regolativi e vincolistici.
Q24|Deforestation Rate in the Long-run: the Case of Brazil| In this article we study the long-run average rate of forest conversion in Brazil. Deforestation results from the following trade-off: on the one hand, the uncertain value of benefits associated with forest conservation (biodiversity, carbon sequestration and other ecosystem services), on the other hand, the economic profits associated with land development (agriculture, ranching, etc.). We adopt the model by Bulte et al. (2002) as theoretical frame for studying land conversion and then derive, following Di Corato et al. (2013), the associated long-run average rate of forest conversion. We then identify the parameters to be used in our model. The object of our simulation is Brazil and 27 states. Our aim is to compute under several scenarios the time required to develop the remaining forested land in these states. We provide potential future scenarios, in terms of forest coverage, for the next 20, 100 and 200 years. Our results suggest that the uncertainty characterizing forest benefits plays a relevant role in deterring deforestation. We find that these benefits, if growing at a sufficiently high rate, may significantly slow down the conversion process. In contrast, a higher volatility accelerates the process of deforestation. We indicate the Brazilian states where forests are expected to be saturated earlier. In this respect, we find that forestland currently available may be expected to be fully converted within a 200-year horizon.
Q24|Using household types for improving livelihood strategies of smallholders: coffee and cocoa producers in the Northern Amazon of Ecuador|Supporting smallholders’ livelihoods in fragile and biodiversity rich regions such as rainforests is a priority of many development agencies and national governments. These regions tend to be characterized by recent settlements, increasing population and infrastructure, as well as land use competing activities that put pressure upon fragile ecosystems. Research aimed at improving livelihood strategies often focuses on increasing yields and productivity, but fails to account for alternative measures such as improving agricultural practices, changing land use or improving commercialization. This paper uses household types defined according to different land use patterns in the northern Amazon region of Ecuador to explore limitations and identify future options for improving livelihood strategies based in the small-scale production of coffee and cocoa. Results for application to four types are discussed, which highlight the utility of the method and identify trade-offs in terms of environmental and social goals versus profitability. Lessons are drawn that can inform public policies oriented to improving livelihood strategies of small producers of coffee and cocoa in the Amazon region without compromising the environment.
Q24|Economic growth and agricultural land conversion under uncertain productivity improvements in agriculture|We study how stochasticity in the evolution of agricultural productivity interacts with economic and population growth, and the associated demand for food. We use a two-sector Schumpeterian model of growth, in which a manufacturing sector produces the traditional consumption good and an agricultural sector produces food to sustain contemporary population. In addition, sectors differ in that agriculture also demands land as an input, itself treated as a scarce form of capital. In our model both population and sectoral technological progress are endogenously determined, and key technological parameters of the model are structurally estimated using 1960-2010 data on world GDP, population, cropland and technological progress. Introducing random shocks to the evolution of total factor productivity in agriculture, we show that uncertainty optimally requires more land to be converted into agricultural use as a hedge against production shortages, and that it significantly affects both consumption and population trajectories.
Q24|Assessing and Governing Ecosystem Services Trade-Offs in Agrarian Landscapes: The Case of Biogas|This paper develops a method to explore how alternative scenarios of the expansion of maize production for biogas generation affect biodiversity and ecosystem services (ES). Our approach consists of four steps: (i) defining scenario targets and implementation of assumptions; (ii) simulating crop distributions across the landscape; (iii) assessing the ES impacts; and (iv) quantifying the impacts for a comparative trade-off analysis. The case study is the region of Hannover, Germany. One scenario assumes an increase of maize production in a little regulated governance system; two others reflect an increase of biogas production with either strict or flexible environmental regulation. We consider biodiversity and three ES: biogas generation, food production and the visual landscape. Our results show that the expansion of maize production results in predominantly negative impacts for other ES. However, positive effects can also be identified, i.e. , when the introduction of maize leads to higher local crop diversity and, thus, a more attractive visual landscape. The scenario of little regulation portrays more negative impacts than the other scenarios. Targeted spatial planning, implementation and appropriate governance for steering maize production into less sensitive areas is crucial for minimizing trade-offs and exploiting synergies between bioenergy and other ES.
Q24|Acknowledgement to Reviewers of Land in 2015|The editors of Land would like to express their sincere gratitude to the following reviewers for assessing manuscripts in 2015.[...]
Q24|Anthropogenic Influences in Land Use/Land Cover Changes in Mediterranean Forest Landscapes in Sicily|This paper analyzes and quantifies the land use/land cover changes of the main forest and semi-natural landscape types in Sicily between 1955 and 2012. We analyzed seven representative forest and shrubland landscapes in Sicily. These study areas were chosen for their importance in the Sicilian forest panorama. We carried out a diachronic survey on historical and current aerial photos; all the aerial images used to survey the land use/land cover changes were digitalized and georeferenced in the UTM WGS84 system. In order to classify land use, the Regional Forest Inventory 2010 legend was adopted for the more recent images, and the CORINE Land Cover III level used for the older, lower resolution images. This study quantifies forest landscape dynamics; our results show for almost all study areas an increase of forest cover and expansion, whereas a regressive dynamic is found in rural areas due to intensive agricultural and pasturage uses. Understanding the dynamics of forest landscapes could enhance the role of forestry policy as a tool for landscape management and regional planning.
Q24|Evaluating the Potential of the Original Texas Land Survey for Mapping Historical Land and Vegetation Cover|This paper reports on research to evaluate the potential of Original Texas Land Survey (OTLS) to generate information that can be used to quantitatively map historical vegetation cover and analyse pertinent aspects of vegetation ecology. Research was conducted in Brazos County in east-central Texas. OTLS data are easy to acquire and convert to geo-referenced autecological information. Reconstructing and mapping vegetation and land cover, conducting vegetation- and species-site analyses with to soil-ecological maps, reconstructing vegetation assemblages and forest structure can be easily accomplished. Due to the irregular surveying framework used by OTLS, mapping gradational grassland-savannah ecotone boundaries is impracticable.
Q24|Simulating Littoral Trade: Modeling the Trade of Wine in the Bronze to Iron Age Transition in Southern France|The Languedoc-Roussillon region of southern France is well known today for producing full-bodied red wines. Yet wine grapes are not native to France. Additionally, wine was not developed indigenously first. In the 7th century B.C. Etruscan merchants bringing wine landed on the shores of the Languedoc and established trade relationships with the native Gauls, later creating local viticulture, and laying the foundation for a strong cultural identity of French wine production and setting in motion a multi-billion dollar industry. This paper examines the first five centuries of wine consumption (from ~600 B.C. to ~100 B.C.), analyzing how preference of one type of luxury good over another created distinctive artifact patterns in the archaeological record. I create a simple agent-based model to examine how the trade of comestibles for wine led to a growing economy and a distinctive patterning of artifacts in the archaeological record of southern France. This model helps shed light on the processes that led to centuries of peaceable relationships with colonial merchants, and interacts with scholarly debate on why Etruscan amphorae are replaced by Greek amphorae so swiftly and completely.
Q24|Do Smallholder, Mixed Crop-Livestock Livelihoods Encourage Sustainable Agricultural Practices? A Meta-Analysis|As calls for bolstering ecosystem services from croplands have grown more insistent during the past two decades, the search for ways to foster these agriculture-sustaining services has become more urgent. In this context we examine by means of a meta-analysis the argument, proposed by Robert McC. Netting, that small-scale, mixed crop-livestock farming, a common livelihood among poor rural peoples, leads to environmentally sustainable agricultural practices. As predicted, mixed crop-livestock farms exhibit more sustainable practices, but, contrary to predictions, a small scale of operation does not predict sustainability. Many smallholders on mixed crop-livestock farms use sustainable practices, but other smallholders practice a degrading, input-scarce agriculture. Some large farm operators use soil-conserving, minimum-tillage techniques while other large operators ignore soil-conserving techniques and practice an industrialized, high chemical input agriculture. The strength and pervasiveness of the link in the data between mixed crop-livestock farming and sustainable agricultural practices argues for agricultural policies that promote mixed crop-livestock livelihoods.
Q24|Toward the Integrated Framework Analysis of Linkages among Agrobiodiversity, Livelihood Diversification, Ecological Systems, and Sustainability amid Global Change|Scientific and policy interest in the biological diversity of agriculture (agrobiodiversity) is expanding amid global socioeconomic and environmental changes and sustainability interests. The majority of global agrobiodiversity is produced in smallholder food-growing. We use meta-analyses in an integrated framework to examine the interactions of smallholder agrobiodiversity with: (1) livelihood processes, especially migration, including impacts on agrobiodiversity as well as the interconnected resource systems of soil, water, and uncultivated habitats; and (2) plant-soil ecological systems. We hypothesize these interactions depend on: (1) scope of livelihood diversification and type resource system; and (2) plant residues and above-/belowground component ecological specificity. Findings show: (1) livelihood diversification is linked to varied environmental factors that range from rampant degradation to enhancing sustainability; and (2) significant ecological coupling of aboveground and soil agrobiodiversity (AGSOBIO assemblages). The environmental impacts of livelihood interactions correspond to variation of diversification (migration, on-farm diversification) and resource system ( i.e. , agrobiodiversity per se , soil, water). Our findings also reveal mutually dependent interactions of aboveground and soil agrobiodiversity. Results identify livelihood diversification-induced reduction of environmental resource quality with lagged agrobiodiversity declines as a potentially major avenue of global change. Our contribution re-frames livelihood interactions to include both agrobiodiversity and ecological systems. We discuss this integrated social-environmental re-framing through the proposed spatial geographic schema of regional agri-food spaces with distinctive matrices of livelihood strategies and relations to biodiversity and resources. This re-framing can be used to integrate livelihood, agrobiodiversity, and ecological analysis and to guide policy and scientific approaches for sustainability in agriculture and food-growing.
Q24|Historical Changes of Land Tenure and Land Use Rights in a Local Community: A Case Study in Lao PDR|Land-titling programs, land and forest allocation programs, and projects on state-allocated land for development and investment in Laos have been key drivers of change in land tenure. These have triggered major shifts in land use rights, from customary, to temporary, and then to permanent land use rights. This article explores how government programs to grant land use rights to individual households have affected the way people have been able to acquire and secure land tenure. For our case study, we selected the village of Napo, the target of many land tenure changes in the past four decades. We collected data from district offices, group discussions with village organizations, and interviews with selected households. The study shows how land use rights shifted over time and reveals that households obtained most of their agricultural land and forestland through a claim process. Original households were mainly land claimers, while migrants were land buyers. The process of formalization and allocation of tenure triggered inequality among households. Attention is needed in future land governance and tenure reforms in order to safeguard the land use rights of local people in an equitable manner.
Q24|Using Remote Sensing and Random Forest to Assess the Conservation Status of Critical Cerrado Habitats in Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil|Brazil’s Cerrado is a highly diverse ecosystem and it provides critical habitat for many species. Cerrado habitats have suffered significant degradation and decline over the past decades due to expansion of cash crops and livestock farming across South America. Approximately 1,800,000 km 2 of the Cerrado remain in Brazil, but detailed maps and conservation assessments of the Cerrado are lacking. We developed a land cover classification for the Cerrado, focusing on the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, which may also be used to map critical habitat for endangered species. We used a Random Forest algorithm to perform a supervised classification on a set of Landsat 8 images. To determine habitat fragmentation for the Cerrado, we used Fragstats. A habitat connectivity analysis was performed using Linkage Mapper. Our final classification had an overall accuracy of 88%. Our classification produced higher accuracies (72%) in predicting Cerrado than existing government maps. We found that remaining Cerrado habitats were severely fragmented. Four potential corridors were identified in the southwest of Mato Grosso do Sul, where large Cerrado patches are located. Only two large patches remain in Mato Grosso do Sul: one within the Kadiwéu Indian Reserve, and one near the southeastern edge of the Pantanal-dominated landscape. These results are alarming for rare species requiring larger tracts of habitat such as the giant armadillo ( Priodontes maximus ).
Q24|Comparative Approaches for Innovation in Agent-Based Modelling of Landscape Change|In this Special Issue on “Agent-Based Modelling and Landscape Change” we aimed to bring together articles that showcase innovative uses of agent-based models (ABMs) for investigating and explaining landscape change and dynamics.[...]
Q24|Sustainability of Land Groups in Papua New Guinea|This paper consists of a review of existing literature relating to Incorporated Land Groups in Papua New Guinea (PNG), followed by a case study of two urban incorporated land groups (ILGs) in the city of Lae. The paper is an attempt at assessing the sustainability of ILGs in the country. The challenges facing the ILGs have heightened public fears that the land groups may not be sustainable. Based on the argument in previous studies that the ILGs are not sustainable, the paper used primary data from two separate questionnaire surveys of randomly selected ILG landowners (including legal settlers) and ILG stakeholders to investigate the problem. The combined sample size of 129 respondents (32.7%) was representative of the total ILG population, while a total of 25 indicators were used to test the respondents’ perceptions regarding ILG sustainability. Findings reveal that only one of the indicators received the positive support of the stakeholders, while no indicator was supported by the landowners. This suggests that the ILGs in PNG are not sustainable legal entities. This dilemma is a consequence of the challenges facing the ILGs, including the issues of corruption in the Lands Department, illiteracy among landowners, poor publicity given to ILGs’ functions, and the dysfunctional ILG legal framework.
Q24|Ecosystem Service Changes and Livelihood Impacts in the Maguri-Motapung Wetlands of Assam, India|Wetlands provide a diverse range of ecosystem services supporting livelihoods of many people. Despite their value, wetlands are continuously being degraded. There is scant information on individual wetlands, people’s dependency and their exploitation at a local scale. We therefore assessed wetland ecosystem services, the drivers of change and impacts of those drivers on ecosystem services and people’s dependency through a case study of the Maguri-Motapung Beel wetlands of Assam, India. Both qualitative and quantitative data were collected through household surveys, focus group discussions, key informant interviews and community workshops. The analyses showed a total of 29 ecosystem services, and high dependency on these with five out of seven livelihood strategies sourced from ecosystem services. Over-exploitation of wetland resources and siltation were reported as the major direct drivers of change with impacts on both ecosystem services and people’s livelihoods. Drastic decreases in availability of thatch, fish stocks, fodder and tourism were observed. This suggests that there is an urgent need for a comprehensive participatory management plan. Actions are needed to maintain the Maguri-Motapung Beel wetlands and the flow of services in order to sustain people’s livelihoods in the area. With an estimated 50% global loss of wetlands in the last century and the loss of 5,000 square kilometers a year in Asia alone, the loss of ecosystem services and livelihood impacts shown in our study may be typical of what is occurring in the region and perhaps globally.
Q24|Fluid Waters and Rigid Livelihoods in the Okavango Delta of Botswana|Current and future impacts of climate change include increasing variability in a number of biophysical processes, such as temperature, precipitation, and flooding. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has suggested that Southern Africa is particularly vulnerable to the anticipated impacts from global climate change and that social and ecological systems in the region will be disrupted and likely transformed in future decades. This article engages with current research within geography and cognate disciplines on the possibilities for responsive livelihoods within socio-ecological systems experiencing biophysical change. The paper draws from an ongoing research project that is evaluating perceptions of environmental change, specifically of precipitation and flooding dynamics, in order to understand social responses. We report on the findings from qualitative interviewing conducted in 2010 and 2011 in the communities of Etsha 1, Etsha 6, and Etsha 13 within the Okavango Delta of Botswana. While flooding and precipitation patterns have been dynamic and spatially differentiated, some livelihood systems have proven rigid in their capacity to enable adaptive responses. We assert this demonstrates the need for detailed research on livelihood dynamics to support adjustments to biophysical variability within socio-ecological systems experiencing change.
Q24|Regional Patterns of Ecosystem Services in Cultural Landscapes|European agricultural landscapes have been shaped by humans to produce marketable private goods such as food, feed, fiber and timber. Land-use intensification to increase provisioning services in such productive landscapes alters the capacity of ecosystems to supply other services (often public goods and services) that are also vital for human wellbeing. However, the interactions, synergies and trade-offs among ecosystem services are poorly understood. We assessed the spatial distribution of the services carbon storage, sediment regulation, water yield, crop production, timber supply, and outdoor recreation in the counties Wetterau and Vogelsberg (Hesse, Germany). These counties represent a gradient from intensive arable land use to more extensive mixed land use systems with domination of grassland and forests. Spatially explicit models were used to map the location and quantity of service supply. We addressed the following questions: (1) Where are areas of high and low supply of individual and multiple ecosystem services? (2) Where do the strongest trade-offs and synergies between different services occur? Our results show a pronounced spatial aggregation of different ecosystem services, with locations where at least four services are being supplied at high levels occupying only 5% of the landscape. Indicators for water provision, timber supply, carbon storage, erosion control, and outdoor recreation are positively related to each other, but this relationship is influenced by the trade-offs associated with the ecosystem service food production. Optimization of ecosystem services at the landscape scale has to take these patterns into account.
Q24|Typologies and Spatialization of Agricultural Production Systems in Rondônia, Brazil: Linking Land Use, Socioeconomics and Territorial Configuration|The current Amazon landscape consists of heterogeneous mosaics formed by interactions between the original forest and productive activities. Recognizing and quantifying the characteristics of these landscapes is essential for understanding agricultural production chains, assessing the impact of policies, and in planning future actions. Our main objective was to construct the regionalization of agricultural production for Rondônia State (Brazilian Amazon) at the municipal level. We adopted a decision tree approach, using land use maps derived from remote sensing data (PRODES and TerraClass) combined with socioeconomic data. The decision trees allowed us to allocate municipalities to one of five agricultural production systems: (i) coexistence of livestock production and intensive agriculture; (ii) semi-intensive beef and milk production; (iii) semi-intensive beef production; (iv) intensive beef and milk production, and; (v) intensive beef production. These production systems are, respectively, linked to mechanized agriculture (i), traditional cattle farming with low management, with (ii) or without (iii) a significant presence of dairy farming, and to more intensive livestock farming with (iv) or without (v) a significant presence of dairy farming. The municipalities and associated production systems were then characterized using a wide variety of quantitative metrics grouped into four dimensions: (i) agricultural production; (ii) economics; (iii) territorial configuration, and; (iv) social characteristics. We found that production systems linked to mechanized agriculture predominate in the south of the state, while intensive farming is mainly found in the center of the state. Semi-intensive livestock farming is mainly located close to the southwest frontier and in the north of the state, where human occupation of the territory is not fully consolidated. This distributional pattern reflects the origins of the agricultural production system of Rondônia. Moreover, the characterization of the production systems provides insights into the pattern of occupation of the Amazon and the socioeconomic consequences of continuing agricultural expansion.
Q24|Property Arrangements and Soy Governance in the Brazilian State of Mato Grosso: Implications for Deforestation-Free Production|The production of soy is one of the most important economic activities in the Brazilian Amazon, though the expansion of this industry has come at the cost of huge swaths of forest. Since 2006, the private firms that buy and trade soybeans globally have assumed a key role in ensuring that soy producers comply with forest protection policies, including the Soy Moratorium and public policies banning the use of illegally deforested land. We used evidence from field interviews and a GIS of property boundaries and soy-production areas to describe the private sector governance process and to characterize the variety of property arrangements underlying soy production in Mato Grosso, the leading soy-producing state in the Brazilian Amazon. These increasingly complex property arrangements include ownership of multiple properties by a single producer, use of rental properties owned by others, and soy and cattle production on a single property. This complexity could create loopholes allowing soy associated with deforestation to enter the supply chain. Comprehensive soy-governance strategies that include more robust procedures for verifying the provenance of soy across all properties, that account for the entire property rather than only the area planted to soy, and that use more transparent verification systems could achieve greater reductions in deforestation.
Q24|Land Sector Reforms in Ghana, Kenya and Vietnam: A Comparative Analysis of Their Effectiveness|The notion that the formal titling and individualization of land rights in developing countries lead to higher investments in land and agricultural productivity holds sway in academic and development circles. In this paper, this notion is analyzed based on a comparative study of land reform programs and their implications for access to land, credit, and agricultural investments in Ghana, Kenya, and Vietnam. It focuses on how different access routes to land influence access to credit, and the transaction costs of land reform programs for agricultural investments. The paper concludes that in developing countries, the transaction costs of land reforms for investments can significantly increase if the influence of power is not addressed in order to reduce unequal access to land. The practical implementation of land reform is influenced by many factors, including the control on political power. Thus, measures must accompany implementation to check the use of power to derail land reform objectives. Moreover, the paper supports the argument that land reforms should be implemented in their local contexts so as to have positive effects on agriculture.
Q24|Agro(Eco)System Services—Supply and Demand from Fields to Society|Land use—with a special focus on agriculture—is increasingly influenced by globalization and external driving forces, causing farmers to seek opportunities to develop efficient, large-scale production systems.[...]
Q24|The Quiet Rise of Medium-Scale Farms in Malawi|Medium-scale farms have become a major force in Malawi’s agricultural sector. Malawi’s most recent official agricultural survey indicates that these account for over a quarter of all land under cultivation in Malawi. This study explores the causes and multifaceted consequences of the rising importance of medium-scale farms in Malawi. We identify the characteristics and pathways of entry into farming based on surveys of 300 medium-scale farmers undertaken in 2014 in the districts of Mchinji, Kasungu and Lilongwe. The area of land acquired by medium-scale farmers in these three districts is found to have almost doubled between 2000 and 2015. Just over half of the medium-scale farmers represent cases of successful expansion out of small-scale farming status; the other significant proportion of medium-scale farmers are found to be urban-based professionals, entrepreneurs and/or civil servants who acquired land, some very recently, and started farming in mid-life. We also find that a significant portion of the land acquired by medium-scale farmers was utilized by others prior to acquisition, that most of the acquired land was under customary tenure, and that the current owners were often successful in transferring the ownership structure of the acquired land to a long-term leaseholding with a title deed. The study finds that, instead of just strong endogenous growth of small-scale famers as a route for the emergence of medium-scale farms, significant farm consolidation is occurring through land acquisitions, often by urban-based people. The effects of farmland acquisitions by domestic investors on the country’s primary development goals, such as food security, poverty reduction and employment, are not yet clear, though some trends appear to be emerging. We consider future research questions that may more fully shed light on the implications of policies that would continue to promote land acquisitions by medium-scale farms.
Q24|Poverty and Environmental Degradation in Southern Burkina Faso: An Assessment Based on Participatory Methods|The poverty and environmental degradation vicious circle hypothesis considers the poor as agents and victims of environmentally degrading activities. Despite some studies, however, there still has not been a sufficient empirical examination of the poverty-environment nexus. Based on participatory poverty assessment (PPA) methods with two hundred farm households categorized by wealth status in southern Burkina Faso, six indicators of environmental degradation and a set of land management practices were examined to answer the following questions: (i) Which households (non-poor, fairly-poor, or poorest) are responsible for environmental degradation? (ii) Does poverty constrain adoption of land management practices considered to improve the land? Results indicate deforestation is highest for non-poor farmers, and non-poor and fairly-poor farmers have higher rates of overgrazing. In addition, the entire non-poor group, mainly recent migrants to the area, occupy borrowed lands with tenure perceived as insecure, considered by farmers to be a disincentive for assisted natural regeneration of vegetation. Thus, non-poor and fairly-poor farmers participate most in activities locally identified as environmentally degrading, and the former contribute more than the latter. On the other hand, adoption of land management practices considered to improve the land is relatively low amongst the poorest farmers.
Q24|Agriculture on the Brink: Climate Change, Labor and Smallholder Farming in Botswana|Botswana is a semi-arid, middle-income African country that imports 90 percent of its food. Despite its relative prosperity, Botswana also suffers from one of the highest measures of income inequality in the world, persistent poverty, and relatively high levels of food insecurity. The objective of this paper is to explore how political economy, climate change and livelihood dynamics are synergistically impacting household food security. The major finding is that the marginalization of smallholder farming in Botswana has as much or more to do with domestic, regional and international political economy as it does with climate change. As such, international efforts to support climate change adaptation in Botswana will have a limited effect on smallholder farming livelihoods and rural food security unless such efforts take account of political economic constraints. Effective support must be based on a grounded understanding of the real drivers of marginalization and food insecurity. One initiative that merits further exploration is the government’s backyard gardening initiative, which could be viewed as a pro-poor climate adaptation strategy. The findings of this paper are based on semi-structured interviews with policymakers and surveys with urban, peri-urban and rural households undertaken in 2012 and 2015.
Q24|Landscape-Scale Disturbance: Insights into the Complexity of Catchment Hydrology in the Mountaintop Removal Mining Region of the Eastern United States|Few land disturbances impact watersheds at the scale and extent of mountaintop removal mining (MTM). This practice removes forests, soils and bedrock to gain access to underground coal that results in likely permanent and wholesale changes that impact catchment hydrology, geochemistry and ecosystem health. MTM is the dominant driver of land cover changes in the central Appalachian Mountains region of the United States, converting forests to mine lands and burying headwater streams. Despite its dominance on the landscape, determining the hydrological impacts of MTM is complicated by underground coal mines that significantly alter groundwater hydrology. To provide insight into how coal mining impacts headwater catchments, we compared the hydrologic responses of an MTM and forested catchment using event rainfall-runoff analysis, modeling and isotopic approaches. Despite similar rainfall characteristics, hydrology in the two catchments differed in significant ways, but both catchments demonstrated threshold-mediated hydrologic behavior that was attributed to transient storage and the release of runoff from underground mines. Results suggest that underground mines are important controls for runoff generation in both obviously disturbed and seemingly undisturbed catchments and interact in uncertain ways with disturbance from MTM. This paper summarizes our results and demonstrates the complexity of catchment hydrology in the MTM region.
Q24|Nitrogen Pollution and the Meltdown of Urban Ecosystems|Urban ecosystems are carrying an extinction debt. Mitigating this debt will require the development of a predictive framework that improves our understanding of the factors causing decline of native biodiversity in urban areas. I argue that nitrogen is a common currency around which such a predictive framework could be built. I first summarise the evidence that shows the probable extent of nitrogen enrichment in urban ecosystems. I then review the body of empirical evidence that describes how nitrogen enrichment affects ecosystem process and function. By unifying these two bodies of empirical evidence, I generate a series of testable hypotheses that may allow for a better understanding of native biodiversity loss in urban areas.
Q24|Smallholders, Agrarian Reform, and Globalization in the Brazilian Amazon: Cattle versus the Environment|Smallholder farming in the Brazilian Amazon has changed markedly over the last few decades, following a pervasive swing to cattle production observed across the basin. These changes have brought opportunities for accumulating a modicum of wealth that were not available in the early stages of colonization. At the same time, they have reconfigured livelihood systems away from diversified agriculture to a strong engagement with the cattle economy. They are also exposing smallholders to new forms of exploitation by transnational corporations, seeking to pass risk upstream to less powerful economic agents who provide inputs to production, such as calves. The case of Southeastern Pará provides a natural laboratory for investigating such phenomena, which the article considers through the presentation of data from field research conducted in the region over the past decade. Here, agrarian reform efforts have been particularly intense, and social movements have often espoused a green rhetoric in favor of diversified agriculture, even though smallholders show little interest in anything but cattle. Household level incentives promote Amazonia’s emergent cattle economy, demonstrating how global production networks have reached into the basin, where production relations between smallholders provisioning calves to large ranching operations often resemble what has been referred to in the literature as “ contract farming ” land grabs, given the exploitive terms of trade.
Q24|Analysis and Prediction of Land Use Changes Related to Invasive Species and Major Driving Forces in the State of Connecticut|Land use and land cover (LULC) patterns play an important role in the establishment and spread of invasive plants. Understanding LULC changes is useful for early detection and management of land-use change to reduce the spread of invasive species. The primary objective of this study is to analyze and predict LULC changes in Connecticut. LULC maps for 1996, 2001 and 2006 were selected to analyze past land cover changes, and then potential LULC distribution in 2018 was predicted using the Multi-Layer Perceptron Markov Chain (MLP_MC) model. This study shows that the total area of forest has been decreasing, mainly caused by urban development and other human activity in Connecticut. The model predicts that the study area will lose 5535 ha of deciduous forest and gain 3502 ha of built-up area from 2006 to 2018. Moreover, forests near built-up areas and agriculture lands appear to be more vulnerable to conversion. Changes in LULC may result in subtle spatial shifts in invasion risk by an abundant invasive shrub, Japanese barberry ( Berberis thunbergii ). The gain of developed areas at the landscape scale was most closely linked to increased future invasion risk. Our findings suggest that the forest conversion needs to be controlled and well managed to help mitigate future invasion risk.
Q24|Enhancement of Linear Agricultural Areas to Provide Invertebrates as Potential Food for Breeding Birds|Birds are an important part of the agricultural landscape, as having nature value, but also as pest control agents and bio-indicators for the health of the environment. Here we look at linear non-crop elements in agricultural areas as a potential source of food for nestlings of avian species. We measured invertebrate availability as it relates to structural complexity at the local and landscape levels in three counties in central Illinois. Invertebrates were measured with taxonomic diversity, abundance, and estimated biomass during spring of 2012 and 2013. Our study shows that easily modifiable field edge characteristics have the greatest impact on invertebrate diversity and abundance, as compared to field and landscape features. This finding shows that a potential invertebrate food source as measured by both diversity and biomass, may be easily enhanced without changes to agricultural practices.
Q24|The Influence of Forest Management Regimes on Deforestation in a Central Indian Dry Deciduous Forest Landscape|This research examines the impact of forest management regimes, with various degrees of restriction, on forest conservation in a dry deciduous Indian forest landscape. Forest change is mapped using Landsat satellite images from 1977, 1990, 1999, and 2011. The landscape studied has lost 1478 km 2 of dense forest cover between 1977 and 2011, with a maximum loss of 1002 km 2 of dense forest between 1977 and 1990. The number of protected forest areas has increased, concomitant with an increase in restrictions on forest access and use outside protected areas. Interviews with residents of 20 randomly selected villages indicate that in the absence of alternatives, rather than reducing their dependence on forests, communities appear to shift their use to other, less protected patches of forest. Pressure shifts seem to be taking place as a consequence of increasing protection, from within protected areas to forests outside, leading to the creation of protected but isolated forest islands within a matrix of overall deforestation, and increased conflict between local residents and forest managers. A broader landscape vision for forest management needs to be developed, that involves local communities with forest protection and enables their decision-making on forest management outside strict protected areas.
Q24|Urban Agriculture Oriented towards Self-Supply, Social and Commercial Purpose: A Typology|Urban agriculture, a dynamic multifunctional phenomenon, affects the spatial diversification of urban land use, its valorization and its governance. Literature acknowledges its contribution to the development of sustainable cities. The dimension and extent of this contribution depends significantly on the particular form and function of urban agriculture. However, the complexity of interests and dimensions is insufficiently covered by theory. This paper proposes a typology for urban agriculture, supporting both theory building and practical decision processes. We reviewed and mapped the diversity of the types of agriculture found along three beneficial dimensions (self-supply, socio-cultural, commercial) for product distribution scale and actors. We distinguish between ideal types, subtypes and mixed types. Our intention is to include a dynamic perspective in the typology of urban agricultural land use because transition processes between types are observable due to the existence of complex motivations and influences. In a pilot study of 52 urban agriculture initiatives in Germany, we tested the validity of the typology and discussed it with stakeholders, proving novelty and relevance for profiling discussions.
Q24|How Are Feedbacks Represented in Land Models?|Land systems are characterised by many feedbacks that can result in complex system behaviour. We defined feedbacks as the two-way influences between the land use system and a related system (e.g., climate, soils and markets), both of which are encompassed by the land system. Land models that include feedbacks thus probably more accurately mimic how land systems respond to, e.g., policy or climate change. However, representing feedbacks in land models is a challenge. We reviewed articles incorporating feedbacks into land models and analysed each with predefined indicators. We found that (1) most modelled feedbacks couple land use systems with transport, soil and market systems, while only a few include feedbacks between land use and social systems or climate systems; (2) equation-based land use models that follow a top-down approach prevail; and (3) feedbacks’ effects on system behaviour remain relatively unexplored. We recommend that land system modellers (1) consider feedbacks between land use systems and social systems; (2) adopt (bottom-up) approaches suited to incorporating spatial heterogeneity and better representing land use decision-making; and (3) pay more attention to nonlinear system behaviour and its implications for land system management and policy.
Q24|Patterns and Predictors of Recent Forest Conversion in New England|New England forests provide numerous benefits to the region’s residents, but are undergoing rapid development. We used boosted regression tree analysis (BRT) to assess geographic predictors of forest loss to development between 2001 and 2011. BRT combines classification and regression trees with machine learning to generate non-parametric statistical models that can capture non-linear relationships. Based on National Land Cover Database (NLCD) maps of land cover change, we assessed the importance of the biophysical and social variables selected for full region coverage and minimal collinearity in predicting forest loss to development, specifically: elevation, slope, distance to roads, density of highways, distance to built land, distance to cities, population density, change in population density, relative change in population density, population per housing unit, median income, state, land ownership categories and county classification as recreation or retirement counties. The resulting models explained 6.9% of the variation for 2001–2011, 4.5% for 2001–2006 and 1.8% for 2006–2011, fairly high values given the complexity of factors predicting land development and the high resolution of the spatial datasets (30-m pixels). The two most important variables in the BRT were “population density” and “distance to road”, which together made up 55.5% of the variation for 2001–2011, 49.4% for 2001–2006 and 42.9% for 2006–2011. The lower predictive power for 2006–2011 may reflect reduced development due to the “Great Recession”. From our models, we generated high-resolution probability surfaces, which can provide a key input for simulation models of forest and land cover change.
Q24|Mapping Tropical Forest Biomass by Combining ALOS-2, Landsat 8, and Field Plots Data|This research was carried out in a dense tropical forest region with the objective of improving the biomass estimates by a combination of ALOS-2 SAR, Landsat 8 optical, and field plots data. Using forest inventory based biomass data, the performance of different parameters from the two sensors was evaluated. The regression analysis with the biomass data showed that the backscatter from forest object (σ° forest ) obtained from the SAR data was more sensitive to the biomass than HV polarization, SAR textures, and maximum NDVI parameters. However, the combination of the maximum NDVI from optical data, SAR textures from HV polarization, and σ° forest improved estimates of the biomass. The best model derived by the combination of multiple parameters from ALOS-2 SAR and Landsat 8 data was validated with inventory data. Then, the best validated model was used to produce an up-to-date biomass map for 2015 in Yok Don National Park, which is an important conservation area in Vietnam. The validation results showed that 74% of the variation of in biomass could be explained by our model.
Q24|Drivers of Households’ Land-Use Decisions: A Critical Review of Micro-Level Studies in Tropical Regions|This paper reviews 91 recent empirical and theoretical studies that analyzed land-use change at the farm-household level. The review builds on a conceptual framework of land-use change drivers and conducts a meta-analysis. Results show that the conversion of forests into cultivated land or grassland, mainly used for agriculture or ranching, are most frequently analyzed. Only a small number of studies consider the transition of wetlands for agriculture and few cases deal with the conversion from agriculture into protected zones. Moreover, interactions between drivers add to the complexity of land-use change processes. These interrelationships are conditioned by institutions and policies. In particular, the market-oriented reforms adopted by many developing countries in the 1980s and 1990s seem to have had an important role in altering land use, while impacts of more recent policies need to be better explored. Many studies rely on small samples and face problems of internal validity. Despite these weaknesses, the literature points at micro-level economic growth, for example in income and capital endowments, as a strong catalyst of human induced land-use change. However, the review suggests that—across the different studies and cases—there is considerable heterogeneity in the relationship between these factors and land-use change.
Q24|Addressing the Externalities from Genetically Modified Pollen Drift on a Heterogeneous Landscape|Genetically modified (GM) crops have single or multiple genes introduced to obtain crop characteristics that cannot be obtained through conventional breeding. Pollen mediated gene flow from GM to non-GM crops causes some crops planted as non-GM to become GM, and this imposes economic losses on farmers who planted a non-GM crop but then have to sell the harvest on a GM market. The economic losses that result when both crops are grown together depend on the institutional arrangements and the type of property rights in place. We analyze how the spatial heterogeneity of a farmer’s fields affects the land allocation between buffers, the GM, and the non-GM crop based on cross-pollination and initial assignment of property rights. Greater spatial heterogeneity reduces the possibility of coexistence of crops on the landscape and increases the economic losses. Buffer zones enforced to reduce cross-pollination result in less coexistence on heterogeneous landscapes.
Q24|Introduction: The Continued Importance of Smallholders Today|Smallholders remain an important part of human-environment research, particularly in cultural and political ecology, peasant and development studies, and increasingly in land system and sustainability science. This introduction to the edited volume explores land use and livelihood issues among smallholders, in several disciplinary and subfield traditions. Specifically, we provide a short history of smallholder livelihood research in the human-environment tradition. We reflect on why, in an age of rapid globalization, smallholder land use and livelihoods still matter, both for land system science and as a reflection of concerns with inequality and poverty. Key themes that emerge from the papers in this volume include the importance of smallholder farming and land-use practices to questions of environmental sustainability, the dynamic reality of smallholder livelihoods, the challenges of vulnerability and adaptation in contemporary human-environment systems, and the structural and relative nature of the term “smallholder.” Overall these contributions show that smallholder studies are more pertinent than ever, especially in the face of global environmental change. Additionally, we argue that questions of smallholder identity, social difference, and teleconnections provide fertile areas of future research. We conclude that we need to re-envision who the smallholder is today and how this translates into modern human-environment smallholder studies.
Q24|Terrestrial Species in Protected Areas and Community-Managed Lands in Arunachal Pradesh, Northeast India|Protected areas (including areas that are nominally fully protected and those managed for multiple uses) encompass about a quarter of the total tropical forest estate. Despite growing interest in the relative value of community-managed lands and protected areas, knowledge about the biodiversity value that each sustains remains scarce in the biodiversity-rich tropics. We investigated the species occurrence of a suite of mammal and pheasant species across four protected areas and nearby community-managed lands in a biodiversity hotspot in northeast India. Over 2.5 years we walked 98 transects (half of which were resampled on a second occasion) across the four paired sites. In addition, we interviewed 84 key informants to understand their perceptions of species trends in these two management regimes. We found that protected areas had higher overall species richness and were important for species that were apparently declining in occurrence. On a site-specific basis, community-managed lands had species richness and occurrences comparable to those of a protected area, and in one case their relative abundances of mammals were higher. Interviewees indicated declines in the abundances of larger-bodied species in community-managed lands. Their observations agreed with our field surveys for certain key, large-bodied species, such as gaur and sambar, which generally occurred less in community-managed lands. Hence, the degree to which protected areas and community-managed lands protect wildlife species depends upon the species in question, with larger-bodied species usually faring better within protected areas.
Q24|The Effect of Landscape Composition on the Abundance of Laodelphax striatellus Fallén in Fragmented Agricultural Landscapes|The spatial distribution of crop and non-crop habitats over segmented agricultural landscapes could be used as a means to reduce insect pest populations. Seven land cover categories such as wheat, rapeseed, vegetable, water, built-up, paved road, and unsurfaced road were extracted from GeoEye satellite images dating from late May to late June of 2010. Three diversity metrics and three evenness metrics were estimated from the abovementioned land cover categories for quantifying the effect of landscape composition on nymphal and adult Laodelphax striatellus Fallén. The degree of correlation between the proportion of crop cover and adjacent spatial scales ( r : 0.651–0.983) was higher than the correlation between the proportion of crop cover and nonadjacent spatial scales ( r : −0.255–0.896). While the degree of correlation between diversity indices and abundance of L. striatellus decreased gradually when the spatial scales varied from large (>100 m radius buffer) to small (<100 m). Our study suggests that when using natural biological pest control and ecological engineering practices in the rural-urban fringes, the crop field’s width should be less than 200 m and increasing vegetation diversity within such a scale will be helpful to regulate the insect pests under a certain density.
Q24|The Community-Conservation Conundrum: Is Citizen Science the Answer?|Public participation theory assumes that empowering communities leads to enduring support for new initiatives. The New Zealand Biodiversity Strategy, approved in 2000, embraces this assumption and includes goals for community involvement in resolving threats to native flora and fauna. Over the last 20 years, community-based ecological restoration groups have proliferated, with between 600 and 4000 identified. Many of these groups control invasive mammals, and often include protection of native species and species reintroductions as goals. Such activities involve the groups in “wicked” problems with uncertain biological and social outcomes, plus technical challenges for implementing and measuring results. The solution might be to develop a citizen science approach, although this requires institutional support. We conducted a web-based audit of 50 community groups participating in ecological restoration projects in northern New Zealand. We found great variation in the quality of information provided by the groups, with none identifying strategic milestones and progress towards them. We concluded that, at best, many group members are accidental scientists rather than citizen scientists. Furthermore, the way community efforts are reflected in biodiversity responses is often unclear. The situation may be improved with a new approach to data gathering, training, and analyses.
Q24|Evidence for Biodiversity Conservation in Protected Landscapes|A growing number of protected areas are defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as protected landscapes and seascapes , or category V protected areas, one of six protected area categories based on management approach. Category V now makes up over half the protected area coverage in Europe, for instance. While the earliest category V areas were designated mainly for their landscape and recreational values, they are increasingly expected also to protect biodiversity. Critics have claimed that they fail to conserve enough biodiversity. The current paper addresses this question by reviewing available evidence for the effectiveness of category V in protecting wild biodiversity by drawing on published information and a set of case studies. Research to date focuses more frequently on changes in vegetation cover than on species, and results are limited and contradictory, suggesting variously that category V protected areas are better than, worse than or the same as more strictly protected categories in terms of conserving biodiversity. This may indicate that differences are not dramatic, or that effectiveness depends on many factors. The need for greater research in this area is highlighted. Research gaps include: (i) comparative studies of conservation success inside and outside category V protected areas; (ii) the contribution that small, strictly protected areas make to the conservation success of surrounding, less strictly protected areas—and vice versa; (iii) the effectiveness of different governance approaches in category V; (iv) a clearer understanding of the impacts of zoning in a protected area; and (v) better understanding of how to implement landscape approaches in and around category V protected areas.
Q24|Short-Term Projects versus Adaptive Governance: Conflicting Demands in the Management of Ecological Restoration|Drawing on a survey of large-scale ecological restoration initiatives, we find that managers face contradictory demands. On the one hand, they have to raise funds from a variety of sources through competitive procedures for individual projects. These projects require the specification of deliverable outputs within a relatively short project period. On the other hand, ecologists argue that the complexity of ecosystem processes means that it is not possible to know how to deliver predetermined outcomes and that governance should be adaptive, long-term and implemented through networks of stakeholders. This debate parallels a debate in public administration between New Public Management and more recent proposals for a new approach, sometimes termed Public Value Management. Both of these approaches have strengths. Projectification provides control and accountability to funders. Adaptive governance recognises complexity and provides for long-term learning, building networks and adaptive responses. We suggest an institutional architecture that aims to capture the major benefits of each approach based on public support dedicated to ecological restoration and long-term funding programmes.
Q24|Accounting for the Drivers that Degrade and Restore Landscape Functions in Australia|Assessment and reporting of changes in vegetation condition at site and landscape scales is critical for land managers, policy makers and planers at local, regional and national scales. Land management, reflecting individual and collective values, is used to show historic changes in ecosystem structure, composition and function (regenerative capacity). We address the issue of how the resilience of plant communities changes over time as a result of land management regimes. A systematic framework for assessing changes in resilience based on measurable success criteria and indicators is applied using 10 case studies across the range of Australia’s agro-climate regions. A simple graphical report card is produced for each site showing drivers of change and trends relative to a reference state (i.e., natural benchmark). These reports enable decision makers to quickly understand and assimilate complex ecological processes and their effects on landscape degradation, restoration and regeneration. We discuss how this framework assists decision-makers explain and describe pathways of native vegetation that is managed for different outcomes, including maintenance, replacement, removal and recovery at site and landscape levels. The findings provide sound spatial and temporal insights into reconciling agriculture, conservation and other competing land uses.
Q24|Land Use and Land Cover Change in the Bale Mountain Eco-Region of Ethiopia during 1985 to 2015|Anthropogenic factors are responsible for major land use and land cover changes (LULCC). Bale Mountain Eco-Region in Ethiopia is a biodiversity-rich ecosystem where such LULCC have occurred. The specific objectives of this study were to: (i) determine which LULC types gained or lost most as a result of the observed LULCC; (ii) identify the major drivers of the LULCC/deforestation; and (iii) assess the approximate amount of carbon stock removed as a result of deforestation during the study period. Remote sensing and GIS were used to analyze LULCC. Landsat images acquired in 1985, 1995, 2005, and 2015 were used. Additionally, data from the Central Statistics Agency on cropland expansion, and human and livestock population growth were analyzed and correlations were made. The results showed that forest lost 123,751 ha while farmland gained 292,294 ha. Farmland and urban settlement expansion were found to be major drivers of LULCC. Aboveground carbon stock removed from forest and shrubland was more than 24 million tons. In the future, allocation of land to different uses must be based on appropriate land use policies. Integrating biodiversity and ecosystem values for each land cover as per the UN Sustainable Development Goal (UN-SDG) 15.9 may be one of the mechanisms to limit unplanned expansion or invasion of one sector at the expense of another.
Q24|Historical and Current Niche Construction in an Anthropogenic Biome: Old Cultural Landscapes in Southern Scandinavia|Conceptual advances in niche construction theory provide new perspectives and a tool-box for studies of human-environment interactions mediating what is termed anthropogenic biomes. This theory is useful also for studies on how anthropogenic biomes are perceived and valued. This paper addresses these topics using an example: “old cultural landscapes” in Scandinavia, i.e., landscapes formed by a long, dynamic and continuously changing history of management. Today, remnant habitats of this management history, such as wooded pastures and meadows, are the focus of conservation programs, due to their rich biodiversity and cultural and aesthetic values. After a review of historical niche construction processes, the paper examines current niche construction affecting these old cultural landscapes. Features produced by historical niche construction, e.g., landscape composition and species richness, are in the modern society reinterpreted to become values associated with beauty and heritage and species’ intrinsic values. These non-utilitarian motivators now become drivers of new niche construction dynamics, manifested as conservation programs. The paper also examines the possibility to maintain and create new habitats, potentially associated with values emanating from historical landscapes, but in transformed and urbanized landscapes.
Q24|Integration of ALOS PALSAR and Landsat Data for Land Cover and Forest Mapping in Northern Tanzania|Land cover and forest mapping supports decision makers in the course of making informed decisions for implementation of sustainable conservation and management plans of the forest resources and environmental monitoring. This research examines the value of integrating of ALOS PALSAR and Landsat data for improved forest and land cover mapping in Northern Tanzania. A separate and joint processing of surface reflectance, backscattering and derivatives (i.e., Normalized Different Vegetation Index (NDVI), Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Radar Forest Deforestation Index (RFDI), quotient bands, polarimetric features and Grey Level Co-Occurrence Matrix (GLCM) textures) were executed using Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. The classification accuracy was assessed using a confusion matrix, where Overall classification Accuracy (OA), Kappa Coefficient (KC), Producer’s Accuracy (PA), User’s Accuracy (UA) and F 1 score index were computed. A two sample t-statistics was utilized to evaluate the influence of different data categories on the classification accuracy. Landsat surface reflectance and derivatives show an overall classification accuracy (OA = 86%). ALOS PALSAR backscattering could not differentiate the land cover classes efficiently (OA = 59%). However, combination of backscattering, and derivatives could differentiate the land cover classes properly (OA = 71%). The attained results suggest that integration of backscattering and derivative has potential of utilization for mapping of land cover in tropical environment. Integration of backscattering, surface reflectance and their derivative increase the accuracy (OA = 97%). Therefore it can be concluded that integration of ALOS PALSAR and optical data improve the accuracies of land cover and forest mapping and hence suitable for environmental monitoring.
Q24|Prediction of Land Use Change in Long Island Sound Watersheds Using Nighttime Light Data|The Long Island Sound Watersheds (LISW) are experiencing significant land use/cover change (LUCC), which affects the environment and ecosystems in the watersheds through water pollution, carbon emissions, and loss of wildlife. LUCC modeling is an important approach to understanding what has happened in the landscape and what may change in the future. Moreover, prospective modeling can provide sustainable and efficient decision support for land planning and environmental management. This paper modeled the LUCCs between 1996, 2001 and 2006 in the LISW in the New England region, which experienced an increase in developed area and a decrease of forest. The low-density development pattern played an important role in the loss of forest and the expansion of urban areas. The key driving forces were distance to developed areas, distance to roads, and social-economic drivers, such as nighttime light intensity and population density. In addition, this paper compared and evaluated two integrated LUCC models—the logistic regression–Markov chain model and the multi-layer perception–Markov chain (MLP–MC) model. Both models achieved high accuracy in prediction, but the MLP–MC model performed slightly better. Finally, a land use map for 2026 was predicted by using the MLP–MC model, and it indicates the continued loss of forest and increase of developed area.
Q24|Large-Scale Mapping of Tree-Community Composition as a Surrogate of Forest Degradation in Bornean Tropical Rain Forests|Assessment of the progress of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets set by the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the safeguarding of ecosystems from the perverse negative impacts caused by Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation Plus (REDD+) requires the development of spatiotemporally robust and sensitive indicators of biodiversity and ecosystem health. Recently, it has been proposed that tree-community composition based on count-plot surveys could serve as a robust, sensitive, and cost-effective indicator for forest intactness in Bornean logged-over rain forests. In this study, we developed an algorithm to map tree-community composition across the entire landscape based on Landsat imagery. We targeted six forest management units (FMUs), each of which ranged from 50,000 to 100,000 ha in area, covering a broad geographic range spanning the most area of Borneo. Approximately fifty 20 m-radius circular plots were established in each FMU, and the differences in tree-community composition at a genus level among plots were examined for trees with diameter at breast height ≥10 cm using an ordination with non-metric multidimensional scaling (nMDS). Subsequently, we developed a linear regression model based on Landsat metrics (e.g., reflectance value, vegetation indices and textures) to explain the nMDS axis-1 scores of the plots, and extrapolated the model to the landscape to establish a tree-community composition map in each FMU. The adjusted R 2 values based on a cross-validation approach between the predicted and observed nMDS axis-1 scores indicated a close correlation, ranging from 0.54 to 0.69. Histograms of the frequency distributions of extrapolated nMDS axis-1 scores were derived from each map and used to quantitatively diagnose the forest intactness of the FMUs. Our study indicated that tree-community composition, which was reported as a robust indicator of forest intactness, could be mapped at a landscape level to quantitatively assess the spatial patterns of intactness in Bornean rain forests. Our approach can be used for large-scale assessments of tree diversity and forest intactness to monitor both the progress of Aichi Biodiversity Targets and the effectiveness of REDD+ biodiversity safeguards in production forests in the tropics.
Q24|Greenhouse Gas Implications of Peri-Urban Land Use Change in a Developed City under Four Future Climate Scenarios|Present decisions about urbanization of peri-urban (PU) areas may contribute to the capacity of cities to mitigate future climate change. Comprehensive mitigative responses to PU development should require integration of urban form and food production to realise potential trade-offs. Despite this, few studies examine greenhouse gas (GHG) implications of future urban development combined with impacts on PU food production. In this paper, four future scenarios, at 2050 and 2100 time horizons, were developed to evaluate the potential GHG emissions implications of feeding and housing a growing urban population in Sydney, Australia. The scenarios were thematically downscaled from the four relative concentration pathways. Central to the scenarios were differences in population, technology, energy, housing form, transportation, temperature, food production and land use change (LUC). A life cycle assessment approach was used within the scenarios to evaluate differences in GHG impacts. Differences in GHG emissions between scenarios at the 2100 time horizon, per area of PU land transformed, approximated 0.7 Mt CO 2 -e per year. Per additional resident this equated to 0.7 to 6.1 t CO 2 -e per year. Indirect LUC has the potential to be significant. Interventions such as carbon capture and storage technology, renewables and urban form markedly reduced emissions. However, incorporating cross-sectoral energy saving measures within urban planning at the regional scale requires a paradigmatic shift.
Q24|Unexpected Interactions between Agricultural and Forest Sectors through International Trade: Wood Pallets and Agricultural Exports in Costa Rica|International market forces have played an increasingly important role in shaping land use dynamics through complex supply chains. In Costa Rica, the shift from a net loss to a net gain in forest cover was facilitated by forest plantations and the replacement of extensive cropland and pastures by export-oriented, high-yielding crops. However, agricultural intensification generated several feedbacks affecting forests. We analyzed the interactions between Costa Rica’s agricultural and forestry sectors associated with the use of wood pallets for commodity exports over 1985–2013. Wood pallets for growing agricultural exports created a demand for domestic tree plantations. The annual land demand for tree plantations to produce these wood pallets increased by 669%, reaching 17,606 ha in 2013 and representing 28% of the increase in demand for cropland for agricultural exports over 1994–2013. Wood supplied from plantations failed to fully substitute for wood from natural forests, only allowing for a relative substitution and preventing a major sparing of these forests. The dominant use of wood from plantations for production of low-value pallets de-incentivized investments in sustainable plantations. We showed that, beyond the typical interactions between agriculture and forestry through direct competition for land, international trade generated unexpected feedback where agricultural activities and supply chains affected forestry by triggering new demand and profound changes in forestry management. Land systems behave as complex systems, calling for integrated approaches to study the outcomes of forest conservation, reforestation programs, and development of land-based businesses.
Q24|Global Population Growth, Technology, And Malthusian Constraints: A Quantitative Growth Theoretic Perspective| We structurally estimate a two‐sector Schumpeterian growth model with endogenous population and finite land reserves to study the long‐run evolution of global population, technological progress, and the demand for food. The estimated model closely replicates trajectories for world population, GDP, sectoral productivity growth, and crop land area from 1960 to 2010. Projections from 2010 onward show a slowdown of technological progress, and, because it is a key determinant of fertility costs, significant population growth. By 2100, global population reaches 12.4 billion and agricultural production doubles, but the land constraint does not bind because of capital investment and technological progress.
Q24|The economic value of dispatchable solar electricity: a Post-Paris evaluation| The UNFCCC Paris Agreement is indicative of the global effort to shift from fossil to renewable energy. Given its abundance and continuous cost decline, photovoltaic electricity is set to play a major role, requiring determination of its economic value in dependence on market share and time horizon. While the literature evaluates short-term perspectives for small market shares and medium-term for significant shares, we develop an approach to determine the costs of ``dispatchable'' solar electricity, where distributed photovoltaic electricity combined with storage and transmission serves full market coverage. This provides a reference for the long-term economic value of solar electricity.
Q24|Long‐Run Impact of Biofuels on Food Prices|About 40 percent of US corn is now used to produce biofuels, which are used as substitutes for gasoline in transportation. In this paper, we use a Ricardian model with differential land quality to show that world food prices could rise by about 32 percent by 2022. About half of this increase is from the biofuel mandate and the rest is a result of demand‐side effects in the form of population growth and income‐induced changes in dietary preferences, from cereals to meat and dairy products. However, aggregate world carbon emissions would increase, because of significant land conversion to farming and leakage from lower oil prices.
Q24|Landbrukseiendommer og jordleie i Rissa kommune|Denne artikkelen beskriver eiendomsstrukturen og bruksstrukturen for landbrukseiendommer i Rissa kommune og hvordan disse har endret seg de siste tiår fram til 2013. Den bruker data fra Statens Kartverk og Statens Landbruksforvaltning til dette. Nøkkelinformanter i kommunen er benyttet til å karakterisere endringer i landbruket i kommunen og å forklare noen av disse endringene. Jeg drøfter også en del mulige virkninger av endringer i landbrukspolitikken og hvordan disse har påvirket bruksstrukturen og insentivene til å holde jorda i god hevd. Det har foregått er rask omstilling i jordbruket i kommunen fra mange små melkeproduksjonsbruk til konsentrasjon av det meste av denne produksjonen på noen større bruk med melke-roboter. Denne prosessen har gått raskere gjennom etablering av mange samdrifter, omsettbare melkekvoter og økende omfang av jordleie. Det er ting som tyder på at en del leiejord forfaller på grunn av manglende insitamenter til å drenere jorda mens store maskiner og tidspress kombinert med dårlig vær kan gi kjøreskader og synkende avlinger. En del informanter mener at overgangen fra vekstskifte til mer ensidig korn og grasproduksjon også kan ha bidratt til synkende avlinger, men det mangler gode data til å fastslå dette. Høye arealtilskudd og mindre vektlegging på avling kan også ha bidratt til at noen spekulerer i å leie inn mer jord enn de klarer å forvalte på en god måte da arealtilskuddet er høyere enn leia de må betale.
Q24|Jordleie og bruksstruktur i tre norske kommuner|Omfanget av jordleie og bruksstruktur for tre norske kommuner (Norddal, Rissa og Ås) fra tre ulike landsdeler sammenlignes for årene 2004 og 2013 basert på data fra Statens Landbruksforvaltning (produksjonstilskudd) og Statens Kartverk (eid areal). Ås antas å være typisk for kornproduksjon på Østlandet, Rissa er typisk for Midt-Norge hvor melkeproduksjon dominerer, og Norddal er en typisk Vestlandskommune med topografiske utfordringer. Vi finner at omfanget av jordleie har økt særlig i Norddal og Rissa i denne perioden. Jordleie, omsettbare melkekvoter, ny teknologi og organisasjonsformer (samdrifter) har bidratt til å skape større og mer rasjonelle driftsenheter mer uavhengig fra eierstrukturen enn tidligere. Nøkkelord:
Q24|Wild boars and farming in Sweden - an assessment of the costs|Wild boar is among the most wide spread mammal in the world and is known to cause serious damages for farmers in terms of crop losses and impacts on farm infrastructure. This study estimate farmers’ cost of wild boar in Sweden, and how it is determined by land scape diversity, proxies for wild boar population, land ownership, feeding and protective measures by the farmer. Data are obtained from a survey of 3200 farmers, and the results indicate an average annual cost of SEK 28843/farm or SEK 305/ha, of which 62% arises from crop losses and 28% from adjustment and protection costs. However, 60% of the farmers reported no damage cost, and we therefore examined the determinants of the probability of damage cost and, when it occurs, the size. It was found that proxies of wild boar abundance and land scape diversity have significant and positive impact on the likelihood and magnitude of costs. Diversity in the landscape gives access to hiding opportunities for the pigs when searching for food in the agricultural fields. Share of area with forage, rented land, arable land, and protective measures all showed significant and positive effects on the size of the damage cost.
Q24|Agricultural productivity growth in India: An analysis accounting for different land types|Agricultural endeavour in India has moved from being a traditional farming practice to a more modern and mechanized enterprise. One of the important prerequisite for raising agricultural production and mitigating supply constraints is enhancing agricultural productivity. Since traditional input resources are limited, an increase in agricultural production has to come from enhancing agricultural productivity. With the onset of Green Revolution in India, the contribution of modern technology towards raising agricultural production has been immense. Total Factor Productivity (TFP) growth in agriculture assesses the contribution of knowledge and efficiency towards raising agricultural production. For a comprehensive study of growth of the agriculture sector, TFP analyses should include the allied sectors like livestock, forestry and fishing as well. However, in estimating agricultural TFP growth, it is essential to account for the type of land being used for crop production. An addition of an acre of irrigated land will be much more productive than an addition of rainfed land. Similarly, an acre of rainfed land will yield more crop than an acre of pastureland, which is usually used for grazing purpose for livestock. Access to irrigated land protects farmers from the risks and uncertainties of vagaries of weather. In this study we derive weights for rainfed cropland, irrigated cropland and pastureland based on their relative productivity. Using the traditional Solow index method and accounting for different land type viz. rainfed land, irrigated land and pasture land, we measure TFP growth of the agriculture and allied sector in India from 1981 to 2008. Our results show that agricultural TFP growth in India for this period ranged between 1% during 1981-1990 to about 1.7% during 2000-2008. Growth in TFP was higher during the post reform period than during the pre reform period. We also find that usage in agricultural inputs has declined during the post reform period compared to the pre reform period. Our findings also show that, though contribution of TFP towards output growth was declining during the initial years, it however shows a rising trend towards explaining output growth during the last decade.
Q24|Religious Heritage Tourism and Creative Economy in Cirebon: The Diversity of Religious, Cultures and Culinary|Cirebon has an element of completeness in tourism management. Religious, heritage and tourism is a combination of three industry from the perspective of economics that play a role in the development of tourism and has the potential to encourage people's creativity in the economic sector. With a qualitative approach, this study confirms the religious heritage and the creative economy tourism the icon for Cirebon in developing the tourism industry, including travel and religious culture as well as a variety of culinary and crafts.
Q24|Are ecosystem services complementary or competitive? An econometric analysis of cost functions from private forests in Vietnam|Forest ecosystem services (FES) provisioning and management in Vietnam is highly rated in the Vietnamese’s environmental agenda. The main rationale of private forest management is to maximise profit from timber and non-timber forest products (NTFPs) production. From a social point of view there is an under-supply of positive forest externalities (or non-marketed ecosystem services). The paper contributes to the ecosystem services (ES) literature by assessing the production cost structure, i.e., the cost of marketed production and provision of carbon and biodiversity, based on a survey of private forest owners in the Hoa Binh Province. The econometric analysis is carried out applying a dual cost function approach to analyse the trade-off between forestry costs and ecological performance. This is, to our knowledge, the first time such an approach is applied to estimate the production relationship between marketed outputs and non-marketed ES in the forest sector. This approach appears to be appropriate for handling the multiple joint outputs of production in forest. It allows us to estimate marginal costs and other cost measures such as cost complementarities in production of multiple ES. Our results indicate that there is complementarity in the provision of timber and carbon sequestration and therefore, policies enhancing carbon sequestration in private forest in Vietnam can be implemented without additional costs for the forest owner. We also find that keeping deadwood had no significant cost and was complementary with NTFP, but could increase the marginal cost of producing timber. This means that biodiversity can be enhanced without additional costs on the condition of limited quantity of deadwood.
Q24|Adaptation to Natural Disasters Through the Agricultural Land Rental Market: Evidence from Bangladesh| We examine the effects of natural disaster exposure on agricultural households who simultaneously make rent-in and rent-out decisions in the land rental market. Our econometric approach accounts for the effects of disaster exposure both on the adjustments in the quantity of operated land (i.e. extensive margin) and agricultural yield conditional on the land quantity adjustments (i.e. intensive margin), based on selectivity-corrected samples of rental market participants. Employing a household survey dataset from Bangladesh, we find that farmers were able to ameliorate their losses from exposure to disasters by optimizing their operational farm size through participation in the land rental market. These results are robust to alternative specifications. This suggests that the land rental market may be an effective instrument reducing disaster risk, and post-disaster policies should take into account this role more systematically.
Q24|Economic growth and agricultural land conversion under uncertain productivity improvements in agriculture|We study how uncertainty in the evolution of agricultural productivity interacts with economic and population growth, and the associated the demand for food. We use two-sector Schumpeterian model of growth, in which a manufacturing sector produces the traditional consumption good and an agricultural sector produces food to sustain contemporary population. Sectors differ in that agriculture also demands land as an input, itself treated as a scarce form of capital. In our model both population and sectoral technological progress are endogenously determined, and a number of key technological parameters of the model are structurally estimated using 1960-2010 data on world GDP, population, cropland and technological progress. Introducing random shocks to the evolution of total factor productivity in agriculture, we show that uncertainty optimally requires more land to be converted into agricultural use as a hedge against production shortages, and that it signficiantly affects both consumption and population trajectories.
Q24|FHB Agricultural Land Price Index|The FHB Agricultural Land Price Index was first published in 2010. It measures the nominal and real (deflated by CPI) price increase of the Hungarian agricultural land prices.The Agricultural Land Price Index was computed on the basis of transaction data received from the Stamp Duty Office ((later the National Tax Office).The data processed covers the period between 2000 and the first half of 2015. The value of the index is normalised with the average for the year 2000, i.e. the average index value in 2000 is 100. In order to ensure that the Index reflects real market trends, the FHB Land Price Index analysis only includes transactions that have been confirmed by FHB’s property surveyors. The purpose of the data filtering is to measure the changes in prices of lands that are actually utilised; i.e. data that may refer to speculative investments when the land is bought only in the hope that it will later be upgraded to be municipal territory were excluded from the analysis. Similarly to FHB House Price Index, FHB Agricultural Land Price Index was also prepared by hedonic method. Lands sold in different periods have different characteristics, thus the evolution of average prices are affected by the composition of the lands sold. By managing the composition effect, the hedonic method helped us to detect the real changes in prices. The most important factors that have been taken into account are the size, the location and the utilisation of land.
Q24|Do Housing Values Respond to Underground Storage Tank Releases? Evidence from High-Profile Cases across the United States|Underground storage tanks (USTs) containing petroleum and hazardous substances are ubiquitous. Accidental releases of these substances can present risks to local residents and the environment. The purpose of this paper is to develop monetized estimates of the benefits of preventing and cleaning up UST releases, as reflected in house values. We focus on 17 of the most high-profile UST releases in the United States with release discovery and other milestone events occurring at different points between 1985 and 2013. These data are the broadest analyzed for property value impacts of UST releases, as previous hedonic studies of USTs focused only on a single county, city, or subset of counties within a state. We employ a two-step methodology in which (i) site specific hedonic regressions are estimated using a difference-in-differences approach, and then (ii) an internal meta-analysis of the resulting estimates is conducted. The spatial and temporal variation among the 17 sites improves our identification of the treatment effects by reducing local idiosyncratic biases; thus providing greater confidence to a causal interpretation of the estimated average price effects. The results suggest significant heterogeneity in the price effects across sites, but on average reveal a 3% to 6% depreciation upon the discovery of a high profile release, and a similar appreciation after cleanup. These average effects diminish with distance, extending out to 2 or 3km from the site.
Q24|How Does Urbanization Affect the Economy and the Environment? Policy Challenges and Research Needs|Urbanization is arguably one of the most pervasive socioeconomic forces affecting economic development, ecosystem health, and humana well-being. This paper analyzes the interaction between urbanization, economic development, and environmental quality and provides an overview of the literature on the interaction. We argue that the complex roles of urbanization in the economic and ecological systems necessitate a new policy approach to urbanization management. This paper also provides a brief overview of land use policies at local, regional and national levels in the European Union and the United States and discusses policy options for urbanization management. It concludes with a brief discussion of policy challenges and research needs for efficient urbanization management.
Q24|Environmental zoning and urban development: Natural Regional Parks in France|This study provides an empirical analysis of the effects of environmental zoning on urban development. It focuses on the case of Natural Regional Parks (NRPs) in France. Of the environmental zoning instruments used in France, NRPs extend over the widest physical area. The analysis uses a quasi-experimental empirical approach (difference-in-differences) to evaluate the effects of NRPs on urban development at the municipality level. Three potential side-effects of NRPs on urban development in the regulated area are investigated. First, the long-term effects of environmental zoning on housing and population flows are analysed using French National Census data in the period from 1968-2011. Second, annual data on building permits granted in the period from 2003-2012 are used to estimate the short-term effects of NRPs on housing supply. Finally, the effects of NRPs on land-use in the regulated area using high-resolution geospatial data are evaluated. The results of the empirical analysis reveal that NRPs have had heterogeneous effects on urban development in regulated areas. Compared to development in neighbouring areas, some NRPs have discouraged urban development in the regulated area, in line with their intended objectives. However, in other cases NRPs have actually favoured urban development. In most cases, however, the policy had no significant effect on urban development within the regulated area.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q24|Economic Valuation of Rural Wetlands and Household Food Security: A Case Study from the North-West Bangladesh|Wetland ecosystem plays an important role in Bangladesh’s rural economy by contributing to household income generation and food security of the neighboring areas. We have examined this issue with regards to the North-Western region of Bangladesh-- we have selected one particular wetland in the district of Pabna (Podmobil) to estimate direct economic benefits from its multiple uses as well as contributions to household food security. We find that one major issue is neighboring households’ access to the wetlands (i.e., open-access wetlands as opposed to privately-leased wetlands). We conducted a household structured questionnaire survey among the surrounding population of Podmobil. The questionnaire survey reveals that the loss of access to the wetland caused by changes in the management practices of Podmobil adversely affected particularly poorer households’ food security since they could not participate in the new leasing arrangements and experienced a reduced access to this wetland. These results are important for wetland conservation and preservation policy formulation with regards to household food security in the rural areas.
Q24|Land consumption and farming concentration in mature economies: the Veneto region|Land Consumption and Farming Concentration in Mature Economies: the Veneto Region. In this paper, we will discuss how soil consumption in mature economies is increasingly affecting farmland with measurable effects on the loss of eco-systemic services of agriculture. Different sets of indicators interconnect multiple phenomena: this fact restates the centrality of rural areas through the concept of multi-functionality. Using the information gathered from the VI General Agricultural Census, the study offers a realistic snapshot of the evolution of structural elements in the agricultural sector in the Veneto region. Modifications are intense, which imply the damage of multiple relationships between artificial space and agricultural systems. The search is performed through the analysis of census microdata. The observed trends suggest a concentration model of farm structures. This allows the testing of the effectiveness of agricultural policies. The tendency of relevant indicators shows the intensification of the restructuring process.
Q24|L’insostenibile consumo di terreno agricolo<BR>[The unsustainable consumption of agricultural land]|Consumption of agricultural land through various forms of degradation, erosion, compaction, waterproofing, has an impact on the entire primary sector, with increasing costs. Thus, if the Italian surface is 30 million hectares, 17 is the total agricultural (SAT), but only 12 is actually productive. The SAU, which has been properly used for crops, has decreased by 20% over the past 30 years and its incidence contracted from 52.4% to 42.6%, but only part of the loss is due to urban expansion processes and consumption of soil. Thus, there is an inadequate loss indicator, not including weighing roads, irrigation systems, woods, uncultivated, major renaturalisation phenomena that affect the lost surface [Soriani, 2014]. SAU is best suited to a timely planning of quality, considering the specific agricultural space and productivity. Its contraction must be accompanied by several factors, in addition to the loss of the SAT, linked to the reforms of the common agricultural policy, the various forms of support to agricultural income, the dynamics of international competition, with the effect of abandoning crops. This is often the result of wild re-naturalization, within settlements dynamics that attest to the evolution of land use patterns, only contributing to the loss of lost biodiversity, fueling instead various forms of degradation and disaster in regaining the natural forces of space.
Q24|Soil resource, at the core of competitiveness and sustainability issues in agriculture: an economic approach|Agriculture is facing an expected increase in food production demand, caused by an increased global population of 9 billion people by the middle of this century. At national scale, competitiveness and economic growth issues are at stake. To insure this increase in production, there are two solutions: extend the proportion of agricultural lands at the expense of natural ecosystems; and increase agricultural productivity. Through a review of agronomic and economic articles, we show the importance of considering soil quality in the productivity and sustainability of farms. However, farming practices preserving soil quality are not widely adopted, particularly in France. An economic analysis of these issues provide an understanding of farmers' decision making process, and indicate what the optimal strategies can be to cope with these challenges. We propose an optimal control model that illustrates the links between farming practices and soil quality when soil quality is considered as an endogenous production factor. The interest and originality of this article is to associate different disciplines to investigate the role of soil quality in the sustainability and profitability of farms.
