Q25|Is irrigation driven by the economic value of internationally traded agricultural products?|A recent trend of literature investigates how international trade compensates or accentuates the differences in countries' endowments in water resources and whether trade regulation should be used to improve the use of water resources at the global level. In this paper, we develop a simple model establishing a positive link between the demand for irrigation water of agricultural producers and the international price of irrigated goods. Unlike previous works, that focus on the cost of water resources, we emphasize the price of traded goods as a key element of the shadow value of water used in agriculture. We test our model empirically using data on 159 irrigated crops exported by 183 countries, and find that countries' irrigation behavior is strongly linked to the global price of crops. This indicates that agricultural producers internalize the price of irrigation water. The export price effect is stronger when countries are net exporters of irrigated crops and weaker for internationally traded crops that constitute a pillar of most countries' domestic food security, such as cereals. Our results provide elements for the broader issue of the economically efficient use of water resources in agriculture.
Q25|Inefficient water pricing and incentives for conservation|"We use two randomized controlled trials in 544 villages of rural Bangladesh to study a simple water conservation technology called ""Alternate Wetting and Drying (AWD)"". The AWD technology is a perforated PVC pipe that allows farmers to observe the water level below ground and thus irrigate their field less often. Even though this technology has shown promising results in numerous agronomic experiments, we find no significant effects on water use and profits. AWD only leads to measurable water savings in villages where farmers pay a volumetric (marginal) price for water, but not in villages where water prices are set by the acre. Building on these findings, the second RCT randomly distributed debit cards that convert farmers from per-acre charges to hourly billing. The debit cards cause demand for AWD to become less price sensitive and farmers to put more value on the technology. Taken together, these results show that introducing a marginal price for water aligns incentives for conservation."
Q25|Sharing a Groundwater Resource in a Context of Regime Shifts|Abstract We study the occurrence of shocks in a common groundwater resource problem using a differential game. In particular, we use Rubio and Casino’s adaptation of the Gisser and Sánchez model where we introduce a sudden change in the dynamics of the resource, namely a decrease in the recharge rate of the aquifer. We compare the pareto optimal solution with open-loop and feedback equilibria. First, we show analytically how different solutions, at the steady state, depend on the intensity of the shock. Moreover, we show that the cost and the strategic effects are decreasing functions of the intensity of the shock, i.e. that all the solutions get closer at the steady state for more intense shocks. We finally apply the game to the particular case of the Western La Mancha aquifer. The aim of this application is to estimate how shocks influence the inefficiency of open loop and feedback strategies in terms of welfare. We show that this inefficiency decreases the earlier the shock occurs or the higher the intensity of the shock.
Q25|Is irrigation driven by the economic value of internationally traded agricultural products?|A recent trend of literature investigates how international trade compensates or accentuates the differences in countries' endowments in water resources and whether trade regulation should be used to improve the use of water resources at the global level. Unlike previous works that focus on the cost of water resources, this paper emphasizes the price of traded goods as a key element of the shadow value of water used in agriculture. We use a simple production model to establish a positive link between the demand for irrigation water and the international price of irrigated crops. We test our model empirically using data on 243 irrigated crops exported by 185 countries, and find that higher-priced products are irrigated more intensively. This indicates that agricultural producers internalize the price of irrigation water. The effect is stronger when countries are net exporters of irrigated crops and weaker for crops essential for reaching food security, such as cereals. Our results imply that trade policy is a pertinent instrument to incite or deter the use of irrigation water across products, easier to implement than a differentiated water pricing policy, especially in water-scarce developing countries.
Q25|A CLEWS Nexus Modeling Approach to Assess Water Security Trajectories and Infrastructure Needs in Latin America and the Caribbean|This working paper presents an up-to-date and prospective assessment of water security throughout the LAC region with a focus on infrastructure needs, to aid in strategic thinking towards planning and management in key water-using sectors such as agriculture, energy and water supply. This assessment is grounded on a physically-based analysis of water supply and demand, highlights the climate-land-energy-water-socioeconomics (CLEWS) nexus contributions to water security in the region, and addresses uncertainty in projections and their implications through a variety of potential future scenarios of climate change and socioeconomic development in the region.
Q25|Unraveling local preferences and willingness to pay for different management scenarios: A choice experiment to Biosphere Reserve management|Economic valuation of ecosystem services has emerged as a valuable tool to promote conservation and sustainable land management. Our study adds to this literature, by reporting the results of a discrete choice experiment used to analyse local population preferences and willingness-to-pay for selected ecosystem services resulting from different management scenarios in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve (Biscay, Spain). The ecosystem services considered include quality of water bodies, agricultural production, native forest protection, biodiversity, and recreation. The results indicate that the local population is willing to financially support a new management plan focused on the improvement of ecosystem health and landscape multifunctionality and sustainability, with recreation being the least valued ecosystem service. These findings may be used to inform conservation and management policies to maximize social well-being. They can also help to prioritize investments and allocation of funding and hence minimise land use conflicts.
Q25|Economy-wide analysis of food waste reductions and related costs|Reducing food waste has become a policy priority in recent years as many studies show that a significant amount of food is wasted at various stages of the food supply chain. However, the economic impacts of food waste reduction have not been studied in depth as most of the studies in the literature ignore the cost and feedback effects. The aim of this report is to develop a general framework to analyse the economic impacts of reducing food waste in EU28 in both a global and a regional context in support of the EU policy making process on food waste reduction. For the purposes of this study, we employ the CGEBox toolbox which is a flexible, extendable, and modular code basis for CGE modelling. The default configuration of CGEBox used in this study covers the global economy with a detailed representation of the agriculture and food production sector whereas the EU28 is modelled at NUTS-II level. The impact of a food waste reduction equal to 5% of the intermediate input use of food processing sectors under two different cost assumptions is analysed in the scenarios. Firstly, in the cost neutral scenario, we assume that the cost of reducing food waste is equal to the monetary savings for the food processing industry. Secondly, in the pessimistic scenario, we assume that the cost of reducing food waste is twice as much as the cost savings made by reducing food waste. The results suggest that a unilateral commitment by the EU to reducing food loss and waste would most likely decrease the competitiveness of the EUâ€™s food processing. Reduced demand for primary agricultural inputs would shrink the EUâ€™s agricultural sectors, putting pressure on farm incomes and land prices. The contribution to global food security would be very minor. The impact on emissions relevant to climate change at global level is also minor, with a very limited contribution within the EU.
Q25|Do Property Rights Alleviate the Problem of the Commons? Evidence from California Groundwater Rights|Property rights are widely prescribed for addressing the tragedy of the commons, yet causal evidence of their effectiveness remains elusive. This paper combines theory and empirics to produce a causal estimate of the net benefit of using property rights to manage groundwater. We develop a model of dynamic groundwater extraction to demonstrate how a spatial regression discontinuity design exploiting an incomplete property rights setting can recover a lower bound on the value of property rights. We apply this estimator to a major aquifer in water-stressed southern California, finding groundwater property rights led to substantial net benefits, as capitalized in land values. Heterogeneity analyses suggest that gains arise in part from the tradeability of property rights, enabling more efficient water use across sectors.
Q25|Navigating pathways to reform water policies in agriculture|This report offers a guide on potential reform pathways towards sustainable agriculture water use, based on a thorough review of selected past water and agriculture reforms and extensive consultation with policy experts. A theory of change is developed that emphasises the importance of flexibility in the timing and design of reform processes to achieve practical and effective policy changes. Governments should prepare future reforms, via continued research, education, and governance efforts, to help take advantage of reform opportunities when the timing is right. Five necessary conditions are identified for a successful reform process: (i) support evidence-based problem definition, objective setting and evaluations; (ii) ensure that governance and institutions are aligned with the policy change; (iii) engage stakeholders strategically and build trust; (iv) rebalance economic incentives to mitigate short run economic losses; and (v) define an adjustable smart reform sequencing that provides flexibility in the long run. These conditions are found to be necessary to implement four challenging policy changes: charging water use in agriculture; removing subsidies that negatively impact water resources, regulating groundwater use and addressing nonpoint source pollution. But the relative effort that governments need to devote to fulfilling each of the five conditions will vary depending on the policy change.
Q25|An Analysis of Adaption Policies to Climate Change: Gdyn-W Model|This paper develops a dynamic CGE-Water (Gdyn-W) model to analyse the effectiveness of adaptation policies to climate change. In the model, water is introduced as an explicit primary factor of production used for irrigation purposes. For empirical analysis, we employ the latest GTAP database version 9 focusing on the South Asian countries: Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Our simulation results revel that the domestic production in all the countries under analysis decreases after the temperature rises by 1 °C until 2040. However, such production losses can be reduced greatly by the adaptation policy to climate change. The costs associated with such a policy are marginal compared to the overall benefits from such a policy.
Q25|Integrated Investment Appraisal of Water and Sanitation Projects: A Case of Senegal Water and Sanitation Project|This study is an appraisal of a rural water and sanitation project in Senegal. The Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) done in this study employs the Integrated Investment Appraisal Approach (IIA) which typically includes the financial, economic, stakeholder and risk analyses of the project. The impacts on all major stakeholders are quantified. Senegal’s water supply coverage was 75 percent in 2004. Of the 75 percent of the total population. 64 percent of the rural population is covered, and 90 percent of the urban population has access to water. In the case of sanitation, however, with only 33 percent coverage of the entire population of Senegal. To further improve the water and sanitation sector of Senegal, especially in the rural areas, the African Development Bank (AfDB) decided to intervene with a series of engagements. This study is the appraisal of the first phase of the African Development Bank’s (AfDB) engagement in the rural water and sanitation in Senegal. This initiative is directed towards ensuring that Senegal reaches its millennium development goals. The intervention is structured such that addresses the needs of both the water supply and sanitation infrastructure.
Q25|Bosques en Bolivia: Una estimación espacial de los costos de la Deforestación|La deforestación en Bolivia se ha incrementado de manera considerable en los últimos años, la misma conlleva a emisiones de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad, variación del ciclo hidrológico, entre otras. El presente estudio tiene el objetivo de estimar el impacto de la deforestación y la de sus costos en términos monetarios. Debido a la complejidad de cada variable, se emplea distintas metodologías para cada una de ellas (emisión de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad y variación del ciclo hidrológico).La misma que consiste en una contabilidad de carbono y el uso del precio de carbono, además de un modelo BIOM de extrapolación de especies y el uso de elasticidad de consumo y riqueza absoluta de las especies para la cuantificación de los costos. Finalmente se hace uso de econometría espacial y el índice de escasez de agua para la variación del ciclo hidrológico. El análisis de los resultados es realizado en tres categorías: a nivel municipal, a nivel departamental y a nivel nacional para dos periodos de tiempo 1990-2000 y 2000-2010. Adicionalmente, en base a los resultados se formula conclusiones y recomendaciones sobre el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia. Los cuales determinan que el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia representa una cifra mayor al 10% del PIB de Bolivia.
Q25|Revisiting water and economic growth from a long-term perspective|Water use has increased notably throughout the world over the last 250 years. The industrial revolution and the long-term economic growth processes, first experienced by Western countries, and then by many other regions, put growing pressure on water resources. If we focus on economic growth, structural change and the rise in per capita income have been key factors in explaining water use trajectories. In addition, population growth has also boosted water needs worldwide. On the contrary, the increase in water use efficiency, mostly driven by technological developments, but also by improved institutions and environmental awareness, has slowed down water requirements. In this general context, our study aims to analyse the drivers of water use from a long-term perspective. More specifically, we analyse world and regional trends in water use over the last century and their relationships with population, economic growth and technological change. We pay particular attention to the second half of the last century and the twenty-first century, given the rising demands linked to trade, the emergence of new economies with increasing per capita income and demands and the smooth technological change observed in developed countries.
Q25|Management Efficiency Evaluation of Water Supply Systems in North-Eastern Region of Thailand|This paper presents key findings of a comprehensive research aimed at evaluating the management efficiency of water resources and water supply systems in Thailand. The study was carried out in 4 North-Eastern provinces: Nakhon Ratchasima, Chaiyaphum, Surin, and Buri Ram. Four management aspects were examined, namely water resource, water quality, health risk, and engineering. Twenty-seven village water supply systems (VWSSs) and ten city water supply systems (CWSSs) were systematically selected and investigated. The 2 groups represent small systems in rural areas and big systems in city areas, respectively. Water samples were collected once in the rainy season and another in the dry season. For VWSSs, results indicated that 7 reservoir-using systems would have insufficient raw water ranging from 6 - 12 months per year in the next 20 years. Treated water from both surface-water and groundwater VWSSs, in some cases, had color, fecal coliform, and total coliform values which exceed drinking water standards; and had less than 0.02 mg/L residual chlorine, indicating lack of disinfection protection. Multi-route risk assessment revealed several cases of total cancer risk values higher than 10-6, though the HI values seemed to indicate no risk of concern. Evaluation of the engineering aspect predicted that 44% of the plants would have inadequate treatment capacity in the long-run. For CWSSs, it was found that most of the raw water resources ? large reservoirs and major rivers ? can accommodate the future water needs in the next 20 years. Most plants also have the capability to reserve excess water for usage in the dry season and have adequate reservoir sizes. A few water quality parameters were not conforming with standard, e.g. color, iron, and residual chlorine, which could be due to inappropriate operating condition. The health risk study revealed that the THMs levels were within the drinking water standards but the health risk was high in certain cases. On the other hand, the heavy metals were within standards and acceptable risk level. Most of CWSSs have a successful and efficient operation due to the appropriate structure of the organization and knowledgeable plant operators. Some plants, however, have high electricity cost which leads to loss of money in the operation. Comparison of VWSSs and CWSSs results help to understand their current management situation and discrepancy. The research outcomes are beneficial to water supply plant operators and administrators in rural and urban areas and can support relevant parties in management improvement.
Q25|Drought response in an election year: Evidence from Brazil|Research on the impact of water conservation instruments rarely considers the role of electoral politics. This paper evaluates the response of a major state-owned water utility to the drought that occurred in the city of SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil during 2014. The response coincided with an election for state governor. A difference-in-difference research design produces no evidence that a reward-based instrument implemented before the election reduced household consumption. Evidence is found that a penalty-based instrument implemented after the election reduced consumption by 4 to 8%. The implications of insulating water utilitiesâ€™ drought response from the political-electoral cycle are discussed.
Q25|Water Tariffs and Consumers' Inaction|We study adoption by more than 150,000 households of an optional transitional water tariff implemented in the South-East of England in conjunction with an universal metering pro- gramme. We document how inertia leads customers to relinquish substantial financial gains, with less than a third of customers who would benefit from adopting the transitional tariff actually doing so. We also show how households responds not only to overall gains, but also to more short-term gains from adopting the tariff. Households in high income/high education neighbourhoods display a higher responsiveness to potential savings, as do households where the contract holder is of prime age instead of being more senior or junior. Finally, the probability of adoption is positively impacted by adoption by neighbours, thus suggesting the presence of peer effects. We also look at the timing of the call, showing how most customers choose to call early on, when less information is available, but the issue is more prominent. The choice of when to call is consistent with customers taking into account the option value of waiting, as well as future consumption patterns.
Q25|The Input-Output Analysis Of Blue Industries: Comparative Study Of Estonia And Finland|The paper focuses on examining the role of blue industries in the national economies of Estonia and Finland as two neighbouring countries that have a sea border. We exploit the Input-Output (I-O) methodology to analyse inter-industry linkages relying on the OECD I-O tables. The OECD database comprises information on 34 sectors of the national economy over the period 1995–2011. The results of the analysis show that despite rather weak overall backward and forward linkages of aggregated blue industries within the national economies, they play a remarkable role in the economic activities of maritime regions, and to a large extent drive the economic success of Estonian and Finnish regional and national economies in generating new growth and employment. The weak backward and forward linkages indicate that negative dynamics within the blue economy yield rather weak negative externalities for the overall economy, and by contrast, if the national economy as a whole is suffering under a crisis, the potential impact on industries is not particularly remarkable. These findings suggest that blue industries are relatively independent within national economies having a remarkable role in socio-economic development of maritime regions, and thereby, create good preconditions for the stable development of cross-border cooperation between the maritime regions of both countries.
Q25|Douglass C. North: Transaction Costs, Property Rights, and Economic Outcomes|Douglass North asked why some societies historically and contemporarily have rising per-capita incomes and individual welfare, whereas others do not? He argued that successful economies had property rights that encouraged markets, trade, and investment in new production and organizational methods. In other economies, transaction costs, especially those due to the political process, blocked more efficient property rights. Property rights grant decision making over valuable resources and are the basis for investment, and market exchange. They mold the economy and the distribution of wealth and political power. Politicians and coalitions of privileged elites with stakes in the status quo join to preserve it. Inefficiencies create their own constituencies. There is no clear remedy for general citizens in North’s cases. Despite the power of North’s argument, transaction costs are not clear in aggregate studies of economies. They are more apparent in US common-pool resource problems with large, continuing losses in resource rents. This evidence runs counter to the facile arguments in the welfare and environmental economics literatures for addressing externalities that are reminiscent of the simplistic recommendations in the growth and economic history literatures that North challenged. If the observed costly political response to open access losses is characteristic of regulation in general, then welfare losses permeate developed economies as well and are more pervasive than the dramatic examples of development failure examined by North and others. Mitigation requires competitive interest groups that benefit from more secure property rights and greater resource rents to offset powerful elites that align with politicians and capture bureaucratic agencies to achieve particularistic benefits that undermine general welfare.
Q25|The Critical Role Of Markets In Climate Change Adaptation|Markets, especially land markets, can facilitate climate change adaptation through price signals. A review of research reveals that urban, coastal, and agricultural land markets provide effective signals of the emerging costs of climate change. These signals encourage adjustments by both private owners and policy officials in taking preemptive action to reduce costs. In agriculture, they promote consideration of new cropping and tillage practices, seed types, timing, and location of production. They also stimulate use of new irrigation technologies. In urban areas, they motivate new housing construction, elevation, and location away from harm. They channel more efficient use of water and its application to parks and other green areas to make urban settings more desirable with higher temperatures. Related water markets play a similar role in adjusting water use and reallocation. To be effective, however, markets must reflect multiple traders and prices must be free to adjust. Where these conditions are not met, market signals will be inhibited and market-driven adaptation will be reduced. Because public policy is driven by constituent demands, it may not be a remedy. The evidence of the National Flood Insurance Program and federal wildfire response illustrates how politically difficult it may be to adjust programs to be more adaptive.
Q25|Peer Effects in Water Conservation: Evidence from Consumer Migration|Social interactions are widely understood to influence consumer decisions in many choice settings. This paper identifies causal peer effects in water conservation during the growing season, utilizing variation from consumer migration. We use machine learning to classify high-resolution remote sensing images to provide evidence that conversion to dry landscaping underpins the peer effects in water consumption. We also provide evidence that without a price signal, peer effects are muted, demonstrating a complementarity between information transmission and prices. These results inform water use policy in many areas of the world threatened by recurring drought conditions.
Q25|Water Content in Trade: A Regional Analysis for Morocco|This paper reports the results of an application using an interregional input-output matrix for Morocco together with regional information on water consumption by sectors. We develop a trade-based index that reveals the relative water use intensities associated with specific interregional and international trade flows. We estimate, for each flow associated with each origin-destination pair, measures of trade in value added and trade in water that are further used to calculate our index. We add to the existing literature on virtual water flows by encompassing the subnational perspective in the case study of a country that shows a â€œclimate divideâ€ : while a great part of the southern territory is located in the Sahara Desert, with serious water constraints, the northern part is relatively more privileged with access to this natural resource. Furthermore, we compare that Trade-Based Index of Water Intensity to similar metrics related to the use of other natural resources.
Q25|Reforming water policies in agriculture: Lessons from past reforms|Agriculture’s water quality and quantity challenges continue to grow in many regions of the world. Policy solutions have been identified, but not always applied where needed nor implemented effectively. This report analyses eight past water and agriculture policy changes in OECD countries with the aim to identify steps towards adopting and implementing such solutions effectively. Selected reforms are assessed systematically via an institutional change analysis and a cross-cutting comparison of political economy factors. A characterisation of reforms is proposed according to the scope of the reform process, the scope of the reform’s action, and the involvement of governments in the design of reforms and their implementation. The comparison of agriculture and water policy changes shows that introducing reforms can be facilitated by exogenous factors, including droughts and floods, and reform design features. Meanwhile, the outcome of reforms can be affected by their geographical scale and scope, the dynamic pattern of reform pathways, and compensation for farmers. There are, however, trade-offs between the effects of these factors on the reform’s ambition, effectiveness, efficiency, and flexibility.
Q25|Integration and Analysis of Resource Inventory Data for Risk Assessments of Environmental Contamination in Mixed Use Landscapes in Pakistan|This paper examines the various metals that are associated with land contamination for instances arsenic, cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel, and mercury that are well known as the ingredient of contamination of the ecology in the region where there is a high rate of anthropogenic burden. The study investigates land contamination in Pakistan's context. The researches have used the quantitative method to analyze the most recent literature available on the land contamination of Pakistan following funnel approach. The three main steps followed to analyze are first, assessment of the site initially, secondly, assessment of the exposure of the contaminated site that also contains a survey of few places and the amount of contamination found and lastly, remediation of the site. The finding revealed that the contamination in Pakistan is both men made as well due to the terrain they belong to that contains various anthropogenic elements, which are harmful to live beings. Additionally, it is evident that the different elements, which can cause soil contamination, are higher in many places in Pakistan than the standard or tolerable rate mentioned by WHO and other survey board. Lastly, the paper confirms that the pollution can be reduced only if there is a reduction in the man made cause of the land contamination such as oil spill and other industrial emissions that constitute most of Pakistan’s land contamination.
Q25|Assessment of waste dumping practices in mountain creeks|The paper examines the exposure of mountain creeks towards illegal waste disposal practices related to the lack of waste collection services in rural areas of Romania prior to EU accession and the low waste collection efficiency following the closure of rural wild dumps in 2009-2010. The paper estimates the amounts of household waste uncollected and disposed in selected small Carpathian rivers in the North-East development region. The expansion of built-up areas along the water courses leads to waste dumping practices across mountain villages in the context of poor waste management facilities. Particular morphology of villages and hydrological characteristics of the creeks may influence the magnitude of such bad practices. The paper points out the role of flash floods in cleaning upstream catchments from debris, thus, polluting the downstream rivers and human settlements. An efficient waste collection system in mountain areas has a crucial role to play in mitigating and ultimately preventing the waste dumping practices in water bodies.
Q25|Enabling sustainable and inclusive irrigation development in Cambodia|Cambodia’s 16% of the total cultivated area (2.7 million hectare) is irrigated by 950 irrigation schemes most of which were developed by the government. Financing irrigation development in Cambodia has two problems: (a) shrinkage of funds for construction of ongoing or new canal network, leading to delay in completion of projects; (b) crunch for operation and maintenance. This paper, focuses on status of financing irrigation development laying stress on identifying options to fund the irrigation development more aggressively and sustainably. Further, possible approaches, governance reforms required in water sector, and supportive policy and legal aspects are discussed.
Q25|An empirical examination of reducing status quo bias in heterogeneous populations: evidence from the South African water sector|Choice experiments typically include a status quo option, which often describes the current scenario. This is to secure the validity and applicability of choice experiments. People have a propensity to choose what they are familiar with, despite being presented with alternatives that seem better (i.e. the ‘status quo effect’). Various experiments have reliably demonstrated this effect. The tendency to prefer the current scenario disproportionally does not mimic real-life preferences; therefore, status quo bias is undesirable. In a split sample framework, we test for the effects of reducing status quo bias by considering a heterogeneous sample. We use generalised mixed logit models to carry out the tests. The tests reveal that presenting each split sample with a partially relevant status quo significantly reduces the status quo bias problem.
Q25|Removing Fossil Fuel Subsidies to Help the Poor|Phasing out energy subsidies may increase the price of energy and adversely affect the poor. However, the households may benefit from the redistribution of the revenue from this policy in the economy. Here, we investigate the impacts of phasing out energy subsidies and direct transfer of the policy revenue to households. Employing a Computable General Equilibrium model, we measure the impacts on labor-leisure choice and on labor supply. Considering the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke index and the Food Ratio Method, we construct several poverty indices: the Gini index, the ratio of none-food expenditures to food expenditure, the ratio of income of the richest decile to the poorest decile, and the ratio of income of the two richest deciles to the two poorest deciles. We analyze the effects of an increase in energy prices and direct transfer of revenues to the households in the Iranian economy. The findings suggest a considerable improvement in income distribution and a significant improvement in food to non-food ratio. The results also show an improvement in rural-urban income distribution.
Q25|Efectos del Cambio Climático sobre la Disponibilidad de Agua y los Recursos Hídricos en Bolivia: Pronóstico para el 2030|El presente trabajo evalúa la variación de la oferta hídrica bajo dos escenarios de cambio climático y consecuentemente la disponibilidad de agua para el año 2030 en 127 subcuencas hidrográficas de Bolivia. La disponibilidad de agua es evaluada mediante la construcción del índice de escasez, en base a 4 escenarios planteados. Todo el análisis fue realizado a través de un enfoque de cuencas hidrográficas aplicado por el método de humedad del suelo. Esta aproximación muestra que la oferta hídrica para el año 2030 tiene un comportamiento heterogéneo por subcuenca y que existe el riesgo de escasez de agua para unidades hidrológicas de la cuenca del Pilcomayo y del Altiplano.
Q25|Water Content in Trade: A Regional Analysis for Morocco|This paper reports the results of an application using an interregional input-output matrix for Morocco together with regional information on water consumption by sectors. We develop a trade-based index that reveals the relative water use intensities associated with specific interregional and international trade flows. We estimate, for each flow associated with each origin-destination pair, measures of trade in value added and trade in water that are further used to calculate our index. We add to the existing literature on virtual water flows by encompassing the subnational perspective in the case study of a country that shows a “climate divide”: while a great part of the southern territory is located in the Sahara Desert, with serious water constraints, the northern part is relatively more privileged with access to this natural resource. Furthermore, we compare that Trade-Based Index of Water Intensity to similar metrics related to the use of other natural resources.
Q25|Shadow price of CO2 emissions in Indian thermal power sector|Abstract This paper estimates production efficiency and shadow prices of CO2 emissions for coal-fired thermal power plants in India. It employs a unique sample of 56 power plants for 2000–2013 acquired primarily by invoking the Right to Information Act 2005. It estimates parametric quadratic directional output distance function using linear programming approach. We find that CO2 intensity of electricity generation could be reduced by about 16 and 23% if the power plants were made to operate efficiently. The estimated average shadow prices of US$ 14.54 and 18.68 for a ton of CO2 emission, depending upon a plant’s strategies for enhancing electricity and reducing CO2 emissions, reflect that the prevailing Clean Energy Cess of US$ 6.15 on a ton of coal or US$ 3.81 on a ton of CO2 emissions is not enough to induce the required emission mitigation. Significant variation in the estimates of shadow prices across the thermal power plants calls for use of economic instruments to reduce the emissions.
Q25|Renewal of water-related infrastructure and user\'s contribution: a few benchmarks|This paper studies the contribution required from the users of collective drinking water networks to finance asset management of infrastructures. We characterize the first-best optimum and we compare it to the social optimum in the presence of preferences heterogeneity, in order to take into account the uses of alternative techniques for certain household needs. These alternatives uses generate negative externalities for the good functioning of the water networks. The first-best optimum thus requires a transfer from the exclusive users of the collective network to the users of the alternatives. Furthermore, Nash equilibrium reveals that the existence of this transfer requires other motivations than the only usage values. Finally, the case of water infrastructure asset management emphasizes how an essential part of inequality that can be associated with it can be attributed to preferences heterogeneity.
Q25|Impact Of Climate Dynamics On Cyclical Properties Of Wine Production In Douro Region Using A Time-Frequency Approach|In this paper we model the impact of climate dynamics on wine production temporal cycles for the period 1933 to 2013 in the Douro wine region. We identify the cyclical properties of wine production and which cycles are de-termined by spring temperature and soil water levels during summer. We find that the in-season spring temperature as well as the temperatures of two and three years ago explain about 65% of the variability of wine pro-duction. When the soil water level in summer is incorporated, the R2 in-creases to 83% minimizing the Akaike criterion. The effects of soil water in wine production are depending on the timing. The in-season effect of an increase in soil water is negative, whilst soil water from two and three years ago have a positive effect on wine production. There is a stable but non- constant link between production and the spring temperature. The temper-ature is responsible for two long-medium cycles of 5.8 year and 4.2 years as well as a short one of 2.4 years that began since the 80s. The soil water level can explain 60% of the 7 years cycles of wine production as well as a short one of 2.3 years cycle which has been happening since the 90s. We also identify a shift of the relative importance away from temperature to soil water. Despite using a new an extended dataset, our results largely confirm the results of the impact of climate on the wine production in Douro region in our previous research. Modelling the impact of climate on the wine production can be an important instrument contributing for mitigation strategies facing the projected climate conditions in order to remain com-petitive in the market.
Q25|Is there a demand for flood insurance in Vietnam? Results from a choice experiment|Abstract Vietnam is one of the countries most affected by floods. Despite high exposure to this risk and repeated calls from international organizations, the penetration rate of flood insurance remains surprisingly low in Vietnam. We investigate if there is a demand for flood insurance by Vietnamese households using a choice experiment. We compute households’ willingness to pay (WTP) for various flood insurance programs and we identify the relationships between WTP and the different attributes of insurance schemes (type of risk covered, level of coverage, insurance provider, billing frequency, insurance premium). We first show that Vietnamese households exhibit a strong preference for the status quo option (no insurance). We do, however, document significant and positive WTP for some flood insurance policies, especially those covering health expenses. We show that household trust in institutions providing flood insurance policies may help understand the currently low adoption rate. Finally, we stress the high degree of heterogeneity in household preferences for flood insurance policies: past experience with flooding, individual risk preferences and subjective flood risk perception matter to understand WTP for flood insurance. These results call for a very careful design of flood insurance mechanisms in Vietnam, and more generally in developing countries subject to high risks of natural disasters.
Q25|Water as freedom in the Brazilian Amazon|Universal access to the commons, such as to clean water, might be seen as a strong challenge to development as freedom. Beyond water scarcity, several regions are already suffering from lack of access, even where water is abundant. Meanwhile, climate change, overpopulation and agricultural demand are severely affecting the quality and availability of water resources. At the global level, concerns about water are tied to the Amazon Region, which contains the greatest potential water stock in the world, and which simultaneously faces the worst troubles in access and supply. This paper is therefore aimed at pointing out the role inclusive social innovations can play in mitigating the impact of growing water shortages and securing effective water use. After a first introduction to Brazil, Amazonas and ParÃ state statistics on water-related aspects, the research focuses on results emerging from the AguaSociAL project.
Q25|Groundwater Management in a Food Security Context|Abstract This article analyzes the sustainability of market-based instruments such as tradable permits for the management of a renewable aquifer used for irrigated agriculture. In our dynamic hydro-economic model, a water agency aims at satisfying a food security constraint within a tradable permit scheme in the presence of myopic heterogeneous agents. We identify analytically the viability kernel that defines the states of the resource yielding inter-temporal feasible paths able to satisfy the set of constraints over time and the associated set of viable quota policies. We then illustrate the theoretical results of the paper with numerical simulations based on the Western La Mancha aquifer.
Q25|Do European Agri-environment Measures Help Reduce Herbicide Use? Evidence From Viticulture in France|Agri-environmental schemes (AES) are a central component of the European environmental policy, but few of these schemes have been carefully evaluated and doubts are often expressed about their effectiveness. We use original data collected from winegrowers who participated in an AES targeting non-point source pollution from herbicides in 2011 and 2012 in the South region of France. Using the variation in the implementation of the scheme across time and space and a matching approach, we show that the quantity of herbicides used by participants in the scheme in 2011 ranges from 38 to 53% below what they would have used without the scheme and this percentage is between 42 and 50% in 2012. Further, our results suggest that least demanding AES options are effective in avoiding pollution peaks when weed pressure is high, whereas more demanding AES options guarantee an overall reduction in herbicide use, even during relatively easy farming years in which less weed pressure is experienced.
Q25|Short and Long term Effects of Water Markets|We aim at checking from a theoretical viewpoint the claims made about water markets in the literature. We prove that water markets improve farmers' profits and production efficiency but do not necessarily improve total production and do not always encourage private investments. Taking into account the transaction cost of water markets and the social cost due to the inactivity of some farmers that may result from water markets, we prove that water markets do not always improve total surplus. JEL Classification: Q25, C72, O33.
Q25|Grunnvassforvaltning. Om Elinor Ostrom si tilnærming til forvaltning av grunnvatn|The paper discusses the challenges present in the management of groundwater. The theoretical approach of Elinor Ostrom is presented and her study of the management of groundwater in Southern California in the 1960ies is used illuminate how the bottom up process for developing a sustainable system of governance works in California. The most general challenge for a management system is to establish reasonably accurate knowledge about the extent of the groundwater reservoir, a list of the holders of rights to access or pump the groundwater, and the amount taken by those who exercise their rights. If the rights holders are to govern themselves, they need an institutional framework that allows them to create a legally valid constitution for these who have rights in the groundwater. The system of Home-rule that governs local management of public affairs in California provides such framework. This has been studied as polycentric governance.
Q25|The economy-wide implications of a tax policy to reduce water pollution: a case of the Olifants river basin, South Africa| The Olifants river basin, which is one of the nine river basins in South Africa ranks as the third most water-stressed basin as well as the most polluted due to pollution from mining activities, irrigation agriculture, and industrial waste disposal. As a result, the government has implemented a series of pollution control measures with the view to mitigating pollution and water shortage in the basin. In this paper, we analysed the regional economic and environmental impacts of a tax policy to reduce water pollution using a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model. Firstly, an extended Social Accounting Matrix (SAM) which includes water pollution related activities was constructed for the basin using the framework of environmentally extended SAM. Secondly, we simulate a reduction in current pollution load by increasing the pollution tax rate under alternative revenue recycling schemes. The analyses reveal that internalising the cost of pollution control will effectively reduce the pollution situation in the river basin with marginal negative impact on Real Regional Gross Domestic Product (RRGDP). However, revenue recycling through uniform lump-sum transfers may positively impact RRGDP. In addition, the policy will lead to a change in regional production structure from heavy polluting sectors to less pollution-intensive sectors with benefits to sustainable development and the aquatic ecosystem. JEL codes: C68, Q25, Q28
Q25|Water Tariffs and Consumers' Inaction|We study adoption by more than 150,000 households of an optional transitional water tariff implemented in the South-East of England in conjunction with an universal metering pro-gramme. We document how inertia leads customers to relinquish substantial financial gains, with less than a third of customers who would benefit from adopting the transitional tariff actually doing so. We also show how households responds not only to overall gains, but also to more short-term gains from adopting the tariff. Households in high income/high education neighbourhoods display a higher responsiveness to potential savings, as do households where the contract holder is of prime age instead of being more senior or junior. Finally, the probability of adoption is positively impacted by adoption by neighbours, thus suggesting the presence of peer effects. We also look at the timing of the call, showing how most customers choose to call early on, when less information is available, but the issue is more prominent. The choice of when to call is consistent with customers taking into account the option value of waiting, as well as future consumption patterns.
Q25|Implicaciones de política del Acuerdo de París en la planeación del sistema eléctrico de Colombia|Este documento analiza la incidencia de la política climática internacional en la planeación y el desarrollo del sistema eléctrico de Colombia. Particularmente, estudia las implicaciones que tendría el cumplimiento de las contribuciones nacionalmente determinadas (NDC) presentadas en el Acuerdo de Paris sobre el Sistema Interconectado Nacional. Para lograrlo, este documento se apoyó de las modelaciones realizadas por Arango-Aramburo, et al., (2018), quienes identificaron posibles trayectorias de adaptación del sector eléctrico colombiano, considerando que los escenarios de cambio climático podrían alterar los aportes hídricos a las centrales hidroeléctricas. Los resultados muestran que, ante el incumplimiento del Acuerdo de París, se produciría una disminución en la disponibilidad de generación hidroeléctrica que conduciría a la puesta en marcha de estrategias de adaptación del sistema eléctrico basadas en el uso de combustibles fósiles. En contraste, en el escenario que se implemente el Acuerdo, con su nivel actual de ambición, la disminución en la disponibilidad hídrica en el largo plazo sería menor, y las alternativas de adaptación se dirigirían a emplear energéticos convencionales –carbón, gas– con mecanismo de captura o a diversificar las fuentes de energía hacia las renovables, usando tecnologías como la solar y la eólica.
Q25|Genuine Savings as a Test of New Zealand Weak Sustainability|The key aims of this paper are to: i) to extend the World Bank’s (WB) measure of Genuine Savings (GS) for New Zealand by using a longer time-series of data, 1950 – 2015; ii) improve GS estimates for New Zealand by adding additional dimensions to GS i.e. forestry; iii) investigate the relationship between several GS measures and the discounted values of GDP per capita and consumption per capita, used to proxy well-being; iv) test a series of hypotheses which relate GS to the change in future well-being using the framework proposed by (Ferreira, Hamilton, & Vincent, 2008) and v) investigate the effects of a growing population on the availability of future capital stocks by considering the consequences of ‘wealth-dilution’ as defined by Ferreira, et. al., (2008). The paper makes a contribution to the literature on GS, particularly in the context of New Zealand, by considering patterns of GS and well-being over a longer time span of data than has been previously used and adds to a relatively small, but growing literature on tests of GS using long- or relatively long- time series data (see e.g. Greasley, et. al., 2014; Greasley, et. al., 2017, Hanley, Oxley, Greasley, & Blum 2016). We conclude, based on the data used here, that New Zealand’s GS has been positive (i.e. weakly sustainable), since the start of our data series, even without allowing for the contribution of technological advancement. However, we also conclude that the effects of a growing population and a savings-gap, have lead to a ‘wealth-dilution’ effect needed to maintain real wealth per capita, as we estimate that there was an average savings gap (GS as a percentage of Gross National Savings) over the period 1955-2015 of 0.5% per annum.
Q25|Apports naturels en eau dans les barrages-réservoirs et règle de Hotelling|L’article analyse la gestion annuelle des barrages hydroélectriques quand les apports naturels en eau suivent des cycles prévisibles. Nous montrons que dans ce cadre la règle de Hotelling s’applique par intermittence. En effet, d`es lors qu’un stock est constitué sans que les contraintes de capacité soient liantes, il est possible de réaliser des arbitrages intertemporels semblables à ceux de la gestion d’une ressource non-renouvelable, donc la valeur de l’eau croît au taux de l’intérêt. En revanche, quand la ressource en eau est si rare qu’on ne peut compter que sur les apports instantanés ou, au contraire, trop abondante compte tenu des capacités du réservoir de sorte qu’il faut réaliser des lâchures improductives, la règle d’arbitrage de Hotelling ne s’applique plus. Nous expliquons aussi l’importance des contraintes de turbinage qui, quand elles sont liantes, donnent à l'électricité produite une valeur supérieure `à celle de l’eau qui sert à la produire.
Q25|Water Security in Central Asia and the Caucasus – A Key to Peace and Sustainable Development|The dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the emergence of new states in Central Asia and the Caucasus created new political and security dynamics in these sub-regions. While the Caucasus was affected by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the threat of conflict over shared water resources continued to exist in Central Asia. More than twenty years later, the protracted conflict in the Caucasus over Nagorno-Karabakh remains unresolved and effectively overshadows water-related problems; yet water is both a very important factor in the conflict, as well as potentially one of the keys for its resolution. In Central Asia the pessimistic scenarios did not unfold; however, the region remains a ‘classic example’ of water-related conflicts in most literature. This paper aims at understanding the root causes of water conflict in Central Asia, and the role of water in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict in the Caucasus. It attempts to shed light at the complex nature of water security, and its importance in the states’ security and sustainable development. The paper suggests that given a cross-cutting nature of water resources, there should be a more holistic approach to understanding the drivers of water conflict in both sub-regions, and to finding the ways for its resolution. A number of recommendations have been provided that may be utilized for addressing the complexity of water conflicts and to help in establishing a mutually beneficial cooperation between states.
Q25|Virtual Water Trade: The Implications of Capital Scarcity|The original idea behind the virtual water (VW) concept is that water-abundant countries will become producers of water-intensive goods and consequently net exporters of water, and this will alleviate the initial unequal distribution of hydric resources. We criticize this optimistic view by introducing empirical evidence that is consistent with the Heckscher-Ohlin model of international trade. We find that, though virtual water exports are increasing in the combined availability of water and arable land when comparing countries with a similar level of available water-land resources, those with higher (lower) levels of physical-human capital tend to be net importers (exporters) of water. This result relies on the intuition that high levels of capital accumulation lead water to become a relatively scarce factor in developed countries. Thus, while more developed countries shift away from agriculture, less developed countries that lack sufficient capital do not have this option and end up using water resources even if they are not abundant. Such a trade pattern could create immediate economic benefits for less developed countries, but also exerts pressure on their water resources. Therefore, prioritizing economic development in countries that have limited water availability, may be crucial to avoid excessive usage and depletion of global water resources.
Q25|The Burden of Water Shortages on Informal Firms|The informal sector in developing economies is a significant source of livelihood for a sizable portion of the population. This study uncovers the effect of poor water infrastructure on the productivity of informal firms. This is achieved using firm-level data for 12 developing economies between 2009 and 2014. The findings indicate that an increase of one standard deviation of the total duration of water shortages in a month can lead to annual average losses of about 14.5% of the monthly sales per worker for the average informal firm in the sample that uses water for business activities.
Q25|Bewässerung in der Landwirtschaft - Tagungsband zur Fachtagung am 11./12.09.2017 in Suderburg|"Am 11. und 12. September 2017 fand an der Ostfalia Hochschule, Campus Suderburg, eine vom Thünen-Institut, dem Julius-Kühn Institut und der Ostfalia Hochschule gemeinsam organisierte Fachtagung zum Thema ""Bewässerung in der Landwirtschaft"" statt. Dazu wurden deutschland-weit Experten des Fachgebiets Bewässerung eingeladen, aktuelle Einschätzungen zur Entwicklung des Bewässerungsbedarfs und der Bewässerungswürdigkeit verschiedener Kulturen an unterschiedlichen Standorten in Deutschland sowie zur Entwicklung der Bewässerungstechnik zu geben. Die Bewässerung von Kulturen im Freilandgemüsebau oder Sonderkulturbereich gehört in ganz Deutschland seit langem zur gängigen Praxis. Die Rentabilität der Bewässerung weiterer landwirtschaftlicher Feldkulturen war bisher auf einige wenige, trockene Standorte begrenzt. Im Zuge des Klimawandels werden seit einigen Jahren eine steigende Jahresdurchschnittstemperatur und veränderte Niederschlagsmuster (v. a. geringere Niederschläge zu Beginn der Vegetationsperiode im Frühjahr) in Deutschland beobachtet. Für die Zukunft sind laut der Ergebnisse von Klimamodellen eine weitere Zunahme der Temperaturen und weitere Veränderungen der Niederschlagsverteilung, z. B. eine Abnahme der Sommerniederschläge und eine Zunahme der Winterniederschläge, zu erwarten. Der Tagungsband gibt einen Überblick über neueste Erkenntnisse aus der Forschung und diskutiert mögliche alternative Quellen für die Deckung des Beregnungswasserbedarfs landwirtschaftlicher Kulturen. Dabei werden auch Aspekte des Landschaftswasserhaushalts und hydrologische Zusammenhänge in der Agrarlandschaft angesprochen und Lösungsansätze präsentiert. Einblicke in mögliche Nutzungskonflikte der Wassernutzung und praktische Erfahrungen mit der Erarbeitung von Lösungsansätzen werden begleitet von der Darstellung der rechtlichen Rahmenbedingungen der Wassernutzung. Ergänzt werden die Beiträge durch Berichte langjähriger Beregnungs-Feldversuche der Landwirtschaftskammer Niedersachsen. Einerseits ergaben die Versuche, dass die Bewässerung die Nährstoffeffizienz der Pflanzen und die Qualität der Ernteprodukte erhöhen kann. Andererseits werden der derzeitige Stand der Technik der Bewässerung erläutert und Grenzen sowie Möglichkeiten für eine Steigerung der Effizienz in der Zukunft dargelegt. Zur Steigerung der Effizienz der Bewässerung kommt der Bewässerungssteuerung eine hohe Bedeutung zu, deren aktueller Stand dargestellt und die Trends für die Zu-kunft aufgezeigt werden. Die Rentabilität der Investitionen in Bewässerungstechnik wird in zwei Beiträgen dargestellt. Hier werden sowohl die verschiedenen Techniken als auch deren Rentabilität bei verschiedenen Kulturen betriebswirtschaftlich beurteilt. Als Abrundung wird die Entwicklung des regionalen Bewässerungsbedarfs am Beispiel Nordrhein-Westfalens aufgezeigt. Der Tagungsband schließt mit einem Kapitel zur Übersicht über bisherige Projekte im Bereich des Wassermanagements und zu Fragen der Bewässerung landwirtschaftlicher Nutzflächen im Hinblick auf zukünftige Klimaveränderungen in Deutschland."
Q25|Pipes, Taps and Vendors: Managing and Regulating the Unconnected Water Market|Against the background of the human rights to water and the SDG No. 6, vendors play a pivotal role for an IWRM-based water supply system in the future. With the help of a micro-economic model, an optimal modal split is derived, the result of which is that not all households should be served by the pipe-based municipal supply. Instead, the non-connected households should be served by non-mobile or mobile vendors. Furthermore, we analyze different structures in the unconnected market. If vendors compete against each other, the optimal modal split can be replicated. If vendors form a cartel, market interventions, such as a cost related zonal price cap or a subsidizing strategy, are required for preventing the abuse of market power by the vendors.
Q25|The relationship between perceived difficulty and randomness in discrete choice experiments: Investigating reasons for and consequences of difficulty|Discrete choice experiments to value environmental goods and services constitute a complex and demanding task for survey respondents. This study looks at the effect of perceived difficulty with the choice tasks on choice consistency and preferences. The choice data come from two parallel surveys valuing river management outcomes in Germany. Results show that perceived difficulty decreases response scale, an indicator of the relative weight of the explained over the random component of indirect utility of a choice alternative. The reasons for this effect have more to do with the design of the actual task in the choice experiment than with the content and topic of the valuation exercise. Results also show only a very limited effect on preferences and willingness to pay for aspects of river management. The proposed econometric strategy manages to effectively separate the effect of difficulty on inter-individual differences of preference and scale. Based on these results, we recommend (i) to rigorously test the attribute design to allow only meaningful trade-offs as perceived by respondents and (ii)to put greater emphasis on the explanation of the choice tasks.
Q25|Personality and economic choices|There is substantial variation in individual preferences for public goods, yet much of that variation remains poorly understood. However, simple measures of personality can help to explain economic values and choices in a systematic way. In this paper, we examine the effects of personality on individual economic choices over public environmental goods. Based on three datasets from three separate stated preference studies, we use a hybrid choice econometric framework to examine the effects of personality on preferences for the status quo, changes in environmental quality, and costs of investing in environmental improvements. We find effects that are consistent across all datasets. Personality, a stable feature of an individual's character that is simple to measure, enriches explanations of why the demand for environmental goods varies across people, provides an indication of how different people are likely to react to the introduction of environmental policies, and explains substantial differences in Willingness to Pay.
Q25|Substituting Freshwater: Can Ocean Desalination and Water Recycling Capacities Substitute for Groundwater Depletion in California?|While the sustainability of resource depletion is a longstanding environmental concern, wider attention has recently been given to growing water scarcity and groundwater depletion. This study seeks to test the substitutability assumption embedded in weak sustainability indicators using a case study of Californian water supply. The volume of groundwater depletion is used as a proxy for unsustainable water consumption, and defined by synthesising existing research estimates into low, medium and high depletion baselines. These are compared against projected supply increases from ocean desalination and water recycling by 2035, to determine whether new, drought-proof water sources can substitute for currently unsustainable groundwater consumption. Results show that maximum projected supply of new water, 2.47 million acre feet per year (MAF/yr), is sufficient to meet low depletion estimates of 2.02 MAF/yr, but fails to come near the high baseline of 3.58 MAF/yr. This does not necessarily indicate physical limitations of substitutability, but more so socio-economic limitations influenced by high comparative costs. By including capacities in demand-substitutability via urban water conservation, maximum pre-dicted capacities reach 5.57 MAF/yr, indicating wide room for substitution. Based on these results, investment in social and institutional capital is an important factor to enhance demand-side substitutability of water and other natural resources, which has been somewhat neglected by the literature on the substitutability of natural resources.
Q25|Improving Drinking Quality in South Korea: A Choice Experiment|Increased pollution leads to a constant decrease of drinking water quality worldwide. Due to safety concerns, unpleasant taste and odour only about 3% of the population in South Korea is drinking untreated tap water. The present study uses choice experiments and cost-benefit analysis to investigate the feasibility of installing advanced water treatments in Cheongju waterworks in South Korea. The waterworks is situated in the middle of the country and is providing more than half a million people with drinking water. The study shows that the lower bound of the median WTP for installing a new advanced water treatment system is about $2 US/month, which is similar to the average expenditures for bottled water per household in South Korea. Scenarios under which the instalment of the advanced water treatments is feasible are discussed together with environmental solutions in the long-run.
Q25|Complex climate effects on cooperation and disputes in transboundary river basins|A growing body of evidence suggests a link between climate and conflict. In contrast, the link between climate and cooperation remains much less investigated, although it has been studied in the context of transboundary river basins. Even for transboundary waters, however, earlier results have not decisively answered whether the effect of climate on conflict or on cooperation is stronger. Here we concurrently investigate both cooperation and conflict in transboundary river basins across the world as two potential responses to changes in climatic factors. Our results indicate that one-standard deviation changes in climate variables affect cooperation more than conflict in absolute terms, although effects on conflict are large in relative terms. Furthermore, lower water availability is associated with worse outcomes both through fewer cooperation events and more frequent conflicts. While higher temperatures are associated with more frequent cooperation, the projected decrease in precipitation and soil moisture projected for many regions of the globe may offset positive effects of temperature, and reinforcing cooperative activities should therefore be a policy priority. It is clear that including a full set of potential responses – positive, negative and none - are needed to understand the climatic influence on regional human cooperation and conflict. We encourage further studies that investigate such full-spectrum effects also for other situations than transboundary river basins.
Q25|Costs of Nitrogen Runoff for Rural Water Utilities: A Shadow Cost Approach|This paper explores the interactions among scale and density economies, productive efficiency, water quality, and customer characteristics, and their impact on the costs of delivering treated drinking water. Implicit benefits of nitrogen abatement are also derived and hypothesis tests concerning their hypothesized drivers are conducted. Key findings are that nitrogen removal costs increase with rising raw water nitrogen concentration coming from agricultural activities, and that network density and system size matter in determining average total costs of community water systems. Merging water systems to take advantage of scale economies may be difficult due to the heterogeneity of the sector, however.
Q25|Endogenous Consequentiality in Stated Preference Referendum Data: The Influence of the Randomly Assigned Tax Amount|Recent empirical and theoretical research stresses it is important for survey respondents to believe that survey votes are consequential, meaning their votes can potentially influence whether a proposed policy is undertaken. We test the effect of a randomly assigned referendum tax on consequentiality, using a survey about water conservation in western North Carolina. We find that consequentiality is endogenous to hypothetical referendum responses. Specifically, as the assigned tax amount increases, respondents are less likely to find the survey consequential. As in related studies, respondents who self-report they perceive the survey to be consequential have a higher willingness to pay.
Q25|Convergent Validity and the Time Consistency of Preferences: Evidence from the Iowa Lakes Recreation Demand Project|We examine the consistency of preferences over time and as implied by revealed versus stated preference (contingent behavior) data. Studies in this area are typically based upon a single site and focus on consumer response to changes in travel cost or site access. We use data from the Iowa Lakes Project, which provides information on usage patterns over several years and for 132 lakes, along with detailed water quality data. This allows us to test for convergence in how individuals respond to changing site characteristics, as well as the consistency of preferences over time and between actual versus contingent trips.
Q25|Food security, food safety and pesticides: China and the EU compared|To control pests that may damage crops during production, storage or transportation, chemical pesticides are usually used. On the one hand, the use of pesticides can help to reduce yield losses caused by pests, pathogens, and weeds and thereby help feed the world’s population; on the other hand, such agricultural practices can profoundly affect limited natural resources. Starting from these premises, the main objective of this paper is to explore the relationship between food security and food safety, while pointing out the role played in this relationship by pesticides, focusing on the case studies of the EU and China. To this purpose, the paper outlines the international framework on pesticides and the legal framework in the EU and China, analyzes pesticide markets, and considers the concerns related to their use. The overview of the situation in the EU and China allows us to identify challenges and opportunities for future developments in terms of food security and safety and food trade relationships between Europe and China. Tension and mutual disputes have occurred in the past due to increasing risks for consumers and workers handling pesticides, food scandals and difficulties in the mutual recognition of food quality certification schemes, which call for sustainable production methods.
Q25|Assessing the cost of supplying water for agriculture: the food supply cost curve|As part of a “Regional Initiative on Water Scarcity in the NENA Region”, the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has been proposing a practical tool for the assessment of investment projects, called the Food Supply Cost Curve (FSCC). This chapter illustrates the concept of the Food Supply Cost Curve, and which steps need to be taken to practically implement an FSCC evaluation exercise. It concludes by commenting on some preliminary findings obtained at the FAO when the FSCC has been employed in some countries in the Near East and North Africa.
Q25|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
Q25|The Organizing Framework of Ecosystem Services and its use in River Management|An Ecosystem Services approach can be used as an organizing framework to enhance the management of ecosystems, as multiple values and trade-offs can be identified and communicated through an ecosystem services lens. This can support more systemic, rather than incremental, planning, decision-making, and longer term value propositions. As rivers and their catchments/watersheds (RCW) are the lifeblood of many ecosystems, ecosystem services must adequately be taken into account in RCW planning, decision-making, and management to sustain and/or enhance this important natural capital. In this literature review, we discuss if/how an ecosystem services lens has been applied in the peer reviewed literature in the context of RCW management. Overall, the results reveal continual increases worldwide in the popularity and importance of considering ecosystem services in terms of RCW. Our findings also reveal that most of these studies have focussed on the themes of modelling, valuation, and/or mapping, but have not necessarily comprehensively used all three. We conclude that there is room for an ecosystem services approach to reach its full potential as an organizing framework, in particular across regions/countries and at multiple levels of scale.
Q25|Los determinantes del autosuministro de agua para actividades productivas en un entorno urbano. El caso del municipio de Zaragoza|El objetivo de este trabajo es analizar el autosuministro de agua procedente de captaciones subterráneas para usos productivos en un entorno urbano, utilizando el modelo en dos etapas de Heckman. Disponemos de microdatos de 2.893 empresas localizadas en el municipio de Zaragoza para el año 2012. Los resultados indican que el agua autosuministrada y el agua de red son sustitutivos, lo que alerta sobre la limitada eficacia de las políticas de precios centradas sólo en el abastecimiento público de agua para conseguir reducir la presión sobre el recurso y confirma la necesidad de una gestión integral del agua. Comprobamos también que el volumen de agua autosuministrada no depende de su coste variable, lo que evidencia su reducida magnitud en la escala de costes de la empresa. Resulta reseñable, en particular, la ausencia de una tarifa que grave la captación de agua de los acuíferos, imprescindible para disponer de un instrumento económico de gestión de esta demanda.
Q25|La demanda de agua urbana para actividades productivas. Una aplicación a la industria española|El objetivo de este estudio es estimar la demanda de agua de red para usos industriales, con especial atención a las diferencias sectoriales. Disponemos de un panel de datos para las comunidades autónomas españolas para el periodo 1993-2013, desagregado en 11 ramas de actividad. Los resultados indican que la política de precios del agua puede emplearse eficazmente para incentivar un menor uso del recurso (elasticidad de -0,66), aunque advertimos una fuerte heterogeneidad sectorial que hace necesaria la utilización de instrumentos adicionales. En general, las ramas en las que el agua supone una mayor proporción de los costes totales presentan también una mayor elasticidad
Q25|Income inequality and the international transfer of environmental values|How the valuation of environmental goods is related to income is a key question for economics, but the role of income inequality is often neglected. We study how income inequality affects the international transfer of the estimated value of environmental goods from a study to a policy site - a practice called value or benefit transfer. Specifically, we apply theory-driven, structural transfer factors to examine whether adjusting for income inequality affects errors made in benefit transfer, drawing on a multi-country valuation study on water quality improvement. Our convergent validity analysis shows that the structural income inequality adjustment reduces benefit transfer errors by more than 1.5 percentage points on average across all transfers. The adjustment for inequality is particularly important when income is distributed more unequally at the policy site relative to the study site, yielding reductions in transfer errors of up to 33 percentage points. Our results highlight the importance of taking the effects of economic inequality into account and are relevant for environmental valuation as well as public policy appraisal.
Q25|Irrigation Practices, Water Effectiveness and Productivity Measurement|This paper develops a consistent theoretical framework for measuring irrigation water effectiveness and its impact on productivity growth rates by assuming a smooth transition process from traditional to modern irrigation technologies among individual farmers.
Q25|Favoritism and Flooding: Clientelism and Allocation of River Waters|Political favoritism is commonly documented in developing democracies, demonstrated by better outcomes in favored regions. There is little understanding of the mechanisms driving such allocation of resources. I demonstrate favoritism in the allocation of agricultural resources, which eventually affect agricultural production. I use close elections to get random variation in a region's alignment with the political party in power and find that water may be diverted to favor areas aligned with the ruling party. Water availability is in favor of upstream districts and against downstream districts when upstream districts are aligned with the ruling party. The opposite is true when downstream regions are aligned with the ruling party. As a result of this favoritism, floods (or droughts) are less likely to occur in downstream regions, and agricultural yields are better there when the ruling party has incentives to favor them. I argue that the ruling party's influence over autonomous agencies that control water allocation allow them to favor their constituents.
Q25|Choosing a Functional Form for an International Benefit Transfer: Evidence from a Nine-country Valuation Experiment|This paper investigates the performance of common approaches in international benefit transfer using data from identical and simultaneous contingent valuation studies on marine water quality in nine European countries. The environmental good is shared by the study countries, but the countries differ substantially in their income levels and other characteristics. We compare the performance of value transfers (with or without income elasticity of willingness to pay adjustments) and function transfers that include only core variables supported by economic theory. Our results point to a new source of uncertainty associated with function transfer – choosing a particular functional form. Even if only theoretically relevant explanatory variables are used, the theory offers no insights with respect to a functional relationship of the dependence (e.g., linear, log-linear, exponential, polynomial). We show that while different functional forms may offer improvements in model fit, this does not necessarily translate to improvements in transfer errors or minimum tolerance levels. In our case, the value transfer with constant (unit) income elasticity adjustment, corresponding to the log-log functional relationship between willingness to pay and income, performs the best. Including additional explanatory variables or using other functional forms worsens the quality of transfers. Overall, our study questions the rationale for using more complicated function transfers in international benefit transfers, as the relationships observed within a country or a group of countries does not necessarily translate to dependencies between countries.
Q25|Bloom and bust: Toxic algae's impact on nearby property values|Over the past decade harmful algal blooms (HABs) have become a nationwide environmental concern. HABs are likely to increase in frequency and intensity due to rising summer temperatures caused by climate change and higher nutrient enrichment from increased urbanization. Policymakers need information on the economic costs of HABs to design optimal management policies in the face of limited budgets. Using a detailed, multi-lake hedonic analysis across 6 Ohio counties between 2009 and 2015 we show capitalization losses associated with near lake homes between 11% and 17% rising to above 22% for lake adjacent homes. In the case of Grand Lake Saint Marys, we find one-time capitalization losses exceeding $51 million for near lake homes which dwarfs the State of Ohio's cleanup expenditure of $26 million.
Q25|Economic implications of agricultural reuse of treated wastewater in Israel: A statewide long-term perspective|We develop an Israeli version of the Multi-Year Water Allocation System (MYWAS) mathematical programming model to conduct statewide, long-term analyses of three topics associated with agricultural reuse of wastewater. We find that: (1) enabling agricultural irrigation with treated wastewater significantly reduces the optimal capacity levels of seawater and brackish-water desalination over the simulated 3-decade period, and increases Israel's welfare by 3.3 billion USD in terms of present values; (2) a policy requiring desalination of treated wastewater pre-agricultural reuse, as a method to prevent long-run damage to the soil and groundwater, reduces welfare by 2.7 billion USD; hence, such a policy is warranted only if the avoided damages exceed this welfare loss; (3) desalination of treated wastewater in order to increase freshwater availability for agricultural irrigation is not optimal, since the costs overwhelm the generated agricultural benefits. We also find the results associated with these three topics to be sensitive to the natural recharge of Israel's freshwater aquifers, and to the rate at which domestic-water demand evolves due to population and income growth.
Q25|What are Households Willing to Pay for Improved Water Access? Results from a Meta-Analysis|Although several factors contribute to low rates of access to improved water and sanitation in the developing world, it is especially important to understand and measure household demand for these services. One valuable source of information regarding demand is the growing empirical literature that has applied stated preference methods to estimate households' willingness to pay (WTP). Because it is difficult to generalize and support planning based on this scattered literature, we conduct a meta-analysis to take stock of the worldwide sample of household WTP for improved drinking water services. Using 171 WTP estimates drawn from 60 studies, we first describe this sample and then examine the potential factors that explain variation in WTP estimates. Our results suggest that households are willing to pay between approximately $3 and $30 per month for improvements in water access. Specifically, in line with economic theory and intuition, WTP is sensitive to scope (the magnitude of improvement in drinking water services), as well as household income, and stated-preference elicitation method. We demonstrate how our results can be used to predict household-level WTP for selected improvements in drinking water access in regions with low coverage, and find that private benefits exceed the cost of provision.
Q25|A cautionary tale on using panel data estimators to measure program impacts|We compare experimental and nonexperimental estimates from a social and informational messaging experiment. Our results show that applying a fixed effects estimator in conjunction with matching to pre-process nonexperimental comparison groups cannot replicate an experimental benchmark, despite parallel pre-intervention trends and good covariate balance. The results are a stark reminder about the role of untestable assumptions–in our case, conditional bias stability–in drawing causal inferences from observational data, and the dangers of relying on single studies to justify program scaling-up or canceling.
Q25|Low natural gas prices and the financial cost of ramp rate restrictions at hydroelectric dams|Peaking hydroelectric dams that employ variable, stop-start reservoir releases can have adverse impacts on downstream river ecosystems. Efforts to mitigate these impacts have relied predominantly on the use of ramp rate restrictions, which limit the magnitude of hour-to-hour changes in reservoir discharge. Ramp rate restrictions shift hydropower production towards less valuable off-peak hours, imposing a financial penalty on dam owners that is a function of the “spread” (difference) between peak and off-peak electricity prices. This study examines how low natural gas prices in the U.S. have reduced the cost of implementing ramp rate restrictions at dams by narrowing the peak/off-peak price spread. Significantly lower costs of ramp rate restrictions could open new opportunities for improving environmental flows at dams, including the “purchase” of more natural streamflow patterns by downstream stakeholders, a type of arrangement for which there is growing precedent. We also explore the role that uncertainty in the cost of ramp rate restrictions could play in precluding downstream stakeholders from forming these types of agreements with dam owners. Results suggest that financial “collar” contracts could mostly eliminate inter-annual variability in the net cost of restrictions and provide those purchasing more natural flows with greater certainty.
Q25|Do water saving technologies save water? Empirical evidence from North China|This paper describes the extent of water saving technologies usage and evaluates their impacts on water use, water productivity, total irrigated sown area and crop mix in North China. A set of panel data collected at the househol.d and plot levels is used in empirical analysis. Water saving technologies are categorized into traditional technologies, household-based technologies and community-based technologies. By 2007, traditional technologies and household-based technologies are used in almost all sample villages. However, the shares of sown area on which water saving technologies are used are still fairly low. Econometric analysis using plot level fixed effects show that using water saving technologies can reduce crop water use and improve the productivity of water. The positive effects are generated mainly through the use of household-based or community-based technologies. The use of water saving technologies does not have statistically significant impacts on total irrigated sown area and crop mix.
Q25|Do agents' characteristics affect their valuation of ‘common pool’ resources? A full-preference ranking analysis for the value of sustainable river basin management|In this paper we develop a full-preference ranking Choice Experiment (CE) designed to investigate how respondents evaluate a set of proposed improvements towards sustainable river basin management, as per the prescriptions of the European Union-Water Framework Directive (2000). The CE is applied in the Asopos River Basin (ARB) in Greece. Our interest is to test whether residency in the river basin, or otherwise, affects the preferences of the relevant agents. We first estimate a rank-ordered logistic regression based on a full set of choices in order to calculate the willingness to pay (WTP) of respondents for each one of the three attributes considered in the CE (i.e., environmental conditions, impact on the local economy and changes in the potential uses of water). The model is initially estimated for the full sample and then re-estimated twice for two sub-samples: the first one only includes the residents of Athens and the second only includes the residents of Asopos. Afterwards, we examine the effect of various demographic and socio-economic factors (such as income, gender, age, employment and education) on the estimates of our model in order to reveal any differences among respondents with different characteristics, mainly focusing on whether they reside or have personal experience of the RB under valuation. Thus, our analysis simultaneously provides a robustness check on previous findings in the literature and additional information about how various demographic and socio-economic characteristics affect the evaluation of the selected attributes.
Q25|People and Planet: Values, Motivations and Formative Influences of Individuals Acting to Mitigate Climate Change|This paper presents results from a survey of 344 individuals who engage in climate change mitigation action, contributing to debates about whether it is necessary to promote 'nature experiences' and biospheric values to encourage pro-environmental behaviour. We investigate three factors - values, motivations and formative experiences - that underlie such behaviour, but that usually have been considered in isolation from each other. In contrast to previous studies of environmentalists' significant life experiences, outdoor/nature experiences were not frequently mentioned as being influential. Altruistic concerns about climate change impacts on future human generations and on poorer or more vulnerable people were considered more motivating than other reasons for action. There was no significant difference in how respondents rated altruistic and biospheric values. Variations in responses from those involved in 'biospherically-oriented' organisations (such as traditional environmental or conservation organisations) versus those involved in climate change groups suggest that there are different routes into climate change mitigation action, and our results show that it is not essential to cultivate biospheric values or the love of nature to encourage such action.
Q25|Acceptance of a Payment for Ecosystem Services Scheme: The Decisive Influence of Collective Action|As scholars have shown, acceptance is key to the success of Payment for Ecosystem Services (PES) scheme. While many studies adopt a static cost-benefit perspective, few address the social process leading to acceptance. Drawing on Suchman (1995), this article examines the legitimacy process underlying the acceptance of a PES in agriculture. In particular, the role of collective action in the legitimisation process is analysed, using a combination of qualitative and quantitative methods of discourse analysis. Data from an agro-environmental PES scheme in France on water quality shows that acceptance depends on the normative and cognitive legitimacy that actors confer upon a public policy.
Q25|Game Theory and the Self-Fulfilling Climate Tragedy|Game theorists tend to model climate negotiations as a so-called 'tragedy of the commons'. This is rather worrisome, since the conditions under which such commons problems have historically been solved are almost entirely absent in the case of international greenhouse gas emissions. In this paper, I will argue that the predictive accuracy of the tragedy model might not stem from the model's inherent match with reality but rather from the model's ability to make self-fulfilling predictions. I then sketch some possible ways to dispel the tragedy, including (1) recognising some ways the assumptions of the model fail, (2) taking seriously recent work suggesting that increasing greenhouse gas emissions is not in most nations' own self-interest, and (3) preferring alternative models like collective risk dilemmas, bargaining games, or cooperative models.
Q25|Measuring the Income Elasticity of Water Demand: The Importance of Publication and Endogeneity Biases|We present the first study that examines the effects of publication selection in the literature estimating the income elasticity of water demand. Paradoxically, more affected by publication selection are the otherwise preferable estimates that control for endogeneity. Attempting to correct simultaneously for publication and endogeneity biases, we find that the mean underlying elasticity is approximately 0.15 or less. The result is robust to controlling for more than 30 characteristics of the estimates and accounting for model uncertainty. The differences in the reported estimates are systematically driven by differences in the tariff structure, regional coverage, data granularity, and control for temperature.
Q25|The accountability imperative for quantifying the uncertainty of emission forecasts : evidence from Mexico|Governmental climate change mitigation targets are typically developed with the aid of forecasts of greenhouse-gasemissions. The robustness and credibility of such forecasts depends, among other issues, on the extent to which forecasting approaches can reflect prevailing uncertainties. We apply a transparent and replicable method to quantify the uncertainty associated with projections of gross domestic product growth rates for Mexico, a key driver of greenhouse-gasemissions in the country. We use those projections to produce probabilistic forecasts of greenhouse-gas emissions forMexico. We contrast our probabilistic forecasts with Mexico’s governmental deterministic forecasts. We show that, because they fail to reflect such key uncertainty, deterministic forecasts are ill-suited for use in target-setting processes. We argue that (i) guidelines should be agreed upon, to ensure that governmental forecasts meet certain minimum transparency and quality standards, and (ii) governments should be held accountable for the appropriateness of the forecasting approach applied to prepare governmental forecasts, especially when those forecasts are used to derive climate change mitigation targets.
Q25|Rank and response: A field experiment on peer information and water use behavior|Perception of peer rank, or how we perform relative to our peers, can be a powerful motivator. While research exists on the effect of social information on decision making, there is less work on how ranked comparisons with our peers influence our behavior. This paper outlines a field experiment conducted with 3896 households in Castro Valley, California, which uses household mailers with various forms of social information and peer rank messaging to motivate water conservation. The experiment tests the effect of a visible peer rank on water use, and how the competitive framing of rank information influences behavioral response. The results show that households with relatively low or high water use in the pre-treatment period responded differently to how rank information was framed. I find that a neutrally-framed peer rank caused a small “boomerang effect” (i.e., an increase in average water use) for low water use households, but this effect was eliminated by competitive framing. At the same time, a competitively-framed peer rank demotivated high water use households, increasing their average water use over the full period of the experiment. This result is supported by evidence that the competitive frame on rank information increased water use for households who ranked “last” in the peer group – a detrimental “last place effect” from competitively-framed rankings.
Q25|An Analysis of Water Security under Climate Change|Water is a multidimensional issue, involving water availability, access to freshwater, spatial and temporal distribution of resources, competition among its uses, ecosystems conservation, climate-related disasters and risks and several other aspects. The water security approach manages such complexity and proposes a comprehensive view of human security in relation to the water-related issues. Consequently, the solutions developed in order to face this multi-faceted concept should reflect its thorough vision. The aim of the present work is to investigate the relationship between climate change and water security. Exploring such a relationship is truly important in order to help policy-makers in the development of adaptation and mitigation strategies. In the water context, this challenge is further complicated by the possible conflicts arising between climate and water policies. In order to carry out such an analysis, an indicator measuring water security, namely the Water Security Index, is created. In the present work, climate change is considered from four different perspectives but, as revealed by the econometric results, it always has a predominant (negative) effect on water security.
Q25|Tragedy of the Commons and Evolutionary Games in Social Networks: The Economics of Social Punishment| This study revisits the problem of the tragedy of the commons. Extracting agents participate in an evolutionary game in a complex social network and are subject to social pressure if they do not comply with the social norms. Social pressure depends on the dynamics of the resource, the network and the population of compliers. We analyze the influence the network structure has on the agents’ behavior and determine the economic value of the intangible good - social pressure. For a socially optimal management of the resource, an initially high share of compliers is necessary but is not sufficient. The analysis shows the extent to which the remaining level of the resource, the share of compliers and the size, density and local cohesiveness of the network contribute to overcoming the tragedy of the commons. The study suggests that the origin of the problem – shortsighted behavior - is also the starting point for a solution in the form of a one-time payment. A numerical analysis of a social network comprising 7500 agents and a realistic topological structure is performed using empirical data from the western La Mancha aquifer in Spain.
Q25|Are Tourists Willing to Pay for Mitigation of Abrasion? A study on Coastal Areas in Yogyakarta, Indonesia|"""Objective – Climate change has an impact on not only environmental problems, but also on socio-economic communities. Indonesia as an archipelago country has the second longest coastline after Canada. Indonesia has a high vulnerability to climate change, especially rising sea levels which can cause abrasion. Public awareness is needed to preserve the coastal area, to prevent potential disasters that may occur. Consequently, it is important to analyze the determinant factors of tourist’s willingness to pay (‘WTP’) for mitigation of abrasion and how much it would cost. This study also estimates how the relationship between a tourist’s WTP and abrasion on coasts in Yogyakarta. Methodology/Technique – A multiple linear regression method is used to estimate the determinant factors of a tourist’s WTP. The location of this study is on Kuwaru Beach and Pandansimo Beach in Bantul Regency, which have several indicators of the possibility of abrasions. Two hundred respondents were interviewed regarding the influence of socioeconomy and other factors to tourist’s WTP. Findings – That result is equivalent with the level of abrasion for each beach. Variables of education and income have significant effects on tourist’ WTP at Kuwaru Beach. While in Pandansimo Beach, age and education have significant effect on WTP. The average tourist’s WTP for mitigation in Kuwaru beach and Pandansimo beach at Yogyakarta are Rp 81,150.00 and Rp 62,250.00. Novelty – Mitigation on abrasion calls for community awareness amongst local citizens, tourists, and people who conduct business along the beach. For the two beaches studied, the variables used – sex ratio, age, education and income – have a significant effect on a tourists’ willingness to pay for abrasion mitigation."""
Q25|On conjunctive management of groundwater and rainwater|We consider groundwater managed by a sole owner and where a perfect substitute, rainwater harvesting, is physically connected with the primary water source. This generates a marginal opportunity cost of using rainwater, since harvested water does not infiltrate. We first discuss the conditions that lead to a switch toward rainwater harvesting, then look at long-term rainwater harvesting systems. Due to limited storage capacity, long-term use of rainwater is only possible in conjunction with groundwater. We show that this only arises if the price of water is higher than the full marginal cost of rainwater harvesting. We also provide comparative statics related to this configuration, especially concerning the long-term water table. These results are finally illustrated by numerical examples.
Q25|A dynamic model of irrigation and land-use choice: application to the Beauce aquifer in France|We set up a model of land-use and irrigation water choices to assess the impact of dry weather conditions and possible restriction policies on farmers' payoffs in the Beauce area in France. Given the informational context, we construct a dynamic two-period model in which farmers make conjectures on the water abstraction by other users and take into account variations in the height of the water table. We solve the problem using dynamic programming. We simulate different restriction policies, proposed in the literature and tested in the field. We show that these restrictions, although efficient with respect to hydrological criteria, result in serious economic losses for the farmers.
Q25|Managing Water: Rights, Markets, and Welfare|This article investigates key aspects related to managing water resources, and explores their implications for economic efficiency: incomplete property rights; overallocation of water; the divergence between water entitlements and productivity of water use. These issues are explored in a production model with a single input, water drawn from a common source, and two main insights are offered. First, a novel result relating welfare and water entitlements is established, an equivalence between the socially optimal and legal assignment of water rights, via a set of social weights implied by the rights assignment. It is also shown that, for water entitlements for which the divergence between productivity and entitlements is substantial, no set of valid social priorities can lead to the socially efficient allocation. Second, considering a hypothetical water market with an endogenous price, it is found that trade in water is unable to eliminate allocative inefficiency, and that taxes have unexpectedly moderate effects on trade and welfare, with the majority of tax shifts canceled out by changes in demand. In addition, trade is not effective at facilitating efficiency-enhancing reallocation of water under scarcity when entitlements diverge substantially from productivity. The results here highlight important new connections between welfare and water entitlements and the limitations of market-based instruments under incomplete property rights, and have implications for designing property rights regimes for managing water under scarcity.
Q25|Virtual Water Trade and Bilateral Conflicts|n light of growing water scarcity, virtual water, or the water embedded in key water-intensive commodities, has been an active area of debate among practitioners and academics alike. As of yet, however, there is no consensus on whether water scarcity affects conflict behavior and we still lack empirical research intending to account for the role of virtual water in affecting the odds of militarized disputes between states. Using quantitative methods and data on virtual water trade, we find that bilateral and multilateral trade openness reduce the probability of war between any given pair of country, which is consistent with the strategic role of this important commodity and the opportunity cost associated with the loss of trade gains. We also find that the substantive effect of virtual water trade is comparable to that of oil and gas, the archetypal natural resources, in determining interstate conflicts' probability.
Q25|Water Hauling and Girls’ School Attendance: Some New Evidence from Ghana|Abstract In large parts of the world, a lack of home tap water burdens households as the water must be brought to the house from outside, at great expense in terms of effort and time. We here study how such costs affect girls’ schooling in Ghana, with an analysis based on four rounds of the Demographic and Health Surveys. We address potential endogeneity issues by building an artificial panel of clusters using GPS coordinates. Our results indicate a significant negative relation between girls’ school attendance and water hauling activity, as a halving of water fetching times increases girls’ school attendance by about 7 percentage points on average, with stronger impacts in rural communities. Our results seem to be the first definitive documentation of such a relationship in Sub-Saharan Africa. They document some of the multiple and wide population benefits of increased tap water access, that are likely to be relevant in many African countries, and elsewhere.
Q25|Institutional arrangements governing wetland utilization and conservation in communal areas of Zimbabwe|Wetland degradation and loss has persisted in developing countries due to existence of poor institutional frameworks supporting wetland governance. Therefore, wetland ecosystem services that support the livelihoods of most subsistence populations in rural areas are concomitantly lost. This paper explores the nature and consequences of institutional arrangements governing wetland access, utilization and conservation in six communal wetlands in Zimbabwe. Data were collected through a household survey targeting one hundred and twenty-three household heads, sixty teenagers and key informant interviews. The results of the study indicate a complex, multi-institutional involvement and the roles and relationship of participating institutions often compromise wetland resources conservation as a result of conflicts, confusion and tensions exacerbated by divergent motives. There is no homogeny in the number of institutions determining utilization at each wetland nor their degree of influence on management decisions;a situation reflecting inconsistency in existing institutional structure at communal level. Given the proximity of traditional leaders and wetland committees to the people and wetlands and the poor participation of government agencies, an institutional structure which places local institutions at the core of the governance system should be formulated. This shouldbe complemented by a clear framework which promotes co-ordination of institutional roles and clarification of their relationships in order to minimize discord in execution of their duties; a situation that currently contributes todegradation of wetland ecosystems. The necessary policy and legal framework to support such institutional framework should be put in place and resources for its operations made available. Classification JEL: Q01, Q15, Q24, Q25, Q28
Q25|Economic incentives and conservation: Crowding-in social norms in a groundwater commons|Price-based interventions can be corrective where users extract from a common resource, but may also impact existing social norms, often crowding them out. In contrast, I find a pumping fee implemented by a group of irrigators in Southern Colorado effectively crowds-in pro-conservation norms, enhancing the financial incentive's impact. Using a unique, spatially oriented panel-data set of groundwater wells, I separate the direct role of increased pumping costs from the indirect effect transmitted through altered conservation norms. To quantify conservation behavior, I estimate how pumping at one well responds to pumping at nearby wells – using instrumental variables to address simultaneity bias – and interact that behavior with a difference-in-difference framework to assess the influence of the intervention. In the preferred specification, the fee directly accounts for approximately 74% of the reduced pumping and the remaining 26% comes from crowding-in conservation norms.
Q25|From decentralized to centralized irrigation management|Centralized organizations can internalize transaction costs and externalities, addressing possible inefficiencies of decentralized management. In practice, however, centralized organizations can have its own inefficiencies and decentralized management can do relatively well. Empirically testing relative efficiency is difficult because distinct organizations emerge endogenously in various contexts. This paper, in contrast, draws upon the unique history of New Mexico, leveraging a natural experiment to assess how the partial transition in the early 20th century from the original small decentralized communal Spanish irrigation systems (acequias) to centralized quasi-public irrigation districts altered agricultural development and production. Surface water irrigators in arid regions confront public good issues for building and maintaining shared infrastructure as well as common-pool resource issues to appropriate the surface water. My results confirm that irrigation districts can significantly improve outcomes when investing in costly infrastructure to expand irrigated acreage, increasing farmland values up to 33%. However, I find no broader evidence that the centralized control of water distribution provides any gains to acreage previously under irrigation by the decentralized acequias.
Q25|How Transaction Costs Obstruct Collective Action: Evidence from California’s Groundwater|Collective action to remedy the losses of open access to common-pool resources often is late and incomplete, extending rent dissipation. Examples include persistent over-exploitation of oil fields and ocean fisheries, despite general agreement that production constraints are needed. Transaction costs encountered in assigning property rights are an explanation, but analysis of their role is limited by a lack of systematic data. We examine governance institutions in California’s 445 groundwater basins using a new dataset to identify factors that influence the adoption of extraction controls. In 309 basins, institutions allow unconstrained pumping, while an additional 105 basins have weak management plans. Twenty of these basins are severely overdrafted. Meanwhile, users in 31 basins have defined groundwater property rights, the most complete solution. We document the critical role of transaction costs in explaining this variation in responses. This research adds to the literatures on open access, transaction costs, bargaining, and property rights
Q25|Willingness to Pay for Low Water Footprint Food Choices During Drought|In the context of recent California drought years, we investigate empirically whether consumers are willing to pay for more efficient water usage in the production of four California agricultural products. We implement an internet survey choice experiment for avocados, almonds, lettuce, and tomatoes to elicit consumer valuation for water efficiency via revealed choices. We estimate a model of consumer choices where a product is defined as a bundle of three attributes: price, production method (conventional or organic), and water usage (average or efficient). Varying the attribute space presented to consumers in the experimental choice design gives us the data variation to estimate a discrete choice model—both conditional logit specifications and random coefficient mixed logit specifications. We find that on average consumers have a significant positive marginal utility towards water-efficiency and estimate that there is an implied positive willingness to pay (WTP) of about 12 cents per gallon of water saved on average. Moreover, informing consumers about the drought severity increases the WTP for low water footprint options, but not significantly. We find that there is heterogeneity in the WTP along respondents' education, race, and also with respect to stated environmental concern. Our findings have policy implications in that they suggest there to be a market based potential to nudge consumers who want to decrease their water footprint and follow a more sustainable diet, namely, by revealing information on the product's water footprint in a form of a label. Simulations of removing low water footprint labels from the choice set attributes imply significant consumer surplus losses, especially for the more educated, white, and more environmentally concerned respondents.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q25|Water, Health and Wealth|Providing clean water requires maintenance, as well as the initial connections that are typically measured. Frequently, the water supply fails in the developing world, especially when users don’t pay the marginal cost of water. This paper uses the timing of frequent, unexpected water service outages in Lusaka, Zambia to identify the short-term impacts of piped water access on contagious disease, economic activity and time use. We use microdata from the primary water utility in the city on the timing and location of supply complaints to identify outages, matched to extensive administrative data across the city. Conditional on fixed effects for time and water service district within Lusaka, we find that increases in outages are associated with increased incidence of diarrheal disease, upper respiratory infections, typhoid fever and measles. We match outages to geolocated microdata on financial transactions from the largest mobile money provider in Zambia, and find that outages cause a reduction in financial transactions. Outages also increase the time that young girls spend at their chores, possibly at the expense of time they spend doing schoolwork. Imperfect infrastructure appears to burden the poor in ways that go far beyond obvious health consequences.
Q25|The Potential Benefits of Transboundary Co-operation in Georgia and Azerbaijan: Kura River Basin|This study was one of the first attempts to evaluate and quantify the benefits of transboundary co-operation between Georgia and Azerbaijan. A specific framework for inventorying these benefits, taking into account all the different dimensions of transboundary water management, was built and applied to the major transboundary water bodies. Though a thorough assessment of the costs and benefits of transboundary co-operation in the two selected cases was not possible due to the lack of some quantitative and economic data, the assessment results highlighted the importance of promoting the integration of economic thinking in transboundary water management. The present and future prospects for transboundary co-operation on water management are still very positive: the two countries are working on a Transboundary Agreement, which will provide the necessary regulatory framework for co-operation and, most importantly, will set up a Joint Commission on Sustainable Use and Protection of the Kura River Basin. The outcomes of this study allowed for the identification of priorities for future work on transboundary co-operation between Georgia and Azerbaijan, and namely, support to developing guidelines on mechanisms to update databases, but also on new tools and systems.
Q25|Managing multi-purpose water infrastructure: A review of international experience|In this paper, the term multi-purpose water infrastructure (MPWI) encompasses all man-made water systems, including dams, dykes, reservoirs and associated irrigation canals and water supply networks, which may be used for more than one purpose (for economic, social and environmental activities). While MPWI plays a significant role in the socio-economic development and ensuring water, food and energy security of many countries (not least in water-stressed Central Asia), many MPWI projects face various challenges. These including unsustainability of business models for financing, operation and maintenance, lower-than-expected performance or the emergence of unforeseen risks and negative externalities. This paper explores the complexity in designing, financing, regulating and managing MPWI projects, with the objective to inform policy and decision-making. It attempts to identify key issues related to managing MPWI, lessons learned from international experience and possible solutions to the challenges. It examines several principles, approaches and instruments to enhance the sustainability of MPWI, drawing on international experience. Finally, the paper identifies knowledge and experience gaps, needs for further research and possible areas of future work.
Q25|Large hydropower and legitimacy: a policy regime analysis, applied to Myanmar|Hydropower development in capacity-constrained countries can unfold through unsound policy arguments, narrow institutional and implementing arrangements, and ad hoc decision making processes. To derive insights for more legitimate policy making, we provide the first holistic account of Myanmar’s legitimation struggles over large hydropower, focusing on Myitsone, the country’s most controversial dam, during the period 2003–2011. Our analysis takes a policy regime perspective (specifically, a “political economic regime of provisioning” framework). Among our findings: (1) frequent use of non-rationally persuasive argument among contending actors; (2) a spiral of declining policy legitimacy, which is amplified by civil society mobilization, and halted by a 2011 decision to suspend Myitsone; (3) rejection of Myitsone but conditional acceptance of large hydropower among some elements of civil society. Opportunity and capability for more technically informed, inclusive discussion exists in Myanmar, but given hydropower’s complexities, urgently deserves to be augmented. Although Myitsone in Myanmar is an exceptional case, we offer three propositions to assess and improve policy legitimacy of hydropower.
Q25|Cleaning the Ganges in Varanasi to Attract Tourists|Despite the salience of Mr. Narendra Modi's campaign from both environmental and touristic standpoints, the extant literature contains no theoretical studies of the clean-up of the Ganges and its connection to tourism. Hence, we use a simple model and provide the first stochastic analysis of the Ganges clean-up process and the attraction of tourists to Varanasi.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q25|Planning and Construction of Canop-E Networks for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth in Developing Countries (E.g.- India)|In the next few years, India will be the most populous nation on earth. This large population will need a huge increase in agricultural productivity. At the same time, agricultural activity is highly energy and resource intensive. Moreover, many places in India are facing water crisis. Therefore an integrated solution to cultivate food for the people by using water and resources in a sustainable manner is needed. A Canop-E is a large structure that has integrated harnessing of water, energy and food. I propose an idea to build a network of structures called Canop-E Network which will harness solar and wind power in an integrated manner in developing nations. Additionally it will provide water harvesting facilities also. Using the renewable energy and harvested water, we can grow food. The energy generated can also be used to desalinate water and used in arid areas. At the same time it will also protect the inhabitants of settlements in the structure from rain, sunlight and inclement weather. Thus an integrated solution to food, water and energy security can be obtained. This can be extrapolated to other developing nations to provide the people with inexpensive, inclusive and sustainable living.
Q25|Elasticidades de la demanda de agua en Chile<BR>[Elasticities of water demand in Chile]|In this paper estimations of price and income elasticities of water demand in Chile are presented, with the aim of put them available to interested researchers and consultants. The estimated price-elasticity of demand is about -0.12, while the income-elasticity is 0.20. estimations for subsets of data are also presented, grouped by natural region, season of the year, water utility, and quintiles of income
Q25|Environment Case Study: Forestry and Water Management in Thailand: A Win Win Situation|The article offers a critique for the argument that forest clearing by the people in the upper areas of the watershed is the main reason for decrease in water supply. Instead he considers increased demand of water for agricultural activity especially during dry season by both upstream and downstream areas as the main cause of water shortage. Thus unlike previous studies, who blame people from upper lands for water shortage, he talks about the fair share of scare resources and rights protection for upstream farmers.
Q25|Numerical Computation of Flow Reattachment Lengthovera Backward-Facing Step at High Reynolds Number|Investigation of flow separation and reattachment length over a backward facing step are such as the subjects of fundamental fluid dynamics research. The purpose this study is measurement of reattachment length on backward facing step. For this purpose, unsteady flow over a step was simulated in a 2-D by using Computational Fluid Dynamic. Then, secondary flow was added to the 1/3 height of step. In order to, the effect of angles of 15°, 30°, 45° and 90°, expansion ratios of 1.5, 2, 3 and 4, pressure coefficient and Reynolds number with 75000 over backward facing stepwere investigated. To verify the numerical model, the velocity profile using different turbulence models was compared with experimental values in a sudden expansion. The results showed that RNG k-ε turbulent model was selected as the most suitable model to predict recirculation flow over backward facing step. The results of numerical analysis indicated that the reattachment length increase with increasing step angle, expansion ratio and Reynolds number. Also with increasing Reynolds number, when secondary flow is added to 1/3 height of step, the eddy diameters and the length of recirculation flow zone decrease. Moreover, increasing pressure coefficient led to increasing the reattachment length.
Q25|Maximizing Returns from Payments for Ecosystem Services: Incorporating Externality Effects of Land Management|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|Charges for Water and Access: What Explains the Differences in West Virginia Municipalities?|Applying linear and log-log functional forms plus spatial econometric analyses to a dataset of 125 municipal water utilities, we investigate the determinants of charges for water use and minimum monthly access to water across West Virginia municipalities in 2014. Water charges models are consistent with the theory of water cost determination as water source, debt, and economies of size plus scale influence what household consumers pay for water. Based on model results, groundwater use by utilities lowers water charges and is estimated to save household customers in West Virginia over $3.6 million annually. West Virginia households typically pay far below the OECD standard of 3 to 5% of household income for municipal water, which may explain why socioeconomic factors do not influence minimum charges for access.
Q25|La desecación de las Tablas de Daimiel (1750-1987): cambios agrarios e impactos medioambientales a partir de la interpretación del registro sedimentario|Located in a semi-arid zone of the central Iberian Peninsula, the Tablas de Daimiel National Park is a wetland of international significance that has experienced intense agricultural pressure since the eighteenth century. The impact of this is recorded in the sediments within the wetland, which have been studied by means of surveys. Several sediment anomalies have been found that were caused by an increase in agricultural activities, distinguishing this wetland from natural sedimentary behaviour. Four phases of significant disturbance have been established: the first drainage project in the 1750s, an increase in cultivated area in the surrounding land during the second half of the nineteenth century, a drainage attempt during the Spanish Second Republic and a final degradation in the second half of the twentieth century. Dated with some uncertainty due to the laboratory methods used, these disturbances have been corroborated by historical sources. In conclusion, one can establish that deforestation in the surrounding land, changes in land use, continual ploughing and drainage projects are all crucial in explaining the impoverishment of this wetland.
Q25|Modeling the future evolution of the virtual water trade network|The paper investigates how the topological features of the virtual water (VW) network and the size of the associated VW flows are likely to change over time, under different socio-economic and climate scenarios. We combine two alternative models of network formation –a stochastic and a fitness model, used to describe the structure of VW flows- with a gravity model of trade to predict the intensity of each bilateral flow. This combined approach is superior to existing methodologies in its ability to replicate the observed features of VW trade. The insights from the models are used to forecast future VW flows in 2020 and 2050, under different climatic scenarios, and compare them with future water availability. Results suggest that the current trend of VW exports is not sustainable for all countries. Moreover, our approach highlights that some VW importers might be exposed to “imported water stress” as they rely heavily on imports from countries whose water use is unsustainable.
Q25|Residential water demand and water waste in Taiwan|Abstract Residential water demand has long been an important topic of empirical research. How to estimate water waste, however, has rarely been touched. Using the stochastic frontier approach, this article jointly estimates the residential demand for water and water waste in Taiwan, where water resources are scarce and unevenly distributed throughout the island and across seasons. The empirical results confirm that residential water demand is closely related to household characteristics and the overuse of water is affected by environmental variables. The estimated price and income elasticities are below 0.1 in absolute value. The estimated amount of wasted water is around 83 L per capita per day, which is roughly 1/3 of the actual water consumption. It is also shown that overlooking the waste of water use results in an over-estimation of the subsistence water requirement.
Q25|Tragedy of the Commons and Evolutionary Games in Social Networks: The Economics of Social Punishment|This study revisits the problem of the tragedy of the commons. Extracting agents participate in an evolutionary game in a complex social network and are subject to social pressure if they do not comply with the social norms. Social pressure depends on the dynamics of the resource, the network and the population of compliers. We analyze the influence the network structure has on the agents’ behavior and determine the economic value of the intangible good - social pressure. For a socially optimal management of the resource, an initially high share of compliers is necessary but is not sufficient. The analysis shows the extent to which the remaining level of the resource, the share of compliers and the size, density and local cohesiveness of the network contribute to overcoming the tragedy of the commons. The study suggests that the origin of the problem – shortsighted behavior - is also the starting point for a solution in the form of a one-time payment. A numerical analysis of a social network comprising 7500 agents and a realistic topological structure is performed using empirical data from the western La Mancha aquifer in Spain.
Q25|Conjunctive On- and Off-farm Surface Water Investment influence on Crop Mix and Groundwater Use on an Agricultural Landscape| The use of surface water to replace groundwater for irrigation is often viewed as an effective approach for reducing groundwater overdraft on an agricultural landscape. The expected increase in the aquifer volume in the presence of surface water does not occur unless the off-farm water price is low enough to generate a significant shift away from groundwater. There is a change in the crop pattern toward more irrigation intensive crops, and the net effect can be a rise in groundwater extraction.
Q25|Return on investment in irrigation practices in response to the rate of adoption on an agricultural landscape| Concerns about groundwater depletion from conventional agricultural irrigation in the Mississippi Delta have led to the technological innovation of more-efficient irrigation practices. With Arkansas being the largest producer of rice and the tenth largest producer of soybeans in the United States, the irrigation demand of these crops has put pressure on producers to find ways to irrigate more efficiently. Research into water conserving irrigation techniques has helped preserve water resources, maintain yields, and maximize farm profits. As groundwater levels in the Delta continue to decrease, the price of pumping water increases, making the prospect of investment in new technologies more attractive. The paper will address potential returns on investment in efficient irrigation practices for furrow irrigated soybeans and flood irrigated rice. The depletion of the aquifer and the return on investment from efficient irrigation practices depends on the well-pumping decision of farms across the landscape. More farms adopting the efficiency-enhancing practices will increase the return on investment in those practices because these methods stabilize groundwater levels across the landscape. We explore how the rate of adoption of efficient irrigation practices on the landscape ultimately influence the return on investment.
Q25|Willingness To Pay For Irrigation Water In Louisiana| We conducted survey to collect information from Louisiana farmers to understand their concerns related to irrigation water quality and availability of sufficient water for crop irrigation. We used logistic models to estimate the willingness to pay (WTP) for irrigation water during critical crop growing periods. Variables affecting the participation in WTP are income, land holding size, risk aversion, and education. Our estimated results show that farmers with higher education are more likely to pay for irrigation water compared to farmers with high school and college degree. Age of the farmers, farm revenue, size of the rented land have negative effect on willingness to pay for irrigation water. The sizes of the owned land and risk aversion factor have positive effect on willingness to pay.
Q25|The Economic Benefits of Irrigation Districts under Prior Appropriation Doctrine: An Econometric Analysis of Agricultural Land‐Allocation Decisions|The economic literature has established that prior appropriation doctrine induces heterogeneity in risk among water users, which leads to an inefficient allocation of resources. In this study, we show that irrigation districts alleviate that risk by deviating from the strict application of prior appropriation doctrine. As a result, farmers inside irrigation districts are able to plant more water‐intensive crops than farmers outside irrigation districts, which increases average profitability. We empirically examine this hypothesis by leveraging a georeferenced panel data set at the spatial scale of the individual water right and spanning 2007–14 in Idaho's Eastern Snake River Plain. Our results indicate that on average, irrigation districts allocate larger portions of their land to drought‐sensitive, high‐value crops such as sugar beets and potatoes. As a result of differences in planting decisions, members of irrigation districts earn on average $16.20 per acre, or 6.0% more per year than those outside of irrigation districts. La littérature économique a établi que la doctrine d'appropriation préalable entraîne une hétérogénéité du risque parmi les utilisateurs d'eau, conduisant à une allocation inefficace des ressources. Dans cette étude, nous montrons que les districts d'irrigation réduisent ce risque en s’éloignant de l'application stricte de la doctrine d'appropriation préalable. Par conséquent, les agriculteurs à l'intérieur des districts d'irrigation peuvent planter plus de cultures grandes consommatrices d'eau que les agriculteurs à l'extérieur de ces derniers, augmentant ainsi la rentabilité moyenne. Nous examinons empiriquement cette hypothèse en tirant parti d'un ensemble de données de panel géoréférencées à l’échelle spatiale du droit individuel à l'eau, qui couvrent la période de 2007–2014 dans la Eastern Snake River Plain de l'Idaho. Nos résultats indiquent qu'en moyenne, les districts d'irrigation allouent de plus grandes portions de leurs terres à des cultures de haute valeur sensibles à la sécheresse telles que les betteraves à sucre et les pommes de terre. En raison des différences au niveau des décisions de plantation, les membres des districts d'irrigation gagnent en moyenne 16,20 $ par acre, ou 6,0 % de plus par an que ceux qui se retrouvent à l'extérieur des districts d'irrigation.
Q25|Mitigating a Commons Dilemma: Agricultural Water Use in the Mississippi Delta| Sustainability of the Mississippi River Valley Alluvial Aquifer (MRVAA) is a growing concern for regulators and farmers alike. Currently, non-binding and unmonitored regulatory policies have not decelerated the rapid depletion of the MRVAA. As such, the State of Mississippi is facing significant challenges in developing, if necessary, future regulations to maintain water sustainability. The primary goal of this study is to investigate the potential impacts on voluntary water use restrictions and welfare resulting from credible and binding future use-limit regulations. To maintain relevance to MRVAA, we develop a novel commons extraction game accounting for heterogeneously endowed producers in regards to recharge rates and the potential for localized complete depletion. Credibility in the game is established once the majority of producers have ran out of water and are assumed to support regulation. Predictions of the game without regulation, under various strategic assumptions, are subsequently tested in laboratory experiments across various regulatory treatment policies. Treatment policies include: no regulation, limited-use, and moratorium. Preliminary results indicate, that without the extreme credible threat of moratorium, users do not significantly volunteer to reduce extraction rates. Planned replication of experiments should provide robust insights into future water levels if regulation or volunteering is not instituted.
Q25|Determinants Of Irrigation Technology Adoptions And Production Efficiency In Nepal’S Agricultural Sector| The factors considered in using irrigation as a production strategy in Nepal has been different from many countries mainly because of geographical diversity, water availability and investment constraint. This paper identifies the factors affecting irrigation technology adoption among the farmers in Nepal using household survey data 2011. We use a multinomial logit model to estimate variables affecting multiple irrigation technology (tube-well, canal and pond) adoptions in which sociodemographic information, land holding, access to credit, and geographical factors are major explanatory variables. Preliminary results show that education, land holding size, access to credit, and geographic factors have a higher impact on tube-well irrigation technology adoption. Additionally, productivity of major crops found to increase substantially in irrigated land. The impact of shallow tube-well is much greater in plain compared to other modes of irrigation in plain and hilly regions. Findings from this study should provide insights to producers and policy makers in identifying opportunities for utilizing and investing in more efficient irrigation technology
Q25|Out of Sight, Not Out of Mind: Developments in Economic Models of Groundwater Management|Dynamic models of natural resource management have been applied to groundwater for decades, incorporating at least two inescapable aspects: first, since groundwater stocks are carried over to future periods, dynamic analysis is essential and any costs and benefits included in the analysis will require discounting; second, the positive and normative aspects of management must be clarified at the outset. The difference is fundamental even if the results of the two model types sometimes turn out to be fairly close. A whole strand of literature has been preoccupied with the question of whether policy interventions at least have the potential of improving groundwater management in a meaningful sense. However, given the well-documented parlous state of many aquifers around the world today, the focus has mostly shifted from debating whether or not intervention is worthwhile to identifying the relevant features of complex groundwater systems, designing better policies and facilitating their successful implementation. We survey developments in economic models relevant to groundwater management, focusing especially on the depiction of uncertainty and on the different methods applied to estimate the total economic value of groundwater.
Q25|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
Q25|A - Agua|Resumen de la situación de agua potable en Bolivia, 1990 - 2014
Q25|Economic Effects of an Ocean Acidification Catastrophe|We assess the potential magnitude of the economic effects of an ocean acidification (OA) catastrophe by focusing on marine ecosystem services most likely to be affected. It is scientifically plausible that by 2200 OA could cause a complete collapse of marine capture fisheries, complete destruction of coral reefs, and significant rearrangement of marine ecosystems. Upper-bound values for losses from the first two effects range from 97 to 301 billion 2014 dollars per year (0.09 - 0.28% of current world GDP). We argue that aquaculture output would not be reduced, due to the high potential for adaptation by this young industry.
Q25|Tradeoffs among multiple ecosystem services and economic returns from groundwater depletion on a farm landscape| Groundwater overdraft has long-run consequences for the crops grown, the economic viability of the agricultural community, and the ecosystem services from the landscape. We investigate how groundwater scarcity affects the tradeoff of economic returns and ecosystem services (namely, groundwater supply, surface water quality, and greenhouse gas (GHG) reductions) in the Mississippi Delta farm production region of Arkansas, USA. As groundwater is more depleted, farmers are turning to conjunctive water management with on-farm reservoirs and tail water recovery. Distinct objectives either for economic returns and for ecosystem service guide whether on-farm reservoirs are built amidst a backdrop of cropping and irrigation decisions. Reservoirs enable the landscape to sustain a higher level of economic returns and ecosystem services. This is done through a synergy of economic returns, groundwater conservation, and GHG reductions that lowers irrigation costs and reduces the fuel combustion and associated GHGs from groundwater pumping.
Q25|Achieving Sustainable Irrigation Water Withdrawals: Global Impacts on Food Production and Land Use| Human activities are increasingly leading to overuse of surface water and nonrenewable groundwater, challenging the capacity of water resources to ensure food security and continuous growth of the economy. Adaptation policies targeting specifically water security can easily overlook its interaction with other sustainability metrics and unanticipated local responses to the larger-scale policy interventions. Using a recently developed global partial equilibrium, grid-resolving model, nick-named SIMPLE-on-a-Grid and coupling it with the global Water Balance Model, we simulate the impacts of reducing unsustainable irrigation water withdrawals on land use change and food supply, under a variety of future (2050) scenarios with and without adaptations. Comparisons are made among three policy interventions: inter-basin water transfers, investments in agricultural productivity-enhancing technologies, and the promotion of virtual water trade. Although each of these scenarios affects regional food supply in a similar fashion, their implications for land cover change, carbon emissions and global food security are quite different. By allowing for a systematic comparison of these alternative adaptations to future scarcity, the global gridded modeling approach offers unique insights into the multiscale nature of the water scarcity challenge.
Q25|Linking The Unlinked: Transboundary Water-Sharing Under Water-For-Leverage Negotiations| We develop a game-theoretic framework of negotiation over sharing of trans-boundary resources between neighboring countries. The downstream country offers a non-water “leverage” good in exchange for water access and makes a take-it-or-leave-it offer to the upstream country. The downstream country can further invest in water provision before the negotiations. We compare three types of outcomes: the first-best outcomes where an “ex-ante social planner” choses both the water investment and the water and leverage goods exchanged in the negotiations; the outcome when an “ex-post social planner” only enters at the negotiation stage; and the outcome of bilateral negotiations. We argue that all three cases can be empirically realistic; show that the outcome with the ex-post social planner can distort the downstream country’s investment incentive; and that the bilateral negotiation outcome can lead to water investment either below or above the efficient/ex-ante planner’s preferred choice.
Q25|Agricultural Water Productivity under Spatial Adjustments| With the demand for agricultural water expecting to be increased because of the expanding population growth and with water use efficiency in agricultural sector tending to be low, policy recommendations are needed to encourage farmers to increase agricultural water productivity. The main objective of this paper is to develop a spatial model that determines optimal water allocation and to generate measures of agricultural water productivity along a canal, taking into account the head versus tail disparities in water allocation along a canal. The second objective is to analyze agricultural water productivity change into its components, change in variable inputs and change in water usage, and examine the effect of efficient water usage effort on agricultural water productivity.
Q25|Linking agricultural subsidies and ambient water quality to reduce nutrient loss| Conservation compliance rules are designed to reduce soil erosion by requiring farmers to comply with specific conservation standards in order to maintain their eligibility for federal assistance programs, such as subsidized crop insurance. Conservation compliance requirements are typically connected to farmers’ individual management actions and not the resulting outcomes (e.g., nutrient loading in watersheds). In this research, we develop policies to reduce nonpoint source (NPS) pollution that link access to agricultural subsidies to ambient levels of pollution and compliance with conservation goals. Four policy environments (treatments) are tested including: 1) no-policy control, 2) linear ambient tax, 3) subsidy reduction if ambient pollution exceeds an announced threshold, and 4) subsidy reduction based on ambient pollution that individuals can avoid by adopting a costly, pollution-reducing technology. Policies are tested using laboratory experiments in which undergraduate student subjects (n=156) act as firm managers. Each manager is assigned to a group comprised of six firms and asked to make production and technology decisions that affect the profitability of his/her firm and ambient water pollution for the group. Preliminary results suggest that participants are significantly more likely to adopt a costly, pollution-reducing technology and accept lower profits when adoption provides assurance that those individuals will not be penalized for ambient pollution levels. By merging a conservation compliance framework with a penalty for ambient pollution, this work contributes to the literature on innovative NPS policies.
Q25|Rebound Effect of Irrigation Technologies? The Role of Water Rights| In this paper, we study the role of water rights in limiting the rebound effects of LEPA irrigation in the High Plains Aquifer region of Kansas, and farmer incentives to preserve their water rights. We find that the rebound effect is moderated by water rights and is high only when a well has large water rights, and limiting water rights raises farmer incentives to adopt LEPA. Reducing water rights thus can limit the undesirable rebound effects of new technologies without hurting incentives to adopt them. A significant portion of the effects of LEPA in raising water uses is through farmers switching to more water intensive crops such as corn and soybean, and through farmers raising their irrigated acreages after the adoption of LEPA. We also find that farmers have incentive to preserve water rights even when irrigation is not needed in the current period. The incentive is the highest if the farmer expects to use a large volume of water to irrigate, and is the lowest if the farmer expects not to use any water at all in the next period.
Q25|Shale Oil Production Expansion and Water-Energy Nexus in North Dakota: A Decentralized Agent-Based Modeling Approach| The expansion of oil industry in the region has led to tremendous increases in the demand for water in western North Dakota where quality water is most scarce. Thus, striking a delicate balance between preserving water resources and expanding oil production at the Bakken is a challenging task. Using a decentralized agent-based model, we posit water depots as “agents” and examine the emergent behavior of water depots under three potential policy scenarios, and these scenarios are then compared to the baseline results to gauge the impacts on water consumption in the North Dakota oil patch. Our results show that restricting industrial use of the Missouri River and Lake Sakakawea waters would reduce a sizable amount of water consumption at the Bakken, but system violations would be prevalent and rendering null the restriction.
Q25|The Welfare Consequences of the 2015 California Drought Mandate: Evidence from New Results on Monthly Water Demand| In response to the severe California drought, in April 2015, Governor Jerry Brown issued an executive order mandating statewide reductions in water use. The mandate aimed to reduce the amount of water consumed statewide in urban areas by 25% from 2013 levels. The State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) proposed regulatory instructions that grouped urban water utilities into nine tiers, with conservation standards ranging from 8% to 36%. In this paper we evaluate welfare losses caused by this mandate. Understanding the proposed regulation’s welfare losses requires estimating water demand. Using fixed effect models and data from 2004 to 2009 on 111 urban water utilities, an annual demand curve is estimated. The estimated demand elasticity is between -0.61 and -0.1 which is heterogeneous across the regions and seasons. In the second step, we use the estimated annual demand function to recover price elasticities for a sample of 53 urban water utilities in California, which provide water for more than 20 million customers. We considered two scenarios to calculate welfare losses in Northern and Southern California: the governor’s mandate, and a hypothetical 25% uniform cut back. The results for Northern California indicate an average welfare loss of $6,132 per acre-foot of shortage for a governor’s mandate and $4,424 for a 25% uniform shortage. In Southern California, the average estimated welfare loss is $2,113 per acre-foot of shortage for a governor’s mandate and $2,171 for a 25% uniform shortage. Results indicate the monthly household-level willingness-to-pay to avoid the governor’s mandate is $36 in Northern California and $25 in Southern California.
Q25|Determining water use efficiency for wheat and cotton: A meta-regression analysis| A great challenge for agricultural production is to produce more food with less water, which can be possibly achieved by increasing crop water use efficiency (WUE). We systematically reviewed 51 cases from 48 empirical studies with field experimental results on wheat and cotton. We estimated the yield-water use relations under both furrow and micro irrigation systems, compared crop water use to achieve maximum WUE and maximum yield, and evaluated the effects of many influential factors using meta-regression analysis. Our results showed significant effects of micro irrigation adoption, farm management practices focusing on crop, soil and water, and some moderator variables related with the empirical studies on crop WUE. Assessments of the publication selection bias and genuine effects illustrated the application of weighted least squares in conducting meta-regression analysis.
Q25|Decomposing Irrigation Water Use Changes in Equilibrium Models| This paper measures the importance of different drivers of change in irrigation water use regionally and globally. We followed Heckscher–Ohlin theory, Ricardian specific-factor model, and Melitz-type theories of trade to introduce a method for decomposing irrigated water use. We apply the decomposition method on the results of Liu et al. (2014) on the impacts of future irrigation shortfalls. We find that rain fed substitution (specific-factor impact) contributes to 62% of change in water use; substitution to non-crops (Heckscher–Ohlin impact) accounts for 16% of the change; and moving to farms with higher water productivity (Melitz impact) contributes to 7% of it, globally. The importance of drivers varies by region but usually these three drivers are the most important factors in adaptation to water shocks.
Q25|Water in the Balance: The Impact of Water Infrastructure on Agricultural Adaptation to Rainfall Shocks in India| Investments in water infrastructure remain key to climate change adaptation plans in many countries, and rank high in adaptation costs for developing countries (Narain et al., 2011). In this paper, we use district-level panel data from 1970-2005 across India’s major agricultural states to investigate the role played by subsidized access to electricity, groundwater wells, tank and dam projects in mediating the vulnerabilities associated with monsoonal variation. We focus on wheat, a staple of India’s food supply, as it requires irrigation and represents a significant portion of India’s total agricultural output. Results show that the impact of negative precipitation shocks is significantly dampened when a particular district has access to a more reliable source of irrigation – e.g., access to tubewells helps to dampen the impact of negative precipitation shocks on irrigation decisions associated with wheat, while upstream dams do not significantly contribute to this dampening effect. In contrast, having access to dugwells exacerbates the impact of a fall in monsoon precipitation curtailing irrigation of wheat. Our results suggest that historical agricultural policies that increased access to tubewells and the subsequent electrification of regions naturally endowed with more groundwater have equipped farmers with the ability to withstand monsoonal shocks and fluctuations.
Q25|Price Efficiency in U.S. Water Rights Markets| With this study we seek to understand the relationship between the sale and one-year lease prices in the U.S. water rights market. Given that the majority of current water rights markets in the U.S. are informal, high in transaction costs, and heterogeneous within and across states, we do not expect for the asset pricing theory to completely explain high variation in prices. Our goal is to understand which part of the pricing can be explained by the arbitrage theory and which part should be attributed to the expectations about the future conditions. Using a unique water rights trading dataset, which consists of water rights sales and one-year leases in six U.S. western states between 1994 and 2007, we follow the Newell et al. (2007) approach applied to New Zealand fisheries, and econometrically analyze the applicability of a present-value asset pricing model to the water rights markets. Our preliminary results show that the asset pricing theory holds in water rights markets, and support our hypothesis that the U.S. water rights market is less efficient than the fishing quota market in New Zealand. We further analyze what policies lead to different water rights pricing mechanisms across and within the studied states.
Q25|The Debate about Farm Nitrates and Drinking Water|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|Dealing with Water Scarcity: Need for Economy-Wide Considerations and Institutions|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|Adaptation, Climate Change, Agriculture, and Water|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|Enhancing Water Productivity in Irrigated Agriculture in the Face of Water Scarcity|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|Role of Institutions, Infrastructures, and Technologies in Meeting Global Agricultural Water Challenge|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|The Water Abstraction License Regime in Italy: A Case for Reform?|The current Water Abstraction License (WAL) regime in Italy is no longer flexible enough to cope with the challenges posed by human-induced climate and global environmental changes. The cornerstones of the current regime were laid down in the 1930s and have remained essentially unchanged ever since. The sole noteworthy reform of the Italian WAL regime was the decentralization of the regulatory competences from the state to the regional authorities in the late 1990s. In this paper, we review the WAL regimes across the administrative regions comprising the Po River Basin District (PRBD), the largest and economically most important in Italy. PRBD’s WAL regime includes a rigid and scattered WAL normative that hinders the performance of bottom-up conflict resolution mechanisms at a basin scale; a water pricing scheme that does not reflect the cost of water conveyance and use, and does not encourage efficient water allocation; and the lack of a central WAL register, which delays and in some cases impedes an environmental impact assessment for issuing new licenses or renewing existing ones, and does not allow prioritizing applications according to their full economic value. We argue these deficiencies may compromise both the integrity of riverine and water dependent ecosystems and the economic uses of water. This paper offers insights that can inform reform of water allocations in the PRBD and elsewhere in Italy and in Europe.
Q25|Climate Change, Water Scarcity in Agriculture and the Economy-Wide Impacts in a CGE Framework|This paper analyzes the economic impacts of changes in water availability due to climate change. We develop a new modeling approach as an alternative to include water as a production factor within a global CGE model. We tailor the structure of the ICES model to characterize the key features of the world economy with a detailed representation of the agricultural sector. In order to reach this objective, a new database has been built to explicitly consider water endowments, precipitation changes, and unitary irrigation costs. Results suggest different economic consequences of climate change depending on the specific region. Impacts are related to change in crop production, endowment demands, and international trade.
Q25|Residential Water Demand in China: Applications of Double-Log Model and EDM System| This study undertook the residential water demand analysis based on a panel data covered 31 provinces of China during the sample period from 2004 to 2013. Two models are employed in this study: Double-Log model and EDM model. The estimates of double-log model show that the different levels of income cannot impact the water price elasticities significantly but the fixed effects estimator gives a more appropriate estimate for the water demand system. In addition, both the water price and the income are inelastic. However, with the EDM model estimations, the results reveal that the water price is elastic for the residential water demand in the short run, and the partial price-supply elasticity is negative due to estimates of total elasticities. Both two models gave the result that the residential water is an inferior good in China.
Q25|Externalities, Profit, and Land Stewardship: Conflicting Motives for Soil and Water Conservation Adoption Among Absentee Landowners and On-farm Producers| Best-worst scaling, also called maximum-difference scaling, is used to rank the most important to least important benefits and characteristics of a conservation practice during the adoption decision-making processes of agricultural producers and non-farming/absentee landowners. Both groups are found to rank and value the attributes and reasons for adoption of conservation practices differently at the 95% significance level. Producers rank “practice benefits the farm ecosystem” as the most important consideration when making conservation practice decisions on their operation 29.7% of the time. This is followed closely by the attribute, “practice improves profit,” which is chosen as the best reason by 29.4% of producers. Non-farming/absentee landowners rank, “practice benefits the farm ecosystem” as the most important factor 33.4% of the time, but they choose, “practice improves profit” only 23.4%. This difference, combined with variations in the rankings of the reasons for adopting conservation practices between the two groups reinforces the importance of land tenure in decision making. This indicates the need for both new extension educational efforts and economic incentives to reduce negative externalities from sediment loading and eutrophication that could be ameliorated from increased adoption of soil and water conservation.
Q25|Financial Evaluation of Irrigation Efficiency Improvement Practices in Row Crop Production in Louisiana| Addressing irrigation water efficiency continues to emerge as one of the potential solutions to minimize irrigation water use, improve water quality, and enhance soil health. Despite the clear importance of financial information in decision making regarding adoption of irrigation tools, little information is available regarding the profitability outlook of such adoption. Lack of assessment of costs and returns could lead to producers resisting adoption citing profit reductions. Hence, a cost-assessment using the financial information is necessary to evaluate the tools’ economic outlook. By using long-term projections of input prices, crop yield, and crop prices, this paper develops a financial analysis of irrigation using surge valves by calculating annual cash flows and net present value. The analysis is based on demonstration plot results and anecdotal estimates related to water savings and yield improvements in corn and soybeans in northeast Louisiana. The positive estimates for net present value indicates that an investment in irrigation efficiency improvement is an economically sound choice. These estimates can enhance the adoption of irrigation efficiency improvement practices by providing an initial understanding of the overall profitability independent of short-term management decisions.
Q25|Will Farmers Save Water? A Theoretical Analysis of Groundwater Conservation Policies for Ogallala Aquifer| A variety of water conservation policy alternatives have been promoted to extend the economic life of Ogallala Aquifer in the Southern Great Plains. However, few studies have been done to analyze whether these policies provide profit-driven farmers with incentives to save water. In this paper we adopt a theoretical approach to analyze farmer’s optimal response when facing following policy alternatives, including 1) irrigation technology subsidy, 2) increased water cost, 3) unit subsidies for water saving; and 4) subsidies on water-conservative crop. Our findings suggest that optimal water conservation policies vary by region. Specifically, the switching to higher efficiency technology should occur in a preventative stage for the water saving to occur. Similarly, an increase in water cost promotes water saving only when water resource is relatively abundant. In regions where groundwater already poses a constraint, the unit subsidy for actual water saved and price subsidy for water-conservative crops are more effective in achieving the water conservation goal.
Q25|Evaluating Benefits and Costs of Cover Crops in Cotton Production System in Northwest Louisiana| Cover crop adoption by producers as part of a production cycle depends on their objectives regrading time management, cost vs benefits, and environmental obligations. A myriad of studies that examined the economics of cover crops found them to be often idiosyncratic, i.e., results depend on the region, weather patterns, soil type, and management practices. The studies determined that lack of long-term economic outlook for the incorporation of cover crops as one of the factors for their minimal adoption in many parts of the country. Thus, we aim to assess the economic impact of long-term adoption of cover crops as part of a production cycle. Partial budgeting tool, CoverCropEconomics, is used to generate the overall costs and benefits. The data on agronomic variables, i.e., yield, organic matter, applied nitrogen, soil microbial counts, and among others are obtained from a 30-year cover crop research conducted in Northwest Louisiana. The research reported a significant increase in yield for crops planted following cover crops. Additionally, research shows improvements in soil nitrogen and soil organic matter suggesting added profits to the farmer. Accounting for those economic and agronomic variables, overall long term net benefits of incorporating cover crops amount to 1,354 per acre, with majority of the benefits contribution through yield increase of cash crop. The results can be useful for conservation agencies to evaluate their current incentive payments toward cover crop adoption.
Q25|Estimating the Value of Irrigation Scheduling| The Northern High Plains (NHP) of Texas is home to more than a million acres of irrigated crop production. The area is dependent on the Ogallala Aquifer for irrigation water that has a very minimal recharge rate which is leading to diminishing water availability making the adoption of more water efficient irrigation practices such as irrigation scheduling critical to sustaining irrigated agriculture. Corn is by far the largest user of irrigation water in the NHP. The objective of this study was to estimate the value of irrigation scheduling for corn in NHP using three-year data from the “200-12 demonstration” that had both demonstration plots (optimal irrigation scheduling followed) and side-by-side control plots (farmers’ practices followed). Production per acre-inch of irrigation from the demonstration and control plots were compared to estimate the value of irrigation scheduling. Analysis of the data indicated adding irrigation scheduling resulted in a 9.72% increase in corn yield per acre-inch applied, which resulted in a $91.22 per acre increase in net returns. Although results from individual farms varied considerably, the economic advantage of irrigation scheduling decreased over time suggesting that the producers were learning from the demonstration and implementing similar irrigation scheduling practices on their remaining land.
Q25|Factors Affecting the Choice, Intensity, and Allocation of Irrigation Technologies by U.S. Cotton Farmers| We use 2013 cotton precision survey data to understand the adoption of irrigation technologies by cotton farmers in 14 U.S. states. We find that water saving irrigation technologies such as sub-surface drip and trickle irrigation technologies is adopted by farmers who produce higher irrigated yield and by those farmers who are from Southern Plains (Texas and Oklahoma). There are ten irrigation technologies that farmers can adopt in cotton production in these 14 U.S. states. The intensity of irrigation technologies as measured by the number of irrigation technology adopted in cotton production is affected by irrigated cotton yield realized, land holding, education, computer use, and cotton farmers being from Southern Plains. A multivariate fractional regression model is used to identify land allocation under different irrigation technologies. Results indicate that age of an operator, cover crop, information sources used, per acre irrigated yield, education, and cotton farmer being from Southern Plains are significant variables affecting the land allocation under different irrigation technologies. Paper removed April 18, 2018 at author's request.
Q25|The Debate on Water Policies: empirical evidence from drought in the Jucar river| The mismanagement of water resources at global level calls for a reconsideration of the current water policies. The three approaches to water policy instruments are water pricing, water markets, and institutional instruments based on cooperation. The approach in Spain is institutional cooperation, whereas the European Union promotes water pricing to balance water supply and demand, and in Australia water markets have been implemented to confront water scarcity and droughts. This study compares these three types of policy instruments to address drought in the Jucar Basin. The analysis indicates that the institutional instrument based on cooperation and the water market instrument both achieve similar results, demonstrating that the current institutional approach is not inferior to water markets. Another important result is that the water pricing instrument entails very substantial losses to farmers, which implies that this alternative is politically unfeasible. This result questions seriously the reliance of the Water Framework Directive on the water pricing instrument in irrigation.
Q25|The impacts of piped water on water quality, sanitation, hygiene and health in rural households of north-western Bangladesh - a quasi-experimental analysis| We investigated the impacts of piped water on water quality, sanitation, hygiene and health outcomes in marginalized rural households of north-western Bangladesh using a quasi-experimental analysis. A government organization – the Barindra Multipurpose Development Authority (BMDA) – established a piped water network to provide these rural households with improved water as they have poor access to potable water. Using propensity score matching, the study compares a treatment and a control group of households to identify gains in water-sanitation, hygiene and health outcomes. We found that the BMDA piped water infrastructure had a positive impact on access to improved water and significantly reduced the distance traveled for and time spent on collecting drinking water. However, we found no improvement in the drinking water quality, which was measured by the extent of fecal contamination (E. coli count per 100 ml of water) at the point of use. The hygiene status of food utensils also did not show any improvement; food utensils were tested positive for E. coli in both the control and treatment group. Although access to BMDA piped water in the premises involves cost, it didn’t improve hygiene behavior: handwashing with soap after defecation and before feeding children. The treated households own larger water containers which implies that the intervention has had a clear impact on the quantity of water used for household purposes. However, we did not find evidence of health benefits, such as decreased diarrhea incidence of in under-five children, improved child anthropometrics stunting, underweight and wasting of children due to piped water use.
Q25|Determinants of Household Drinking Water Quality in Rural Ethiopia| Safe and adequate water supply is a vital element to preserve human health; however, access to clean water is limited in many developing countries. Furthermore, improved water sources are often contaminated with fecal matters and consumption of unsafe water poses a great public health risk. This study seeks to identify determinants of microbial contamination of household drinking water under multiple-use water systems in rural areas of Fogera and Mecha districts of Ethiopia. In this analysis, a random sample of 454 households was surveyed from February to March 2014, and water samples from community sources and storage containers were collected and tested for fecal contamination. The number of Escherichia coli (E.coli) colony forming units per 100ml (cfu/100ml) water was used as an indicator of fecal contamination. The results show that 50% of households used protected water sources, 38% used unprotected wells/ spring and 12% used surface water sources. However, water microbiological tests demonstrated that 58% of household storage water samples and 74% of water sources were contaminated with E.coli. After controlling for household sanitary factors, high level of E.coli bacteria colonies were observed in unprotected water compared to surface water and protected wells/springs sources. To ensure the quality and safety of water stored in the household, our findings suggest that point-of-use water treatment, safe water handling and storage, proper hygiene practices such as washing hands after critical times and proper disposal of household garbage should be promoted. On-site water wells should be properly designed to prevent seepage from unhygienic household pit latrine. Furthermore, community water sources should be adequately protected and sanitary measures should be undertaken regularly to reduce contamination from human and animal waste.
Q25|Impact of different irrigation systems on water quality in peri-urban areas of Gujarat, India| The ever-growing population of India, along with the increasing competition for water for productive uses in different sectors – especially irrigated agriculture and related local water systems and drainage – poses a challenge in an effort to improve water quality and sanitation. In rural and peri-urban settings, where agriculture is one of the main sources of livelihood, the type of water use in irrigated agriculture has complex interactions with drinking water and sanitation. In particular, the multi-purpose character of irrigation and drainage infrastructure creates several interlinks between water, sanitation (WATSAN) and agriculture and there is a competition for water quantity between domestic water use and irrigated agriculture. This study looks at the determinants of the microbiological quality of stored drinking water among households residing in areas where communities use different types of irrigation water. The study used multiple tube fermentation method ‘Most Probable Number (MPN) technique, a WHO recommended technique, to identify thermotolerant fecal coliforms and E. coli in water in the laboratory (WHO 1993). Overall, we found that the microbiological water quality was poor. The stored water generally had very high levels of Escherichia coli (E. coli) contamination, 80% of the households had water in storage that could not be considered potable as per the World Health Organization (WHO) standards, and 73% of the households were using a contaminated water source. The quality of household storage water was largely unaffected by the major household socioeconomic characteristics, such as wealth, education level or social status. Households using surface water for irrigation had poor drinking water quality, even after controlling for hygiene, behavioral and community variables. Drinking water quality was positively impacted by proper storage and water treatment practices, such as reverse osmosis. Hygiene and sanitation indicators had mixed impacts on the quality of drinking water, and the impacts were largely driven by hygiene behavior rather than infrastructures. Community open defaecation and high village-household density deteriorates household storage water quality.
Q25|The Capitalized Value of Rainwater Tanks in the Property Market of Perth, Australia| In response to frequent water shortages, governments in Australia have encouraged home owners to install rainwater tanks, often by provision of partial funding for their installation. A simple investment analysis suggests that the net private benefits of rainwater tanks are negative, potentially providing justification for funding support for tank installation if it results in sufficiently large public benefits. However, using a hedonic price analysis we estimate that there is a premium built into the sale prices of houses with tanks installed, and that the magnitude of the premium is likely to be greater than the costs of installation, even allowing for the cost of time that home owners must devote to research, purchase and installation. The premium is likely to reflect non-financial as well as financial benefits from installation. The robustness of our estimated premium is investigated using both bounded regression analysis and simulation methods and the result is found to be highly robust. The policy implication is that governments should not rely on payments to encourage installation of rainwater tanks, but instead should use information provision as their main mechanism for promoting uptake. Several explanations for the observation that many home owners are apparently leaving benefits on the table are canvased, but no fully satisfactory explanation is identified.
Q25|Economics of Coastal Erosion and Adaptation to Sea Level Rise|This article provides a review and synthesis of geoeconomic models that are used to analyze coastal erosion management and shoreline change. We outline a generic framework for analyzing risk-mitigating and/or recreation-enhancing policy interventions within a dynamic framework, and we review literature that informs the nature and extent of net benefit flows associated with coastal management. Using stated preference analysis, we present new estimates on household preferences for shoreline erosion management, including costs associated with ecological impacts of management. Lastly, we offer some guidance on directions for future research.
Q25|The Management of Groundwater: Irrigation Efficiency, Policy, Institutions, and Externalities|The management of groundwater resources for use in agriculture is an issue that reaches far and wide; many of the world's most productive agricultural basins depend on groundwater and have experienced declines in water table levels. There is a socially optimal rate of extraction that can be modeled, measured, and achieved through policy and a complete definition of the property rights that govern groundwater. However, several factors may affect farmers' groundwater use decisions and behavior and may lead them to overextract groundwater. These factors include increases in irrigation efficiency, perverse incentives from policy, institutional incentives, and externalities.
Q25|Simulating the Macroeconomic Impact of Future Water Scarcity: an Assessment of Alternative Scenarios|In this paper we consider some of the economic implications of climate change scenarios as described in the Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). By comparing potential water demand with estimates of (sustainable) water availability in different regions, we identify regions that are likely to be constrained in their future economic growth potential by the scarcity of water resources. We assess the macroeconomic impact of water scarcity under alternative allocation rules finding that, by assigning more water to sectors in which it has a higher value, shifting production to less water intensive sectors, and importing more water intensive goods, constrained regions can effectively neutralize these water related climate risks and adapt to a changing water environment. However, this adaptation effort is likely to imply some radical changes in water management policies.
Q25|La demande d’eau potable à La Réunion : estimation à partir de données d’enquête|Using data from a household survey carried out in the French overseas territory of Reunion, we specify and estimate, in this paper, a micro econometric demand function for potable water with the purpose of identifying and quantifying the impact of the determinants of household consumption of this resource which is presently under heavy operating stress. We model this demand by means of a generalization of the linear expenditure system allowing to differentiate within the residential water consumption a captive component independent of prices and household income, and a variable component as a function of prices and household income, which can be influenced by a relevant water pricing policy. Our estimates carried out by taking into account possible selection bias reveal the importance of captive consumption resulting both from household basic needs and from the outdoor uses of water. Therefore, it is advisable to complement pricing policies with other measures, such as information campaigns focusing on the outdoor uses of water.
Q25|Traffic Externalities and Housing Prices: Evidence from the London Congestion Charge|This study exploits the introduction of the London Congestion Charge (CC) that greatly improves traffic conditions in Central London to provide new evidence on the capitalization of traffic externalities onto housing values. The Congestion Charge restricts traffic into the cordoned area by imposing a flat fee on drivers whenever they enter during charging periods. I show that the introduction of the CC in the Western Extension Zone (WEZ) increases home prices by 3.68\% relative to untreated housing units within 1 kilometre away from the CC boundary. These estimates, which measures the marginal willingness to pay to avoid negative traffic externalities, are robust to many changes in specifications, suggesting that homeowners pay to avoid traffic so as to reduce commuting time, to enjoy better air quality and less traffic noise, and to travel on safer roads.
Q25|Electoral incentives and firm behavior: Evidence from U.S. power plant pollution abatement|Researchers have utilized the fact that many states have term limits (as opposed to being eligible for re-election) for governors to determine how changes in electoral incentives alter state regulatory agency behavior. This paper asks whether these impacts spill over into private sector decision-making. Using data from gubernatorial elections in the U.S., we find strong evidence that power plants spend less in water pollution abatement if the governor of the state where the plant is located is a term-limited democrat. We show that this evidence is consistent with compliance cost minimization by power plants reacting to changes in the regulatory enforce- ment. Finally, we show that the decrease in spending has environmental impacts as it leads to increased pollution.
Q25|El papel de la infraestructura rural en el desarrollo agrícola en Colombia|La agricultura ha sido históricamente una actividad prioritaria en Colombia. Su desempeño depende primordialmente de la productividad, la cual parece estar correlacionada con los bienes públicos del sector. En el trabajo se estiman las coberturas de los principales bienes de infraestructura y se evalúan sus efectos sobre el rendimiento y el área sembrada de dieciséis cultivos cosechados en diversas regiones del país. Utilizando modelos de emparejamiento (Propensity Score Matching) se encuentra que el rendimiento de una tercera parte de los cultivos ha sido impactado positivamente por los distritos de riego y drenaje. También revela que el mejor acceso a los centros de acopio y la red de vías terciarias afectan positivamente las áreas sembradas de la mayor parte de los cultivos. Una reasignación de los recursos del Estado hacia la provisión de infraestructura rural es crucial para el desarrollo agrícola del país.
Q25|Estudio preliminar sobre los impactos de los agroquímicos en el agua de la quebrada La Arabia y en la salud pública del municipio de Venecia, Antioquia, Colombia|el propósito principal de este escrito, el cual proviene de un proceso de investigación en el marco de la política pública de salud ambiental, es determinar los impactos de los agroquímicos en el agua de la quebrada La Arabia y en la salud pública de los habitantes de la vereda La Arabia del Municipio de Venecia, Antioquia, Colombia. Igualmente, se plantearon procesos de identificación de las actividades y exposición ocupacional a los agroquímicos de los agricultores; los agroquímicos más utilizados por los productores agrícolas y pecuarios del área de estudio; la determinación de los niveles de agroquímicos organofosforados, carbamatos, ditiocarbamatos y organoclorados en los sedimentos de la quebrada La Arabia, además de la elaboración de un mapa de riesgos por contaminación con agroquímicos en el área de estudio.
Q25|Water Conservation Behavior and Environmental Concerns|Water conservation represents important pro-environmental behavior for a sustainable environment. This paper investigates the link between water conservation behavior and general environmental concerns using a large dataset from the Multipurpose Household Survey conducted annually by the Italian Central Statistics Office. Univariate probit models show that pollution and resource exhaustion are positively related to individual water conservation behavior while alteration of environmental heritage exhibits a negative relationship with water saving behavior. These findings are robust to the inclusion of environment knowledge and social capital variables. Robustness analysis also indicates that television and radio, participation in environmental initiatives, money for environmental protection and churchgoing are significant determinants of water conservation behavior.
Q25|Carbon-sensitive productivity, climate and institutions|Climate and institutions might be crucial in lowering the vagaries of climate change impacts in terms of productivity. This study measures the relationships of productivity measures adjusted for the regulation of carbon emission and institutions together with climate change throughout the world. This paper finds there is higher potential for reduction of CO2 emissions in developing countries at lower cost. However, the cost to reduce emissions lowers their growth potential in terms of lost productivity growth. Better institutions help to lower the negative impacts of climate change by improving the process of technological adoption in developing countries. Climate change reduces the productivity growth in developing countries by lowering the process of technological adoption, and better institutions result in higher productivity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q25|Kaum Kostenvorteile durch Unternehmenszusammenschlüsse in der Trinkwasserversorgung|With more than 6,000 water utilities, Germany’s drinking water supply industry is highly fragmented. The German Monopolies Commission has recommended a consolidation of the sector, which could lead to potential cost benefits for utilities as well as price reductions for consumers. Hardly any empirically reliable studies of the German drinking water supply exist, however—particularly with regard to market structure. The present study analyzes possible economies of scale and the impact of water utility mergers. The results indicate that mergers would be of little benefit to larger suppliers and would lead to cost savings only in special cases, which suggests that changes to the drinking water supply market structure would only play a minor role in reducing costs. As it would actually be likely to lead to drawbacks for both utilities and consumers, a total consolidation of Germany’s drinking water utilities is not advisable. Mit mehr als 6 000 Versorgungsunternehmen ist die Trinkwasserversorgung in Deutschland stark fragmentiert. Hierdurch stellen sich Fragen nach möglichen Kostenvorteilen einer Konsolidierung des Sektors und daraus resultierenden Preissenkungsmöglichkeiten für die VerbraucherInnen. In diesem Zusammenhang hat auch die Monopolkommission bereits eine Konsolidierung des Sektors empfohlen. Bislang liegen jedoch kaum empirisch belastbare Untersuchungen der deutschen Trinkwasserversorgung vor – insbesondere in Hinblick auf die Marktstruktur. Die vorliegende Studie beschäftigt sich mit der Analyse von möglichen Größeneffekten sowie den Auswirkungen von Zusammenschlüssen von Wasserversorgungsunternehmen (WVU). Die Ergebnisse deuten kaum auf Vorteile größerer Versorger hin. Zusammenschlüsse von Versorgern führen nur in Einzelfällen zu Kosteneinsparungen. Marktstrukturelle Veränderungen der Trinkwasserversorgung zum Zwecke der Kostensenkung spielen damit nur eine untergeordnete Rolle. Auf Basis dieser Studie ist die Konsolidierung der gesamten Trinkwasserversorgung Deutschlands nicht zu empfehlen, weil diese vermutlich zu Nachteilen für WVU und VerbraucherInnen führen würde.
Q25|Günstige Zeiten für einen arbeitnehmerfreundlichen Ausstieg aus der Braunkohle: Kommentar|No abstract is available for this item.
Q25|Cost Structure and Economies of Scale in German Water Supply|Potable water supply in Germany is highly fragmented. A consolidation of the industry could, therefore, lead to lower cost of water supply and price savings for the customers. In this paper we estimate a total cost function for potable water supply based on a unique sample of German water utilities observed between 2004 and 2010. Newly available data allows for a detailed cost modeling approach. Capital stocks are estimated using the Perpetual Inventory Method, while capital costs are estimated using a weighted cost of capital approach. Local water suppliers are found to have strong cost advantages compared to regional suppliers. While the results indicate strong density effects, economies of scale are only found for the smallest water utilities. Thus, the results argue against a consolidation of the industry.
Q25|El Embalse De Mequinenza: Su Aportación Al Delta Del Ebro Y Su Potencialidad Para El Desarrollo Económico|El presente trabajo se centra en evaluar la disponibilidad de agua del tramo bajo de la cuenca del Ebro, especialmente en el embalse de Mequinenza. Para ello se han analizado los usos de agua en la región y se ha construido un modelo hidrológico simple que optimiza el cumplimiento de los requerimientos mensuales del delta en relación con los caudales mínimos medioambientales. Partiendo de datos hidrológicos publicados por la Confederación Hidrológica del Ebro y de datos económicos de la zona se ha calibrado el modelo y se han descrito algunos aspectos relevantes de la estructura económica de la zona, asumiendo, por simplicidad, que la regulación puede recaer en tres embalses: Mequinenza, Ribarroja y Rialb. En el modelo hídrico se simulan diversos escenarios, obteniéndose resultados que pueden ser sugerentes de cara a la elaboración de futuras propuestas de gestión del agua en ese tramo del río. This work focuses on assessing the availability of water in the last stretch of the Ebro basin, especially in the Mequinenza reservoir, using a simple hydrological model that analyses the uses of water in this area, also optimizing the fulfilling of the delta monthly requirements related to environmental flows. Economic data have been calculated for describing relevant aspect for this region economy, and the theoretical model is calibrated for the hydrological data from basin authority, whose key control variables are the water levels of these reservoirs: Mequinenza, Ribarroja and Rialb. These data also help to describe some relevant aspects of the economic structure of the area. With the hydrologic model various scenarios are simulated, obtaining relevant results for facing the future development of water management proposals.
Q25|The Management of Drinking Water and Long-term Perspective: Tunisia Case|This article analyzes the current situation of the management of drinking water in Tunisia, focusing on the constraints that the said management is subject. The empirical results show the absence of a long-term equilibrium between production capacity and consumption structure. In addition, the pricing policy is not an incentive tool to lower consumption. In fact, for domestic sector, water appears as a necessary good, while for both industry and tourism sectors declining consumption due respect to the fact that these two sectors have adopted other sources of supply substituting water of the National Water Distribution Utility. In addition to these three sectors, the hypothesis of co-integration (long-term equilibrium relationship) between the level of consumption, the price and the number of subscribers is rejected in most cases. To solve these problems, we propose a new pricing structure based primarily on the size of households to reduce waste
Q25|An options pricing approach to ramping rate restrictions at hydro power plants|This paper investigates the impact of ramping rate restrictions imposed on hydro operations to protect aquatic ecosystems. The optimal ramping decision is specified as an optimal control problem which results in a Hamilton Jacobi Bellman (HJB) equation. Electricity prices are modelled as a regime switching stochastic process. The optimal control is determined by solving the HJB equation numerically using a fully implicit finite difference approach with semi-Lagrangian time stepping. The paper focuses on the effect of ramping restrictions on a hydro plant׳s value and optimal operations, and provides an analysis of which factors cause ramping restrictions to have a greater or lesser impact on profitability. It is shown that hydro plant value is negatively affected by ramping restrictions, but the extent of the impact depends on key parameters which determine the desirability of frequent changes in water release rates. Interestingly for the case considered, value is not sensitive to ramping restrictions over a large range of restrictions. The results point to the importance of accurately modelling electricity prices in gauging the trade offs involved in imposing restrictions on hydro operators which may hinder their ability to respond to volatile electricity prices and meet peak demands.
Q25|Internalising external environmental effects in efficiency analysis|This paper investigates the efficiency in the Swedish pulp and paper industry using national account data. By using a directional distance function approach we are able to investigate different aspects of efficiency relating to the direction of scaling. In the first analysis, desired output (pulp and paper) and undesired output (pollution) are considered equally important. This analysis shows that there is a 12% potential to simultaneously reduce pollution and increase the production of pulp and paper. In the second analysis, only undesired output is considered. The analysis shows an average potential reduction in pollution of 22%. If, on the other hand, this potential is computed in terms of desired output, keeping undesired output constant, the average potential increase in desired output is 14%. In a fourth analysis we discuss the potential to evaluate the costs of environmental regulations using the DEA methodology. Finally, our paper demonstrates that data from national accounts can be used to investigate different aspects of environmental efficiency.
Q25|The economic value of wetlands in developing countries: A meta-regression analysis|This paper presents the first comprehensive synthesis of economic valuations of wetlands in developing countries. Meta-regression analysis (MRA) is applied to 1432 estimates of the economic value of 379 distinct wetlands from 50 countries. We find that wetlands are a normal good, wetland size has a negative effect on wetland values, and urban wetlands and marine wetlands are more valuable than other wetlands. Wetland values estimated by stated preferences are lower than those estimated by market price methods. The MRA benefit transfer function has a median transfer error of 17%. Overall, MRA appears to be useful for deriving the economic value of wetlands at policy sites in developing nations.
Q25|Gains of integrating sector-wise pollution regulation: The case of nitrogen in Danish crop production and aquaculture|This paper extends the Orani-G Computable General Equilibrium model with an externality market. The externality market is modelled with a limited number of pollution permits that are traded between representative firms in different sectors. The model is applied to identify the gains of a common nitrogen regulation system for Danish agriculture crop and aquaculture production. Common regulation across the two sectors is found to increase GDP by euro 32 million, corresponding to 2.2% of their initial GDP contribution. The direct effect in the two sectors is euro 39 million, where the spill-over effect is −7 million. Full use of recirculation technology in aquaculture entails a further increase in GDP to 106 million. The introduction of a common regulatory system and recirculation technology, simultaneous with a reduction of the common nitrogen cap of 17.6%, corresponding to the current policy objectives, is found to increase GDP by 52 million, 4.1% of their initial contribution. Hence, introducing a common regulatory system and taking advantage of the new technology more than counterbalances the negative socio-economic effect of a cap reduction. The analysis points to the importance of introducing more coherent regulatory frameworks that include all polluters under the same regulatory system.
Q25|Marine trade-offs: Comparing the benefits of off-shore wind farms and marine protected areas|The drive to increase renewable electricity production in many parts of Europe has led to an increasing concentration of new wind energy sites at sea. This results in a range of environmental impacts which should be taken into account in a benefit–cost analysis of such proposals. In this paper, we use choice modeling to investigate the relative gains and losses from siting new windfarms off the coast of Estonia, relative to the option of creating a new marine protected area. We find that, while respondents are generally opposed to converting marine shoals to conventional wind farms and prefer the establishment of marine protected areas instead, benefits from constructing ‘environmentally-friendly’ wind farms – an alternative program which is also considered by the government – are not statistically different with respect to consumers' welfare to those associated with creating a new marine protected area. Methodologically, the paper makes a contribution by showing the ability of the latent class mixed logit model to represent both within- and between-class preference heterogeneity, and thus its power to provide a more sophisticated representation of preference heterogeneity than stand-alone latent class or mixed logit approaches. The paper also presents the first use of the latent class mixed logit model in willingness-to-pay space for environmental goods.
Q25|Conservation policies: Who responds to price and who responds to prescription?|The efficiency properties of price and nonprice instruments for conservation in environmental policy are well understood. However, there is little evidence comparing the effectiveness of these instruments, especially when considering water resource management. We exploit a rich panel of residential water consumption data to examine heterogeneous responses to both price and nonprice conservation policies during times of drought while controlling for unobservable household characteristics. Our empirical models suggest that among owners of detached, single-family homes in six North Carolina municipalities, relatively low-income households are more sensitive to price and relatively high-consumption households are less sensitive to price. However, prescriptive policies such as restrictions on outdoor water use result in uniform responses across income levels, while simultaneously targeting reductions from households with irrigation systems and historically high consumption.
Q25|What does “better” mean? Perceptions of electricity and water services in Santo Domingo|The quality of electricity and water services in Santo Domingo is among the poorest in Latin American cities, a situation that has prevailed for decades despite the significant welfare losses associated with such infrastructure deficiencies. In this context, how do households perceive these services? What areas of improvement would mean the most to them? This paper takes a consumer-centric approach to addressing these questions, identifying specific attributes of quality and reliability by which households perceptually define what “better” means. Preliminary evidence suggests that, regardless of price, end-user satisfaction and willingness to pay are positively related to service quality.
Q25|Water affordability issues in developed countries – The relevance of micro approaches|In developed countries, water affordability issues are regarded as a non-significant problem. This paper analyses the prevalence of affordability problems at household level and the determinants that might affect their occurrence. From a questionnaire-based survey, Portuguese household level data are used to show that average measures can mask affordability issues for substantial proportions of the low income groups. Findings also indicate that to tackle affordability problems more successfully, special tariff schemes should consider household income, size (large families) and composition (children in poorer households).
Q25|Hydroelectricity consumption and economic growth nexus: Evidence from a panel of ten largest hydroelectricity consumers|This paper explores the long-run and causal relationships between hydroelectricity consumption and economic growth for a panel of the 10 largest hydroelectricity consuming countries over the period 1965–2012. The countries include Brazil, Canada, China, France, India, Japan, Norway, Sweden, Turkey and the U.S.A. Using the Bai and Perron (2003) [9] tests for cointegration, the results indicate that real GDP per capita and hydroelectricity consumption per capita appear to be cointegrated around a broken intercept. Granger causality results from a nonlinear panel smooth transition vector error correction model suggest different results depending on the regimes, which we identified based on structural break tests. The test identified three breaks at 1988, 2000 and 2009. For the pre-1988 period, there is evidence of unidirectional causality running from real GDP per capita to hydroelectricity per capita in both the short- and long-run. Over the post-1988 period, there exists evidence of bidirectional causality between hydroelectricity energy consumption per capita and real GDP per capita in both the short- and the long-run. The results imply the existence of a feedback hypothesis with both hydroelectricity consumption and growth promoting each other in more recent periods, as the importance of hydroelectricity as a renewable energy, has become more prominent.
Q25|Sustainable agreements on stochastic river flow|Many river sharing agreements in transboundary river basins are inherently unstable. Due to stochastic river flow, agreements may be broken in case of drought. The objective of this paper is to analyze whether river sharing agreements can be self-enforcing, or sustainable. We do so using an infinitely-repeated sequential game that we apply to several classes of agreements. To derive our main results we apply the equilibrium concepts of subgame-perfect equilibrium and renegotiation-proof equilibrium to the river sharing problem. We show that, given the upstream–downstream asymmetry, sustainable agreements allow downstream agents to reap the larger share of the benefits of cooperation.
Q25|The New Prometheans: Technological Optimism in Climate Change Mitigation Modelling|Technological change modelling (TCM) is quietly transforming the landscape of environmental debate. It provides a powerful new basis for technological optimism, which has long been a key battleground. The technique is at the heart of mainstream climate change mitigation policies and greatly strengthens environmentalism over ecologism. It seems to show that technological change can solve the problem. I argue that the models employ a flawed understanding of technological change and that policies based on them are a major gamble. The article aims to begin a wider debate on TCM, offering a defence of ecologism rooted in the history of technology and SCOT literatures.
Q25|Can We Have It Both Ways? On Potential Trade-Offs Between Mitigation and Solar Radiation Management|Many in the discourse on climate engineering agree that if deployment of solar radiation management (SRM) technologies is ever permissible, then it must be accompanied by far-reaching mitigation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This raises the question of if and how both strategies interact. Although raised in many publications, there are surprisingly few detailed investigations of this important issue. The paper aims at contributing to closing this research gap by (i) reconstructing moral hazard claims to clarify their aim, (ii) offering one specific normative justification for far-reaching mitigation and (iii) investigating in greater detail different mechanisms that could potentially cause a trade-off between mitigation and SRM. I conclude that the empirical evidence questioning the trade-off hypothesis is inconclusive. Moreover, theoretical reflections as well as economic model studies point to a trade-off. In our current epistemic situation these findings must be taken seriously. They caution against researching and developing SRM technologies before measures to avoid or minimise a trade-off are implemented.
Q25|Aerosol Geoengineering Deployment and Fairness|If deployed, aerosol geoengineering (AG) could involve unfairness to both present and future parties. I discuss three broad risks of unfairness that an AG deployment policy might carry: (1) causing disproportionate harm to those least responsible for climate change, (2) burdening future parties with the costs and risks of AG and (3) excluding some interested parties from contributing to AG decision-making. Yet despite these risks, it may be too hasty to reject AG deployment as a potential climate-change policy. I argue that since it is very unlikely that a completely fair climate-change policy will be pursued, we have ethical reason to prefer some 'incompletely fair' policy. Given various facts about our world, it might be the case that some AG policy is ethically preferable to many other feasible climate change policies, even if AG carries deeply problematic risks of unfairness.
Q25|How Much Risk Ought We to Take? Exploring the Possibilities of Risk-Sensitive Consequentialism in the Context of Climate Engineering|When it comes to assessing the deontic status of acts and policies in the context of risk and uncertainty, moral theories are often at a loss. In this paper we hope to show that employing a multi-dimensional consequentialist framework provides ethical guidance for decision-making in complex situations. The paper starts by briefly rehearsing consequentialist responses to the issue of risk, as well as their shortcomings. We then go on to present our own proposal based on three dimensions: wellbeing, fairness and probability. In the last section we apply our approach to a comparison of different climate policy options, including stratospheric solar-radiation management.
Q25|Climate Engineering and the Cessation Requirement: The Ethics of a Life-Cycle|Much of the work on the ethics of climate engineering over the last few years has focused on the front-end of the potential timeline for climate intervention. Topics have included the initial taboo on bringing the discussion of climate engineering into the open, guidelines to put in place before commencing research, and governance arrangements before first deployment. While this work is clearly important, the current paper considers what insights can be gleaned from considering the tail-end, that is, by using the requirement for future cessation as a criterion for any acceptable climate engineering strategy. After showing that time-limited interventions are a key part of the rhetoric of leading climate engineering advocates, the paper examines the implications of imposing a 'cessation requirement' on solar radiation management and carbon dioxide removal strategies. Consideration of a cessation requirement turns out to reveal a great deal about what ought to be happening now, before any decision to proceed with climate engineering deployment has been taken.
Q25|The Implications of Psychological Limitations for the Ethics of Climate Change|Most philosophers and psychologists who have explored the psychology of climate change have focused only on motivational issues - getting people to act on what morality requires of them. This is misleading, however, because there are other psychological processes directed not at motivation but rather our ability to grasp the implications of climate change in a general way - what Stephen Gardiner has called the 'grasping problem'. Taking the grasping problem as my departure point, I draw two conclusions from the relevant psychological literature: 1) ethicists and policy makers should focus less on changing individuals' behaviours and more on changing policy; and 2) although solutions to climate change must come at the level of policy, progress on this front will be limited by incompatible moral norms.
Q25|An Engineering Approach to Sustainable Decision Making|Climate change is often tackled via a two-pronged approach of behaviour change and technological advancement. Policy studies and social sciences generally take ownership of influencing behaviours, while natural sciences and engineering tackle generating newer, more efficient technologies. Fusion of these methodologies is severely lacking. Engineers are uniquely situated to contribute to positive environmental action in both technological and behavioural realms. This article explores the psychological mindset of engineers as they make decisions to dissect factors that undermine sustainable behaviour. The Theory of Planned Behaviour, Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis and the Health Belief Model are applied to engineering decision making to develop a methodology for engineers to modify their behaviour to consistently make more sustainable choices, and in turn, assist others by making actions towards sustainability more convenient.
Q25|Regime Learning in Global Environmental Governance|An increasingly complex governance architecture has become a major characteristic of current global environmental governance, often resulting in different degrees of complexity and fragmentation within global environmental regimes. Social learning processes are introduced by scholars and policy makers alike as management approaches for governing complex dynamic systems in situations that feature a high degree of complexity and uncertainty. Scholars argue that actors in complex environmental issue areas can learn in their social context and could develop the necessary knowledge, attitudes and behaviour to enhance their capacity to effectively address the environmental problem. This is where this article picks up the discussion and assesses the impact of a regime’s complexity on its learning capabilities. It further identifies major drivers and barriers of regime learning processes in international environmental regimes.
Q25|Economic Incentives for the Conservation of Bharathapuzha River: Focus on Sand Mining|Rivers in Kerala are assailed by pollution, sedimentation, sand mining, and constriction of flows. The indiscriminate and unscientific sand mining, even in the midst of many regulatory and protective measures for their conservation, have made the condition of these rivers pathetic. Bharathapuzha basin is the largest among all the 44 river basins of Kerala and the second longest river of the State. The drying up of Bharathapuzha River has become a matter of grave concern to the scientists and environmentalists. This paper tries to establish that implementing economic incentives is a possible method which can be adopted in the conservation practices of Bharathapuzha River.
Q25|The consequences of spatially differentiated water pollution regulation in China|This paper studies the consequences of China's recent water pollution regulation. We find evidence that the regulation reduces pollution-intensive activity in highly regulated areas. Relative to the locations where regulations are more stringent (downstream cities), locations where regulations are less stringent (upstream cities) attract more water-polluting activity. As polluting activity concentrates upstream, a larger proportion of the river and more poor residents are exposed to high levels of pollution.
Q25|The Behavioralist as Policy Designer: The Need to Test Multiple Treatments to Meet Multiple Targets|We explore Tinbergen’s fundamental insight that policymakers need at least as many policy instruments as targets. We extend this idea using a large natural field experiment in water resource management. We use social comparisons and loss-framed messages to help achieve two goals of our partner utility: getting consumers to purchase drought-resistant plants and reducing water use. Our results show that seemingly related behavioral instruments can affect different household decisions. By themselves, social comparisons and loss framing have no significant impact on the number of rebate requests; when combined, however, they lead to a 36% increase in requests. Only loss framing leads to a significant increase in the purchase of drought-resistant plants, and only the social comparison reduces water consumption. These results highlight the importance of testing different combinations of instruments, particularly when policymakers have multiple goals and the relationship between instruments and goals is uncertain.
Q25|Groundwater Overdraft, Electricity, and Wrong Incentives: Evidence from Mexico|Groundwater overdraft is threatening the sustainability of an increasing number of aquifers in Mexico. The excessive amount of groundwater extracted by farming activities relying on irrigation methods have significantly contributed to this problem. The objective of this paper is to analyse the effect of changes in groundwater's price over the allocation of different production inputs from a structural approach. Using a combination of multiple micro-data sources, I model the technology of producers facing groundwater overdraft through a Translog cost function. The results following this analysis show that groundwater's own price elasticity for the sample analysed is -0.54. Moreover, these results also show that both labour and fertiliser can act as substitutes for groundwater, further reacting to changes in groundwater's price.
Q25|The Water Abstraction License Regime in Italy: A Case for Reform?| The current Water Abstraction License (WAL) regime in Italy is no longer flexible enough to cope with the challenges posed by human-induced climate and global environmental changes. The cornerstones of the current regime were laid down in the 1930s and have remained essentially unchanged ever since. The sole noteworthy reform of the Italian WAL regime was the decentralization of the regulatory competences from the state to the regional authorities in the late 1990s. In this paper, we review the WAL regimes across the administrative regions comprising the Po River Basin District (PRBD), the largest and economically most important in Italy. PRBD’s WAL regime includes a rigid and scattered WAL normative that hinders the performance of bottom-up conflict resolution mechanisms at a basin scale; a water pricing scheme that does not reflect the cost of water conveyance and use, and does not encourage efficient water allocation; and the lack of a central WAL register, which delays and in some cases impedes an environmental impact assessment for issuing new licenses or renewing existing ones, and does not allow prioritizing applications according to their full economic value. We argue these deficiencies may compromise both the integrity of riverine and water dependent ecosystems and the economic uses of water. This paper offers insights that can inform reform of water allocations in the PRBD and elsewhere in Italy and in Europe.
Q25|Climate Change, Water Scarcity in Agriculture and the Economy-Wide Impacts in a CGE Framework| This paper analyzes the economic impacts of changes in water availability due to climate change. We develop a new modeling approach as an alternative to include water as a production factor within a global CGE model. We tailor the structure of the ICES model to characterize the key features of the world economy with a detailed representation of the agricultural sector. In order to reach this objective, a new database has been built to explicitly consider water endowments, precipitation changes, and unitary irrigation costs. Results suggest different economic consequences of climate change depending on the specific region. Impacts are related to change in crop production, endowment demands, and international trade.
Q25|Finance and System of Provision of Water; The Case of Istanbul|Unlike many other metropolises around the world, water supply in Instanbul has been subject to commercial practices since the 19th century. The difference today, however, it is in the stage of a privatisation process of water resources, rather than the provision of water itself to the consumers. The role of the state at different levels still has an important and major role in the provision of water. Even if the water resources are started to be privatised, the financialisation of water provision is quite limited. That is why this paper focuses on the changing finance tools and the changing role of the state in water provision in Istanbul in a historical context.
Q25|On the Environmental Efficiency of Water Storage: The Case of a Conjunctive Use of Ground and Rainwater|Rainwater harvesting, consisting in collecting runoff from precipitation, has been widely developed to stop groundwater declines and even raise water tables. However this expected environmental effect is not self-evident. We show in a simple setting that the success of this conjunctive use depends on whether the runoff rate is above a threshold value. Moreover, the bigger the storage capacity, the higher the runoff rate must be to obtain an environmentally efficient system. We also extend the model to include other hydrological parameters and ecological damages, which respectively increase and decrease the environmental efficiency of rainwater harvesting.
Q25|Priorities and preferences in the implementation of the European Water Framework Directive - A case study of the river Alsterån|This paper elicits local and semi-local citizens’ preferences for water quality attributes explicitly related to the water framework directive. A river basin in southeast of Sweden is used as a case study. The sample consists of 502 respondents living in the municipalities through which the river passes, or neighboring municipalities. By the use of a choice experiment tailored to the specific case study area, the paper analyzes public attitudes and willingness to pay for selected attributes related to water quality management. The attributes and their corresponding levels are based on real criteria for ecological water status, used in the implementation of the WFD in the river basin. Although participants live in or close to the catchment area, the results reveal a general lack of knowledge and interest in matters related to the environmental quality of the river. All attributes included in the choice experiment proved to have a statistically significant impact on the choice probabilities. There was however no significant evidence that the preferences differ between respondents with regard to self reported previous experience or knowledge about the water body, nor with regard to differences in recreational habits in the area. The results can potentially be used as inputs in practical policy making with its inevitable trade offs and priorities.
Q25|Economic effects of the invasive worm Marenzelleria spp. in the Baltic Sea|Impacts of alien marine species on ecosystem services have been documented in numerous studies, but studies on the estimation of costs with an explicit quantification of the impact channels are lacking. We calculated costs of the invasive worm Marenzelleria in the Baltic Sea, which affects sea bottoms capacity to store nutrients. A reduced capacity implies higher costs for reaching nutrient reduction targets. Therefore, the costs were calculated by taking the difference in minimum costs of attaining nutrient targets with and without the presence of the invasive species. To this end, we developed a simple dynamic model which captures the effect of the invasive species on the decay rates of nutrient pools in different and interconnected sea basins in the Baltic Sea. Evidence and numerical estimates were found for a decrease in sequestration of phosphorus in the different sea basins caused by the occurrence of the invasive worm. The results indicated a cost of this effect that ranges between 167 billion SEK and 732 billion SEK depending on the effect of Marenzelleria on sequestration of phosphorus. This cost corresponds to 0.02-0.08% of total gross domestic product of the nine coastal countries. However, the cost is unevenly distributed among the countries, where Poland bears the largest part because of its large phosphorus loads and access to low cost options.
Q25|Water Use and Conservation in Manufacturing: Evidence from U.S. Microdata|Abstract Water can be a scarce resource, particularly in certain places at certain times. Understanding both water use and conservation efforts can help ensure that limited supplies can meet the demands of a growing population and economy. This paper examines water use and recirculation in the U.S. manufacturing sector, using newly recovered microdata from the Survey of Water Use in Manufacturing, merged with establishment-level data from the Annual Survey of Manufactures and the Census of Manufactures. Results suggest that water use per unit of output is largest for larger establishments, in part because larger establishments use water for more purposes. Larger establishments are also found to recirculate water more — satisfying demand (water use) without necessarily increasing water intake. Various costs also appear to play a role in water recirculation. In particular, the water circulation rate is found to be higher when water is purchased from a utility. Relatively low (internal) prices for self-supplied water could suppress the incentive to invest in recirculation. Meanwhile, establishments with higher per-gallon intake treatment costs also recirculate more, as might be expected. The cost associated with water discharge – due to regulation or otherwise – also increases circulation rates. The aridity of a locale is found to have little effect on circulation rates.
Q25|Economic valuation of coastal and marine ecosystem services in the 21st century: an overview from a management perspective|This report aims to provide, through an extensive review of the literature, a comprehensive overview of the knowledge base regarding the valuation of coastal and marine ecosystem services (ES), placing emphasis on the analysis of both the policy implications of current studies as well as existing challenges. We aim to contribute not only to the role that economic valuation can play in the management of these ecosystems, but also to promote discussion among social and ecological researchers about further research needs. The report aims to serve as a basis to build a common language which is crucial to improve the sustainability of natural resources.
Q25|Communicating research on the economic valuation of coastal and marine ecosystem services|Quantifying the monetary value of ecosystem services provided by coastal and marine resources can help policy makers assess the trade-offs and synergies inherent in ecosystem-based management of marine and coastal environments, thus increasing the social efficiency of decision-making processes. As shown by the valuation literature, the number of coastal and marine management settings where valuation researchers have attempted to make a contribution is rising fast. However, this rise in research activity has not been matched by the increase in the use of economic valuation (EV) in the actual management of coastal and marine resources. This raises an interesting question: is EV responding to the needs of policy makers? This paper provides a comprehensive overview of the knowledge base regarding the economic values for coastal and marine ecosystems. It then discusses how to improve the uptake of ES valuation research by focussing on two core issues which are thought to be essential for more effective communication with the policy community.
Q25|Giving respondents “time to think” reduces response randomness in repeated discrete choice tasks|Quantifying the monetary value of ecosystem services provided by coastal and marine resources can help policy makers assess the trade-offs and synergies inherent in ecosystem -based management of marine and coastal environments, thus increasing the social efficiency of decision-making processes. As shown by the valuation literature, the number of coastal and marine management settings where valuation researchers have attempted to make a contribution is rising fast. However, this rise in research activity has not been matched by the increase in the use of economic valuation (EV) in the actual management of coastal and marine resources. This raises an interesting question: is EV responding to the needs of policy makers? This paper provides a comprehensive overview of the knowledg e base regarding the economic values for coastal and marine ecosystems. It then discusses how to improve the uptake of ES valuation research by focussing on two core issues which are thought to be essential for more effective communication with the policy community.
Q25|Understanding the distribution of economic benefits from improving coastal and marine ecosystems|The ecological status of coastal and marine waterbodies world-wide is threatened by multiple stressors, including nutrient inputs from various sources and increasing occurrences of invasive alien species. These stressors impact the environmental quality of the Baltic Sea. Each Baltic Sea country contributes to the stressors and, at the same time, is affected by their negative impacts on water quality. Understanding who benefits from improvements in coastal and marine waters is key to assessing public support for policies aimed at achieving such changes. We propose a new approach to account for variability in benefits related to differences in socio-demographics of respondents, by using a structural model of discrete choice. Our method (1) provides a convenient way of incorporating a wide range of socio-demographics as explanatory variables in conditional multinomial logit models without the risk of collinearity, and (2) is more statistically efficient than the alternative, typically used approaches. The new technique is applied in a study which examines the preferences of Latvian citizens towards improvements of the coastal and marine environment quality that could help the Baltic Sea waters of Latvia reach Good Environmental Status as required by the European Union's Marine Strategy Framework Directive. Applying the discrete choice experiment method, we find that overall, Latvians are willing to pay for reducing losses of biodiversity, for improving water quality for recreation by reduced eutrophication, and for reducing new occurrences of invasive alien species. A significant group within the sample seems not to value environmental improvements in the Baltic Sea, and, thus, is unwilling to support costly measures for achieving such improvements. The structural model of discrete choice reveals substantial heterogeneity among Latvians towards changes in the quality of coastal and marine waters of Latvia.
Q25|Physical water use and water sector activity in environmental input-output analysis|This paper uses input-output accounting methods to identify the direct, indirect and induced physical demand for water. Previously the seminal work by Leontief (1970) has been employed to motivate a fuller account of issues related to sectors that generate and sectors that clean/treat polluting outputs (Allan et al 2007). The present paper extends this approach to deal with sectors that use a natural resource and the sector(s) that supply it. We focus on the case of water use and supply and a case study for the Welsh regional economy. The analysis shows how the proposed method, using both the quantity input-output model and the associated price dual, can be used to consider economy wide implications of the deviation between actual expenditure on the output of the water sector and actual physical water use. The price paid per physical amount of water appears to vary greatly amongst different uses. This may occur for various reasons. We argue that such analysis and information is essential for policy makers and regulators in understanding the demands on and supply of UK regional water resources, their role in supporting economic expansion, and can ultimately inform water sustainability objectives and strategies.
Q25|Farmers' willingness to participate in best management practices in Kentucky| This paper investigates farmers' willingness to participate in Best Management Practices (BMPs) through a proposed Water quality trading (WQT) program in Kentucky. This analysis includes two parts: the first part is to investigate the factors influencing farmers' current usage of BMPs; the second part is to estimate farmers' willingness to implement BMPs given different levels of compensation given in a survey. The results show that farmers who participate in the conservation programs are more likely to use BMPs, but these farmers may not accept the offer to implement additional BMPs. Farmers' experiences about BMPs are more likely to persuade them to adopt additional BMPs than the level of compensation. The results find that using riparian buffers, fencing off animals and building up waste storage facilities are responsive to the levels of compensation offered.
Q25|Water in International Affairs: Heightened Attention to Equity and Rights|No abstract is available for this item.
