Q26|Gone fishing: The value of recreational fishing in Sweden|Data from a unique nationwide recreational fishing survey in Sweden is used to estimate benefits of recreational fishing in Sweden, differences between regions and age groups, and how they relate to expected catch. The data targets the whole Swedish population, and as a consequence a large fraction of zero fishing days exists in the sample. To consider this, a zero-inflated Poisson model was used. Swedes fished around 16 million days in 2013, of which two-thirds was spent on inland fishing, and one third was spent on marine and costal fishing. Expected consumer surplus per fishing day vary over the season, from about SEK 23 for winter fishing, to SEK 148 for summer fishing. The highest consumer surplus values are found among the youngest and the oldest age groups that were surveyed. Expected catch is an important determinant for number of fishing days, but catch increases mainly influence summer fishing.
Q26|Unraveling local preferences and willingness to pay for different management scenarios: A choice experiment to Biosphere Reserve management|Economic valuation of ecosystem services has emerged as a valuable tool to promote conservation and sustainable land management. Our study adds to this literature, by reporting the results of a discrete choice experiment used to analyse local population preferences and willingness-to-pay for selected ecosystem services resulting from different management scenarios in the Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve (Biscay, Spain). The ecosystem services considered include quality of water bodies, agricultural production, native forest protection, biodiversity, and recreation. The results indicate that the local population is willing to financially support a new management plan focused on the improvement of ecosystem health and landscape multifunctionality and sustainability, with recreation being the least valued ecosystem service. These findings may be used to inform conservation and management policies to maximize social well-being. They can also help to prioritize investments and allocation of funding and hence minimise land use conflicts.
Q26|Park Life: Assessing the need to Understand User Group Needs when Balancing Commercial Enterprise with Biodiversity Conservation|This report outlines and reviews the findings of a collaborative project between researchers at The University of East Anglia (UEA) and Brandon Country Park. The former were commissioned to undertake two surveys to elicit the opinions of current users and stakeholders regarding their perceptions of the park, with particular emphasis on how this improves their mental, physical and social well-being. Information was then used to identify how the facility might be improved. 200 surveys were conducted through July 2016, asking questions which referred to park usage, attitudes and socio-demographic status. These responses were combined with a qualitative focus group, and using these mixed-methods field experiment techniques provided an in-depth examination of user perspectives on how to best manage this woodland amenity. The overall results pinpoint some key interactions between the key mental and physical benefits of such a facility, and yet the trade-offs that these human sources of welfare may create for wider biodiversity conservation.
Q26|Recreational Value of the Baltic Sea: a Spatially Explicit Site Choice Model Accounting for Environmental Conditions|The Baltic Sea plays a significant role for recreational use in the nine littoral countries with more than 70% of the population visiting the coast, representing some 80 million recreation visits annually. Understanding the values associated with coastal recreation and the potential welfare changes of improving the state of the Baltic Sea is important for managing the marine environment. We estimate a spatially explicit travel cost model of coastal site recreation to the Baltic Sea to assess the welfare of accessing individual sites, identify recreational hotspots and simulate the welfare changes resulting from improving environmental and infrastructure conditions. The total benefits associated with the Baltic Sea based recreation amount to 11.4 billion EUR per year with significant variation across sites. Improving water quality and infrastructure boost the recreational value by nearly 9 billion EUR, almost doubling the recreational benefits compared to current conditions.
Q26|Economic Values of Coastal Erosion Management: Joint Estimation of Use and Passive Use Values with Recreation Demand and Contingent Valuation Data|Revealed and stated preference survey data from North Carolina households are utilized to estimate a joint structural microeconometric model of recreation demand and willingness-to-pay (WTP) for coastal erosion management among beach visitors and non-visitors. We test for and reject weak complementarity, implying existence of non-use values associated with management of North Carolina’s coastal resources. We find stronger preferences for shoreline retreat (median WTP = $22.20 per household, per year) as a management strategy relative to beach nourishment (WTP = $7.45) and substantially weaker preferences for shoreline armoring (WTP = $0.09). Shoreline retreat exhibits much larger estimates of non-use values, whereas non-use values for shoreline armoring are negative. Minimizing negative environmental impacts of erosion management increases WTP over 200%. Our data permit estimates of marginal value of incremental beach width accruing to beach users and non-users (which ranges from $0.23 and $0.47 per meter). Key Words: recreation; demand; beach; erosion; management; economic; value
Q26|Peace is much more than doves: The economic benefits of bird-based tourism as a result of the peace treaty in Colombia|Colombia has the greatest bird diversity of any country in the world, with approximately 1900 recorded species, equivalent to 20% of all bird species worldwide. Advances made by the Colombian government to achieve greater security within the country – putting an end to the long-standing armed conflict – and to promote ecotourism can help position Colombia as one of the most important bird watching destinations worldwide. This study estimates the economic benefits from bird-based tourism in post-war Colombia. In particular, we estimate the value that members of the US-based National Audubon Society place on a birding tour that includes the participation of local communities (some of whom were victims of the armed conflict), and visits to important areas for bird watching that are increasingly accessible. The study also approximates the demand for international bird watching tourism to the country. Through the application of the contingent valuation method, we show that birding enthusiasts would be willing to pay, on average, an additional $58 per person per day for a tour in Colombia, as compared to a similar tour in terms of duration and services in Costa Rica, currently one of the main tourism destinations for birdwatchers. Our analysis indicates that a total of 278,850 North American bird watchers would be interested in visiting the country, generating an annual profit of $9 million and 7516 new jobs. In addition to confirming demand for bird-based travel, the study provides information about potential visitors’ preferences, which can help guide the development of a strategy to promote bird-based tourism to Colombia.
Q26|Estimating a Total Demand Function for Sea Angling Pursuits|Sea angling is often over-looked in debates related to the sustainability of commercial fisheries, tourism and impacts on marine ecosystem service provision from coastal developments. This paper presents the estimation of a sea angling demand function for Irish waters. The negative binomial models also account for truncation and endogenous stratification; two issues that need to be controlled for when dealing with on-site sampled populations. Given the dispersed nature of sea angling activity, the chosen model does not focus on one specific site as is common in the literature for count data travel cost models but rather estimates the total demand for sea angling in the season, no matter where the angling takes place along the Irish coast. We use this empirical work to discuss the more general debate surrounding resource allocation between commercial fisheries and recreational anglers. The results indicate the high value of the Irish marine environment as a recreational angling resource.
Q26|Surfing a Wave of Economic Growth|We investigate whether the geographic determinants of growth extend to natural amenities. We combine data on spatial and temporal variation in the quality of over 5000 surf breaks globally with data on local economic performance, proxied by night-time lights. We document a strong association between natural amenity quality and local economic development. Economic activity grows faster near good surf breaks; following the discovery of new breaks, or the technology needed to ride them; and during El Niño events that generate high-quality waves. The effects are concentrated in nearby towns and emerging economies, and population changes are consistent with tourism.
Q26|The Problem of Inclusion in Deliberative Environmental Valuation|The idea of inclusive collective decision-making is important in establishing democratic legitimacy, but it fails when citizens are excluded. Stated-preference methods of valuation, which are commonly used in economics, have been criticised because the principle of willingness to pay may exclude low-income earners who do not have the capacity to pay. Deliberative valuation has been advocated as a way to overcome this problem, but deliberation may also be exclusive. In this review, two deliberative valuation frameworks are compared. The first is grounded on the idea of rational discourse that emphasises argument at the expense of other communicative strategies. It seeks to secure inclusion through procedural rules and prerequisites, but fails to address the underlying democratic limitation of argumentation. The second does not rely on the distinction between rational and rhetorical speech, and therefore admits alternative forms of communication. This approach recognises differences in the communicative capacities and practices of those who take part in deliberation, and so is better equipped to improve, though not to guarantee, inclusion.
Q26|Power to the people: Electricity demand and household behavior|"Paper [I] Using a unique and highly detailed data set on energy consumption at the appliance-level for 200 Swedish households, seemingly unrelated regression (SUR)-based end-use specific load curves are estimated. The estimated load curves are then used to explore possible restrictions on load shifting (e.g. the office hours schedule) as well as the cost implications of different load shift patterns. The cost implications of shifting load from ""expensive"" to ""cheap"" hours, using the Nord Pool spot prices as a proxy for a dynamic price, are computed to be very small; roughly 2-4% reduction in total daily costs from shifting load up to five hours ahead, indicating small incentives for households (and retailers) to adopt dynamic pricing of electricity. Paper [II] Using a detailed data set on appliance-level electricity consumption at the hourly level, we provide the first estimates of hourly and end-use-specific income elasticities for electricity. Such estimates are informative about how consumption patterns in general, and peak demand in particular, will develop as households’ income changes. We find that the income elasticities are highest during peak hours for kitchen and lighting, with point estimates of roughly 0.4, but insignificant for space heating. Paper [III] In this paper, I estimate the price elasticity of electricity as a function of the choice between fixed-price and variable-price contracts. Further, assuming that households have imperfect information about electricity prices and usage, I explore how media coverage of electricity prices affects electricity demand, both by augmenting price responsiveness and as a direct effect of media coverage on electricity demand, independent of prices. I also address the endogeneity of the choice of electricity contract. The parameters in the model are estimated using unique and detailed Swedish panel data on monthly household-level electricity consumption. I find that price elasticities range between -0.025 and -0.07 at the mean level of media coverage, depending on contract choice, and that households with monthly variation in electricity prices respond more to prices when there is extensive media coverage of electricity prices. When media coverage is high, for example 840 news articles per month (which corresponds to the mean plus two standard deviations), the price elasticity is -0.12, or 1.7 times the elasticity at the mean media coverage. Similarly, media coverage is also found to have a direct effect on electricity demand. Paper [IV] I explore how households switch between fixed-price and variable-price electricity contracts in response to variations in price and temperature, conditional on previous contract choice. Using panel data with roughly 54000 Swedish households, a dynamic probit model is estimated. The results suggest that the choice of contract exhibits substantial state dependence, with an estimated marginal effect of previous contract choice of 0.96, and that the effect of variation in prices and temperature on the choice of electricity contract is small. Further, the state dependence and price responsiveness are similar across housing types, income levels and other dimensions. A plausible explanation of these results is that transaction costs are larger than the relatively small cost savings from switching between contracts."
Q26|The acceptance of a protected area and the benefits of sustainable tourism: In search of the weak link in their relationship|Sustainable tourism is seen as a major development opportunity for regions with pristine nature and biodiversity hotspots, particularly in developing countries. The economic advantages of sustainable tourism are supposed to convince local persons that use restrictions and regulations set within a protected area (PA) are necessary and beneficial. Nevertheless, local persons are hardly found to positively assess PAs and their environmental protection efforts. This study combines earlier findings on the existence of PAs, their potential for tourism, their restrictions for economic development and the local populationï¿½s acceptance of environmental protection into a comprehensive model. Based on a representative survey of 686 people in the Hoang Lien National Park in Vietnam, we analyse the links in the suggested transmission mechanism. The results identify one major bottleneck for the acceptance of a PA: The people indeed acknowledge the economic advantages of a sustainable tourism sector, but do not see themselves as actual beneficiaries. Even if they are already involved in tourism, they feel the main benefits are generated for outside agents, while local persons have to deal with the restrictions imposed. This result has far-reaching implications for successful tourism policy and implementation of protected areas.
Q26|Testing the Influence of Substitute Sites in Nature Valuation by Using Spatial Discounting Factors|Abstract This paper investigates the effect of nearby nature substitute sites on preferences for nature restoration. Contrary to prior studies, we use a respondent-centric approach to control for substitute sites. We assess each respondent-specific spatial context by computing densities of nature substitute sites within various ranges from each respondent’s home. This approach considers the use and non-use values of nature together. Data from three similar discrete choice experiments carried out in Flanders (Belgium) are compared. Different spatial discounting factors are tested to explore how the substitution effect behaves with regard to distance. Latent class analyses are performed to account for preference heterogeneity among respondents. We observe divergent behaviours across groups of respondents. The “distance-to-substitutes” affects how respondents gauge substitute sites. We find a significant influence of the squared average buffer distance but this effect varies in sign across case studies and classes of respondents. Our results demonstrate that individual-specific GIS data can significantly improve the representation of the spatial context and the transferability of value functions. However, the roles played by preference heterogeneity and nature perception on respondents’ capacity to value nature still deserves further attention in future research.
Q26|Commercial fishing and outdoor recreation benefits of water quality improvements in the Chesapeake Bay|We estimated the economic benefits of the Chesapeake Bay TMDL to commercial fish harvesters and consumers, recreational anglers, and other outdoor recreators. To forecast the impacts of the TMDL on harvested fish and shellfish stocks in the bay and connected Atlantic coast waters, we used a summary of judgments from an expert panel and a multi-species model of Chesapeake Bay fisheries. We estimated benefits to consumers in commercial fish markets using a multi-stage inverse demand system, which models price as a function of exogenous supply and accounts for substitution possibilities between 13 different species and as many as five regions. Models were estimated using monthly harvest data from the years 1991 to 2011. The estimated parameters of the inverse demand systems were then used to calculate compensating and equivalent variation from the changes in harvests between the baseline and TMDL scenarios. To estimate producer surplus changes, we assumed that fishing effort will remain fixed at recent levels in each fishery, so harvesting costs do not increase due to the TMDL. The resulting estimates of commercial fishing benefits range between $3 and $26 million per year. We also examined the implications of alternative assumptions about the management regime in each fishery, including fixed effort, open access, and maximum sustainable surplus. We calculated benefits to recreational anglers using a linked participation and site-choice recreation demand model. The model was estimated using angler intercept survey data from the Marine Recreational Fisheries Statistics Survey (MRFSS). Catch rates were calculated using historic reported catch from the MRFSS. We accounted for the sample selection bias caused by the non-random intercept survey sampling design using weights based on historic visitation frequencies at each intercept site. The intercept data were used to estimate a random utility site-choice model, and counts of trips from respondent zip codes were used to estimate a negative binomial participation model conditional on the inclusive value of all sites as estimated by the site-choice model. The resulting estimates of recreational fishing benefits range between $5 and $59 million per year. We used a separate recreation demand model to estimate the benefits associated with other outdoor recreation activities. The model was estimated using aggregate data on the total number of visitors to national and state parks in Maryland, Virginia, and Delaware. The aggregate visitation data alone are insufficient to estimate all parameters of the model, so these data were supplemented with survey data on the number of recreation trips taken to the Chesapeake Bay collected from a random sample of individuals in the study area. The marginal effects of water quality on recreators’ site choices were estimated in a second-stage regression, using estimates of site-specific constants from the first-stage site-choice model as the dependent variable and measures of average water quality conditions and other fixed site attributes as explanatory variables. The central estimates of the outdoor recreation benefits (exclusive of recreational fishing) are between $105 to $280 million per year.
Q26|Halal Tourism Industry in Indonesia: Potential and Prospects|This study confirms that halal tourism is a tourism industry which has contributed to economic growth in Indonesia, although the world economy slows down. In Indonesia, halal tourism has long been grown in the form of a pilgrimage undertaken by people with religious motivation. Along with the development of the global Islamic economy, then this type of tourism is undergoing a metamorphosis that requires a change in modern ranging from attractions, hotels, up to marketing. The paper combines descriptive of halal tourism industry and practices of Islamic law in Indonesia. This approach found that halal tourism industry can not be separated from the religious practices of the majority of Muslims in Indonesia, but also economically contribute to the local community, and tourist sites that display the beauty and hospitality for tourists Muslims and non-Muslims. This study concludes that halal tourism has become part of the national tourism industry to position Indonesia as a center for halal tourism in the world in the future.
Q26|Industri Wisata Halal di Indonesia: Potensi dan Prospek<BR>[Halal tourism industry in Indonesia: Potential and prospects]|This study confirms that halal tourism is a tourism industry which has contributed to economic growth in Indonesia, although the world economy slows down. In Indonesia, halal tourism has long been grown in the form of a pilgrimage undertaken by people with religious motivation. Along with the development of the global Islamic economy, then this type of tourism is undergoing a metamorphosis that requires a change in modern ranging from attractions, hotels, up to marketing. With the phenomenological approach, this study concludes that halal tourism has become part of the national tourism industry to position Indonesia as a center for halal tourism in the world in the future.
Q26|La desecación de las Tablas de Daimiel (1750-1987): cambios agrarios e impactos medioambientales a partir de la interpretación del registro sedimentario|Located in a semi-arid zone of the central Iberian Peninsula, the Tablas de Daimiel National Park is a wetland of international significance that has experienced intense agricultural pressure since the eighteenth century. The impact of this is recorded in the sediments within the wetland, which have been studied by means of surveys. Several sediment anomalies have been found that were caused by an increase in agricultural activities, distinguishing this wetland from natural sedimentary behaviour. Four phases of significant disturbance have been established: the first drainage project in the 1750s, an increase in cultivated area in the surrounding land during the second half of the nineteenth century, a drainage attempt during the Spanish Second Republic and a final degradation in the second half of the twentieth century. Dated with some uncertainty due to the laboratory methods used, these disturbances have been corroborated by historical sources. In conclusion, one can establish that deforestation in the surrounding land, changes in land use, continual ploughing and drainage projects are all crucial in explaining the impoverishment of this wetland.
Q26|A generic marginal value function for natural areas|Abstract We conduct a CV and a CE experiment using a generic rather than a situation-specific study design in order to obtain a generic marginal value function for different types of natural areas with different characteristics in the Netherlands. We develop a modelling approach in which we use CV and CE choice data in one model. The value function obtained shows that people attach value to the presence of natural areas, and that these values vary due to differences in the magnitude of areas, in distance to areas, and differences in accessibility and fragmentation of natural areas. We discuss how the value function can be used to incorporate potential substitution between natural areas. We also show that for approximately one-fifth of our sample there is no added value having any kind of natural area nearby and that people living in small municipalities tend to be indifferent between accessible and inaccessible areas. Our approach produces a generic marginal value function, which may be used to inform cost–benefit analyses and land use planning decisions that wish to incorporate positive and negative welfare externalities related to changes in the provision of natural areas. However, we also show that applying this value function to the regional or local scale may produce biased value estimates.
Q26|Surfing a wave of economic growth|We investigate whether the geographic determinants of growth extend to natural amenities. We combine data on spatial and temporal variation in the quality of over 5000 surf breaks globally with data on local economic performance, proxied by night-time lights. We document a strong association between natural amenity quality and local economic development. Economic activity grows faster near good surf breaks; following the discovery of new breaks, or the technology needed to ride them; and during El Niño events that generate high-quality waves. The effects are concentrated in nearby towns and emerging economies, and population changes are consistent with tourism.
Q26|An Empirical Analysis of Hunting Lease Pricing and Value of Game in Sweden|Game species generate considerable benefits to society in terms of hunting values, tourism, and maintenance of ecosystem balance. This paper seeks to estimate hunting values for multiple hunted species by disentangling the role of wildlife harvesting opportunities from other factors that affect hunting lease prices. We examine the determinants of hunting lease prices in Sweden using both spatial and nonspatial econometric techniques. Our analysis confirms considerable hunting values for fallow deer and wild boar. Also, the study reveals the presence of spatial spillovers in lease prices, implying that landowners have little scope for exerting monopoly power on the hunting lease market.
Q26|The Organizing Framework of Ecosystem Services and its use in River Management|An Ecosystem Services approach can be used as an organizing framework to enhance the management of ecosystems, as multiple values and trade-offs can be identified and communicated through an ecosystem services lens. This can support more systemic, rather than incremental, planning, decision-making, and longer term value propositions. As rivers and their catchments/watersheds (RCW) are the lifeblood of many ecosystems, ecosystem services must adequately be taken into account in RCW planning, decision-making, and management to sustain and/or enhance this important natural capital. In this literature review, we discuss if/how an ecosystem services lens has been applied in the peer reviewed literature in the context of RCW management. Overall, the results reveal continual increases worldwide in the popularity and importance of considering ecosystem services in terms of RCW. Our findings also reveal that most of these studies have focussed on the themes of modelling, valuation, and/or mapping, but have not necessarily comprehensively used all three. We conclude that there is room for an ecosystem services approach to reach its full potential as an organizing framework, in particular across regions/countries and at multiple levels of scale.
Q26|L'impact de l'écotourisme sur le bien-être local dans les zones protégées du Népal : une approche multiniveaux|L'écotourisme dans les zones protégées est souvent cité comme étant un mécanisme contribuant à l'amélioration du bien-être local et à la réduction de la pauvreté lorsque les populations sont contraintes au niveau de l'utilisation des ressources naturelles. Cependant, l'eet direct sur le bien-être est encore peu étudié dans la littérature. Dans cet article, nous estimons l'eet de l'écotourisme sur le bien-être des populations locales dans les zones protégées du Népal. De plus, nous vérions si les restrictions environnementales aectent le bien-être des ménages qui arment être contraints au niveau de l'utilisation des ressources naturelles. Nous utilisons un modèle hiérarchique linéaire à deux niveaux an de tenir compte de la structure de la base de données ainsi que de la présence de clusters. Nous estimons que l'implication d'un ménage dans le secteur écotouristique, en tant que travailleur autonome, aecte positivement et signicativement son bien-être. De plus, nous observons que le secteur écotouristique génère une externalité positive sur le bien-être des ménages appartenant à une même communauté. Enn, nous trouvons que le fait d'être contraint par la règlementation environnementale ne semble pas avoir un eet direct sur le bien-être local.
Q26|Natural Assets: Surfing a wave of economic growth|Many natural assets can not be valued at market prices. Non-market valuations typically focus on the value of an individual asset to an individual user, ignoring macroeconomic spillovers. We estimate the contribution of a natural asset to aggregate economic activity by exploiting exogenous variation in the quality of surfing waves around the world, using a global dataset covering over 5,000 locations. Treating night-time light emissions as a proxy for economic activity we find that high quality surfing waves boost activity in the local area (
Q26|Understanding the distribution of economic benefits from improving coastal and marine ecosystems|The ecological status of coastal and marine waterbodies world-wide is threatened by multiple stressors, including nutrient inputs from various sources and increasing occurrences of invasive alien species. These stressors impact the environmental quality of the Baltic Sea. Each Baltic Sea country contributes to the stressors and, at the same time, is affected by their negative impacts on water quality. Understanding who benefits from improvements in coastal and marine waters is key to assessing public support for policies aimed at achieving such changes. We propose a new approach to account for variability in benefits related to differences in socio-demographics of respondents, by using a structural model of discrete choice. Our method (1) provides a convenient way of incorporating a wide range of socio-demographics as explanatory variables in conditional multinomial logit models without the risk of collinearity, and (2) is more statistically efficient than the alternative, typically used approaches. The new technique is applied in a study which examines the preferences of Latvian citizens towards improvements of the coastal and marine environment quality that could help the Baltic Sea waters of Latvia reach Good Environmental Status as required by the European Union's Marine Strategy Framework Directive. Applying the discrete choice experiment method, we find that overall, Latvians are willing to pay for reducing losses of biodiversity, for improving water quality for recreation by reduced eutrophication, and for reducing new occurrences of invasive alien species. A significant group within the sample seems not to value environmental improvements in the Baltic Sea, and, thus,is unwilling to support costly measures for achieving such improvements. The structural model of discrete choice reveals substantial heterogeneity among Latvians towards changes in the quality of coastal and marine waters of Latvia.
Q26|Q - Quemas y chaqueo|Resumen de la situación de la deforestación en Bolivia, 1990 - 2015
Q26|Valuing Natural Resources Allocated by Dynamic Lottery| “Preference point” lotteries—under which the probability an individual is drawn increases with their stock of preference points earned over time by being unsuccessful in past drawings—are widely used to allocate access to many economically important natural resources (e.g., big game hunting opportunities). Lotteries form a natural choice experiment: by observing the opportunities for which an individual applies, the alternatives not chosen, the associated costs, the probability of winning a permit, etc., statistical inferences can be made about how individuals trade off site characteristics for cost. Knowledge of these trade-offs can then be used to estimate applicants’ willingness to pay for site quality characteristics and site access. Two key features of recreationalists’ choices under preference point lottery are (i) forward-looking behavior (since the odds of winning a permit depend on the accumulated stock of preference points) and (ii) equilibrium sorting (whereby individuals decide where to apply based on their expectations of others’ choices and vice versa). We develop a novel revealed preference method for estimating individuals’ willingness to pay for access to recreational opportunities allocated by preference point lottery that accounts for these two features. We apply our model to the case study of black bear hunting in Michigan. We estimate total willingness to pay for access to a small site to be nearly $150,000.
Q26|Two-Stage Estimation to Control for Unobservables in a Recreation Demand Model with Unvisited Sites|The role of unobserved site attributes is a growing concern in recreation demand modeling. One solution in random utility models (RUMs) involves separating estimation into two stages, where the RUM is estimated with alternative specific constants (ASCs) in the first stage, and the estimated ASCs are regressed on the observed site attributes in the second stage. Prior work estimates the second stage with ordinary least squares (OLS) and two-stage least squares regression. We present an application with censored regression in the second stage. We show OLS produces inconsistent parameters when there are unvisited sites with no estimable ASCs and that censored regression avoids this problem.
Q26|A Magyar Vadászat És Vadgazdálkodás Vidékfejlesztési Lehetőségeinek Vizsgálata| A vadállomány fenntartásával, védelmével, hasznosításával foglalkozó vadgazdálkodás, jelentős szerepet tölthetne be a vidéki térségek életében, megfelelő koordinálás mellett. Szoros összefüggésben van a turizmussal és más, vidéki megélhetését biztosító ágazatokkal, például a mezőgazdasággal, erdőgazdálkodással, a vidékhez köthető kulturális, természeti értékek megőrzésével. Kutatásunk során online kérdőíves felmérést végeztünk 268 fős mintán a magyar lakosság körében. A kérdések a vadászturizmus kérdéskörére, a vadgazdálkodás és a vidékfejlesztés kapcsolatára és vadhúsfogyasztási szokásokra irányultak. A megkérdezettek többsége nem lát ellentétet a vadgazdálkodás és a vidékfejlesztés céljai között. A megkérdezettek negyede szerint a jellemzően passzív kapcsolt turisztikai szolgáltatásokat vennék igénybe a vadászturisták, míg harmaduk inkább úgy gondolja, hogy az aktív és passzív turisztikai termékekre együtt nagyobb kereslet lenne. A jobb egzisztenciális helyzetű válaszadók inkább tartják a vadhúst bioételnek, mint a rosszabb körülmények között élők. Tanulmányunk rámutat, hogy a vadászat mellék-, vagy helyesebben társtermékében a vadhús vidéki feldolgozásában, kézműves termékek előalításában, a folyamatosan növekvő vidéki és vadászturizmus iránt mutatkozó igények kielégítésében, és színvonaluknak emelésében még nagy lehetőségek rejlenek ---------------------------------------------------The wildlife maintenance, protection, utilization dealing with wildlife management, can play a significant role in the life of rural areas, with appropriate coordination. It is in a tight connection with tourism, with different rural livelihood industries, like agriculture, sylviculture, the protection of rural cultural and natural values. In our study, we made an online questionnaire among 268 people of the Hungarian population. The questions were pointed at wild-tourism, the connection between wild husbandry and rural development, and wild-meat eating habits. Most of the answerers don’t see opposition between wild-husbandry and the goals of rural development. The quarter of the canvassed would have resort of passive touristic services, one-third thinks active and passive services together would be more in demand. The wealthier responders consider wild-meat more as a bio product then those who are less wealthy. Our study points out, that the secondary products of hunting, or to be more proper the side-products offers huge opportunities in rural wild-meat processing, in production of craftsman products, and in suffice and raising standards of the always grooving need for wild-tourism.
Q26|Non-Productive Functions Of Valuable Natural Areas| Subject and purpose of work: The subject of the study is the presentation of naturally valuable areas in which non-production related functions can be performed apart from the production related ones. The purpose of this article is to address the issue of functions of naturally valuable areas with the focus on their importance for economic and social activity. Materials and methods: The present analysis has been based on the specialist research literature as well as on the data obtained from local government bodies. The induction and deduction methods as well as critical literature analysis have been used. Results and conclusions: The results of the study confirmed that non-production related functions play a significant role in social life and, above all, they can impact the improvement of people’s physical and mental health. They can also provide some valuable raw materials including forest undergrowth while the principles of sustainable growth are followed.-----Przedmiot i cel pracy: Przedmiotem badań jest przedstawienie obszarów przyrodniczo cennych, na których poza funkcjami produkcyjnymi można realizować funkcje pozaprodukcyjne. Celem opracowania jest zaprezentowanie funkcji obszarów przyrodniczo cennych, a głównie ich znaczenia w działalności gospodarczej i społecznej. Materiały i metody: Do opracowania wykorzystano literaturę specjalistyczną pochodzącą z opracowań naukowych, jak i danych organów samorządowych. W opracowaniu zastosowano metodę indukcyjną i dedukcyjną oraz krytyczną analizę literatury. Wyniki i wnioski: Wyniki badań potwierdziły, że funkcje pozaprodukcyjne odgrywają również ważną rolę w życiu społecznym, a przede wszystkim mogą wpływać na poprawę zdrowia fizycznego i psychicznego. Mogą także dostarczać bardzo wartościowych surowców uwzględniając runo leśne przy zachowaniu zasad zrównoważonego rozwoju.
Q26|White-tailed Deer Semen Auction Data: A Hedonic Analysis| In 2008, the cervid (i.e., deer) production and hunting industry had an economic impact of $318.4 million in Texas and $3 billion in the US. Antlers of white-tailed bucks are prized trophies for hunters, and hence, breeders make great investments to manage genetic potential for antler growth in their herds. This study identified the factors that influenced white-tailed deer semen prices using hedonic analysis of publicly available auction data from the Texas Deer Association. Results indicated that higher antler scores (p<0.0001), Texas genetics (p<0.0001), and deceased bucks (p<0.0432) significantly and positively influenced price per straw of semen.
Q26|Human values and aspirations for coastal waters of the Kimberley: Social values and management preferences using Choice Experiments| This is a report from the Kimberley Research Node Project 2.1.2 “Human values and aspirations for coastal waters of the Kimberley” research project funded by the Western Australian Government and administered by the Western Australian Marine Science Institution. The study area is the Kimberley coastline and waters extending from south western part of Eighty Mile Beach to the Northern Territory border. This research supports the management intentions of the State Government to establish a network of marine parks in the State waters along the Kimberley coast. This report presents the findings of an online choice experiment survey conducted with a range of participants and stakeholders. The online survey comprised of two parts, it was a collaboration with Murdoch University. In the choice experiment, respondents were presented with two active management options, and a third ‘no-action’ option. A particular research focus of this choice experiment is the impact of making the choice experiment questions spatially explicit. Researchers were interested in people’s choices for management options that were linked to a specific region (or ‘management zones’) of the Kimberley coast. In this study the Kimberley region was divided into six management zones, determined in consultation with key stakeholders. The management options contained four spatially specific attributes and an associated management cost. The spatially specific attributes were: percentage of State waters zoned as sanctuary areas; number of Aboriginal rangers, level of average recreational facilities in the region, and whether additional development (as defined using a description and photograph) would occur in the region. Mixed logit models were estimated to account for random taste differences across respondents. Interactions between socio-economic variables and the choice attributes were included to account for systematic heterogeneity. Separate models were estimated for each sample as preliminary analysis suggested there is unlikely to be a single unifying model of preferences, Results suggest that hold values and preferences for the choice attributes presented. Focussing on the key management question of providing marine sanctuary zones in State waters, all models confirmed that increasing the area of sanctuary zones is valued by WA residents. Increasing recreation facilities to a relatively high level was generally not valued or valued negatively. This change reduces welfare especially in the four northern more remote zones (Dampier Peninsula, Buccaneer Archipelago, Camden Sound, and North Kimberley). The same pattern emerges for the coastal development attribute. Coastal development was defined as a relatively small change, representing impact on the sense of remoteness. There was a strong aversion to this change, particularly in the northern zones. Although there was some heterogeneity in preferences, the overall picture that emerges from the analysis is that respondents are prepared to pay to increase environmental protection in coastal waters and wish to avoid development along the coast, even where this would improve current public access.
Q26|Diving Tourism and Fisheries in Marine Protected Areas: Market Values and New Approaches to Improve Compliance in the Maldives Shark Sanctuary| Marine protected areas are probably the most prevailing instruments available to reduce the over-exploitation of marine resources. However, economic incentives and a lack of acceptance of regulations of fishers can lead to illegal fishing activities, causing further over-exploitation with negative consequences for livelihood and food security of communities. There are indications that in some places, dive operators reduce incentives for illegal fishing through contributing to the economic development of the area, surveillance activities and social programs. This project aims at exploring the relationship between the diving tourism industry and illegal shark fisheries in the shark sanctuary of the Maldives in order to understand the capacities and incentives of diving tourism to improve fishers’ compliance. I will use survey techniques to determine the financial revenue of the shark diving industry and examine the historical development of its socio-economic importance. Surveys will also explore whether illegal fishing activities influence the trip demand of tourists and analyse what different circumstances are most likely to motivate dive operators to address illegal fishing through certain actions. Finally, I will use a Bayesian Network model to investigate what effects dive operators’ actions have on fishers’ compliance, the condition of shark populations and ultimately the number of tourists visiting the area. Results can help to diminish user conflicts and improve compliance of fishers in the Maldives. Hence, this project can contribute to the conservation of shark populations with positive outcomes for the local economy, community and marine ecosystems. My findings can be applied to other places that face similar problems like the shark sanctuary in the Maldives.
Q26|Scope and scale in valuing coastal management in the remote Kimberley region of Australia| The Kimberley region in northern Western Australia is well known for its impressive coastal landscapes, unique marine ecosystems, its Aboriginal heritage and culture, and its rich minerals and metals deposits. To inform future management of Kimberley coastal waters, a discrete choice experiment was undertaken to estimate the values that Western Australians attach to different management outcomes in the Kimberley. These management outcomes (marine reserves, aboriginal values, recreational facilities and development) were made spatially explicit to show respondent in what regions of the Kimberley outcomes would occur. A split sample design was used to estimate values for the Kimberley region as a whole, and for two separate smaller sub-regions. This choice experiment design allows us to test for scope sensitivity, which has not been explored much in the choice experiment literature. This study is one of the few discrete choice experiments that explores scope effects for environmental non-market valuation. Willingness to pay results show similar estimates between the two smaller sub-regions. Willingness to pay for the attributes increased when management occurs at the larger geographical scope. However, it was less sensitive to changes in attribute scale. We contribute to the literature on exploring scope effects for environmental non-market valuation using discrete choice experiments in the remote Kimberley region of Western Australia.
Q26|Economics of Coastal Erosion and Adaptation to Sea Level Rise|This article provides a review and synthesis of geoeconomic models that are used to analyze coastal erosion management and shoreline change. We outline a generic framework for analyzing risk-mitigating and/or recreation-enhancing policy interventions within a dynamic framework, and we review literature that informs the nature and extent of net benefit flows associated with coastal management. Using stated preference analysis, we present new estimates on household preferences for shoreline erosion management, including costs associated with ecological impacts of management. Lastly, we offer some guidance on directions for future research.
Q26|Forest Management, Public Goods, and Optimal Policies|This review examines the provision of public goods and the prevention of negative externalities in forest management. It focuses on three issues: (a) biodiversity conservation and maintenance, (b) the role of forestry in carbon policies, and (c) internalizing negative water externalities. Public goods and negative externalities appear differently under different forest management regimes. A distinction is made between even-aged management, defined by the rotation framework, and uneven-aged management, defined by continuous cover models. Although the review focuses mostly on analytical models, it briefly considers recent numerical models relying on the detailed description of forest management. Both conventional instruments and new payments for ecosystem services are discussed.
Q26|Mitigating Hypothetical Bias In Stated Preference Data: Evidence From Sports Tourism|" type=""main"" xml:id=""ecin12253-abs-0001""> One of the major criticisms of stated preference data is hypothetical bias. Using a unique dataset of both stated and actual behavior, we test for hypothetical bias of stated preference survey responses. We consider whether respondents tend to overstate their participatory sporting event behavior ex ante when compared to their actual behavior at different registration fees. We find that stated behavior accurately predicts actual behavior at a middle level of respondent certainty, overpredicts actual behavior at a lower level of certainty, and underpredicts behavior at a higher level of certainty. This result suggests that respondent uncertainty corrections can be used to mitigate hypothetical bias and stated preference data can be used to better understand actual behavior in situations where no data exist. (JEL L83, Q51, Z2)"
Q26|Vâlcea County - Polarizing Tourism Activity In The Southwestern Region Of Oltenia|Vâlcea County's natural tourism potential covers all tourism resources offered by the natural environment of the County, through its components: terrain, weather conditions and water, vegetation and fauna elements, including metamorphoses suffered by these as a result of human intervention. Based on the analysis of tourism potential and touring indicators, we have developed a SWOT analysis that serves as a tool that highlights the strengths, enables the establishment of ways to limit the weaknesses, exploit the opportunities and potential reduction of the impact that the threats may have on the tourism activity in Vâlcea County
Q26|The Importance Of The Climate Index For Characterize Tourism Favorability In The Cindrel Mountains|In determining the climate's favourability for tourism in PÄƒltiniÈ™ resort and its surrounding areas, it is necessary to know the values of the bioclimatic indices. The most often used climatic parameters are temperature, air humidity and wind speed. They are used in different combinations and formulas and the targeted result are the same every time - determining the degree of climatic comfort for the touristic activities' participants, and the main types of topo climates, favourable or less favourable for performing touristic activities or human activities in general.
Q26|The hourly income elasticity of electricity|Using a detailed data set on appliance-level electricity consumption at the hourly level, we provide the first estimates of hourly and end-use-specific income elasticities for electricity. Such estimates are informative about how consumption patterns in general, and peak demand in particular, will develop as households' income changes. We find that the income elasticities are highest during peak hours for kitchen and lighting, with point estimates of roughly 0.4, but insignificant for space heating.
Q26|Testing convergent validity in choice experiments: Application to public recreation in Spanish stone pine and cork oak forests|We perform two convergent validity tests in a choice experiment applied to public recreation in Spanish stone pine and cork oak forests. Results show convergent validity between a choice and a ranking recoded as a choice format in an experiment with three alternatives plus status quo. We also find significant differences between two payment vehicles (increased trip expenditures and entrance fee) that are included simultaneously in the choice sets. We estimate aggregated recreation values using compensating variation and simulated exchange value (maximum benefits from a potential market) measures. The latter measures account for 35–51% of the former values.
Q26|Risky sports and the value of safety information|We develop a theoretical account of how athletes engaged in risky sports value safety information. Based on our model, we postulate that the demand value of such information rises with wealth and exposure and declines with the athlete's “appetite” for risk. We use survey data from a sample of backcountry skiers to empirically test these predictions. The high degree of self-control over exposure makes these athletes a well-suited population to study the demand value of safety information. Caution is warranted in the empirical analysis as unobserved factors may jointly affect the athlete's perceived risk and his willingness-to-pay for obtaining safety information. We use a recursive two-stage estimation approach to account for endogeneity concerns. The empirical results are supportive of our theoretical predictions and suggest that variations in athletes’ demand for safety information can be explained by personal beliefs about risk exposure and deliberate risk taking.
Q26|Una aproximación al valor social y ambiental de las áreas verdes urbanas de la Ciudad de México|Las áreas verdes urbanas representan una amenidad que impacta en el precio de las viviendas cercanas por los importantes servicios que prestan –principalmente sociales y ecosistémicos–. En el caso de la Ciudad de México, las áreas verdes se clasifican en arboladas, deportivas y simplemente con pastos y arbustos. En este trabajo, el área y la distancia a dichas áreas verdes son consideradas para ver su efecto en los precios de vivienda en la Ciudad de México. Usando un modelo de Precios Hedónicos de vivienda se encontró que los precios de la vivienda aumentan entre mayor sea el tamaño de las áreas arboladas, mientras el efecto contrario sucede con la cercanía a las áreas deportivas. El primero de estos resultados es intuitivo, mientras que el segundo podría deberse a las condiciones en que se encuentran las instalaciones de dichas áreas en cuanto a infraestructura como a la alta propensión de presencia de actividades ilícitas. Estos resultados pueden dar una pista a los hacedores de política pública sobre algunas acciones que podrían tomarse para la ubicación, tamaño y clase de nuevas áreas verdes.
Q26|Economic Incentives for the Conservation of Bharathapuzha River: Focus on Sand Mining|Rivers in Kerala are assailed by pollution, sedimentation, sand mining, and constriction of flows. The indiscriminate and unscientific sand mining, even in the midst of many regulatory and protective measures for their conservation, have made the condition of these rivers pathetic. Bharathapuzha basin is the largest among all the 44 river basins of Kerala and the second longest river of the State. The drying up of Bharathapuzha River has become a matter of grave concern to the scientists and environmentalists. This paper tries to establish that implementing economic incentives is a possible method which can be adopted in the conservation practices of Bharathapuzha River.
Q26|The recreational services value of the nearest periurban forest versus the global forest environment|Most of previous forest recreational service valuation studies using hedonic methods have focused on direct proximity of housing to the nearest forest while treating the recreational services as homogeneous. However, households in urban and periurban areas may prefer diverse forest areas in their neighborhood. The main objective of this study is to estimate and compare the impacts of proximity to forest recreational services based on the nearest forest and the global forest environment, which includes spatially heterogeneous recreational quality. The global forest environment is computed from the forest recreational services with respect to travel time to the housing. Empirical results show that major differences exist between the forests' valuations and their recreational services depending on which forest environment is considered. The size of the nearest forest is the only characteristic with a positive and significant impact on housing prices. Conversely, the global forest environment positively impacts housing prices based on certain parameters, such as large forest size, no protected areas and the existence of hiking and biking paths, which implies public access and maintenance.
Q26|Households’ willingness to pay for access to outdoor recreation: An application of the house price method using spatial quantile regressions|This paper investigates how household demand for access to nature varies across a Danish housing market. I use conditional quantile regressions to estimate the implicit price for a change in nature area conditional on the home price. If there are systematic differences in the willingness to pay for nature across the house price distribution, a conditional mean will systematically under- or over-predict the impact for certain priced homes. In addition, this heterogeneity can be of interest to policy-makers as a potential indicator of the distributional profile associated with a given policy. This study investigates this question by employing both standard spatial econometrics and spatial quantile regressions. I find that nature in the vicinity of the home is perceived as an amenity across the entire market. This result is robust to different spatial controls. What is not robust is the size and the profile of the price premium. There is a large correlation between the income level within a neighborhood and the level of outdoor recreation. Controlling for unobserved quality through fixed effects reveals that the price premium increases with prices, but when controlling for the general price level using the trade price of neighboring homes (a lag), the price premium becomes constant. Controlling for local neighborhood affluence and unobserved quality on a larger scale yields the same results as the spatial lag term but with a more robust model due to the absence of endogeneity. The paper offers a discussion of this discrepancy and relates it to the more general discussion of controlling for spatial dependence.
Q26|An empirical investigation of German tourist anglers’ preferences for angling in Denmark|"The quality of angling sites is important for attracting tourists who enjoy recreational angling. In this paper, we conduct an empirical analysis investigating which attributes of angling sites are particularly important for attracting tourist anglers from abroad. We conduct an online survey of 968 German anglers who have recently been abroad on a holiday trip in which they went angling. We focus on the particularly dedicated anglers who state that recreational angling is important for their choice of holiday destination. A stated choice experiment is employed to investigate their preferences for environmental attributes, catch attributes, and social relation/distance attributes of the angling site. We find that preferences are heterogeneous across different angler segments. Three distinct segments of tourist anglers are identified, characterised as “catch oriented"" anglers (57 %), “nature oriented” anglers (24 %) and “trophy oriented anglers (19 %)”. All three angler segments have the strong preferences for water quality. However, they differ with respect to catch preferences and preferences for social interaction on the angling site. The catch oriented focus on the hunting aspects of angling. A high catch rate as very important for them, but the size of fish is not important. Moreover this segment prefers angling in solitude without disturbance from other anglers. For the “nature oriented” it is very important that the angling takes place in ""natural"" conditions, the catches rates are not important but they hope to catch large fish, and it is no problem for this group if there are a few other anglers at the angling site. For the ""trophy oriented"" anglers it is very important to catch large fish, while the catch rate is of moderate importance and they do not mind if there are many anglers at the site. To attract tourist anglers an angling site manager may use this information to target marketing efforts towards segments of tourist that prefer the type and quality of angling characteristics of the angling site in the managers possession. Additionally, he may seek to adjust and improve the angling sites in a way that suits the preferences of specific segments."
Q26|Fiskefria områden ur ett samhällsekonomiskt perspektiv: En konceptuell analys|Huvudsyftet med föreliggande rapport är att på ett övergripande och konceptuellt plan beskriva innebörden av en samhällsekonomisk nytto- och kostnadsanalys, eller samhällsekonomisk bedömning, och hur en sådan kan och bör genomföras för att analysera samhällsnyttan av fiskefria områden. Vidare syftar rapporten till att exemplifiera vilken typ av empiriska data och metoder som finns tillgängliga för en sådan analys med hjälp av den fritidsfiskeundersökning som årligen görs i regi av Hav och Vattenmyndigheten.
Q26|Estimating the marginal impact of large carnivores on the hunting value of roe deer|Hunting is an important recreational activity for large numbers of people. The roe deer is one of the most popular types of game in Sweden; however, recently the roe deer population has decreased. It is argued that this decrease is due to an increase in predator populations. The aim of this paper is to identify and compare the impact of lynxes and wolves on the hunting values of roe deer, taking into account that the impact depends on the hunting effort. The impact of the predators on the roe deer harvests is estimated econometrically, using a production function approach that accounts for the abundance of predators and the alternative prey, as well as the climatic conditions. The results show that the marginal cost of wolves is larger than that of additional lynx families in terms of their impact on the roe deer harvest values. The marginal costs of the predators vary with the hunter effort and the presence of alternative prey, which can have implications for policies affecting the regional allocation of the wolves and the lynxes.
Q26|«Slow! Children at Play»: Localization of Childhood in Moscow Playgrounds in Winter|Children and adults have different abilities and power in the city space. Playgrounds, as one of the places for children, illustrate the localization of childhood. Play area design is established by adults, and the quality of play materials may influence the variety of games and types of play but outdoor playgrounds are also influenced by a factor which was previously ignored – the weather. In this paper it is questioned how weather conditions may influence children’s play behaviour and spatial practices in a winter playground. Through observations of two Moscow playgrounds in December – January 2014-2015 and June 2015, we show that winter playgrounds even enrich the playing possibilities with the accessibility of snow as “loose part” materials. Winter weather not only allows children’s creativity in games but also redefine the symbolical borders of a playground and its equipment, turning the playground into a unified space. As children can play on the playground, with the playground, and beneath its blurry borders as well, the spatial and power inequality between children and adults slightly reduces, and city space becomes more democratized.
Q26|Identifying Productive Alternatives In Conflict Areas: Case Bajo Putumayo-Colombia , Identificación De Alternativas Productivas En Zonas De Conflicto: Caso Bajo Putumayo-Colombia|Set deep in the Amazonia Colombiana, the Bajo Putumayo region, with a population of 180.000 inhabitants is made up of five municipalities. This region has been known for the convergence of multiple endemic problems as a consequence of violence generated by the armed conflict in our country. In addition to the malevolent result provoked by the presence of insurgent groups, is has high dependence on extractive activities, especially those related to Oil exploitation, and production and merchandising of illicit crops. Poverty is substantial in the region. This research focuses on exploring productive alternatives with twelve social-oriented organizations made of people from the region. It identifies some sectors or activities, that given the characteristics of the local economy, could be strengthened or developed to improve the economy and wellbeing of individuals.
Q26|Why intelligent travel system is a good organizing trips tool for Polish tourists?|With a growing influence of web applications and social networking sites on every aspect of people's lives travel industry has still not sufficient support from Internet Technology. Increasing travel possibilities and a slow change of lifestyle among young people, they are more focused on entertainment and experiencing something new instead of only making money, that is a good sign for developing tools which might help with organizing spare time. Poland is a growing country. After many years of economic stagnation now there may be observed grow in standards of living and this phenomenon is not decreasing but quite opposite. Young people are more focused on spending their life in more joyful way than their parents did. One of the examples is a travelling.
Q26|Confronting the Food–Energy–Environment Trilemma: Global Land Use in the Long Run|Economic, agronomic, and biophysical drivers affect global land use, so all three influences need to be considered in evaluating economically optimal allocations of the world’s land resources. A dynamic, forward-looking optimization framework applied over the course of the coming century shows that although some deforestation is optimal in the near term, in the absence of climate change regulation, the desirability of further deforestation is eliminated by mid-century. Although adverse productivity shocks from climate change have a modest effect on global land use, such shocks combined with rapid growth in energy prices lead to significant deforestation and higher greenhouse gas emissions than in the baseline. Imposition of a global greenhouse gas emissions constraint further heightens the competition for land, as fertilizer use declines and land-based mitigation strategies expand. However, anticipation of the constraint largely dilutes its environmental effectiveness, as deforestation accelerates prior to imposition of the target. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2016
Q26|Religious Heritage Tourism and Creative Economy in Cirebon: The Diversity of Religious, Cultures and Culinary|Cirebon has an element of completeness in tourism management. Religious, heritage and tourism is a combination of three industry from the perspective of economics that play a role in the development of tourism and has the potential to encourage people's creativity in the economic sector. With a qualitative approach, this study confirms the religious heritage and the creative economy tourism the icon for Cirebon in developing the tourism industry, including travel and religious culture as well as a variety of culinary and crafts.
Q26|Economic analysis of domestic water consumption, sewage water disposal and its health impact|We investigate the economic impact of the by-product of rapid urbanization especially focusing on the negative externalities created in the urban ecosystem i.e. contamination of potable water, air pollution, noise pollution, automobile pollution, solid waste and sewage water disposal. Specifically, the domestic water consumption and sewage water disposal are the two variables of interest since these variables have a has a direct bearing on human health but has received scant attention in the literature, so far. Hence, our paper addresses issues like drinking water consumption, quantity disposal of waste water, diseases affected and costs of treatment. Using an intensive field survey, we estimate the loss of opportunity cost for a sample of 140 households. Our result concludes that the provision drinking water and availability of drainage facilities are weakened in the peripheral part of urbanization which associated with high health treatment cost. Moreover, in a slum, even with the proximity of availing these facilities is closer but the socially and economically vulnerable groups are deprived this basic facility. Classification JEL: H52, Q26, Q53
Q26|Economic Incentives for the Conservation of Bharathapuzha River: Focus on Sand Mining|Rivers in Kerala are assailed by pollution, sedimentation, sand mining, and constriction of flows. The indiscriminate and unscientific sand mining, even in the midst of many regulatory and protective measures for their conservation, have made the condition of these rivers pathetic. Bharathapuzha basin is the largest among all the 44 river basins of Kerala and the second longest river of the State. The drying up of Bharathapuzha River has become a matter of grave concern to the scientists and environmentalists. This paper tries to establish that implementing economic incentives is a possible method which can be adopted in the conservation practices of Bharathapuzha River.
Q26|Environmental zoning and urban development: Natural Regional Parks in France|This study provides an empirical analysis of the effects of environmental zoning on urban development. It focuses on the case of Natural Regional Parks (NRPs) in France. Of the environmental zoning instruments used in France, NRPs extend over the widest physical area. The analysis uses a quasi-experimental empirical approach (difference-in-differences) to evaluate the effects of NRPs on urban development at the municipality level. Three potential side-effects of NRPs on urban development in the regulated area are investigated. First, the long-term effects of environmental zoning on housing and population flows are analysed using French National Census data in the period from 1968-2011. Second, annual data on building permits granted in the period from 2003-2012 are used to estimate the short-term effects of NRPs on housing supply. Finally, the effects of NRPs on land-use in the regulated area using high-resolution geospatial data are evaluated. The results of the empirical analysis reveal that NRPs have had heterogeneous effects on urban development in regulated areas. Compared to development in neighbouring areas, some NRPs have discouraged urban development in the regulated area, in line with their intended objectives. However, in other cases NRPs have actually favoured urban development. In most cases, however, the policy had no significant effect on urban development within the regulated area.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q26|Natural Assets: Surfing a Wave of Economic Growth|Many natural assets can not be valued at market prices. Non-market valuations typically focus on the value of an individual asset to an individual user, ignoring macroeconomic spillovers. We estimate the contribution of a natural asset to aggregate economic activity by exploiting exogenous variation in the quality of surfing waves around the world, using a global dataset covering over 5,000 locations. Treating night-time light emissions as a proxy for economic activity we find that high quality surfing waves boost activity in the local area (<5km), relative to comparable locations with low quality waves, by 0.15-0.28 log points from 1992-2013. This amounts to between US$ 18-22 million (2011 PPP) per wave per year, or $50 billion globally. The effect is most pronounced in emerging economies. Surfing helps reduce extreme rural poverty, by encouraging people to nearby towns. When a wave is discovered by the international community, economic growth in the area rises by around 3%.
Q26|Islamic Tourism Development in Cirebon: The Study Heritage Tourism in Islamic Economic Perspective|Cirebon as a tourist town to face the problems related to the management of tourist attractions, hotel business development, renovation of buildings or cultural heritage, and the economic development of local communities in tourist locations. The needs of tourists and pilgrims is also a concern with fulfillment facilities that can give satisfaction and comfort. With the approach of explorative qualitative research, which explores the potential of tourism development or shari'a in Cirebon concluded that the tourism development of the Shari'ah requires management function in creative and innovative based on starategis planning, consistent implementation, and evaluation of the measured and constructive embody the values of Shariah in existing tourist attractions in Cirebon.
Q26|L’insostenibile consumo di terreno agricolo<BR>[The unsustainable consumption of agricultural land]|Consumption of agricultural land through various forms of degradation, erosion, compaction, waterproofing, has an impact on the entire primary sector, with increasing costs. Thus, if the Italian surface is 30 million hectares, 17 is the total agricultural (SAT), but only 12 is actually productive. The SAU, which has been properly used for crops, has decreased by 20% over the past 30 years and its incidence contracted from 52.4% to 42.6%, but only part of the loss is due to urban expansion processes and consumption of soil. Thus, there is an inadequate loss indicator, not including weighing roads, irrigation systems, woods, uncultivated, major renaturalisation phenomena that affect the lost surface [Soriani, 2014]. SAU is best suited to a timely planning of quality, considering the specific agricultural space and productivity. Its contraction must be accompanied by several factors, in addition to the loss of the SAT, linked to the reforms of the common agricultural policy, the various forms of support to agricultural income, the dynamics of international competition, with the effect of abandoning crops. This is often the result of wild re-naturalization, within settlements dynamics that attest to the evolution of land use patterns, only contributing to the loss of lost biodiversity, fueling instead various forms of degradation and disaster in regaining the natural forces of space.
Q26|Valuing Ecosystem Services: A Case Study of Pakke Tiger Reserve of Arunachal Pradesh, India|Arunachal Pradesh state of India has about twelve percent of its geographical area under protected area network against the national average of five percent. Pakke Tiger Reserve (PTR) forms an important portion of this network in the state. Tropical forest ecosystem of this reserve provides a continual flow of vital life supporting ecological, economic, social and cultural services at regional, national and global level. Economic valuation of these services can be used as a tool to estimate true value of natural capital contained therein and help in framing appropriate public policy emphasizing more investments in wildlife sector. An effort has been made in the present paper to make a conservative estimate of major ecosystem services emanating from this reserve. Annual flow benefits worth Rs 8.25 billion and stock worth Rs 144.30 billion make it a unique asset in the North East region of the country. Nature based tourism has immense potential in this reserve, which has not been explored yet fully to ensure livelihood and ecological security to the local communities.
Q26|Analysis Of Tourism Indicators In Function Of Tourist Offer Enrichment In Macedonia|The tourism in Macedonia according to relevant statistical indicators still is or is longer on low (unsatisfactory) level, which is expressed both by the number of tourists visiting the country and by the number of realized overnights by tourists. Another feature of tourism in Macedonia is its emphasized seasonal character, which the authors considered as a negative trait. To improve the current situation in the tourism industry in Macedonia it is necessary to improve and enrich the tourist offer. According to the authors one of the best ways to improve the quality of the tourist offer is through actualization, promotion and strategic management of the events in function of tourism. The aim of the paper is to show how through correct strategy and event management can significantly improve the situation in tourism on the basis of all the above mentioned indicators, especially when it comes to the seasonal nature of tourism and to make certain dispersion of tourist movement beyond the traditional tourist destinations in the country.
Q26|Tourist Valorization By Applying The Scoring Method|The development of tourism in any area cannot be imagined without its planning, which must be preceded by valorization of tourism resource potential that is located in the area. Valorization is actually the second step that is done after taking inventory of tourism resources in the area. Tourist valorization is one of the most important and most complex issues in the theory and practice of tourism, which involves a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the value of tourism resources and at the same time is the most important stage in the planning of spatial development of tourism, which is exclusively important when it comes to areas that are not developed like a traditional tourism is. The subject in this paper is location i.e. a location that encompasses the region of Eastern Macedonia, for which valorization is made in order to get the real value of tourism resources and to recognize their importance as a tourist motives.
Q26|Principles and Best Practices in Successful Tourism Business Incubators|The business incubators are entities that provide support to start-up companies, managing the obstacles faced by entrepreneurs and facilitating the hazardous process of business creation. This article aims to identify the existing views on best practices that can contribute to the achieving of business incubators’ objectives. Moreover, the present study investigates how the business incubators can ensure the success of tourism, with evidence grounded in both theory and case studies from around the world. In this paper, the authors have identified several types of incubators that could be used successfully for the benefit of start-ups in the tourism sector, such as network incubators, incubators in ecotourism or nature-based incubators. The authors also propose a new perspective on best practices in business incubation, emphasizing the role of the emotions that entrepreneurs have to cope with. Even though the studies in this area are still scarce, the authors strongly believe that this will be a topic highly discussed in the near future, given the fact that emotion and logical thought are intertwined, interacting in complex ways during problem solving, decision making, and other important forms of cognition that entrepreneurs use when pursuing their ventures.
Q26|Evaluating the Effects of River and Stream Restorations| This research is the first analysis of a large and long term study of stream restoration activity for Switzerland. This manuscript focuses on the largest Swiss canton of Graubünden (about twice the size of Rhode Island) which is primarily mountainous and rural in character and is a destination for recreational fishing. It contains 11,000 km of streams and over 600 lakes and ponds. Despite stocking efforts, trout catches in Switzerland have declined by as much as 50% since the 1980s potentially due to deteriorated ecological conditions although no single causative factor was identified. In canton Graubünden we observe a reduction in the number of anglers since 2002 though fishing intensity and catch per trip remain stable over time. We utilize the stream data to first establish the relationship between restoration events and trip-level catch totals by species and size. Our preliminary results suggest that the impact of the restoration on the downstream reaches include an increase in the size of the catch by 0.25 cm, an impact on the probability of a catch of 5% both statistically significant
Q26|Embedding an Individual-Based Model of Wildlife Disturbance in an Agent-Based Model of Outdoor Recreation|No abstract is available for this item.
Q26|The evolution of wilderness demand|No abstract is available for this item.
Q26|Identifying the Link Between Coastal Tourism and Marine Ecosystems in the Baltic, North Sea, and Mediterranean Countries|This paper examines the impact of marine ecosystem quality on inbound coastal tourism in the Baltic, North Sea, and Mediterranean countries. Given extensive empirical findings in ecological science, we use marine protected areas (MPAs) and the fraction of species that are shed in each country’s exclusive economic zone that are overexploited or collapsed as a proxy for marine ecosystem quality. We use an autoregressive distributed lag model in a destination-origin panel set up. The empirical findings of this paper suggest that MPAs have a negative direct effect on tourism. However, this effect is reversed when the interaction terms with economic variables are included. Also, by using the fraction of species that are overexploited as an indicator of the deterioration of marine ecosystem quality, we find a considerable negative impact of this index on inbound coastal tourism. The short-term (current) impact of this index on tourism constitutes less than half of the long-term impact. Results provide valuable information for policy makers, suggesting that measures enhancing marine ecosystem quality should be considered in addition to conventional tourism policies focused on price.
Q26|Marketing Channels, Wages and Employment: Wula Nafaa in Senegal| One of the policy goals in the U.S.’s Feed the Future agenda involves increasing the profitability of smallholder agriculture by increasing the investments in marketing channels. One program that falls under this rubric is Wula Nafaa in Senegal. This study demonstrates that the Wula Nafaa program led to changes in the employment pattern at the village level which imply increased wages in these villages.
Q26|Complementarity In The Development Of Rural Tourism With The Development Of Thermal Baths, Spa And Welness Tourism| Serbia has a long tradition in thermal baths tourism development. In the second half of the twentieth century, this branch of tourism attracted a significant segment of tourist demand, both domestic and foreign. However, due to difficult business conditions in the nineties, its infrastructure became outdated. This resulted in negative trends in tourism development and a negative image appeared in the tourism market. On the other hand, rural tourism is a relatively new form of tourism. In Serbia, it started developing from the 1970ies. A significant interim in this form of tourism was also noticed during the nineties. Today, these two forms of tourism are emphasized as the development chance of Serbian tourism and economy in diverse development-strategic documents by the Government and the departmental ministry. The conceptual approach to these forms of tourism is used in this work, in order to scope the possibilities of their complementary development. What is primarily borne in mind is the resource basis that Serbia possesses for their development, but also the newer tendencies and trends on the tourism market. Expectations are that a synergic cooperation of these forms of tourism would ensure better results, and Serbia would position itself higher on the international tourism market.
Q26|Contrasting the collective social value of outdoor recreation and the substitutability of nature areas using hot spot mapping| This paper investigates one specific cultural ecosystem service: outdoor recreation. We present a methodology to map the collective social value of outdoor recreation and identify the substitutability among nature sites within a specific spatial context. This methodology is applied to the province of Antwerp, Belgium. We propose an indicator of substitutability among nature areas, contrasting unique but poorly substitutable sites (hot spots) with highly substitutable sites (cold spots). Using a combination of survey information, public participation GIS (PPGIS) and kernel density mapping, we produce density surfaces representing the distribution of the collective social value attributed to outdoor recreation. We also compute Getis-Ord Gi* spatial statistics to identify local outdoor recreation clusters. In addition, we explore how recreational behaviour affects substitutability. Our results suggest a duality between the social value of outdoor recreation and the level of substitutability among nature sites. Highly substitutable sites tend to be found near areas of higher population density, which are as well sites of higher social value. Individual-specific parameters such as the type of recreational activity appear to substantially modify substitutability patterns among nature sites. We conclude by discussing the methodological and policy-related implications of this research.
Q26|Perspectives On Developing The Bioeconomy Sector In Romania|In the context of the new aim of the European Bioeconomy Strategy and Action Plan the development of the bioeconomy sector is a necessity for Romania in order to pave the way to a more innovative, resource efficient and competitive society, that reconciles food security with the sustainable use o renewable resources for industrial purposes. Romania has good perspectives in this field due to a great potential of the agriculture, increasingly growing standards of food industry, applied research in the pharmaceutical industry, safety and optimization of food products, the value of the biomass produced by the horticultural, forestry, livestock, fishery sectors and biofuels. On the premise that Romania hasnâ€™t yet a bioeconomy strategy and/or policies in this field, the objective of this study is to identify the fundamental elements that could help Romanian Government build a customized bioeconomy strategy and/or plan of action. The method used is based on analyzing the best practices used by countries that already trigged the development of their bioeconomy sectors. The result of this study is to offer a scientific base for theory and practice in the bioeconomy field.
Q26|Urban Forest – Key Element In Urban Landscape Planning|The urban landscape is the result of socio-economic development and urbanization patterns which continue to have a significant impact at different scales. Minimizing the negative impacts of urbanization remains an important objective in order to achieve a sustainable development. The need of urban green areas is increasing due to the fact that many open spaces become occupied with buildings and infrastructure. Urban forests can play a crucial role in improving the quality of urban life. This study aims to assess the spatial patterns of urban forests and their relation with the urban planning process
Q26|La pêche professionnelle est-elle un facteur d’attractivité récréative sur le littoral ?|The concept of multifunctionality of fishing activities is emerging, as fishery activities do not only provide commodity goods but have also others functions (environmental, social, territorial, etc.). We choose to focus on the provision of amenities, such as the presence of fishing boats or direct sales of seafood, for which there is a demand that partly conditions the individual choices of visit on the coastline. We used choice experiments to estimate willingness to pay for these amenities produced jointly by commercial fishing. The empirical study was conducted on a sample of one thousand people we surveyed along the coasts of French Channel and of the North Sea. Classification JEL : C35, C9, Q22, Q26.
Q26|Do entrance fees crowd out donations for public goods? Evidence from a protected area in Costa Rica|In this paper, we investigate how different levels of entrance fees affect donations for a public good, a natural park. To explore this issue, we conducted a stated preference study focusing on visitors’ preferences for donating money to raise funds for a protected area in Costa Rica given different entrance fee levels. The results reveal that there is incomplete crowding-out of donations when establishing an entrance fee.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q26|Contingent valuation of community forestry programs in Ethiopia: Controlling for preference anomalies in double-bounded CVM|This study examines the welfare effects of community plantations in Ethiopia via contingent valuation. Both single-bounded and double-bounded survey methods were considered, and, with respect to double-bounded methods, the potential for anomalous response behaviour was also taken into account. The results generally confirm that there are statistically significant welfare benefits to be derived from community forestry; however, the range of the estimated benefits is large. After controlling for anomalous response behaviour, the range of estimated benefits narrows, and our preferred estimates place the welfare gain between Ethiopian Birr (ETB) 20.14 and 30.41 per household, which is much lower than the estimated benefits without controlling for anomalous preference responses.
Q26|A hedonic analysis of the complex hunting experience|In Denmark, the right to hunt is vested with the land owner but can be transferred to others and is traded on a well-established market. The dominant form of hunting leases is time limited contract transferring the hunting rights on a piece of land to one or more persons. We analyze this market for hunting leases using the hedonic method on a rich set of data obtained from Danish hunters. We hypothesize and show that the price of a hunting lease reflects that hunting is a composite experience; and also reflects aspects relating to the landowners cost of leasing out hunting. Thus, the value of a lease is determined by the location and size of the hunting area, the game harvest and hunting activity itself, several landscape qualities affecting the recreational nature experience, several social aspects of hunting and the relation between the landowner, the hunters and their activities. The results can be used to make informed management and policy decisions that affect wildlife, hunters, landowners and land uses.
Q26|Influences of nonindustrial private forest landowners’ management priorities on the timber harvest decision—A case study in France|Recently, there has been a demand to increase the wood mobilisation from French private forests which are a significant part of the national wood supply. Nonindustrial private forest (NIPF) owners are frequently not only timber producers, but also providers of forest amenities, from which they derive a private utility as well as positive externalities for the rest of the society. This is often addressed as a limit to wood exploitation, since generally there is a trade-off between timber production and amenities. However, the forest property fragmentation and the passive management of some private forest owners are also considered as restraining the wood supply. We propose an econometric analysis of the harvesting decision with particular attention to the role of NIPF landowners’ management objectives. We defined four categories of management objectives: “production-oriented”, “production & amenities”, “amenities-oriented”, and “no objectives”, using a sample of 432 French NIPF landowners. The aim was to identify the relevant factors influencing the harvest decision, and, in particular, the role of amenities-oriented objectives and no-objectives. Results showed that a change in the management objective from production-oriented to amenities-oriented significantly reduced the probability of harvesting. The lack of management objectives as well as absenteeism, however, exhibited an even higher negative effect. Consistently with a utility maximisation framework, both economic variables (timber price and income) and landowners’ socio-demographic characteristics were significant predictors of the harvesting decision. From a policy viewpoint, our results suggest to address incentives schemes on passive forest owners in order to increase wood production.
Q26|Use renewables to be cleaner: Meta-analysis of the renewable energy consumption–economic growth nexus|The renewable energy consumption–economic growth nexus is a growing area of research over the last few years, emanating to mixed results. The aim of the current study is to quantitatively synthesise the empirical literature on the subject using the meta-analysis approach. In particular, a meta-multinomial regression is employed to investigate the sources of variation in the direction of causality between renewable energy consumption and economic growth. This causal relationship takes the form of four hypotheses, namely the feedback, conservation, growth and neutrality hypotheses. To the best of author׳s knowledge, this study constitutes the first meta-analysis undertaken on the renewable energy consumption–economic growth nexus. The empirical results reveal that the variation in the supported hypotheses is due to a number of characteristics including model specification, data characteristics, estimation techniques (cointegration methods and causality tests), and development level of the country on which a study was conducted.
Q26|Cyclical harvesting in fisheries with bycatch|Bycatch is often a concern in sustainable fisheries management due to its contribution to overfishing problems. This paper examines bycatch in a multi-sector fishery in which the gear of one sector is imperfectly selective while in the other it is perfectly selective. In the model, the two stocks are biologically independent so the fisheries are only linked through the nonselective harvest externality. An important difference between this paper and prior work is that the bycatch problem and its solution are examined in a dynamic context. In an application to a commercial-recreational fishery, the two-sector harvest policy that maximizes social welfare is found to be cyclical rather than steady-state.
Q26|Landscape Democracy, Three Sets of Values, and the Connoisseur Method|The European Landscape Convention has brought up the question of democracy in relation to landscape transformation, but without a clear definition of democracy. This paper conceptualises democracy in relation to three main sets of values related to self-determination, co-determination and respect for argument. It examines various methods that have been used to try to make landscape decisions more democratic. In the last part of the paper the connoisseur method is introduced. This method emphasises stakeholder participation in deliberative processes with a particular focus on place-based knowledge. It has been used in Sweden as a means of involving local stakeholders in the democratic process of defining goals and objectives of their landscapes. In the conclusion, this method is recommended despite its dependence on favourable conditions, particularly continuity and commitment, and a few suggestions about possible improvements are presented.
Q26|The Effects Of The Development Of Rural Tourism On Stara Planina|Rural tourism is a combination of different forms of tourism, which introduces visitors to life, art, culture and heritage of a region and is very suitable for the development of rural economy. The aim of this study is to detect the effects of rural tourism development on Stara Planina as well as the economic development of local communities with the possibility of sustainability of rural settlements and tourism development. One of the most important effects of rural tourism development on Stara Planina is the realization of economic profit. The development of rural tourism can stop the migration of young people through the creation of basic conditions for general, much higher comfort of rural settlements, and increase local jobs as well. With the development of rural tourism in the Stara Planina local people will be motivated to stay in the countryside. In such circumstances, young people can find not only economic, but also social and cultural reasons to continue living in rural areas.
Q26|Percezione e identità paesaggistica: un’opportunità di sviluppo per i territori rurali|In questo articolo si propone un percorso metodologico partecipato per la definizione di azioni di sviluppo e tutela di un territorio rurale relazionate ai valori identitari che la popolazione riconosce. Tale approccio bottom-up mira a stimolare il coinvolgimento della stessa popolazione e i decisori politici in una logica win-win tesa a valorizzare le risorse e i capitali naturali, sociali e umani del territorio. Il presente lavoro, attraverso un caso studio specifico, si propone quindi come una proposta metodologica per la salvaguardia dei paesaggi i cui caratteri rurali sono ancora riconosciuti dalla popolazione e la creazione di sistemi socio-ecologici più resilienti ed adattativi.
Q26|Identifying the Link Between Coastal Tourism and Marine Ecosystems in the Baltic, North Sea, and Mediterranean Countries| This paper examines the impact of marine ecosystem quality on inbound coastal tourism in the Baltic, North Sea, and Mediterranean countries. Given extensive empirical findings in ecological science, we use marine protected areas (MPAs) and the fraction of species that are shed in each country’s exclusive economic zone that are overexploited or collapsed as a proxy for marine ecosystem quality. We use an autoregressive distributed lag model in a destination-origin panel set up. The empirical findings of this paper suggest that MPAs have a negative direct effect on tourism. However, this effect is reversed when the interaction terms with economic variables are included. Also, by using the fraction of species that are overexploited as an indicator of the deterioration of marine ecosystem quality, we find a considerable negative impact of this index on inbound coastal tourism. The short-term (current) impact of this index on tourism constitutes less than half of the long-term impact. Results provide valuable information for policy makers, suggesting that measures enhancing marine ecosystem quality should be considered in addition to conventional tourism policies focused on price.
Q26|What Are the Benefits of the Water Framework Directive? Lessons Learned for Policy Design from Preference Revelation|Abstract The Water Framework Directive (WFD) seeks to achieve good ecological status of surface waters across the European Union by 2027. The WFD guidelines explicitly recognize the economics of water management by providing exceptions to water areas with disproportionately high restoration costs. This calls indirectly for estimations of benefits lost due to non-attainment. We employ a hedonic property pricing approach on waterfront recreational properties to estimate the welfare impacts of attaining the good ecological status described by the WFD. The empirical challenge is that the quality measure proposed by the WFD specifically denotes ecological quality, whereas economically measurable water quality values are heavily dependent on recreation impacts. Intuitively, the choice of water quality measure should have an effect on estimating the value of water quality. Our data provide a unique chance to compare three alternative indicators of water quality: (1) a usability-based index, (2) subjectively reported measure and (3) the ecological status determined by the WFD. We find that an improvement in water quality is associated with a statistically significant, non-linear change in recreational property values. We show how the ecological status compares with the other two indicators, and discuss the justifiability of using revealed preference methods when the valued good is defined purely on the basis of ecological criteria.
Q26|Domestic demand for tourism in rural areas: Insights from summer stays in three French regions|Tourism has the potential to make a major contribution to the development of rural areas. However, empirical evidence suggests that its economic impact is limited, because rural visitors are thought to engage in few recreational activities and are seen as low spenders. This study gives new insights into the domestic demand in areas of France described as “rural”, with data extracted from the national database provided by the French “tourism demand survey”. The results of the “activity-based segmentation” of visitors' stays in three rural regions show that during the summer season, visits to friends or relatives, which involve little expenditure and no specific activities, continue to take place. However, more expensive stays are the most common. They involve activities aimed at experiencing the outdoors or enjoying local sights, based on natural and cultural amenities that are mainly located in regional natural parks. The main forms of accommodation are campsites and rural cottages. Gastronomic tourism has also emerged as an activity that attracts higher spending visitors. These findings are discussed in relation to the results of segmentation studies in other European countries. Their academic and management implications also are presented.
Q26|Economically optimal management of two deer species competing for food|This paper presents a bioeconomic model to analyze the role of interspecies competition between roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) and fallow deer (Dama dama) and the implications of the competition on optimal harvesting strategies. Analytical solutions derived from the model suggest that the degree of inter-specie competition is an important factor in the landowner’s decision to maintain a given population of both species, as it affects the net marginal benefit from managing the two species. Our numerical results suggest that the effect of inter-species competition on total net economic benefit is small compared to the impact on roe deer population density. Inclusion of trophy values implies reduced harvest of young males, but also reduced harvest of females. Our model also shows that a pulse harvesting regime for the dominant species is economically optimal.
Q26|Water Resources – an Analysis of Trends, Weak Siglans and Wild Cards with Implications for Russia|Water resources are crucial for the continuity of life. Humans and living species need fresh water for drinking and sanitation, while industries in most sectors of the economy need water for some part of production processes themselves. Access to fresh water is a grand challenge at the global level, mainly due to increasing water consumption, a low rate of replenishment of resources as well as external factors, like climate change, that significantly reduce amount of water available. The solutions to the existing water problems require systemic approaches for the sustainable use of water resources, while advancing water infrastructure and providing circular use of water. Russia is one of the countries, which is relatively better positioned compared to a number of other countries in the world regarding the availability of water resources. However, there are still considerable issues regarding the protection and use of water resources, purification processes, water networks, consumption patterns, discharge, treatment and re-use. The present study focuses on the use of water resources in Russia with a long term perspective developed through a Foresight study. The first step involved a scanning exercise, to be followed by future scenarios on the second step, and strategy proposals for action on the third one. The paper presents the results of the scanning phase. The present paper consists of four parts. The introduction reviews the key issues and challenges concerning water resources. The first part describes the detailed research methodology. Furthermore, trends and uncertainties are identified in the course of the study, and their implications for water resources in Russia are discussed. Particular attention is paid to state-of-the-art situation in three domains identified in the scope of research: sustainability of water systems, water use by households and industry, and new water products and services. Weak signals and wild cards are described in the third part. The paper concludes with a brief description of the next phases of the study and follow-up activities planned in the project.
Q26|Russia’S Water Resources 2030: Plausible Scenarios|The research presented in this paper focuses on the sustainable use of water resources in Russia based on a Foresight study with a 20-year time horizon. The study uses a scenario-planning method to develop four trajectories: economic depression, economic stagnation, visionary future, and national priority. These four trajectories offer significantly different yet plausible alternative futures. The current paper draws upon the earlier horizon scanning activity, which identified a set of trends, weak signals and wild cards, along with their implications for water resources in Russia. Based on this work, it identifies key factors and indicators, which may characterize future developments in the following domains: (i) the sustainability of water systems; (ii) water use by households and industry; and (iii) new water products and services. The evolution of variables and indicators will then be considered under the scenarios termed ‘Nearly perfect future’ (economic growth), ‘Problem conservation’ (economic stagnation), ‘Losses and accidents’ (economic depression), and ‘National priority’ trajectories. The paper concludes with a brief description of further research directions, including a discussion on the probability of the scenarios being implemented. Russian policy makers and water companies may use the scenarios to adapt (i.e. plan for timely responses), avert certain undesirable future developments, or approximate the visionary future of the sector
Q26|Water Resources 2030: Policy Recommendations|The Foresight study presented in this paper is devoted to the sustainable use of water resources in Russia. The authors analyse possible trajectories of development in the three thematic areas (i) sustainability of water systems; (ii) water use by households and in industry; and (iii) new water products and services. The Foresight methods cover expert interviews and seminars, desk research, and policy analysis. The state and corporate policy recommendations for the water sector offered in this study correspond with the water scenarios earlier identified by Saritas et al.: “Nearly ideal future”, “Losses and accidents”, “Problem conservation”, and “National Priority” [Saritas et al., 2015]. For each of these four scenarios, policy recommendations for water companies were identified covering new solutions (including technological innovations), new values and competencies, organisational changes, modernisation of the infrastructure, financial issues, and legal and regulatory changes. Moreover, we recommend certain policy measures and approaches to state policy in the water sector. The paper concludes with the main directions and instruments for the sector’s development, which should be planned and implemented jointly by the government and businesses, as well as other stakeholders (organisations and people).
Q26|Strategic options of public policy for developing the bioeconomy sector in Romania|"The bioeconomy sector is one of the smart specialization areas for the 2014-2020 strategic cycle both in the ""Romania’s National Strategy for Research, Development and Innovation"" and “Romania’s National Competitiveness Strategy”. The selection criterion was the research of the scientific and commercial potential of the areas that could make Romania more competitive internationally. But how to achieve and stimulate the development of this field was not indicated. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to identify the priorities of Romania’s government for an advanced development of this sector and to highlight the subsectors that the Romanian authorities should be more focused on. The aim is to formulate the guiding principles, the strategic approaches and the measures necessary to achieve the potential of the bioeconomy sector in Romania. The method used was to analyze the best practices used by countries that have a national strategy for the bioeconomy sector and started the development in this field."
Q26|Community-Led Coastal Development and the Relationship between Human Activities and Ecosystem Services|The new Common Fishery Policy recognizes that an ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management needs to be implemented, and that sustainable development of fisheries areas includes the possibility of diversification of the income of fishers through the development of complementary activities. This study presents a theoretical framework for the analysis of the relationships between human activities and ecosystem services in coastal and marine environments. In a more specific way, we want to focus on the environmental changes caused by human activities and how these environmental changes, in turn, affect the outcome and the behavior of fishers. A Bayesian network approach is used to build a generic model starting from a traditional ecosystem services cascade framework. Literature on ecosystem services is increasingly interested on the definition and quantification of their social value. In this work, we focus on the private benefit generated by the use of ecosystem services, and we model fishersâ€™ behaviors on the base of the potential benefits provided by alternative economic activities making use of ecosystem services. Preliminary results according to our alpha-level generic model show how changes in driver variables (e.g. tourism level and fish stock state) may influence the decision of fishers to take advantage of alternative economic activities (e.g. tourism services) instead of depending only on fisheries.
Q26|Commercial Fishery as an Asset for Recreational Demand on the Coastline: Evidence from a Choice Experiment in France, United Kingdom and Belgium|The concept of multifunctionality of fishing activities is emerging, as fishery activities do not only provide commodity goods but have others functions (environmental, social, territorial, etc.). We choose to focus on the provision of amenities, such as the presence of fishing boats or direct sales of seafood, for which there is a demand that partly conditions the individual choices of visit on the coastline. We used a choice experiments method to estimate willingness to pay for these amenities produced jointly by commercial fishing. The empirical study was conducted on a sample of more than 2000 people surveyed along the coast of the Channel and of the North Sea in France, Belgium and United-Kingdom. We used a random parameter logit model to analysis the repeated individual choices.
Q26|Valuing environmental conservation in the Asean region: a contingent valuation study of Ulu Temburong national park|This paper presents an economic valuation of Ulu Temburong National Park, located on the island of Borneo, which has great potential as a repository of biodiversity and an ecotourism destination. The paper employed the contingent valuation (CV) method to estimate the willingness to pay (WTP) of Bruneians for conserving the national park for ecotourism and biodiversity protection purposes, and developed econometric models to analyse the preferences of respondents. According to the results, some dependent variables have a significant impact on the respondents WTP and the probability of respondents visiting the national park. The WTP values are low, reflecting a view that the park’s natural wealth should be managed through government funding. Though public support for conservation is strong up to now, there is a need for change to cope with economic challenges associated with depletion of the countries oil and natural gas resources. The study concludes that policy makers should enhance public awareness, promote forest-based small and medium enterprises, and involve indigenous and local communities in decision-making processes. The government should also consider setting up a research centre for the study of conservation of parks in the entire Borneo region in addition to Ulu Temburong National Park.
Q26|Conservation and welfare: Toward a reconciliation of theory and facts|The establishment of protected areas is a widespread practice designed to curb environmental degradation. However, it is often criticized as limiting the expansion of agriculture and natural resources extraction, especially in poor regions. Others maintain that conservation can increase welfare if the opportunity cost of conservation is less than the benefit generated by alternative uses of the land. In the economic literature, theoretical results on the relation between conservation and welfare are generally pessimistic while recent empirical studies showed a positive relation. The main objective of this paper is to reconcile theoretical and empirical results. We develop and test a theory explaining the relation between conservation, ecotourism and welfare. In our model, conservation allows to develop an ecotouristic sector which generates an alternative source of income at the local level. The theoretical results are tested on Nepalese data. We find that protection associated with ecotourism development affects positively local welfare. Our theoretical results are consistent with the empirical literature.
Q26|Forest-Based Industrial Network|Following the literature on automation, we model the industrial network of the forest based sector, with random demands, in presence of supply contracts. The economic network is composed of upstream, instream and downstream agents. Through the resolution of the variational inequality model, we investigate the network equilibrium flows and attempt to compute the prices at which the former could be attained. With respect to other results on optimal pricing of timber and wood products in France, the model outputs show that the forest resources may be overvalued by the market, while the manufactured products may be undervalued. The analysis in a dynamic setting corroborates these results. In case of network disequilibrium, the expected profits switch from increasing monotonic s-shaped functional forms to non-monotonic bell-shaped functional forms. Finally, we explicit the equilibrium conditions in case of vertical integration between the upstream and instream agents.
Q26|Recreational Value of Coastal and Marine Ecosystems in India: A Partial Estimate|Recreation is an important ecosystem service in coastal and marine ecosystems. The methodology for valuing recreational services is well developed in the literature. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt at estimating a country-wide value for this service. Using the zonal travel cost method we estimate the partial value of this service to be Rs 531.7 billion in 2012-13 for domestic tourists when consumer’s surplus component is not added. Therefore, this represents a floor value. This constituted about 0.49% of the GDP (at current prices in that year). It is expected that the final value of these services will be higher than what this estimate suggests as it constitutes only what the consumers (recreational visitors) spent in their travel by way of cost of travel, accommodation and income forgone (opportunity cost). The main purpose of this exercise is to understand how these ecosystems services are valued by individuals as there is no direct way to recognize their value. It then helps us to allocate resources better and conserve natural capital.
Q26|Investigating Household Preferences for Restoring Pallikaranai Marsh|The study examines households’ willingness to pay for the conservation of Pallinkaranai marsh located in the south of Chennai, Tamil Nadu. A stated preference method, namely, Contingent Valuation method (CVM) over 213 households has been employed. The results reveal that farmers are willing to pay for the restoration of the marsh which provides higher level of water quality, recreational benefit and restorartion of flora and fauna.
Q26|Adaptation, Sea Level Rise, and Property Prices in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed|Coastal communities are facing the dual threat of increasing sea level rise (SLR) and swelling populations, causing challenging policy problems. To help inform policy makers, this paper explores the property price impact of structures that help protect against SLR, using a novel and spatially explicit dataset of coastal features. Results indicate that adaptation structures can have a significant positive impact on waterfront home prices, with the most vulnerable homes seeing the largest impacts. The Chesapeake Bay is facing increasing pressure from SLR, and this is one of the first papers to report that local property markets are incorporating that threat.
Q26|The Need For A Water Information System For The Republic Of Moldova|Novelty. Insuficient information on water resources is an important issue at both national and global levels. This issue becomes even more important under the conditions of clmate change of the last decades. Aim. The aim is to analyze the existing situation in the field and to formulate a scientific argument by means of convincing examples, to argue the need to implement an information system of water cadastre, to arise social interest as a whole towards the problem whose solution determines success. Methods. The authors of the study have used many scientific methods and namely: the systematic analysis of ongoing processes (phenomena); the analysis of statistical data; the methods of trend graphic analysis; the method of analysis and synthesis of natural phenomena and processes. Results. Information of the society is both the purpose and the final result of the present study.
Q26|Health Tourism Development In Continental Croatia|Although the present position of the Republic of Croatia within European tourist capacities is favourable, it is necessary to increase the quality of overall tourism offer and overcome seasonal fluctuations. From a regional point of view, tourism in the Republic of Croatia has achieved varied development levels. More than 94% of tourism turnover in the Republic of Croatia is achieved in the Adriatic region, which is mostly based on seasonal tourism products. Geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia can be one of the first steps in expanding the existing tourism offer and attaining all-season tourism. The analysis of previous research indicates that the biggest contribution in defining the geothermal tourism offer was provided by medical scholars (primarily physicians) rather than tourism specialists or economists. For this reason, this area has largely remained in the domain of medical tourism and development, and failed to be seen as new tourism potential. Different statistics and indicators show that there is growing investment in the health sector (mostly privately owned) as well as growing demand for this selective form of tourism, which should, in strategic terms, be linked to the trend of an increased dedication to the quality of life and European demographic trends. Th e analysis of this type of tourism offer in the neighbouring countries and benchmarking will yield conclusions about comparative advantages of these countries over Croatia. Although these countries in general have lower tourism potentials than Croatia, they are achieving remarkable results. A legal framework and mechanisms for enabling synergies between medical and tourism services is a precondition for the development of new tourism products in continental Croatia and their inclusion in the general development policy. Current legislation with a direct impact on exploitation of geothermal energy will be studied in order to formulate a model for eliminating the existing legal barriers, and to provide guidelines for future activities, with the general aim of attracting new investments.
Q26|The environmental setting, farming activities and rural accommodation prices|The objective of this study is to analyze how the characteristics of the environment associated with agricultural activities influence the prices of rural tourism accommodation. To this end the model of hedonic prices is applied, which allows to break down the price of a good or service depending on the characteristics that it entails, including those of its environment. The study is carried out in the autonomous community of Asturias. The results indicate that the market values positively accommodation establishments located in municipalities with a high percentage of forests and pastureland, and negatively those located in municipalities with a high percentage of cultivated land. The study serves as a starting point for cost-benefit analysis of the policies aimed to promote activities that will improve the rural environment.
Q26|Level Of Adoption Of Tourism Development In The Region Of Eastern Macedonia|In the planning process of the tourism development in the region of Eastern Macedonia, for the locations with conditions for development of alternative forms of tourism, it is necessary to take into account the current level of tourism development as a basis for further planning of the time schedule for development of the tourism industry. The extent of the past adoption of tourism in the region is reflected through the indicators for tourism development such as: tourist arrivals, tourist nights, their individual preferences for domestic and foreign tourists, as well as the accommodation capacities and the number of beds that are located in the region, which are subject to analysis in this paper. Through the analysis of these indicators for the region of the Eastern Macedonia we will perceive the degree of tourism adoption in the area, which is of particular importance because it is promoted as an area with numerous tourist resources for tourism development.
Q26|Capital Stock Simulation by Hartwick Rule in Iran|Fully reinvest of natural resource rents in foreign assets or productive capital such as buildings, roads, machines, human capital or health so-called Hartwick rule. The aim of this paper is to estimate the capital stock in Iran by Hartwick Rule. In other word we estimate PIM method and Hartwick rule for calculate capital stock. The result show that estimated capital stock by Hartwick rule is more than PIM method. Therefore, in Iranian economy, Hartwick rule is not applied because part of natural resource income consumed and genuine saving is negative. If the Hartwick rule would have been followed during the last few decades, Iranian economy would have been much less dependent on oil and other resources.
Q26|Predictive validity of stated preference data: evidence from mountain bike park visits before and after trail system expansion| This article investigates the validity of stated preference data for use in recreation demand estimation. We use stated preference and revealed preference data from users of a mountain bike park collected before and after an expansion of the trail system. The ex-ante stated preference data elicited before the change exhibits hypothetical bias, but it would provide useful information for demand prediction.
Q26|Putting Bambi in the firing line: Applying moral philosophy to environmental and economic attitudes to deer culling|This study elicits the values associated with deer-culling and forest management in the UK using choice experiments. Whilst intentions- based choice theories provide improved predictions relative to standard economic models, these still fail to fully capture people's true decision-making. These results suggest an importance to appreciating procedure, consequence and ethics in order to derive realistic conjectures over our preferences for actions which involve moral or 'sacred' values. This work also emphasises the necessity to consider context-specifics when investigating ethically contentious topics. Under an environmental setting, we explore how 'nature connectivity' (or engagement with the natural world) may influence how easily we can achieve sustainable ecological or economic objectives.
Q26|Discovering user recreational values for local public services: Attitudes and perspectives regarding a country parkâ€™s facilities|This paper provides a snapshot of people's attitudes regarding the facilities housed at Brandon Country Park, a local amenity located in Thetford Forest, Suffolk. Using both short answer face-to-face surveys and a computer-based 'management task', this project invited respondents to indicate whether they felt the park managers were maximising this public amenity and, if not, where alterations could be made to more efficiently utilise this space. Our results indicate that people are reasonably content with the services provided, yet some small improvements could be made to raise the park's appeal and/or efficiency. Alterations could include raising car parking charges and considering more carefully how to target the accessibility of the Park. For the latter, this concerns both the type of activities held and the respective transportation links. The objective of the project was to investigate how Brandon Country Park can operate more effectively. However, it is our belief that these surveys can serve as useful tools for a much wider spectrum of environmental public amenity managers creating some first insights regarding they could perform and take forward key investment and planning decisions.
Q26|The Individual Travel Cost Method with Consumer-Specific Values of Travel Time Savings|The treatment of the opportunity cost of travel time in travel cost models has been an area of research interest for many decades. This analysis develops a methodology to combine the travel distance and travel time data with respondent-specific estimates of the value of travel time savings. The individual travel time values are elicited with the use of discrete choice stated preference methods. The travel time valuation procedure is integrated into the valuation exercise to create a two equation structural model of site valuation. Since the travel time equation of the structural model incorporates individual preference heterogeneity full structural model provides a travel cost site demand model based upon individualized values of time. The methodology is illustrated in a study of recreational birdwatching, more specifically, visits to a stork village in Poland. We show that the usual practice of basing respondents’ value of travel time savings on their wage rate is largely unfounded.
Q26|Measuring lost recreational benefits in Fukushima due to harmful rumors using a Poisson-inverse Gaussian regression?|The 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake hereafter, 'the Earthquake' and the accident involving radiation leakage at Tokyo Electric Power Company's Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant No. 1 hereafter, 'NPP No. 1' brought fame to Fukushima Prefecture but not in a positive way. In general, economic damage caused by misinformation is defined as 'damage caused by groundless rumors, in particular, economic damage suffered by people or groups caused by improper news coverage, even though they have essentially nothing to do with an event or accident.' (Kojien sixth edition, 2008) This means that tourism in a given area will be affected by news coverage and misinformation that differ from the facts (for example, degradation in environmental quality at a recreation site), tourists will be deterred, and the economy at the site will be negatively affected. However, the degree to which such news coverage and misinformation affect people's activities is largely dependent on those people's state of mind. It is impossible to determine the exact number of visits that would have been made to the region in question had there been no such news coverage, no harmful rumors, and no environmental degradation. Thus, after the sensational news coverage about radiation at NPP No. 1, the inclusion of people in the survey sample who had never visited Fukushima Prefecture would have skewed the expected trip numbers and overestimated the monetary loss of tourism. This paper estimated the recreational benefits lost in Fukushima Prefecture due to rumor-driven economic damage from the NPP No. 1 radiation leakage accident in March 2011 to March 2014. Considering the hypothetical scenario in which a radiation leakage accident did not occur in Fukushima, we asked survey respondents how many times they would have visited the prefecture in this scenario and analyzed the responses using the Hypothetical Travel Cost Model. Since the survey participants were people who had actually visited the prefecture, we considered our data as pseudo on-site sampling. We thus expanded the Poisson-Invese Gaussian hereafter, 'PIG' regression model, which will improve the standard Poisson regression model in the analysis of count data with strong overdispersion, into a random effect model. In addition, to deal with the data collected through on-site sampling, we applied Shaw's correction to the PIG random effect model and used it to estimate the demand function for the recreational trip. The estimation results showed that Fukushima Prefecture's lost recreational benefits due to rumor-driven economic damage totaled approximately 2.85 trillion yen over the three years from the radiation leakage accident to March 2014.
Q26|Climate change impacts and implications for tourism in protected areas|Tourism, as a distinct field of activity, is strongly linked to climate change: in a positive way - by providing the necessary resources and factors to reduce the action of climate change through the use of alternative energy technologies with low environmental impact, and the controlled development of tourist flows ? and a negative one ? through energy consumption, visitors transportation, the quantities of waste. Among the solutions mentioned, the present research has focused on protected areas since the argument was less debated in the scientific literature, but also in business practice. As the main service providers regarding ecosystems and biological resources, protected areas meet the requirements to preserve species worldwide and are vulnerable to climate change. Tourism in protected may became a tourist travel motive more prominent in the future as the natural environment and the species from protected areas are threatened by climate change. Therefore, the paper explains different climate change impacts and implications for tourism in protected areas. The research field proposed aimed to assess the direct and indirect impact of climate changes for tourism in protected areas. The objectives were related to: determine the level of importance of different modifications in the structure of the major components of tourism in protected area under the direct climate change impact; indicate the importance level of changes in natural characteristics of environments which could influence negative tourism by reducing the perceived attractiveness of a protected area, under indirect climate change impact; highlight the importance level of modifications, induced by indirect climate change impact, in socioeconomic environment of local communities in protected areas which could affect tourism. Based on the research findings were elaborated proposals for an appropriate strategy in the field of climate change mitigation . This work was supported by the project ?Excellence academic routes in the doctoral and postdoctoral research ? READ? co-funded from the European Social Fund through the Development of Human Resources Operational Programme 2007-2013, contract no. POSDRU/159/1.5/S/137926.
Q26|Conservation, écotourisme et bien-être : un regard sur le Népal|La mise en place de zones protégées est une pratique répandue pour atteindre des objectifs de conservation environnementale. Elle est toutefois critiquée sous prétexte qu'elle restreint l'exploitation des ressources naturelles et le développement agricole, en particulier dans les régions les plus pauvres. Aussi, le développement de l'écotourisme dans les zones protégées apparait comme une utilisation alternative de la terre permettant de concilier les objectifs de conservation environnementale et développement économique. Dans cet article, nous mesurons la force de la relation entre protection du territoire, écotourisme et bien-être, au Népal. D'abord, nous examinons la nature et la force de la relation entre conservation et bien-être, et celles entre écotourisme et bien-être. Ensuite, nous vérifions si le développement écotouristique à l'intérieur des zones protégées affecte la force de la relation entre conservation et bien-être. Nous utilisons la méthode de la régression PLS, permettant de corriger le problème de multicolinéarité retrouvé dans notre modèle de régression. Nous trouvons une relation positive entre conservation et bien-être, de même qu'entre écotourisme et bien-être. Les résultats montrent également que la force de la relation entre conservation et bien-être s'amplifie dans les zones où l'écotourisme se développe.
Q26|Conservation and welfare: Toward a reconciliation of theory and facts|Reducing extreme poverty and protecting the environment are two of the eight Millennium Development Goals (UN, 2012). Approximately 60% of the ecosystems currently used to produce goods and services are being exploited in an unsustainable manner. The establishment of protected areas is a widespread practice designed to curb environmental degradation. Between 1990 and 2011, the number of protected areas increased of 155% (WDPA, 2012). However, it is often criticized as limiting the expansion of agriculture and natural resource extraction, especially in poor regions (Ferraro et al., 2011). Others maintain that protected areas can increase welfare if the opportunity cost of conservation is less than the benefit generated by alternative uses of the land, such as ecotourism (e.g. Sims, 2010). The World Tourism Organization emphasizes that ecotourism development must, specifically, create income opportunities for local communities, while minimizing negative impacts on the natural environment (WTO, 2012). Ecotourism in protected zones thus appears to be this alternative use of the land, concurrently contributing to the goals of reducing poverty and protecting ecosystems (Andam et al., 2010; Sims, 2010). In the litterature, theoretical and empirical results on the relation between protected areas and welfare diverge. The few theoretical models developed so far generally assume that before being protected, land is used optimally. The establishment of a protected area thus constitute a constraint to this optimal use. Assuming as well that land protection does not generate other benefits at the local level, the main intuition emerging from these models is that protected areas will reduce economic wellbeing (Robalino, 2007; Robinson, Albers and Williams, 2008; Robinsin and Lokina, 2011). However, other authors have empirically tested the relation betweeen protected areas and welfare. For instance, four recent studies have been conducted in Costa Rica, Thailand and Bolivia (Andam et al., 2010; Sims, 2010; Ferraro and Hanauer, 2011; Canavire-Bacarreza and Hanauer, 2013). The authors all found that the establisment of protected areas contributed to economic development and poverty alleviation. They suggested that ecotourism development in the protected areas generated an income that was sufficient to compensate the loss caused by conservation. Moreover, Ferraro and Hanauer (2011) found an evidence that ecotourism contributes to poverty reduction in protected areas. The main objective of this paper is to increase the understanding of the link between conservation and poverty alleviation in order to contribute to the achievement of the Millenium Development Goals. To do so, we develop and test a theory explaining the relation between protected areas, ecotourism and wellbeing. We aim at reconciling the theoretical and empirical results found in the literature. We develop a static theoretical model consisting of one local agent and two sectors : extractive and ecotouristic. The model distinguishes itself because land protection allows to develop an alternative sector which generates a source of income at the local level. On the one hand, production in the extractive sector causes natural resources degradation. On the other hand, the ecotouristic sector produces from environmental quality. Therefore, the extractive sector causes a negative externality on the ecotouristic sector. At the same time, a planner imposes an environmental constraint that restrains the production in the extractive sector, which allows the ecotouristic sector to develop. This way, we relax the assumption generally made that land protection does not generate local benefit. The theoretical results are then tested on Nepalese data. We expect our theoretical model to reconcile the theoretical and the empirical results. The main expected result is that the alternative sector developed from land protection will affect the local welfare. The negative externality caused by the extractive sector, combined with the environmental constraint imposed by the planner, should generate a transfer of the production from the extractive towards the ecotouristic sector provided that the latter becomes more profitable. This way, land protection will be likely to generate an increase in the local welfare, as it is found in the empirical literature. The model will also allow to verify the natural resource extraction rate according to the environmental constraint severity. This result will be relevant for the purpose of environmental policies.
Q26|Robust Control and Hot Spots in Spatiotemporal Economic Systems|We formulate stochastic robust optimal control problems, motivated by applications arising in interconnected economic systems, or spatially extended economies. We study in detail linear quadratic problems and nonlinear problems. We derive optimal robust controls and identify conditions under which concerns about model misspecification at specific site(s) could cause regulation to break down, to be very costly, or to induce pattern formation and spatial clustering. We call sites associated with these phenomena hot spots. We also provide an application of our methods by studying optimal robust control and the potential break down of regulation, due to hot spots, in a model where utility for in situ consumption is distance dependent. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2014
Q26|Sustainable funding policies for environmental protection: the case of Maldivian atolls|This paper investigates several user-based funding mechanisms for protecting the marine resources in the Republic of the Maldives, by conducting an economic valuation of its recreational uses. We developed an individual travel demand model, corrected for truncation and endogenous stratification, to estimate the benefits of atoll-based marine tourism. The study found a large disparity between the amount of economic value generated from this opportunity for nature-based tourism and the amount going into atoll environmental conservation. More than half the environmental protection expenditure currently comes from unstable international sources, which makes it imperative that more stable financing sources be found. The results of the study show that even a small percent of tax added to tourist expenditure on the islands, or a direct conservation check-off as user fee collected from the tourists, would help defray the costs of atoll conservation. The paper concludes on a discussion of the policy implications of sustainable user-based financing mechanisms. Copyright Springer Japan 2014
Q26|Niche Markets for Agrobiodiversity Conservation: Preference and Scale Heterogeneity Effects on Nepalese Consumers’ WTP for Finger Millet Products|Through the implementation of a choice experiment among Nepalese urban consumers, this paper aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a niche product development as market-oriented instrument for the conservation of endangered crops landraces. We compare establisheddiscrete choice models (conditional logit, random parameter logit and latent class) with the novel generalized multinomial logit model in WTP space to account for the preference and the scale heterogeneity effect on the WTP for the finger millet crop. The estimations are utilized to evaluate the impact that a potential price premium has on local rural farmers’ opportunity costs of cultivating the finger millet. Results confirm that, by controlling for heterogeneity, there are segments of population with a WTP that ensures an efficient increase in FM area cultivated. Further, the success of the niche market can attract public investments on the development and conservation of the entire stock of neglected and underutilized local species thereby safeguarding the related agrobiodiversity ecosystem services.
Q26|"Achieving Bangladesh's tourism potential: Linkages to export diversification, employment generation and the ""green economy"""|"Bangladesh's international image is not as a popular tourism destination, and many people might be surprised to learn it has three World Heritage sites, including the Sundarbans tiger reserves. Moreover, it is part of important travel circuits for cultural and religious tourism, and has demonstrated potential for sports tourism. The objective of this working paper is to critically test the assertion that pro-poor ""green"" tourism is one of the best development options for the majority of least developed countries (LDCs) - a challenging task in Bangladesh in the face of the country's success as an exporter of readymade garments - by comparing tourism to the available alternatives with regard to the crucial government priorities of export diversification, employment generation and the ""green economy"". It is well-known that Bangladesh is under strong pressure to diversify its exports, to generate new employment (especially in rural areas), and to respond to critical environmental issues. The government has identified over 30 ""thrust sectors"" (including tourism) to help address these challenges, but otherwise tourism is rarely mentioned as a major trade and development option for Bangladesh. Within the limitations of data availability, this working paper reaches the conclusion that greater efforts to develop ""green"" tourism would be highly beneficial for facilitating rural development, environmental and cultural protection, gender equality, and export diversification in services. The most obvious current impediments are inadequate infrastructure, lack of investment and (typically election year) political conflict, but behind these factors appear to be a serious lack of stakeholder coordination, insufficient regulatory and administrative transparency and coherence, as well as some government reluctance to relinquish greater commercial autonomy in tourism to the private sector. This paper offers extensive analysis and some suggestions to help address the impediments, including the recommendation to create a Bangladesh Tourism Stakeholders Forum."
Q26|Tourism Consumpion Behavior in Natural Protected Areas|From the perspective of tourism consumers, researchers as well as of other categories of stakeholders, protected natural areas have become holiday destinations based on the principles of sustainable development. The tourism activity is proving to be a real support for the sustainable development of these areas, for the protection of their natural resources, as the degree of awareness with respect to their value and importance is increasingly higher locally, nationally and, sometimes, even regionally. However, the prerequisite for this support is the responsible behaviour of tourism consumers in protected natural areas. International scientific research in this field emphasizes two main trends. On the one hand there is a high degree of awareness with respect to the importance of developing and practising a form of sustainable tourism. However, on the other hand, the offer only partially reaches the level of the demand for sustainable tourism consumption. The main reason for this is the fact that travel agencies do not sufficiently know the potential demand for this type of tourism. The research performed within this article is meant to mitigate this disparity. This study is exploring the behaviour related to tourism consumption in protected areas, focussing on identifying the forms and especially the preference for tourism activities of the representatives of the demand. In the second semester of the 2013/2014 university year, complying with the principles of probabilities in the selection of subjects, 200 questionnaires were administered to the young population; 187 valid answers were obtained. The SPSS software was used for data processing and, as a result of the analysis performed on the survey results, the main characteristics of tourism consumption in protected areas have been identified.
Q26|Optimal Management of a Fishery with Bycatch|No abstract is available for this item.
Q26|A Natural Experiment Identifying Disease Regulation Effects on Recreational Fishing| This paper analyzes changes in angler behavior in response to state natural resource agency regulations designed to limit the spread of Viral Hemorrhagic Septicemia virus (VHSv) in the Great Lakes and connecting waterways. These regulations restrict the use of baitfish and vary in stringency over parts of the state and have varied over time. We use a linked participation model to identify the combined effect of the disease and associated regulations on angler site choice and trip frequency. Survey data was collected on Michigan anglers over a period of several years, including the years before and after the agency regulations were introduced. Results indicate that anglers significantly alter their behavior at the site choice and participation levels in response to a new disease and its regulations. We find that anglers were less likely to visit a site considered to be VHSv positive and subject to bait use restrictions and more likely to choose a site free of disease regulations. To our knowledge, this is the first such study to apply a multi-dimensional database to modeling wildlife disease regulations. We expect that natural resource policy makers will find these results useful in developing and maintaining the regulations necessary for the sustainable use of recreational fisheries.
Q26|An addendum to: a meta-analysis of hypothethical bias in stated preference valuation| A recent study published by Murphy et al. (2005) reported results of a meta-analysis of hypothetical bias using 28 valuation studies. The authors found a median ratio of hypothetical to actual values of 1.35 but they did not investigate the ratio of variances of the hypothetical and actual value distributions, which is of great relevance in joint stated and revealed preference analysis. We propose an addendum to Murphy et al. (2005) to provide some insights on the distribution of the scale factor across 23 studies for which relevant data is available. We distinguish three types of dispersion parameters reported in the literature. We find that the ratio of real to hypothetical standard deviations of marginal distributions of WTP is about 0.6.
Q26|Testing the influence of substitutes in nature valuation by using spatial discounting factors| This paper investigates the effect of nearby nature substitutes on preferences for nature restoration. Previous studies have generally approached the substitution question by looking into competing destinations. We evaluate substitutes from the respondent’s viewpoint. We use a contextual approach relying on densities of nature substitutes within various ranges from each respondent’s home. This approach has the advantage of allowing the consideration of the direct, indirect and non-use values of nature. Data from three similar discrete choice experiments carried out in Flanders (northern Belgium) are compared. Different spatial discounting factors are tested to better understand how the substitution effect behaves with regard to distance. Latent class analyses are performed to account for preference heterogeneity among respondents. Our results show divergent behaviours across groups of respondents. The “distance-to-substitutes” affects the way respondents rank substitutes and we observe a significant influence of the squared average buffer distance. However, this effect varies in sign across case studies and classes of respondents. Our research calls for further investigation of the influence of taste heterogeneity and nature perception on people’s capacity to value nature. The eligibility of potential nature substitutes and what contributes to their relative attractiveness compared to other substitutes, deserve further exploration in future research.
Q26|A National Survey of Consumer Preferences for Branded Gulf Oysters and Risk Perceptions of Gulf Seafood| Three restaurant taste panels and an online consumer survey were conducted during 2012-2013 to assess whether Gulf consumers would be willing to pay a premium for place-name specific (i.e., “branded”) Gulf oysters over typical “generic” Gulf oysters, and whether consumers in other U.S. markets would be willing to pay for branded Gulf oysters compared to other U.S. branded oysters. Panelists in the two Gulf Coast taste panels had strong preferences for local oyster varieties when they were aware of oyster variety names and harvest locations (i.e., during labeled rounds). In the absence this information (i.e., during blind rounds), panelists had no such preferences, and in the case of the Houston taste panel, actually had a significant distaste for the local Galveston Bay variety. Panelists in the Chicago taste panel had strong preferences for the Island Creek oyster, in both the blinded and labeled rounds, although during the labeled rounds, the Point aux Pins oysters fared equally well (statistically) to the Island Creeks. Additionally, during the labeled rounds, the Apalachicola Bay and Point aux Pins oysters were statistically more likely to be chosen over the San Antonio Bay oysters. Respondents to the online survey tended to have higher perceptions of quality and seafood safety regarding their own regionally-produced oysters relative to oysters from other regions. There was limited variation in perceptions from one Gulf Coast variety to another, with the exception of the Apalachicola Bay variety being rated higher in several cases, and the more general “Gulf of Mexico” category being rated lower. Online survey results indicate that, consumers living in eastern Gulf states such as Georgia and Florida may be willing to pay a premium for branded Gulf oysters, particularly oysters from Florida and Louisiana. Gulf consumers living in Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Texas, however, did not show any strong preferences for branded oysters relative to cheaper generic ones. Among non-Gulf consumers, survey results indicate that while a price discount may be needed to sell branded Gulf oysters relative to local oysters (i.e., relative to, say, East Coast oysters in East Coast markets), that Gulf oysters generally fared no worse than other non-local oysters (i.e., West Coast oysters in East Coast markets). Of the Gulf oysters tested, Atlantic Coast respondents appear to prefer Louisiana oysters. Pacific Coast respondents appear to be indifferent between most Atlantic Coast and Gulf Coast varieties. Also, it appears that relatively few respondents were concerned about the Deepwater Horizon oil spill when answering questions about oysters, although these concerns did affect preferences for Gulf Coast oysters negatively in some cases. Less than 1% of all respondents indicated any concern regarding Vibrio vulnificus, bacteria, or similar. However, such concerns, though not cited explicitly, may yet be latent in the reported perceptions of oysters from various Gulf Coast locations. These results would indicate that there is some room for opportunity for branded Gulf Coast oysters along these other two coasts in places where other non-local oysters are marketed successfully. The major challenge appears to be whether the price discount necessary to entice consumers in these other markets to buy Gulf Coast oysters relative to local varieties is yet sufficiently high as to remain a profitable enterprise for Gulf Coast producers. The price discounts estimated here in the range of $5-$10 per half-dozen sounds like a steep discount, but given the large differential in retail prices in Atlantic and Pacific markets - where oysters retail anywhere from $15 to $25 per half-dozen-- compared to Gulf Coast markets – where they retail in the neighborhood of $7 to $10 -- it is possible that even with the discounts, the prices received in these alternative markets may remain profitable.
Q26|Do Outdoor Recreation Participants Place their Lands in Conservation Easements?| In addition to encouraging people to become more physically active and healthy, participation in outdoor recreation helps to expose people to different instances of environmental degradation in places where they recreate. This exposure may also help people to become more environmentally aware and subsequently informed about environmental conservation programs such as conservation easements. Hence, this paper examined whether people participating in outdoor recreation activities have also placed their lands in conservation easements. Using national level data from the National Survey on Recreation and the Environment (NSRE) people who participated in land-based and water-based recreation activities were examined and grouped into consumptive and non-consumptive activities. Results indicated people who participated in land-based non-consumptive recreations have greater odds of placing their lands in conservation easements than people who participated in consumptive recreation activities.
Q26|An Evaluation of the Importance of Site Characteristics on Freshwater-Based Recreations in the United States| Amenities at recreation sites are important not only to maintain healthy life of recreation sites, but also to provide visitors greater inspiration to visit these sites. Hence, people place importance on site amenities, based on the activities they participated in. Using freshwater-based recreation data from a national survey and employing spectral analysis and rank ordered logit model, we found that closeness and size were the two most important qualities. Further, we found that recreationalist boaters were more likely to place importance on closeness; swimmers, recreationalist boaters, and picnickers were more likely to place importance on water-quality; and recreationalist fishermen and bird/nature viewers were more likely to place importance on wildlife, while participating in freshwater-based recreations. Freshwater recreation managers may benefit from the findings as our results offer guidance in understanding what kind of attributes to manage as well as improve to meet the needs of various types of user groups.
Q26|¿Qué tanto los hogares colombianos conocen y valoran las áreas marinas protegidas? Valoración económica usando experimentos de elección|Resumen El establecimiento de Áreas Marinas Protegidas se ha definido como la principal herramienta para la protección y conservación de los ecosistemas marinos y costeros. Dentro de los beneficios que ofrece el establecimiento de estas áreas se encuentran aumentos en la biodiversidad de especies, en las posibilidades turísticas y en la abundancia de especies destinadas a la pesca, entre otras. Este estudio tiene como objetivo estimar el valor que los hogares atribuyen a un incremento del subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas en Colombia. Para cumplir con este objetivo, se emplea la metodología de experimentos de elección (choice experiments), en la cual se valoran los atributos de protección de ecosistemas, destinos turísticos y condiciones de las comunidades locales de pescadores. Los resultados muestran que aunque el conocimiento generalizado de los hogares sobre áreas marinas protegidas es bajo, ellos están dispuestos a pagar por la ampliación de estas áreas. Asociado a valores de opción y de existencia, la mayoría de los hogares colombianos desea que estas áreas marinas perduren para futuras generaciones. Los resultados muestran que el tener niveles bajos de ingreso, vivir en una ciudad costera y el hecho de no conocer el mar, generan que la disponibilidad a pagar como proporción del ingreso sea mayor. Finalmente, el estudio muestra que las autoridades ambientales contarían con una alta aceptabilidad por parte de los hogares para la ampliación del subsistema de áreas marinas protegidas si se garantizan las condiciones de las comunidades locales.
Q26|Tourist Valorisation Of National Parks In Spain And Croatia – Comparison Between The National Parks Of Cabrera And Kornati|As a form of protected natural heritage, national parks have an important attraction role in tourism, as one of the leading world economic businesses. It is the planning itself of the concept, role and significance of a natural area which have a special importance in current national parks organisation. The goal of this paper is to note the importance of proper management of national parks by means of improvement of tourist results, while simultaneously improving the preservation of the environment. With regard to the analysis of the model of organisation of two coastal and island Mediterranean region national parks, located in two European Union countries, the hypothesis reads: tourist valorisation of Croatian national parks lags behind the organisation and positioning of the national leading Mediterranean destinations.The research opens new questions, but also offers qualitative solutions for the purposes of the best possible positioning and valorisation of sustainable tourism in protected areas.
Q26|Rural tourism: A kind of sustainable tourism in the face of global economic crisis|Tourism has represented one of the major sources of balance of trade earnings for many years in the most developed countries. According to estimates by the World Tourism Organization (WTO), world tourism flows will grow by 4-5% annually over the coming years, reaching in 2020 an estimated number of 1.6 billion international arrivals, of which 378 million will be short haul international travellers (Lanfranchi M., Giannetto C., 2010). With the passage of time demand will become more diversified and this will lead to the spread of “new tourism”, the search for new products and increasingly diverse offers, characterised by organized local tourist systems. This paper underlines the importance of the tourist district (TD) or local tourist system (LTS) model as a strategic tool for creating innovative processes of endogenous development in a highly globalized framework, moreover it tries to highlight the peculiarities of tourist districts and their importance (as a network of heterogeneous actors operating at local level) in overcoming the major limitations of the distribution chain. In this model we need to improve the use and knowledge of the cultural, environmental and gastronomic heritage of the area in question and this can only happen through the creation of a tight network of relationships, composed of and coordinated by both public and private entities able to meet all the requirements (accommodation, catering, entertainment, travel etc.) of potential visitors. Therefore, the birth of DT or STL represents an important opportunity for the promotion of tourism development of different local realities, because they are able to create innovative spatial models, capable of responding effectively to needs concerning the coordination of different tourism initiatives. There has been a heterogeneous response concerning implementation of STL in Italy, indeed some regions have not taken advantage of this potential tool for tourism development, while others have created a special discipline.
Q26|Protection of the coastal landscape for tourism sustainability|In order to respond to the challenge of the sustainable development - that is the conciliation between landscape and environmental protection and socio-economic development – this paper intend to identify methods and scenarios able to promote the development using in balanced and durable way the several landscape and environmental resources. This paper on the “Protection of the Coastal Landscape for Tourism Sustainability” analyses the phenomena manifested between landscape resource and tourist activities. The paper proposes to analyse some tourist development models unable to provoke the degradation of natural ecosystems and the loss of local identities, but oriented to valorisation forms of the environmental, social and cultural characters of the sites. Thus, the tourism, can favourite the economic and cultural development of a territory or, on the contrary, can determinate its irreversible degradation.
Q26|Globalization, traffic and tourism. The need for a responsible approach|The article intends to fire a warning on the great possibilities and opportunities people have to better know themselves and communities around while traveling. The intentions are to reveal the diverse significations the category connection has, viewed from different perspectives. Development of the international tourism helps us understand the progress already made on different continents. An accent is put on responsible tourism, a concept with large and useful application nowadays. Several initiatives pursued by committed Romanians are examples to complete the picture.
Q26|Forms, factors and efficiency of eco-management in Bulgarian farms|This paper presents the results of the first large-scale study on forms, factors, and efficiency of eco-management in Bulgarian agricultural farms of different juridical type, size, specialization, and location. First, a brief characterization of surveyed “eco-active” farms is made, analyzing the various forms and scope of eco-management in agricultural farms. Next, different factors of eco-management in farms are specified along with the costs, effects, efficiency and perspectives of eco-management in agricultural farms. Finally, conclusions from the study are summarized.
Q26|Beneficio económico y turismo ecosistémico. El caso de las termales en Michoacán, México|The hot springs tourism is an economically important recreational activity that has been practiced traditionally in Zinapecuaro and Ciudad Hidalgo - Michoacán, Mexico. The economic benefit of the recreational use of this service represents a significant income for the regional economy. In this paper we estimated the economic value of recreational ecosystem services of Zinapecuaro. The results show that the benefit of thermal water use increases to two million of Mexican pesos for 2010 and, considering a discount rate of 10% for the next 20 years, future economic value of this service increases up to eighteen million pesos. From the economic point of view this justifies the implementation of a strategy of sustainable use that will allow regional projects expand on this natural resource.
Q26|Integrating Business Intelligence In State Administrative Structures For Stimulating Innovative Clusters|Business intelligence and knowledge management seems to gain the attention of the society regarding the benefits that brings to it when this two domains are considered as a whole. The advantage of using business intelligence in order to take decisions and bring innovation to the business, are convincing more and more entrepreneurs to implement this solution. The challenge in managing and using the knowledge that the business intelligence offers to the business, comes with the integration of the information with state administrative structures datas that have to be available to business clusters in order to improve their decisional process. In our paper, we demonstrate the benefits of using business intelligence in Romanian state administrative structures underlying the way that this adoption would support the activity of innovative and creative clusters.
Q26|¿Qué tanto los hogares colombianos conocen y valoran las áreas marinas protegidas? Valoración económica usando experimentos de elección| El establecimiento de Áreas Marinas Protegidas se ha definido como la principal herramienta para la protección y conservación de los ecosistemas marinos y costeros. Dentro de los beneficios que ofrece el establecimiento de estas áreas se encuentran aumentos en la biodiversidad de especies, en las posibilidades turísticas y en la abundancia de especies destinadas a la pesca, entre otras. Este estudio tiene como objetivo estimar el valor que los hogares atribuyen a un incremento del subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas en Colombia. Para cumplir con este objetivo, se emplea la metodología de experimentos de elección (choice experiments), en la cual se valoran los atributos de protección de ecosistemas, destinos turísticos y condiciones de las comunidades locales de pescadores. Los resultados muestran que aunque el conocimiento generalizado de los hogares sobre áreas marinas protegidas es bajo, ellos están dispuestos a pagar por la ampliación de estas áreas. Asociado a valores de opción y de existencia, la mayoría de los hogares colombianos desea que estas áreas marinas perduren para futuras generaciones. Los resultados muestran que el tener niveles bajos de ingreso, vivir en una ciudad costera y el hecho de no conocer el mar, generan que la disponibilidad a pagar como proporción del ingreso sea mayor. Finalmente, el estudio muestra que las autoridades ambientales contarían con una alta aceptabilidad por parte de los hogares para la ampliación del subsistema de áreas marinas protegidas si se garantizan las condiciones de las comunidades locales.
Q26|Diagnóstico y análisis biofísico para evaluación y formulación de escenarios de desarrollo en el Archipiélago de Galápagos|El presente informe técnico ofrece una caracterización y evaluación del metabolismo social y ecológico a nivel de escala del ecosistema del Archipiélago de Galápagos bajo criterios multidimensionales, con el fin de generar insumos para una planificación territorial prospectiva y estratégica basada en la interacción de sistemas complejos.
Q26|Willingness to contribute to the management of recreational quality on private lands in Finland|In Finland, privately owned nature areas are widely used for recreation due to open public access. However, since landowners are not obligated to take everyman's rights into consideration when making management decisions, the recreational quality of nature areas is not guaranteed for users. We examined whether individual recreationists on private lands would be willing purchase management actions from landowners that influence recreational quality. In addition to willingness to pay, we assessed willingness to contribute labor to such actions. The results demonstrated that about half of the recreationists who participated in our survey were willing to contribute labor and about 10% were willing to pay to direct the management of their typical recreation site on private lands. The mean willingness to pay was 92 euros per year and the mean willingness to contribute labor 3.5 days per year. A latent class regression model revealed that recreationists were not, however, completely homogeneous in their preferences for the actions or in their preferred contribution forms. On the basis of the results, there is moderate demand from recreationists for management to improve recreational quality and the potential for local landscape management arrangements that allow individual recreationists to contribute labor.
Q26|Estimating the benefits of recreation-oriented management in state-owned commercial forests in Finland: A choice experiment|As forestlands provide a variety of environmental services, the management of forest resources is a matter of public concern. In the present case of state-owned commercial forests in Finland, legislation requires specific management practices to enhance recreational benefits free of charge to the public. This choice experiment considers Finnish people's valuation of the recreation-oriented management of state-owned commercial forests to evaluate whether the recreational benefits produced justify the related loss of profits from timber sales. We focus on three management attributes: scenic buffer zones along lakes and rivers, habitats for game birds, and the quality of scenery as reflected by the frequency of clear-cut areas along hiking trails. Marginal willingness-to-pay (WTP) effects for the attributes are estimated with random parameters logit models specified in the WTP space, while preference-space models are used to estimate in physical terms the attribute levels that maximize the benefits to the public. Despite regional differences in preferences, people in all parts of Finland valued the current recreation-oriented management of state-owned commercial forests considerably. Nationwide, the aggregate benefits of recreation-enhancing management clearly exceeded the estimated opportunity costs. The most preferred levels of management attributes were slightly above the current levels, suggesting an increase in the provision of recreational services when not considering the associated costs.
Q26|Effects of travel cost and participation in recreational activities on national forest visits|In the face of higher travel costs due to rising gasoline prices and scarce budget resources, we explored differences in the impacts of travel costs on recreational demand for visitors participating in various recreational activities. Five individual travel cost models were estimated, one for each of 5 national forests (i.e., Allegheny, Coconino, Mount Baker-Snoqualmie, Ouachita, and Wenatchee). Travel cost had a consistently negative effect on the number of visits (and thus caused losses in aggregate consumer surplus) across all recreational activities and national forests, although the magnitudes of the effects varied significantly. For example, decreased visit numbers (and thus the aggregate loss of consumer surplus) resulting from hypothetical increases in travel costs are greater for non-trail and backpacking-activity participants than for trail and backpacking-activity participants in the Allegheny national forest. This finding implies that increases in funds allocated towards improving non-trail and backpacking-based recreational activities may stem the loss of consumer surplus due to the decline in visits to the Allegheny national forest caused by the increase in travel cost more than similar increases in funds allocated to trail and backpacking-activities. These results are important because many national-forest managers are facing declining visits resulting from the effects of higher gasoline prices on travel costs. Thus, they can use our results in making decisions about allocating scarce budget resources to recreational activities that have the greatest potential to stem the decline in national-forest visits.
Q26|What floats your boat? Preference revelation from lotteries over complex goods|We examine a type of lottery used to distribute some publicly held resource access rights. The lottery provides participants with the opportunity to choose among a set of simple gambles over multi-attribute goods. Participant choices result in an endogenous distribution of success rates over gambles that reflects tradeoffs between the relative desirability of the available goods and the probability of winning. When lottery winnings are multi-attribute goods, lottery outcomes provide sufficient information to estimate hedonic prices, marginal utility, and marginal rates of substitution among attributes. We develop a model for characterizing preferences from this information set. We apply our model to Idaho׳s Four Rivers Whitewater Recreation Lottery, which allows applicants to apply for one permit among a large set of alternative river/day combinations that provide varying river and weather characteristics. This lottery structure shows promise as a foundation for economic experiments for preference revelation.
Q26|Heterogeneity and the fragility of the first best: Putting the “micro” in bioeconomic models of recreational resources|We bridge the non-market microeconomic recreational demand and bioeconomic modeling literatures by constructing a dynamic model to guide optimal management of recreational fisheries. Our model incorporates multiple forms of angler heterogeneity and directly models feedbacks between policy instruments and angler behavior rather than dictating behavior as a social planner. This approach highlights the importance of distinct forms of heterogeneity for price and technology based management. We show that management with a price instrument charged per unit fish mortality or a differentiated charge per trip, an input to fish mortality, fully internalizes the dynamic stock externality when the manager observes agent heterogeneity in stock impacts, but is naïve to heterogeneity in preferences. Unobserved heterogeneity in stock impacts leads to welfare loss that increases with the variance of unobserved stock impacts. When the manager uses technology constraints to manage the fishery, understanding heterogeneity in preference, price, and stock impacts leads to greater social welfare, and understanding all sources of heterogeneity is necessary to optimally manage the resource. Nevertheless, technology based management can never replicate the first best. Explicit incorporation of heterogeneity and behavior enables us to show exactly where welfare is lost.
Q26|Augmenting short Cheap Talk scripts with a repeated Opt-Out Reminder in Choice Experiment surveys|Hypothetical bias continues to be a major challenge for stated preference methods. Cheap Talk (CT) has been found to be an effective remedy in some applications, though empirical results are ambiguous. We discuss reasons why CT may fail to effectively remove specific types of hypothetical bias in Choice Experiments. We suggest augmenting CT in Choice Experiments with a so-called Opt-Out Reminder (OOR). Prior to each choice set, the OOR explicitly instructs respondents to choose the opt-out alternative, if they find the experimentally designed alternatives too expensive. In an empirical survey we find the OOR to significantly reduce total WTP and to some extent also marginal WTP beyond the capability of the CT applied without the OOR. This suggests that the CT practice should be adapted to fit the potentially different decision processes and repeated choices structure of the Choice Experiment format, rather than merely being adopted directly from Contingent Valuation.
Q26|Does Tourism Eco-Certification Pay? Costa Rica’s Blue Flag Program|According to advocates, eco-certification can stem environmental damages from tourism in developing countries. Yet we know little about tourism operators’ economic incentives to get certified. To help fill that gap, we use detailed panel data to analyze the Blue Flag beach certification program in Costa Rica where nature-based tourism has caused significant environmental damage. We use new hotel investment to proxy for private benefits, and fixed effects and propensity score matching to control for self-selection bias. We find that Blue Flag certification spurs significant new hotel investment, particularly in luxury hotels and in economically advantaged communities.
Q26|Combining Observed and Contingent Travel Behaviour: The Best of Both Worlds?|Natural resources offer a wide range of benefits to society. But many of these resources can be irrevocably lost if active measures are not adopted. Considering that environmental protection endeavours involve opportunity costs, economic valuation is essential to inform policymakers about the full net benefits of alternative measures, mainly if they are not properly reflected in market prices. The literature on environmental valuation has been proliferating and significant developments have been achieved. Focusing on the methods used to evaluate the benefits related to the recreational use of natural areas, this paper explores the potential complementarity of approaches based on combined revealed and stated preferences techniques. We conclude that putting together the best of these both worlds imposes additional efforts that are worthwhile.
Q26|Risk management activities of a non-industrial private forest owner with a bivariate utility function|In this paper, we propose to analyse the choice of risk management activity made by a non-industrial private forest owner who derives utility from consumption and from the sentimental value of the forest that bears a risk of disaster. We consider a bivariate utility function depending on consumption and sentimental value of forest. In this context, we analyse insurance and/or self-insurance decisions. We show that, under fair premium, full insurance is optimal only if the cross derivative of the utility function equals zero. Under-insurance and over-insurance may also be optimal depending on the sign of this cross derivative. We also show that, under a positive loading factor, optimal partial insurance is validated only if the cross derivative is positive; otherwise full insurance may be optimal even with a loading insurance. We also observe that risk aversion increases the level of insurance demand and selfinsurance activity, extending this standard result obtained with an univariate utility function to a bivariate utility function. Moreover, when the forest owner can simultaneously insure and invest in self-insurance activity, full insurance is never optimal if the cross derivative is positive. Finally, we prove that insurance and selfinsurance may be substitutes, and if preferences are separable and exhibit decreasing absolute risk aversion, then insurance and self-insurance are always considered as substitutes.
Q26|Marginal WTP and Distance Decay: The Role of ‘Protest’ and ‘True Zero’ Responses in the Economic Valuation of Recreational Water Quality|We evaluate the sensitivity of distance decay in individuals’ stated willingness to pay (WTP) for water quality improvements in eutrophied lakes. We extend the standard model of contingent valuation (CV) by allowing individuals to adopt a sequential evaluation process consisting of two decision stages. In the first stage respondents decide whether they are ‘protesters’, have a WTP $$=$$ = ‘true zero’ or a $$\hbox {WTP}>0$$ WTP > 0 . Conditioned on a strictly positive WTP, we use Lee’s selectivity-corrected model to determine the magnitude of their WTP in the second stage. Using CV survey data from Norway we find significant distance decay in the first stage classification of respondents as ‘protesters’, ‘true zero’ WTP, or positive WTP. In the second stage model for positive WTP responses, we find little or no significant relationships when correcting for selection. Results suggest that previous findings of significant distance decay in contingent valuation of lake and river water in Europe may be driven by the definition of ‘protest’ and ‘true zero’ respondents. We find that WTP for water quality may be more useful as a qualitative indicator of political support for user financed water quality measures, than as a cardinal measure of marginal utility of water quality improvements. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q26|Monitoring of Developing Regional Agrosphere Assimilation Potential|The article cover the issues of improvement of theoretical and methodological approaches to environmental and economic activity of agricultural businesses through the assessment of the anthropogenic pressure on natural resources and assimilation capacity of the agricultural sphere. To enhance the efficiency of natural resources management it has been proposed to apply analytical monitoring which would provide for obtaining relevant information about the volume of natural resources consumption and environment pollution scales. The stages for implementation of monitoring and analytical methodology to calculating the indices characterizing possibilities of assimilation potentials of the agricultural sphere have been determined. The results of analytical monitoring constitute output parameters for developing programs for reducing the negative effects and creating appropriate conditions for building up the assimilation capacity of the agricultural sphere with subsequent transition to ecological and safe production. To assess the assimilation potential of the agricultural sphere it has been proposed to use an integrated index of human load on natural resources which would be sensible to consider while determining the strategy of agricultural business development.
Q26|Cluster Analysis of Bioenergetic Potential in Regions of Ukraine|The research has its purpose to identify similar groups of regions most suitable for biofuel raw base development. The regions of Ukraine differ in level of economic development as well as natural and climatic conditions that are to define the possibility of growing particular crops. Thus, for evaluation of the regions bioenergetics potential the author has used cluster analysis as one of the object-features classification method. Normally, they are corn and rape that serve the raw materials for liquid biofuel production. Allowing for this fact, the crop capacity index for these two crops is taken as the basis while carrying out regions classification. In order to determine the most suitable region for growing bioenergetics crops the averaged economic indicators of Ukrainian regions have been used, namely net cost and price for sale of 1 centner of corn and rape grains. According to the results of the research done the most suitable regions for growing crops to be used as the bioenergetics raw are Volyn, Ternopil, Zhitomir, Khmelnitsk, Vinnitsa and Chernihiv since these regions are included among the comprehensive cluster according to every criterion the author used in carrying out cluster analysis.
Q26|Enjoying Catch and Fishing Effort: The Effort Effect in Recreational Fisheries|Recreational fishermen derive utility from catch and fishing effort. Building our analysis on the Gordon-Clark model for renewable resources, we show that a lower importance of catch may result in higher catches. While this effect also holds under first-best management, it may destabilize open-access recreational fisheries to the point of stock collapse. Technical progress in recreational fisheries may mask such dynamics as it enables unaltered angler behavior and constant catches during stock declines. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q26|Analysis of Rural Tourism Development Level in Salaj Using the SWOT Matrix|In this paper, the authors made a comparative analysis of tourism development in some counties of Romania, the most frequently visited by tourist and ecotourists. In the study, the authors have used two indicators of tourist traffic in the literature, namely: the tourist function and tourist traffic density. As a tool for strategic analysis of the level of ecotourism services development, it has been used The S.W.O.T. Matrix. During the work, the authors have achieved a SWOT Analysis of ecotourism field in Salaj county.
Q26|Risk management activities of a non-industrial private forest owner with a bivariate utility function|In this paper, we propose to analyse the choice of risk management activity made by a nonindustrial private forest owner who derives utility from consumption and from the sentimental value of the forest that bears a risk of disaster. We consider a bivariate utility function depending on consumption and sentimental value of forest. In this context, we analyse insurance and/or self-insurance decisions. We show that, under fair premium, full insurance is optimal only if the cross derivative of the utility function equals zero. Under-insurance and over-insurance may also be optimal depending on the sign of this cross derivative. We also show that, under a positive loading factor, optimal partial insurance is validated only if the cross derivative is positive; otherwise full insurance may be optimal even with a loading insurance. We also observe that risk aversion increases the level of insurance demand and self-insurance activity, extending this standard result obtained with an univariate utility function to a bivariate utility function. Moreover, when the forest owner can simultaneously insure and invest in self-insurance activity, full insurance is never optimal if the cross derivative is positive. Finally, we prove that insurance and self-insurance may be substitutes, and if preferences are separable and exhibit decreasing absolute risk aversion, then insurance and self-insurance are always considered as substitutes.
Q26|Analyzing the Pathway to Improve Tiger Conservation in India|Despite substantial conservation investments by governments and international agencies, the existence of tigers in the wild is still threatened. The main threats to the survival of wild tigers are poaching, prey depletion, and habitat degradation and fragmentation. All international trade in tiger parts has been prohibited since 1975, with China introducing a domestic ban in 1993. The domestic trade ban in China was followed by the establishment of captive tiger breeding farms in East Asia. China has considered partially lifting the trade ban to permit sales from tiger farms. This has been a matter of much debate with the proponents to the trade ban opposing it on the grounds that it result in an increase in the illegal killing of tigers and would also result in an increase in demand for tiger products, while the proponents to tiger farming favouring a supply side approach to conservation with products from tiger farms meeting all the demand. This research paper argues that it is possible to protect wild tigers by permitting the sale of products from tiger farms. India has mainly targeted tiger conservation with the establishment of tiger reserves all over the country, but this has resulted in the displacement of local communities from land that was traditionally belonged to them. Community based conservation seeks to conserve wildlife by giving local people a stake in its conservation and thus, providing an incentive to conserve it. This paper using a bio-economic model argues that giving local communities a stake in conservation of tigers like a share of tourism revenues aids conservation, as it would result in an increase in anti-poaching effort undertaken by the local communities, but this is contingent upon the additional revenue being higher than the cost of intrusion.
Q26|Encouraging Private Ownership of Public Goods: Theory and Evidence from Belgium|We study short-run and long-run effects of a government subsidy to private nonprofit ownership of public good projects. In a simple model, we show that the subsidy increases the prices of project assets in the short run; however, the effect does not persist and prices decline in the long run. This happens because the subsidy temporarily relaxes the resource constraint of non-profit organizations, which allows them to engage in supply-expanding activities. We test this prediction using a unique dataset that we have constructed from Belgian notarial land-transaction records and exploiting a policy reform in public subsidies for land purchases by non-profits aiming at creating privately owned natural reserves. Using the MS-estimation method (Maronna and Yohai, 2000) robust to outliers, we also provide a methodological contribution to the analysis of markets with quasi-donations.
Q26|Recovering Individual Preferences for Non-Market Goods: A Collective Travel-Cost Model|Traditional recreation demand models do not make a distinction between a household and an individual as the reference decision-making unit, thus assuming that a family maximizes a single utility function, even if the family consists of different individuals. Such models ignore the possibility of family members' divergent preferences for non-market goods. This study proposes a novel approach-the collective travel-cost model (CTCM)-to eliciting individual preferences for a non-market good, such as a recreation site, by using revealed preference data. This approach accounts for the intra-household resource allocation and the role of each household member's preferences. We show that the collective travel-cost model can be applied to estimating a recreation demand model that yields individual welfare estimates appropriate for policy analysis of non-market goods, such as the willingness to pay to access a recreation site. We find that how resources are distributed within the household reflects significant differences in welfare measures.
Q26|Estimating the recreational value of Kakum National Park in Ghana|National parks and Conservational area in general play major role in human life. They serve as habitats for animals and insects, protection of water bodies, carbon sequestration, recreational sites, source of income and source of revenue to government. Notwithstanding these benefits there are reports of the destruction and degradation of the natural ecosystem worldwide. This situation has led to serious environmental problems such as loss of biodiversity, global warming, climate change and its attendant effects. If forest reserves come with so many benefits as enumerated above, why then are they being degraded? This study sought to estimate the recreational value of Kakum national park in Ghana. To be able to give an estimate of the recreational value, an economic valuation technique called the Travel Cost method was applied. The travel cost method is a survey based method that uses the cost of travelling to a site to estimate the demand function for the site. The data used for the study was obtained from 300 visitors to the Kakum National Park from August 12 – 14, 2013. The recreational value of the KNP was estimated to be GH¢981,188 in 2013. Based on the findings, the study recommended the following; increased advertisement of the park, provision of additional facilities at the park and public education on the importance of recreation.
Q26|An analysis of anti poaching techniques in Africa: A case of rhino poaching|In the last decade the African continent has been facing a number of incidences on Rhino Poaching and we may be heading to Rhino extinction. A number of strategies have been tried and tested to protect the rhinos in Africa. Based on previous strategies to protect rhinos very little has been achieved in combating rhino poaching. Using extensive literature review this study investigates whether the current conservation methods are still useful in addressing poaching. Literature reveals that most methods have failed to protect rhinos. Therefore, forensic tests, shoot to kill policy and new strategies maybe the only way to avoid rhino extinction.
Q26|Sustainable energy for Development: Access to finance on renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies for Bangladesh|Bangladesh will achieve considerable success in acceleration of economic growth of course need for sustainable energy for development (SED). Renewable or ‘green’ energy is now at forefront of the country’s priorities for environmentally sustainable economic progress. The Power Division under the Ministry of Power, Energy & Mineral Resources (MPEMR) has declared a “Renewable Energy Policy of Bangladesh” and under the Companies Act, 1994, the GoB, is establishing an institution named “Sustainable Energy Development Authority” (SEDA). At present Bangladesh takes the different financing models that have been developed and tested for renewable energy projects in urban and rural communities and energy efficiency improvement projects. Bangladesh Bank (BB) has developed an incentive scheme for concessional refinancing for small solar energy, bio-gas plants and Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP). These are recent initiatives on their part and Banks are yet to take full advantage of such concessional refinance. To analysis primary data collected for used cross sectional study to be considered about allied factors for renewable energy especially solar energy. A structured questionnaire was prepared in the light of the objectives of the study that was filled up by direct interview. The multivariate techniques viz., multiple logistic regression models, will be used to identify the inputs significant for sustainable energy for development in Bangladesh that is accelerating economic growth of a nation. Software packages Eviews - 5.1 have built-in routines to estimate the logit model at the individual level. Logistic regressions have been presented with the dependent variable as an indicator of the probability of being in generate RE and EE. Dependent variables dummy of RE and EE (= 1, if a generate RE and EE is full, otherwise under) have been included. The expected sign of explanatory variables coefficients are positive and or negative respectively. Thus, other things remaining same, if high cost RE/EE technologies up to become low cost, each stakeholder will purchase RE/EE technologies. However, together all the regressors have a significant impact on the log of RE/EE, whose p-value is about 0.0000, which is statistically significant. We are looking at different sources of financing on both RE and EE investment decisions. Overall, financial institutions will aim to create a package that includes the total finance amount and the repayment terms, the interest rate, the repayment schedule and any guarantees or securities. When successful, these new approaches could be capable of triggering the involvement of commercial banks. Point of view of banking and financing institutions and risks associated with renewable energy (RE) and energy efficiency (EE) technologies for sustainable energy for development (SED).
Q26|Sustainable Renewable Energy for Development: Access to Finance on Solar Energy for Bangladesh|Bangladesh will achieve considerable success in acceleration of economic growth of course need for sustainable renewable energy for development. At the present Government of Bangladesh takes the different financing models that have been developed and tested for renewable energy projects, especially solar energy, in urban and rural communities and energy efficiency improvement projects. Logistic regressions have been presented with the dependent variable as an indicator of the probability generates daily solar energy performance. In analysis, primary data and found that all the explanatory variables have a significant impact on the log of daily generates solar energy performance, whose p-value is statistically significant. When successful with these new approaches, the government should also be providing support for the thriving solar energy and energy efficiency technology projects for sustainable renewable energy development in Bangladesh.
Q26|El valor económico del uso recreativo que presta el Parque Ambiental Bicentenario en Metepec Estado de México (México)|Se valoró económicamente el Parque Ambiental Bicentenario, a través de un escenario de Valoración Contingente considerando una disposición a cooperar (DAC) para evitar el deterioro del servicio recreativo. El trabajo se realizó con encuestas aplicadas in situ. Los valores promedio de DAC encontrados fueron una media de $511.94 pesos y una mediana de $200.00 pesos. Considerando la mediana y la media, los valores económicos anuales fueron de $135,200,000.00 pesos y $346,071,440.00 pesos respectivamente. Sin embargo, cuando la media está influida por valores extremos, la mediana es un mejor estimador del valor anual. Los resultados se analizaron mediante un modelo Tobit. Para cumplir con supuestos de normalidad y homosceradasticidad del modelo, la variable DAC se transformó a través de un procedimiento Box-Cox. Se concluye que el ingreso mensual familiar (relación positiva), la edad (relación negativa) y la frecuencia de los que van al parque una o más veces al mes (relación positiva) son estadísticamente significativos en el modelo.
Q26|El Programa «Pueblos Mágicos»: Análisis De Los Resultados De Una Consulta Local Ciudadana El Caso De Cuitzeo, Michoacán, México|En este trabajo se presentan los resultados obtenidos mediante una consulta local ciudadana realizada en Cuitzeo, Michoacán, como área de estudio; con el propósito de identificar las percepciones u opiniones que la ciudadanía local tiene sobre el programa turístico federal Pueblos Mágicos. Entre los resultados que se obtuvieron, de manera general, fue que si bien la ciudadanía identifica claramente el establecimiento de este programa, en lo que respecta en materia de difusión y vinculación con la misma, no existe una relación sólida, la ciudadanía local desconoce los lineamientos o reglas de operación, con los que dicho programa se ejerce, además de mencionar que no han recibido ningún beneficio directo de tal programa desde su declaratoria y ejecución en el año 2006.
Q26|Climatic Features As A Factor For Development Of Tourism In The Republic Of Macedonia|The development of tourism in general besides the anthropogenic factors have important natural features expressed through all their features, and one of them is the climate. When we talk about tourism in rural areas as an alternative form of tourism, we have to look at the climate characteristics from a different perspective, because alternative forms of tourism have a seasonal nature, and i.e. it is a specific form of tourism that is practiced throughout the year. Therefore it is not good to have extreme temperatures and climate both in the positive and the negative terms in the area in which tourism is going to be practiced. Temperature extremes might be suitable for primary or so-called mass forms of tourism such as summer оr winter tourism, which largely depends on the number of sunny hours, air temperature, amount of snowfall, number of days with snow etc. But this is not the case when it comes to rural tourism, because it’s practiced throughout the whole year and it’s not dependent on the parameters that were given above, but this form of tourism requires an inviting climate all year round. It is therefore important to understand the basic climatic characteristics where the natural environment is an important factor for the development of tourism in the rural areas in the country.
Q26|Using a Control Function to Resolve the Travel Cost Endogeneity Problem in Recreation Demand Models|This paper proposes using a control function to correct for endogeneity in recreation demand models. The control function approach is contrasted with the method of alternative specific constants (ASCs), which has been cautiously promoted in the literature. As an application, we consider the case of travel cost endogeneity in the demand for Great Lakes recreational fishing. Using data on Michigan anglers, we employ a random utility model of site choice. We show that either ASCs or the control function can correct for travel cost endogeneity, although we find that the model with ASCs produces significantly weaker results. Overall, compared with traditional approaches control functions may offer a more flexible means to eliminate endogeneity in recreation demand models.
Q26|Optimal Path for Global Land Use under Climate Change Uncertainty| This study seeks assess how the uncertainties associated with the un- derlying biophysical processes in uence the optimal profile of land use over the next century, in light of potential irreversibility in these deci- sions. Our analysis is based on a dynamic stochastic model of global land use, and employs 3 modeling scenarios constructed using global crop simulation and climate models. The results of the deterministic model show that climate impacts appear to have mixed effects on yields - higher temperatures hurt food production but this effect is partially offset by greater CO2 fertilization effect. Declining food crop yields result in rela- tively small expansion of cropland and accumulated GHG emissions from land use change. We then contrast this optimal path to that obtained when the uncertainty is not ignored, thereby demonstrating significance of factoring uncertainty in the optimization stage.
Q26|Environmental and Economic Impact of Agricultural Land Use - a Spatially Explicit DEA Approach -| Agriculture produce commodities and but also influence the environment. However, even if the value of commodities is easy to determine, it is difficult to assess the efficiency of agricultural production at site level. Furthermore, the valuation of environmental impact is complex. Non-parametric approaches such as DEA allow for an assessment of environment and economic performance. We implement a plot-specific approach combining GIS and DEA models. This allows a spatially explicit assessment of agricultural land use for different subjects such as ecology and economy. In a second stage DEA-model, the impact of farm- and site-specific characteristics on efficiency is analysed.
Q26|Nautical Tourism, Carrying Capacity and Environmental Externality in the Lagoon of Marano and Grado|Tourism and environmental preservation are often conflicting activities, mainly in areas such as coastal lagoons, where seaside mass-tourism comes into contact with a very sensitive ecological system. In this paper we deal with a classical problem of both environmental and tourism economics, the internalization of environmental costs of tourism, focusing on the nautical fruition of the Lagoon of Marano and Grado (North-Eastern Italy, Friuli Venezia Giulia Region). Using different instruments, both theoretical (Carrying Capacity framework, Polluter-Payer principle, Coase compensation) and empirical (Cluster analysis, Log-log regression, Forecasting model, cost and benefit calculation through actual market values), we get the result that a standard Coasian equilibrium (unit external cost equal to unit private benefit) doesn’t hold, and a higher coverage of the local berths endowment (i. e. a higher vessels transit in the Lagoon) is more effective for nature conservation than a tempered fruition. Another interesting result is that the best available solution to internalize environmental externality is a mixed one, comprehensive of a command and control rule (a speed-limit prescription), and a compensation scheme.
Q26|The Challenges Of Rural Areas In Serbia Promising Tourist Activities| Challenges of rural areas in Serbia are complex categories, so the work set itself a goal to show how these challenges can help its people interested, which are still developing tourism within the region. In order to prove all, work have to use qualitative and quantitative social science methodology with emphasis on induction, conversion multiplier, surveys in the statistical models. With such methodology, work, has distinct hypotheses: · If the rural areas of each country carries a multi-purpose economic dependence, then the rural areas of Serbia must accept tourism as a positive economic challenge, and · Tourism in rural areas, if there is a guaranteed capacity of tolerance, must provide rural area to be feedback of its successful economic development. Work, emphasizing challenges of rural areas in tourist activity, has to give results compatible with evidence of field research and indicate directions of tourism development in Serbia rural areas.
Q26|Diversification Decisions in Agriculture: The Case of Agritourism in Kansas| The thesis of this paper is that diversification decisions may be described by a three-stage sequential framework. The framework begins with the choice between on-farm and off-farm investments and ends with the selection of activities that decision-makers believe would be more effective in addressing their needs. The paper tests this thesis using data collected from participants in an agritourism workshop in Kansas. The test begins at the framework’s second stage, where decision-makers decide between intensifying current operations to take advantage of scale and/or size economies, and diversifying to deploy slack resources in other businesses. The third stage involves the selection of alternative enterprises to meet decision-makers’ desired objectives. It is hypothesized that the second stage decision choice is defined by decision-makers’ demographic characteristics and their motivational factors. Demographic characteristics, such as age and education, also serve as proxies for decision-makers’ embedded capabilities. The results show that for this case study, all demographic characteristics but gender are statistically significant, with education exhibiting the highest positive impact on the decision to diversify at the second stage. Economics was also determined to be a positive motivating factor in the intention to choose marketing, tourism and fishing and hunting enterprises at the third stage. However, personal satisfaction was a positive motivating factor for all enterprises except fishing and hunting. The impact of community as a motivation for any of these enterprises was split. It was negative for marketing and positive for accommodation and food service and statistically insignificant for tourism and fishing and hunting. The study provides an empirical foundation for exploring the diversification decision process and choices among smallholder producers as well as challenging policymakers to carefully determine how these decisions and choices actually get made given people’s situations and characteristics.
Q26|Valoración económica del subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas en Colombia: un análisis para formuladores de política desde un enfoque multi-servicios y multi-agentes|En el marco del diseño e implementación del subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas (SAMP) en Colombia, se realiza una valoración económica (VE) comprehensiva que utiliza variados métodos e incluye diferentes agentes que van desde comunidades locales hasta compradores de créditos de carbono, pasando por turistas especializados (buzos), pesquerías y hogares en 15 ciudades del país. Los resultados de esta VE muestran los beneficios asociados a los servicios ecosistémicos provistos por el SAMP en tres escenarios: el de mínima protección (4.4% en área y 60% en representatividad de los objetos de conservación –OdC-), donde se protegerían únicamente los sitios considerados de muy alta prioridad; el de cumplimiento de la meta de biodiversidad (10% de la superficie y cerca del 81% en representatividad de OdC) y el de protección ampliada (20% de la superficie y 92% de representatividad de OdC). Además de la magnitud de los beneficios encontrados para los diferentes servicios, se resalta la importancia que las comunidades locales otorgan a las Unidades Socio-ecológicas del Paisaje que rodean sus territorios y su disponibilidad a aceptar restricciones en el acceso y uso de los recursos, como resultado de la implementación de áreas marinas protegidas (AMPs), si éstas van acompañadas de alternativas de generación de ingreso que cubran a la mayoría de hogares en la comunidad y garanticen mejoras en la provisión de servicios de abastecimiento en el mediano plazo. Palabras clave Valoración de servicios ecosistémicos, valoración participativa, disponibilidad a pagar, disponibilidad a aceptar, áreas marinas protegidas.
Q26|Valoración Económica del Subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas en Colombia: Un estudio enfocado a Turistas Especializados|Los ecosistemas marinos y costeros son importantes por los bienes y servicios que proveen a la sociedad. A pesar de su importancia, estos ecosistemas están cada vez más expuestos a diferentes tipos de amenazas por prácticas humanas o fenómenos naturales, lo que ha causado una pérdida acelerada de ecosistemas y sus servicios. Para evitar este deterioro, a nivel mundial se han implementado Áreas Marinas Protegidas (AMPs); estas figuras legales buscan conservar, preservar y restaurar ecosistemas marinos que han sido afectados o se encuentran en peligro. El presente estudio busca estimar, a través de la metodología de valoración contingente (VC), el valor que los buzos recreativos (turistas especializados) asignan a un incremento de la superficie del sistema de áreas marinas protegidas de Colombia. Este incremento se basa en una ampliación que apunta a cumplir las metas de biodiversidad del país. Luego de implementarse la metodología de VC se encontró que los turistas especializados tienen una disponibilidad a pagar de 25,626 pesos colombianos (US$14.4) adicionales por cada día de inmersión, por la ampliación y consolidación del sistema. Finalmente, este estudio busca hacer recomendaciones de política orientadas a la conservación de las Áreas Marinas Protegidas con base en los cálculos y resultados obtenidos.
Q26|Count Models and Wildfire in British Columbia|Two count models are estimated in this analysis to explain the occurrence of wildfire and area burned by wildfire in the interior of British Columbia, Canada. The main explanatory variable is the 4-month lagged El Niño 1&2 index, which is found to have a strong positive influence on wildfire in the study region. As a result of the lag on the climate index, the count models can be used to predict annual wildfire occurrence and the overall monthly size of the area burned by fire districts. An increase in the mean value of the monthly El Niño 1&2 index is projected to result in a slight increase in the number of fires and an increase in the probability that large areas will be burned. Not unexpectedly, however, the impact in July and August could be quite high (increases of 30%). In conclusion, given the large variance, actual changes caused by climate change are uncertain and could be dramatic.
Q26|What do Environmental and Resource Economists Think? Results from a Survey of AERE Members|This article presents results from an opinion survey of members of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists (AERE) concerning issues ranging from basic market failure propositions to current policy questions to environmental attitudes. The topical issues considered span the discipline and include pollution, growth and sustainability, fisheries, forestry, and energy economics. We assess the degree to which there is a consensus among AERE members on specific issues and use a multivariate analysis to determine whether differences can be predicted by observable characteristics. We find that AERE members have reached consensus on many issues, but there are a few key areas where this is not the case. The multivariate analysis of survey responses indicates that the level of concern about the environment and natural resources, political ideology, and individual characteristics help explain the opinions of AERE members.
Q26|Substantiating The Development Strategies For Tourism In Protected Areas|The protected natural areas, irrespective of their classification modality or the motivations they propose, have become more and more attractive for tourists. However, in time, the increasing touristic flows they attract, often developed in an uncontrolled manner, lead to the erosion of the space and the degradation of ecosystems. Developing tourism on sustainable principles, with the appropriate balance of the two functions of a protected area – the scientific and the touristic function – should start from the analysis of this form of tourism and of the development opportunities and limits regarded from the perspective of the external environment, and from the particularisation of the concept “site’s tourist reception capacity”. Destination areas should meet the economic, social and ecological requirements in competition, so that they observe the integrity of natural resources and of local communities. The upper limit of the number of visits allowed in a protected area is purposefully set at a level below the identified level of accepted use, so that, in the long run, the environment could be able to cover the possible increases occurred in the number of tourists, without subjecting the environment to further harm.
Q26|Súčasné výzvy klimatických zmien pre lokality svetového dedičstva|Lokality Svetového dedičstva UNESCO ako miesta s výnimočným významom, integritou a autenticitou môžu slúžiť ako akýsi skorý indikátor zmien, ktoré prebiehajú v ekosystémoch alebo v spoločnosti. Keďže práve tieto miesta majú okrem estetickej funkcie aj ďalšie úlohy ako udržiavanie zásob pitnej vody, zabezpečovanie ekologickej rovnováhy v krajine, refúgium pre biodiverzitu a pod., je potrebné venovať zvýšenú pozornosť zmene charakteru týchto miest, pretože sú na ne naviazané ostatné oblasti s populáciou človeka. V článku sa snažíme podať stručný prehľad hlavných vplyvov zmeny podnebia a degradácie prostredia na vybrané lokality svetového dedičstva, tak ako ich opisujú nedávne odborné správy UNESCO.
Q26|Attitudes towards growing food in cities: the case of Lausanne, Switzerland|Urban agriculture is expected to improve the quality of life in urban areas and to contribute to a more sustainable urban development. In urban planning, directly perceived benefits to the local population should be considered. Urban residents may produce food; they may purchase locally produced vegetables or simply enjoy the presence of production sites near their home. A survey (n=889) is used to explore current practices in urban agriculture and the potential for the population’s participation in Lausanne, Switzerland. The results show that the aesthetic value explains a larger part of the positive attitude towards urban agriculture than the prospect of buying local food. When citizens have the prospect of growing vegetables on them, they appreciate the presence of production sites even more. Urban agriculture projects are expected to have broader popular support and a stronger impact on urban quality when the population actively participates in urban food production.
Q26|Valoración económica del subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas en Colombia: un análisis para formuladores de política desde un enfoque multi-servicios y multi-agentes|En el marco del diseño e implementación del subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas (SAMP) en Colombia, se realiza una valoración económica (VE) comprehensiva que utiliza variados métodos e incluye diferentes agentes que van desde comunidades locales hasta compradores de créditos de carbono, pasando por turistas especializados (buzos), pesquerías y hogares en 15 ciudades del país. Los resultados de esta VE muestran los beneficios asociados a los servicios ecosistémicos provistos por el SAMP en tres escenarios: el de mínima protección (4.4% en área y 60% en representatividad de los objetos de conservación –OdC-), donde se protegerían únicamente los sitios considerados de muy alta prioridad; el de cumplimiento de la meta de biodiversidad (10% de la superficie y cerca del 81% en representatividad de OdC) y el de protección ampliada (20% de la superficie y 92% de representatividad de OdC). Además de la magnitud de los beneficios encontrados para los diferentes servicios, se resalta la importancia que las comunidades locales otorgan a las Unidades Socio-ecológicas del Paisaje que rodean sus territorios y su disponibilidad a aceptar restricciones en el acceso y uso de los recursos, como resultado de la implementación de áreas marinas protegidas (AMPs), si éstas van acompañadas de alternativas de generación de ingreso que cubran a la mayoría de hogares en la comunidad y garanticen mejoras en la provisión de servicios de abastecimiento en el mediano plazo. Palabras clave Valoración de servicios ecosistémicos, valoración participativa, disponibilidad a pagar, disponibilidad a aceptar, áreas marinas protegidas.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q26|Valoración Económica del Subsistema de Áreas Marinas Protegidas en Colombia: Un estudio enfocado a Turistas Especializados|Los ecosistemas marinos y costeros son importantes por los bienes y servicios que proveen a la sociedad. A pesar de su importancia, estos ecosistemas están cada vez más expuestos a diferentes tipos de amenazas por prácticas humanas o fenómenos naturales, lo que ha causado una pérdida acelerada de ecosistemas y sus servicios. Para evitar este deterioro, a nivel mundial se han implementado Áreas Marinas Protegidas (AMPs); estas figuras legales buscan conservar, preservar y restaurar ecosistemas marinos que han sido afectados o se encuentran en peligro. El presente estudio busca estimar, a través de la metodología de valoración contingente (VC), el valor que los buzos recreativos (turistas especializados) asignan a un incremento de la superficie del sistema de áreas marinas protegidas de Colombia. Este incremento se basa en una ampliación que apunta a cumplir las metas de biodiversidad del país. Luego de implementarse la metodología de VC se encontró que los turistas especializados tienen una disponibilidad a pagar de 25,626 pesos colombianos (US$14.4) adicionales por cada día de inmersión, por la ampliación y consolidación del sistema. Finalmente, este estudio busca hacer recomendaciones de política orientadas a la conservación de las Áreas Marinas Protegidas con base en los cálculos y resultados obtenidos.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q26|Academic Tourism: a More Sustainable Tourism|This paper tries to justify that academic tourism, due to its characteristics, is a more sustainable type of tourism than conventional tourism. For this reason, we have analysed academic tourism taking into account the three dimensions of the sustainable development: economic, environmental and social. The results demonstrate that academic tourism has relatively greater economic impact than conventional tourism, that its negative effects on the environment are not significant, and that it benefits the future generations, since it contributes to increase knowledge and interrelationship among students of different countries and cultures. In light of these results, policy implications are then discussed. We analyze the experience of European Erasmus students in Spanish universities for the period 2000-2010.
Q26|A global map of coastal recreation values: Results from a spatially explicit meta-analysis|This paper examines the welfare dimension of the recreational services of coastal ecosystems. First, we construct a global database of primary valuation studies that focus on recreational benefits of coastal ecosystems. Second, the profile of each of the 253 individual observations is enriched with characteristics of the built coastal environment (accessibility, anthropogenic pressure, human development level), natural coastal environment (presence of protected area, ecosystem type, marine biodiversity), geo-climatic factors (temperature, precipitation), and sociopolitical context. We then propose a meta-analytical framework that is built upon a Geographic Information System (GIS) and allow for the exploration of the spatial dimension of the valued ecosystems, including the role of spatial heterogeneity of the selected meta-regression variables as well as the spatial profile of the transferred values. The empirical outcome results in the first global map of the values of coastal recreation, which may play a crucial role in identifying and ranking coastal area conservation priorities from a socio-economic perspective.
Q26|Dealing with preference uncertainty in contingent willingness to pay for a nature protection program: A new approach|In this paper, we propose an alternative preference uncertainty measurement approach where respondents have the option to indicate their willingness to pay (WTP) for a nature protection program either as exact values or intervals from a payment card, depending on whether they are uncertain about their valuation. On the basis of their responses, we then estimate their degree of uncertainty. New within this study is that the respondent's degree of uncertainty is “revealed”, while it is “stated” in those using existing measurement methods. Three statistical models are used to explore the sources of respondent uncertainty. We also present a simple way of calculating the uncertainty adjusted mean WTP, and compare this to the one obtained from an interval regression. Our findings in terms of determinants of preference uncertainty are broadly consistent with a priori expectations. In addition, the uncertainty adjusted mean WTP is quite similar to the one derived from an interval regression. We conclude that our method is promising in accounting for preference uncertainty in WTP answers at little cost to interviewees in terms of time and cognitive effort, on the one hand, and without researcher assumptions regarding the interpretation of degrees of uncertainty reported by respondents, on the other.
Q26|Convergent validity between revealed and stated recreation demand data: Some empirical evidence from the Basque Country, Spain|In a travel cost exercise, reported past visits to mount Jaizkibel, a natural area located in the Basque Country (Spain), are compared for convergent validity to stated intended future trips under the assumption that the natural resource's conditions will remain the same. In line with the results obtained by other studies, the empirical evidence of this application suggests that revealed preferences (RP) and stated preferences (SP) do not produce consistent data, i.e. do not achieve convergent validity. The paper deals with the convergent validity literature in continuous-choice studies by using two-staged count data models for recreation demand. Differences in preference structures and welfare estimates are tested assuming both common and different data generating processes for the RP and SP data.
Q26|Joint estimation using revealed and stated preference data: An application using a national forest|We combine contingent behaviour with travel cost data to estimate the change in the recreational use value of a National Forest due to quality and price changes. Instead of the usual improvement scenario, a hypothetical deterioration in the conditions of the forest due to a fire is considered. A dataset containing five observations for each respondent enabled the estimation of three models for which the number of scenarios differed. The results show that visitors are sensitive to price and quality changes and that in the forest fire scenario the intended number of trips would be reduced and that respondents would experience a welfare loss. Signs of inconsistency between preferences expressed by revealed and intended behaviour were found. This research also provides some indications that strategic bias affects answers to price changes.
Q26|Public economics of hitchhiking species and tourism-based risk to ecosystem services|This paper is the first to examine the public economics of export-based externalities arising within the provisioning of ecosystem services, with direct application to policies to prevent the spread of hitchhiking invasive species. We find when risk enters through exports, policy makers face a tradeoff between welfare improvements and reducing risk of invasion. Estimates of visitor demand elasticity for ecotourism are low, so price policies are not likely to reduce risk, though they can raise tax revenue. If demand is elastic enough to reduce risk, trade effects can cause loss of income greater than the risk of the invasion. The paper is motivated by the expansion of invasive species’ within the United States. We apply our model to the specific example of quagga and zebra mussels invasion into the U.S. Pacific Northwest.
Q26|Wildlife Gardening and Connectedness to Nature: Engaging the Unengaged|An often overlooked impact of urbanisation is a reduction in our ability to connect with nature in our daily lives. If people lose the ability to connect with nature we run the risk of creating a nature-disconnect, which is hypothesised to have an impact on our empathy for other species and our desire to help conservation efforts. Understanding how a sense of connection with nature can impact upon people's decisions to seek out nature in their daily lives is important if we wish to encourage the practice of wildlife gardening as a tool to enhance both urban biodiversity and connectedness to nature. This study targeted members of wildlife gardening programmes (n=261) and members of the general public (n=417) and provides empirical evidence that connectedness to nature is a primitive belief, but also shows that a strong sense of connection with nature is not a prerequisite for engaging in wildlife gardening.
Q26|Environmental Stewardship, Moral Psychology and Gardens|Vast and pervasive environmental problems such as climate change and biodiversity loss call every individual to active stewardship. Their magnitude and causal and strategic structures, however, pose powerful challenges to our moral psychology. Stewardship may feel overburdening, and appear hopeless. This may lead to widespread moral and political disengagement. This article proposes a resolve to garden practices as a way out of that danger, and describes the ways in which it will motivate individuals to so act as to coordinate on behavioural patterns that will significantly alleviate grave, but seemingly distant and intractable environmental quandaries.
Q26|The Role of Values in a Community-Based Conservation Initiative in Northern Ghana|In this paper we demonstrate the importance of non-economic values to community-based conservation by presenting findings from research into Kunlog Community Resource Management Area (CREMA) in northern Ghana. One of the central motivations for creating the CREMA was to reinforce a traditional taboo on bushbuck, and while some respondents mentioned the possibility of eventually attracting tourists, the primary desire behind the CREMA is to protect bushbuck and other wildlife for future generations. Several respondents emphasised wanting children and grandchildren to be able to grow up seeing the wildlife. Material benefits should not be the sole focus of those involved in promoting and legislating frameworks for community-based conservation - frameworks such as Ghana's CREMA policy. Government frameworks for the creation, registration and regulation of conservation initiatives should be flexible and able to accommodate diverse community-based conservation initiatives driven from a variety of mixes of motivations, including motivations deriving from non-material values.
Q26|Nautical tourism, carrying capac ity and environmental externality in a protected Lagoon of Northern Adriatic Sea|Tourism and environmental preservation are often conflicting activities, mainly in coastal lagoons, where seaside mass-tourism comes into contact with a very sensitive ecological system. In this paper we deal with a classical problem of both environmental and tourism economics, the internalization of environmental costs of tourism, focusing on the nautical fruition of the Lagoon of Marano and Grado (North-Eastern Italy, Friuli Venezia Giulia Region). Using different instruments, both theoretical (Carrying Capacity framework, Polluter-Payer principle, Coase compensation) and empirical (Log-log regression, Forecasting model, CBA with defensive expenditures and actual market values), we ascertained the result that - given the current nautical berths endowment - a standard Coase equilibrium (unit external cost equal to unit private benefit) does not hold, and a higher number of vessels transiting in the Lagoon is more effective than a tempered fruition for nature conservation. Another interesting result is that the best available solution to internalize environmental externality is a mixed one, combining a command and control rule (a speed-limit prescription) with a Coasian compensation scheme. All the technical theoretical and empirical derivations are reported in Appendix A (Pressure Parameter Calculation), Appendix B (Benefit and Cost Calculation), and Appendix C (Data set and Econometric Tests).
Q26|Nautical Tourism, Carrying Capacity and Environmental Externality in the Lagoon of Marano and Grado| Tourism and environmental preservation are often conflicting activities, mainly in areas such as coastal lagoons, where seaside mass-tourism comes into contact with a very sensitive ecological system. In this paper we deal with a classical problem of both environmental and tourism economics, the internalization of environmental costs of tourism, focusing on the nautical fruition of the Lagoon of Marano and Grado (North-Eastern Italy, Friuli Venezia Giulia Region). Using different instruments, both theoretical (Carrying Capacity framework, Polluter-Payer principle, Coase compensation) and empirical (Cluster analysis, Log-log regression, Forecasting model, cost and benefit calculation through actual market values), we get the result that a standard Coasian equilibrium (unit external cost equal to unit private benefit) doesn’t hold, and a higher coverage of the local berths endowment (i. e. a higher vessels transit in the Lagoon) is more effective for nature conservation than a tempered fruition. Another interesting result is that the best available solution to internalize environmental externality is a mixed one, comprehensive of a command and control rule (a speed-limit prescription), and a compensation scheme.
Q26|Analysis Of Howecotourismin Protected Areas Influence The Development Of Local Communities|Tourism, which, by its specific, uses natural resources, is an important contribution to environmental damage. In this context, efforts to find and promote holiday forms that have a low environmentalimpact, forms known as ecotourism, ecological tourism, tourism in protected areas, green tourism. Tourism industry stakeholders have become increasingly sensitive to environmental issues and few are those who now believe commercial activities have nothing to do with the development of ecological actions. Also many tour operators believe that the natural resources have economic value only if they are reasonably valued.
Q26|Attending to the Reasons for Attribute Non-attendance in Choice Experiments|This paper focuses on behavioural reasons underlying stated attribute non-attendance in choice experiments. In order to identify and incorporate procedures for dealing with heterogeneous attribute processing strategies, we ask respondents follow-up questions regarding their reasons for ignoring attributes. Based on these statements, we conclude that the standard way of assigning a zero impact of ignored attributes on the likelihood is inappropriate. We find that some respondents act in accordance with the passive bounded rationality assumption since they ignore an attribute simply because it does not affect their utility. Excluding these genuine zero preferences, as the standard approach essentially does, might bias results. Other respondents claim to have ignored attributes to simplify choices. However, we find that these respondents have actually not completely ignored attributes. We argue along the rationally adaptive behavioural model that valid preference information may indeed be elicited in these cases, and we illustrate how recoding of non-attendance statements conditional on stated reasons may be a more appropriate solution than the current standard way of taking stated non-attendance into account. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2013
Q26|Risky Sports and the Value of Information|We develop a theoretical account of how athletes engaged in risky sports value riskreducing information and use stated-preference data from a sample of backcountry skiers to empirically challenge the predictions of our model. Risk taking in this specific context depends on the athlete’s personal attitudes toward risky activities and his strategies to control the risk. Usage of specific information is one strategy of risk control. We estimate the demand value for avalanche information. Caution is however warranted because unobserved factors may jointly affect the athlete’s perception of risk and his willingness-to-pay for obtaining the information. We use a recursive two stage estimation approach to account for endogeneity concerns. Our results indicate that the demand value of information increases with wealth and perceived risk and tends to decrease with better skills to control risk and more information about the prevailing field conditions. These results support our theoretical predictions and suggest that variation in athletes’ WTP can be explained by their beliefs about the usefulness of information.
Q26|The Interdependence Of Forest Resources With The National Economy And The Necessity To Ensure Their Sustainable Development|The evolutions of the human society in past thirty years prove the necessity of an intervention to ensure a sustainable development. One of the most important principle of sustainability consist in preservation of natural resources and development of those activities, that can assure a real evolution of human society for a long period of time. The approach of aspects regarding to the situation of land, freshwater, biodiversity, atmosphere or forests can explain the real situation of environment and could help the economists find the best strategies for economic development. This goal of this article is to analyze the stage of present forestry resources and provide the reason for economists to take into account the limits in consumptions of environmental goods.
Q26|The Transition from the Neoclassical Growth Model to Ecology|This paper examines the assumptions and conclusions of the neoclassical growth model put forth by Solow and many others. We investigate the origins of the paradigm of unlimited growth and technological progress and question their plausibility. In contrast, we develop a modified version of the neoclassi- cal growth model where we consider non-human, environmental resources such as energy as an additional input factor and recognize their limited ca- pacity to recover from human impact. Surprisingly, the same mathematical framework of the neoclassical growth model gets to the opposite conclusions - namely that long term growth cannot exceed a level in which nature begins to deplete. Growth further that level as we might experience today leads to natural and economic disaster. Technological progress understood as produc- tivity increase can only delay but not prevent this crisis. We compare these conclusions to the opposite hypothesis of the Environmental Kuznets Curve. Also we show how this model can lead to a greater understanding of present or future observations that are connected to environmental deficiency, such as social divergence and stagnating life satisfaction in developed countries.
Q26|Economic Evaluation of Road Traffic Safety Measures|The number of road traffic casualties is still very lofty and the trend shows a boost with each passing day. The road traffic accidents involve fatalities due to which economic resources are damaged and the productivity of the economy is correspondingly impaired. Costs resulting from traffic accidents represent the largest single part of the overall cost of traffic to the economy. Knowledge about the harm of these traffic accidents to the economy is essential if measures to reduce road traffic accidents are to be identified and initiated. Once an economic assessment of road safety measures has been made, work on improving safety in accordance with economic criteria can be organized as efficiently as possible. Towards this end, it is necessary to opt for measures that are likely to be successful in a given situation. Current research is regarding the evaluation of road traffic safety measures in Pakistan and its economical effects based on available data. The research reveals that road accidents have key influence on the economic statistics of the country. The study presents a valuable tool for policy formulation on the road safety regulations in the country.
Q26|Еко-Управление В Българското Селското Стопанство<BR>[Environmental Management in Bulgarian Agriculture]|This study is a part of the research project on “Eco-management in agriculture” funded by the Agricultural Academy with period of implementation 2013-2014. This report summarizes the results of the first year and includes: - state of the studies in the area; - theoretical and methodological framework of analysis of eco-management in agriculture; - review of experiences of EU and other developed countries in eco-management in agriculture; - framework for analyzing, assessment and improvement of eco-management in Bulgarian agriculture; - analysis of evolution of institutional environment during transformation and European integration of Bulgarian agriculture; - analysis of the development of market, private and public modes of eco-management during transformation and European integration of Bulgarian agriculture; - analysis of the development and the importance of organic farming in recent years; - analysis of ecological culture of agricultural producers; - analysis of ecologization of grape and wine sector; - identification of major ecological problems, risks and challenges in Bulgarian agriculture; - conclusions. Detailed information for the project is available at: http://iae-eko.alle.bg/
Q26|Consumption of farmland between traditional interpretative paradigms and new spatial models|In this paper, we will discuss how soil consumption in mature economies is increasingly affecting farmland with measurable effects on the loss of eco-systemic services of agriculture. Different sets of indicators interconnect multiple phenomena: this fact restates the centrality of rural areas through the concept of multifunctionality. Modifications are intense, which imply the damage of multiple relationships between artificial space and agricultural systems. The observed trends suggest a concentration model of farm structures. This allows the testing of the effectiveness of agricultural policies. The tendency of relevant indicators shows the intensification of the restructuring process.
Q26|Count Models and Wildfire in British Columbia|Two count models are estimated in this analysis to explain the occurrence of wildfire and area burned by wildfire in the interior of British Columbia, Canada. The main explanatory variable is the 4-month lagged El Niño 1&2 index, which is found to have a strong positive influence on wildfire in the study region. As a result of the lag on the climate index, the count models can be used to predict annual wildfire occurrence and the overall monthly size of the area burned by fire districts. An increase in the mean value of the monthly El Niño 1&2 index is projected to result in a slight increase in the number of fires and an increase in the probability that large areas will be burned. Not unexpectedly, however, the impact in July and August could be quite high (increases of 30%). In conclusion, given the large variance, actual changes caused by climate change are uncertain and could be dramatic.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q26|Factors of Reclamation Success at the Lignite Strip-Mined Land in Northern Greece|The adverse ecological conditions at the lignite mines of Ptolemaida make the landscape reclamation difficult. The naturally established vegetation and soil properties were studied prior to reclamation. Various forest species were planted to assess the afforestation potential. The natural vegetation was heterogeneous but can be used for the analysis of the site. The soil of the spoil heaps was heterogeneous with unfavourable physicochemical properties. Surface soil temperature was still 24ºC higher in bare soil than in soil covered with vegetation. The most successful species of the afforestation trial were Robinia pseudoacacia and Cedrus atlantica. Covering of fly ash spoils with topsoil presented poor results, while sewage sludge gave a favorable amelioration response in areas with high fly ash content. Topsoil from older stands was the suggested method to establish Robinia pseudoacacia. Reclamation success was dependent on appropriate planning; thus, the new landscape had to be designed in harmony with the surrounding landscape before the start of the mining activity.
Q26|Typology Of Recreational-Tourism Resources As An Important Element Of The Tourist Offer|Tourism or the hospitality industry is among those economic activities that apart from realizing direct economic profits, it directly or indirectly impacts on the development of many other industries. Tourism through the tourist movements has a major impact on the geographical space, this effect is manifested on all the elements that make up the space, and these effects can be economic, social, public and environmental. Tourism consists of two basic components: Tourist movement and consumption, tourist movement is a basic spatial element while tourism consumption is the basic element of the tourism industry expressing the economic impact of tourism. Tourist movement necessarily initiate tourism consumption. In this context the question arises: what initiates tourist movement? The answer is: recreational-tourism resources are the main initiators for tourist travel and a very important tourist motive which animates the tourist movement. If the recreational-tourist resources are characterized by greater attractiveness better ambient and greater curiosity value, etc. this will initiate more massive tourist movement and greater tourist consumption. Therefore the necessity of defining, explaining, analyzing, and sharing recreational - tourism resources will be the key factors and subjects of analysis in this paper.
Q26|Pricing of National Park Visits in Kenya: The Case of Lake Nakuru National Park|This study analyses the factors influencing pricing of National Park visits in Kenya. A two step regression procedure is used to develop a pricing mechanism for Lake Nakuru National Park (LNNP). In the first stage, count data models are applied to estimate the Trip generating function to LNNP and in the second, the results from count data models are used to simulate visitation as price varied through an increase in the gate fee to LNNP. The simulated data is used to estimate the demand curves for LNNP. The finding shows that the current price set-up at LNNP of Ksh. 7,050 for international tourists and Ksh. 1,000 for domestic tourists is in fact cost recovery. However, there is greater scope to raise more revenue from an increase in entry fees. The study proposes price increase for international visits from the current Ksh. 7,050 (US$75) to Ksh.20,000 (US$230) in the medium term. This will yield a total revenue estimated at Ksh. 2,823 million (US$33 million) without major decline in visitation days. With regard to domestic visitors, the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) can increase the price from the current Ksh. 1,000 (US$11.8) to Ksh. 2,000 (US$ 22) over the same horizon. This price increase will yield revenue equivalent to Ksh. 288 million (US$ 3.4 million) but also lead to a decline in visitation levels from domestic group by 30 percent.
Q26|Accounting for variation in exogenous shocks in economic impact modeling|To increase confidence in results from a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model, modelers often conduct sensitivity analysis to better understand the impact of uncertainty or variations in underlying assumptions and parameter values on results. However, CGE modelers have paid little attention to variations in input (i.e., policy changes or exogenous shocks). Recently, a few input–output studies consider sources of input variations, but focus on addressing a single source of variation and, therefore, ignore the interactions (and cumulative effects) among them. In this study, we propose methods for calculating the range (confidence intervals) of impacts from input variations within a CGE framework, explicitly accounting for multiple sources of input variations. To illustrate our approach, we use, as an example, recreational fisheries in Alaska, and estimate confidence intervals of economic impacts from regulatory changes. In doing so, we consider two important sources of input variation driving the impacts: (i) sample variation in recreational fishing-related expenditures, which is estimated using bootstrapping approach and (ii) stochastic variation from the parameters in the recreation demand model, which is estimated using a simulation-based approach. Results show that confidence bounds on total economic impacts calculated while only accounting for the first type of variation (sample variation) are much narrower than the confidence bounds on the impacts when we account for both sample and stochastic variation in model inputs. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg (outside the USA) 2013
Q26|Empirical identification of perceived congestion|This paper investigates the empirical identification of perceived congestion and mitigating behavior using observational data. Congestion effects are identified using a procedure based upon a nonlinear function of the choice attributes combined with an equilibrium condition on the sorting behavior of participants. Results suggest that congestion effects can be identified, under certain assumptions, using only revealed preference data, and that ignoring these effects underestimates the strength of preferences for other attributes. The model is applied to data on rock climbers, and the resulting estimates used to simulate the reopening of a currently closed section of a popular NY rock-climbing area and the re-sorting of climbers that would result. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
Q26|Can nature promote development? The role of sustainable tourism for economic growth| In this paper, we analyse whether biodiversity can enhance the developmental process in developing countries (DCs) by increasing tourism receipts in a trade-based endogenous growth framework. The model is based on the underlying assumption that a rich biodiversity provides a comparative advantage in sustainable tourism services. The empirical evidence shows that biodiversity while being significantly and positively correlated with inbound tourism receipts has no significant effect on tourist arrivals (mass tourism). This suggests that the biodiversity endowment of a very country is an important precondition for sustainable tourism. Moreover, we empirically show that specialising in sustainable tourism promotes economic growth. Therefore, a promising development strategy can rests on the investment into biodiversity which attracts high-budget tourists.
Q26|Risky Sports and the Value of Information|We develop a theoretical account of how athletes engaged in risky sports value riskreducing information and use stated-preference data from a sample of backcountry skiers to empirically challenge the predictions of our model. Risk taking in this specific context depends on the athlete’s personal attitudes toward risky activities and his strategies to control the risk. Usage of specific information is one strategy of risk control. We estimate the demand value for avalanche information. Caution is however warranted because unobserved factors may jointly affect the athlete’s perception of risk and his willingness-to-pay for obtaining the information. We use a recursive two stage estimation approach to account for endogeneity concerns. Our results indicate that the demand value of information increases with wealth and perceived risk and tends to decrease with better skills to control risk and more information about the prevailing field conditions. These results support our theoretical predictions and suggest that variation in athletes’ WTP can be explained by their beliefs about the usefulness of information.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
