Q27|Open Access Renewable Resources, Urban Unemployment, and the Resolution of Dual Institutional Failures|This paper investigates how poverty reduction and environmental resource preservation can be simultaneously achieved in a small open dual economy with urban wage rigidity, rural open access resources, and rural-urban migration. An increase in the export tax rate on the rural resource good increases urban unemployment in both the short and long run with resource dynamics. We find that the first-best policy, which makes the two goals compatible, is an urban wage subsidy combined with either a rural wage subsidy at a lower rate or, if the urban output price is sufficiently high, a rural tax. An increase in the export tax on the resource good could induce rural institutional change away from open access, but protection of urban manufacturing through a tariff hinders such rural institutional change.
Q27|Closing Gaps in National Regulations Against IUU Fishing|This paper identifies the progress achieved by individual countries in implementing internationally recognised best policies and practices against illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing since 2005. It aims to inspire and guide governments and all stakeholders in the fisheries sector in how to focus their effort and investment to step up their fight against IUU fishing. The paper builds on a suite of policy indicators that investigate the extent to which countries meet their responsibilities in the most important dimensions of government intervention in relation to IUU fishing. The indicators show considerable improvement in fighting IUU fishing over the last decade, in line with international treaties and voluntary agreements. They also point to the gaps that need to be closed to individually and collectively work towards eliminating IUU fishing.
Q27|Intensifying the Fight Against IUU Fishing at the Regional Level|Regional fisheries management organisations (RFMOs) are the primary mechanism for co-operation between fishing countries and coastal states to ensure sustainable fishing globally. This paper aims to inspire and guide RFMO secretariats and member countries in how to focus their effort and investment to step up the contribution of RFMOs to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. It does so by measuring the extent to which RFMOs apply best practices against IUU fishing and pointing to the remaining gaps. Information gathered from RFMOs’ resolutions and recommendations introducing conservation and management measures (CMMs), other publicly available sources and direct communication with RFMOs’ secretariats was analysed and summarised into five indicators reflecting the most important management tools targeting IUU fishing at the disposal of RFMOs. Indicators show overall progress among RFMOs, but discrepancies remain, suggesting scope for improvement by learning from best performers.
Q27|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and effciency motives. A priori, this fi nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to first increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse off in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
Q27|On the Impact of Trade in a Common Property Renewable Resource Oligopoly|We consider a common-pool renewable resource differential game. We show that within this dynamic oligopolistic framework, free trade may lead to a lower discounted sum of consumer surplus and of social welfare than autarky. Trade restrictions may be supported based on both resource conservation and efficiency motives. A priori, this fi…nding is not straightforward; a move from Autarky to Free Trade causes industry output to fi…rst increase and then decrease over time. While producers are shown to be always worse off under free trade than under autarky, consumers are better off in the short run and worse o¤ in the long run. We determine the conditions under which the long-run effects outweigh the short-run effects of trade, leading to a decrease in the discounted sum of not only consumer surplus, but also social welfare.
Q27|Can preferential trade agreements enhance renewable electricity generation in emerging economies? A model-based policy analysis for Brazil and the European Union| Preferential trade agreements with climate-related provisions have been suggested as alternative to a New Market Mechanism due to its potential not only to achieve Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) in emerging economies but also to lead to more ambitious targets in the first UNFCCC global stocktake in 2023. The objective of this research is therefore to analyze the effectiveness and quantify the economic impacts of such a trade agreement between Brazil and the European Union that aims to support renewable electricity generation. Using a multi-regional computable general equilibrium model, we find that the environmental effectiveness of a preferential trade agreement targeting renewable electricity generation strongly depends on its design. In particular, preferential trade agreements require additional elements to effectively contribute to mitigation as the sole removal of import tariffs on renewable energy technology is quite ineffective in scaling up the share of wind, solar, and biomass in Brazil. In contrast, a preferential trade agreement triggering FDI flows towards renewable electricity generation is effective in increasing the share of renewables in the generation mix and in reducing CO2 emissions, while positively affecting the Brazilian economic performance. Finally, we compare the two previous approaches to a domestic energy policy: a combination of higher fossil fuel taxes and subsidies to renewable electricity generation. We find that although this domestic energy policy is more effective in mitigation terms than the FDI policy, economic performance is negatively affected in several sectors. When such economic costs are socially not acceptable, as it is likely in many emerging economies, properly designed preferential trade agreements could therefore be a suitable instrument for supporting the achievement of NDCs, and potentially increase their stringency for the next stock taking period.
Q27|Tjong Yong Hian And the Development of The City of Medan, The Existence of Chinese The Economy Field in Indonesia|The domination of economy and trading by a Chinese group in Indonesia could not be separated from the ”open door policy” since colonial age. Politically, Chinese had been granted special privilege through vreemde oosterlingen system, which was the separation of foreign eastern people and native inhabitants. Besides the officer system, residential system, construction of the social order were the construction of power hegemony in order to achieve development objectives. Tjong Yong Hian was one of the prominent businessman in a colonial age that arose from the production of that colonial policy system. Position and status that were given to Tjong Yong Hian, as well as political policy that were given by the government to the Chines,e enabled Tjong Yong Hian to strengthen his existence in the economy field. His success in developing his business empire had given contribution in the development of the City of Medan since the beginning of the 20th century.
Q27|Climate Friendly Goods and Technology Trade: Climate Mitigation Strategy of India|This study focuses on India’s climate change mitigation strategy through trade and how India gradually moves forward towards the goal of sustainable development path. The paper highlights trade performances of climate friendly goods and technology (CFGT) in India during 2002-20017 and suggests possible solution through trade channels that might mitigate climate change through disseminating and exchanging the low carbon and clean technologies, which improve energy efficiency and minimizes environmental impacts. The products associated with clean technologies which have relatively less adverse impact on the environment. This paper attempts to realize India’s CFGT export and import, and quantify trade opportunities of CFGT in India. With these it also identifies constrains and helps to widen capacity and strengthen its capability in the advancement of capturing new opportunities in production and trade in CFGT. India should adopt few policies to improve and raise CFGT production while trade ensures availability of technologies
Q27|Virtual Water Trade: The Implications of Capital Scarcity|The original idea behind the virtual water (VW) concept is that water-abundant countries will become producers of water-intensive goods and consequently net exporters of water, and this will alleviate the initial unequal distribution of hydric resources. We criticize this optimistic view by introducing empirical evidence that is consistent with the Heckscher-Ohlin model of international trade. We find that, though virtual water exports are increasing in the combined availability of water and arable land when comparing countries with a similar level of available water-land resources, those with higher (lower) levels of physical-human capital tend to be net importers (exporters) of water. This result relies on the intuition that high levels of capital accumulation lead water to become a relatively scarce factor in developed countries. Thus, while more developed countries shift away from agriculture, less developed countries that lack sufficient capital do not have this option and end up using water resources even if they are not abundant. Such a trade pattern could create immediate economic benefits for less developed countries, but also exerts pressure on their water resources. Therefore, prioritizing economic development in countries that have limited water availability, may be crucial to avoid excessive usage and depletion of global water resources.
Q27|Low, High and Super Congestion of an Open-Access Resource: Impact under Autarky and Trade, with Aquaculture as Illustration|Analysis of open-access common-property natural resource (NR) has occurred under “low” congestion (LC) – where 𝐴𝐶 and 𝑀𝐶 increase with output 𝑄 – and has for the most part ignored the more important congestion categories where 𝐴𝐶 (𝑀𝐶) is backward-bending (negative) and welfare and NR losses are significantly greater. This paper identifies two such categories, “high” (HC) and “super” (SC) congestion, and examines the impact of open access on steady-state welfare, NR, employment, output and price in a general equilibrium model. Main findings are: i) Welfare and NR costs (and optimal taxes) are a multiple or orders of magnitude greater under HC and (especially) SC than under LC, with trade further – and always – reducing an open-access exporter’s NR and welfare. These results are robust to alternative parameter values and functional forms and greatly increase the importance of regulation; ii) An optimal tax raises price and reduces output under autarky in the case of LC and HC but reduces price and raises output under SC, with significantly larger gains; iii) Studies conducted under LC show trade between open-access developing country C1 and regulated but otherwise identical C2 reduces C1’s welfare and both C1’s and global NR, and though the same holds under HC, the opposite holds under SC; iv) Trade between two open-access countries – say, a developing and an emerging one – with different externality (population) levels raises global output and welfare, improves NR’s global efficiency, raises (does not affect) its level, and reduces international inequality; and v) Emigration’s welfare gain is much larger under SC than under LC, especially if migration results in LC after migration. Application to other issues and policy implications are provided.
Q27|International Fisheries Access Agreements and Trade|International fishery access agreements allow fishermen from one country to harvest fish in another country's waters. We empirically examine, using a unique global panel dataset, why countries sign fisheries access agreements with each other and compare these to the characteristics of countries that choose the path of international trade. We show that access agreements and fish exports are driven by two key motives: a pattern of comparative advantage in fishing, which depends on fish stocks and fishing capacities; and gravity factors of economic size and distance. Our results suggest that most gravity factors work similarly for agreements and exports: larger countries that are closer to each other are more likely to sign access agreements or to trade. However, the pattern of advantage is determined differently: source countries with larger fishing capacity are more likely to export fish, while source countries with lower fishing capacity are more likely to sign agreements.
Q27|Re-Opening the Silk Road to Transform Chinese Trade|Under anti-globalization and isolationism, China is seeking to portray itself as a new leader for globalization under the banner of the Silk Road initiative. Meanwhile, China’s traditional and comparatively advantaged industry, silk, has faced dire predicaments and challenges for long time, and needs a transformation in terms of initiatives. Throughout history, the prosperity arising from silk was supposed to represent a microcosm of Chinese society. This paper searches the breakthrough point to improve the current dilemma of Chinese silk enterprises; uses a Case Study for inductive reasoning that is feasible for marketing strategies; and provides a strategy to help Chinese silk enterprises to transform their market positioning and operating modes to obtain better development opportunities. The paper also analyzes the new external environment based on the “One Belt, One Road” principle, which is of crucial importance for the implementation of new marketing strategies..
Q27|Product quality and sustainability: The effect of international environmental agreements on bilateral trade|This paper addresses the impact of sustainability in production on international trade. In particular, it examines the effect of the International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA) on tropical timber trade. The empirical analysis is based on a gravity equation in a difference‐in‐difference setting, which is estimated by a panel Heckman's selection model. This accounts for the potentially systematic selection of trading partners into timber trade activity. We then conduct a comprehensive comparative static analysis solving the structural gravity model with and without the ITTA. This allows us to determine the trade impact of an ITTA‐induced increase in sustainability for participating as well as for third countries. We find that countries participating in the ITTA exhibit a significant and substantial increase in trade values ranging from 4% to 6%. Furthermore, we observe that this effect is more pronounced for smaller member countries. Non‐ITTA countries are confronted with reduced values of tropical timber trade flows.
Q27|Eco-Efficiency Of The Road Freight Transport Of The Region North America In The International Trade|This research aims at quantifying and analyzing carbon footprint as an indicator of eco-efficiency in the Mexican international road freight transport industry. We compare Mexican efficiency to the United States and Canada. This evaluation is done using GHG emissions (Greenhouse Gas) of Quantis in its Scope 3 version. We examine data series for the period 2003-2011. The carbon footprint of Mexico, USA and Canada was calculated and then a comparative evaluation of the emissions was performed for each of the 3 countries. The results show that Mexico and Canada generate a higher percentage of indirect emissions, without downplaying direct emissions generated. In the US the total emissions from the sector study (80.62%) refers to emissions generated directly by operating units of the sector. It concludes with alternative solutions to mitigate emissions
Q27|Stock market response to potash mine disasters|We examine the stock market reaction to natural and man-made disasters in potash mines. We use a sample of 44 mining accidents worldwide over the period 1995-2016. A quarter of the accidents were the result of a natural disaster, such as flooding, that often ended in the closure of the potash mine. The remaining accidents were caused mainly by human error, and almost 50% were work accidents often associated with serious injury or death. On average, mining firms experience a drop in their market value of 0.89% on the day of a disaster. However, we observe a significantly stronger response of the stock market to natural events. Indeed, the regression analysis confirms that the firm’s market loss is significantly related to the seriousness of the accident. On the other hand, we do not find any other micro- or macro-level factors that determine the stock market reaction following a disaster.
Q27|Policy landscape of trade in environmental goods and services|This paper analyses the trends in trade flows and trade policies in environmental goods (EGs) and related services, with a focus on the Asia-Pacific Economies. The paper finds that the region is a dominant player in both exports and imports of EGs in the world, contributing to 42% and 44%, respectively. Renewable energy related goods dominate both the export and import basket of EGs in the region. The paper warns that even though specific environmental goods in general face very low tariffs, many other goods that are however required for environmental projects still face high tariffs, especially in least developed countries. Hence, the paper calls for a ‘holistic approach’ for tariff liberalization. The paper highlights the role of services in environmental sectors. The paper estimates an augmented gravity model of trade flows that integrates non-tariff measures (NTMs) and services trade restrictions. The estimations find that while tariffs have had an insignificant impact on environmental goods trade, NTMs have a strong negative impact. The impact of NTMs is more strongly felt by exports from low income countries when compared with middle income and high-income ones. The services trade restrictions also have a significant negative impact on the EG trade. The results point to the need for integrating NTMs and service sector policies within the framework of environmental goods negotiations to expedite the process of liberalizing global trade in EG.
Q27|Does Renewable Energy Consumption Drive Economic Growth: Evidence from Granger-Causality Technique|This study investigates the causal relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth in South Africa. It incorporates carbon dioxide emissions, capital formation and trade openness as additional variables to form a multivariate framework. Quarterly data is used for the period 1990–2014 and is tested for stationarity using the Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF), Dickey Fuller Generalised Least Squares (DF-GLS) and Phillips and Perron (PP) unit root tests. The study employs the Autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) model to examine the long run relationship among the variables. Lastly, the study determines the direction of causality between the variables using the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM). The results validated an existence of a long run relationship between the variables. Moreover, a unidirectional causality flowing from renewable energy consumption to economic growth was established in the long run. The short run results suggested a unidirectional causality flowing from economic growth to renewable energy consumption. The findings of the study suggest that an appropriate and effective public policy is required in the long run, while considering sustainable economic growth and development.
Q27|East Asian Integration: Towards an East Asian Economic Community|East Asia is a region of great global significance, currently accounting for around 30% of the global economy by most measures, e.g. production, trade, investment, and finance. It has also become increasingly integrated in various ways. Integration at the micro-level has steadily progressed since the 1960s, as indicated by rising intraregional trade. Moreover, East Asia’s economic regionalisation has become more functionally integrative, this broadly relating to the spread of transnational business and other technical systems where production, trade, and investment have become a function of each other within those systems. For example, as later explored, much of East Asia’s regionalised trade concerns cross-border movement of parts and components within the international production networks of multinational enterprises. Since the 1990s, East Asian states have in addition looked to strengthen regional cooperation and integration intergovernmentally at the macro-level, i.e. involving whole country economies. This has been driven by the need to manage their growing regional economic interdependencies and address future challenges that confront them all, such as globalisation and climate change. As we will discuss, this has been part of regional economic community-building efforts in East Asia, both across the whole region and within it at various subregional levels. We examine the key dimensions of East Asia’s integration, how they have developed over time, and what likely paths lie ahead in the endeavour to strengthen regional economic community-building.
Q27|Drivers of international shipments of hazardous waste: the role of policy and technology endowment|Using a gravity model for trade, this work analyzes the factors influencing the patterns of international hazardous waste flows, relying on newly available data reported in the E-PRTR (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry) for EU-OECD countries over the period 2007 to 2014. Exploiting a consolidated empirical framework (Kellenberg, 2012), we test two empirical hypotheses: firstly, we explicitly assess if, according to the pollution heaven hypothesis (PHH), the relative levels of environmental policies across countries are an important determinant of hazardous waste trade, and secondly, we test if technological specialization, proxied here by a technology-specific patent stock, can be considered as a pull factor capable to influence the patterns of international trade of hazardous waste.
Q27|Environmental Disasters and Electoral Cycle: An Empirical Analysis on Floods and Landslides in Italy|Abstract The aim of this paper is to analyse potential drivers of land use policy, in the form of building permits issued in Italian provinces. We first derive testable implications on the basis of a standard political agency framework, augmented to account for the impact of past environmental disasters (floods, landslides and earthquakes) and for the relevance of “building permits intensive” sectors in determining voters’ support to an incumbent politician. We then perform an empirical analysis that tests theoretical predictions using a unique dataset covering Italy in the period 2001–2012. Our main conclusions show that the occurrence of floods and earthquakes decreases building permits, implying that a bad history in terms of these phenomena strengthens the importance of voters affected by past disasters. No corresponding evidence seems to emerge with reference to landslides. On the other hand, the relevance of the construction sector increases the number of building permits issued. Finally, when elections approach, the number of building permits issued grows, suggesting that incumbent politicians may distort land use policies in order to favour “brown” voters in periods close to elections.
Q27|The Allure of the Illegal: Choice Modelling of Rhino Horn Demand in Vietnam|Demand for rhino horn products is the main driver of illegal hunting of African rhinos. Using choice modelling we identify the main drivers of demand and estimate consumer willingness to pay for rhino horn attributes of high policy relevance among Vietnamese users and potential users. We find that wild or semi-wild sourced horn, harvested humanly from least rare species is the most valued among Vietnamese consumers. Furthermore, consumers are willing to pay more for illegally-traded horn, indicating that the international ban on the trade has generated a premium for illegal horn.
Q27|Vâlcea County - Polarizing Tourism Activity In The Southwestern Region Of Oltenia|Vâlcea County's natural tourism potential covers all tourism resources offered by the natural environment of the County, through its components: terrain, weather conditions and water, vegetation and fauna elements, including metamorphoses suffered by these as a result of human intervention. Based on the analysis of tourism potential and touring indicators, we have developed a SWOT analysis that serves as a tool that highlights the strengths, enables the establishment of ways to limit the weaknesses, exploit the opportunities and potential reduction of the impact that the threats may have on the tourism activity in Vâlcea County
Q27|The Importance Of The Climate Index For Characterize Tourism Favorability In The Cindrel Mountains|In determining the climate's favourability for tourism in PÄƒltiniÈ™ resort and its surrounding areas, it is necessary to know the values of the bioclimatic indices. The most often used climatic parameters are temperature, air humidity and wind speed. They are used in different combinations and formulas and the targeted result are the same every time - determining the degree of climatic comfort for the touristic activities' participants, and the main types of topo climates, favourable or less favourable for performing touristic activities or human activities in general.
Q27|Cost-Benefit Analysis of Renewable Power under Full Subsidy Targeting Law Enforcement Conditions in Iran|Fossil energy extracted resources limitation, on the one hand and fossil energies induced environment pollution, on the other hand, have made renewable energies more attractive, especially for developing countries. Thus international programs and policies such as the UN programs have been considered in line with global sustainable development playing a special role for renewable energy resources. Although, in practice various factors in particular high initial cost and marginal price, not sufficient investment for localization and the associated technologies efficiency enhancement, taking external costs for granted in the economic equations and lack of supportive policies at local, regional and international levels have made renewable energies penetration and development very slow and limited. It is emphasized that rich fossil resources (standing 4th rank in oil reserves and 2nd in gas reserves) existence in Iran has been another giant obstacle for renewable energies development in Iran. Thus executing subsidy targeting policy and Article 44 of Iranian Constitutional law can be a great opportunity for renewable energies development in Iran. Through economically evaluating the renewable power and comparing it with fossil electricity under full subsidy targeting law enforcement conditions, renewable electricity marginal cost sensitivity analysis and various guaranteed renewable energies resources electricity purchase tariff proposal to the government, the researcher in this study hopes that the private sector investor’s opportunity in this industry and subsequently, renewable electricity share increase in Iran energy basket will be provided.
Q27|Trade with endogenous transportation costs: The case of liquefied natural gas|This paper investigates the relationship between LNG shipping costs and regional natural gas price spreads. We use data on natural gas prices and shipping costs to analyze the distribution of trade benefits within the LNG value chain when shipping costs are endogenous to price spread developments. Our empirical analysis suggests that for the 2006–2014 period, the LNG shipping sector has had an implied scarcity rent on LNG shipping capacity of $0.14/MMBtu for the EU/US spread, $0.32/MMBtu for the Asia/EU spread, and $0.42/MMBtu for the Asia/US spread. We highlight in a counter-factual analysis that this distributional effect is not economically negligible. We investigate how including endogenous transportation costs affects the measured degree of price convergence between regional natural gas markets. We find that price convergence is stronger when we control for variations in transportation costs rather than implicitly assuming fixed or exogenous costs.
Q27|Trade and fisheries subsidies|Many renewable resource sectors are heavily subsidized and yet the resources are also seriously depleted. World Trade Organization members included subsidies in a key renewable resource sector (fisheries) in the Doha round of trade negotiations, which subsequently stalled. This paper develops a simple model to show why prospects for a deal on fisheries subsidies may be difficult. Typically international spillover effects create incentives among exporters to negotiate reductions in subsidies: one country's subsidy worsens other exporters' terms of trade. These incentives may not exist in fisheries for 3 reasons. First, open access fishery supply curves are backward bending and so if fisheries are depleted, subsidies raise prices (by reducing sustainable harvesting) and improve other exporters' terms of trade. Second, ecological constraints put an upper bound on sustainable harvesting. This means that subsidies that increase employment may have no effect on output and hence generate no international spillover effects if resources are well managed. And third, even if governments were compelled to reduce fishery subsidies, there may be no spillover benefits to trading partners because of policy substitution: governments would be motivated to weaken other regulations targeting the fish sector.
Q27|Gesamtwirtschaftliche Wirkungen der Exporttätigkeit der deutschen PV- und Windindustrie – der Aufbau internationaler Wertschöpfungsketten und Deutschlands Rolle auf dem Weltmarkt für Technologien zur Nutzung erneuerbarer Energien|Der globale Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien hat sich in den letzten Jahren von den Vorreitermärkten in Europa in die Entwicklungs- und Schwellenländer Asiens und Nordafrikas verlagert. Insbesondere angesichts großer globaler Player wie China, das es innerhalb kurzer Zeit an die Spitze der Top Ten Länder mit den höchsten Neuinstallationen geschafft hat und mittlerweile auch an der Spitze der Länder mit den höchsten installierten Leistungen steht, stellt sich die Frage, wo eigentlich die zukünftige Herstellung der Anlagen stattfinden wird. Wird Deutschland an der Wertschöpfung durch den weltweiten Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien teilhaben? Welche Bedingungen gibt es hierfür? Umsatz und Beschäftigung durch die Herstellung von EE-Anlagen entsteht nicht nur in der Anlagenproduktion, sondern entlang der gesamten Wertschöpfungskette. Erst die differenzierte Analyse entlang der Wertschöpfungskette kann zu einer Aussage führen, in welchen Weltregionen der Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien zu Beschäftigung auf welcher Wertschöpfungsstufe führt und insbesondere, wo sich weitere wirtschaftliche Potentiale für Deutschland ergeben. Hierzu gilt es folgende Leitfragen zu beantworten: Wie sind die internationalen Wertschöpfungsketten im Bereich der EE aktuell aufgebaut und welche Entwicklungen sind hier zu erwarten? In welchen Bereichen hat die deutsche Industrie Wettbewerbsvorteile? Wie beeinflussen welche politischen Instrumente sowohl in Deutschland als auch in Europa/weltweit die Entwicklung der internationalen Märkte für EE-Technologien? Nachfolgend wird zunächst der Begriff der Wertschöpfung in der Ökonomie aufgearbeitet und anhand von Beispielen illustriert (Kapitel 2). Speziell für die Querschnittsbranchen der erneuerbaren Energien muss dieser Begriff neu zugeschnitten und erweitert werden (Kapitel 3). Insbesondere zur Berechnung von Beschäftigung durch den Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien sind hier auf Basis verschiedener Ansätze bereits Arbeiten in der Literatur zu finden. Kapitel 4 gibt dazu einen Überblick. Kapitel 5 geht ins Detail der Wertschöpfungsketten für die Windenergie, die Photovoltaik und die Wasserkraft, da diese Technologien den weltweiten EE-Ausbau dominieren und somit die größten Umsätze auf sich vereinen. Ausführlich werden die Inputs entlang der jeweiligen Wertschöpfungsketten beschrieben. Kapitel 6 geht auf die Marktpositionen deutscher Unternehmen in den jeweiligen Märkten entlang der Wertschöpfungskette ein und Kapitel 7 zieht ein Zwischenfazit, ehe in Kapitel 8 mögliche deutsche Exporte beim internationalen EE-Ausbau abgeleitet werden. In Kapitel 9 werden die möglichen gesamtwirtschaftlichen Effekte aus den zuvor abgeleiteten Exporten bestimmt. Kapitel 10 zieht ein Fazit und gibt einen Ausblick.
Q27|Radiography Of African Trade|In the last decades, trade performance of the African countries has seen significantimprovements. This is due, on the one hand, to enhanced bilateral trade with emerging economies,especially China, India and Brazil, whose “appetite” for resources was an important stimulus. On theother hand, it is the result of increased regional integration in the ”Dark Continent”, through theestablishment of the Tripartite Free Trade Area and the advanced talks on the creation of theContinental Free Trade Area. Nevertheless, according to trade in goods statistics by regions andcountries, Africa ranks last.This paper aims to give an analysis of the African countries’ commercial relations with therest of the world, based on UNCTAD statistics and literature provided by the IMF, WTO, OECD, andAfDB (African Development Bank).
Q27|Tradable Set-Aside Requirements (TSARs): Conserving Spatially Dependent Environmental Amenities|Abstract Land conversion patterns can conflict with endangered species protection by fragmenting the landscape. Incentive mechanisms can help mitigate the threat of habitat fragmentation by aggregating landowner conservation decisions across the landscape. The optimal conservation strategy for endangered species can target the most connected habitat cluster as an initial starting point, and then expand the conservation patch to maximize connectivity. Herein we present an incentive mechanism, the tradable set-aside requirements (TSARs), designed to target the low cost contiguous conservation landscape and share the burden of conservation among landowners. In the lab, we examine the performance of two land use conservation policies: TSARs, and the TSARs combined with an agglomeration bonus. Evaluated by economic and biological measures of efficiency, we find that TSARs, relative to a command and control policy, increases patch size and habitat connectivity within the landscape. Additionally, combining TSARS with the agglomeration bonus increases biological efficiency (habitat connectivity and patch size within the landscape) but at a price—higher opportunity cost. TSARs with the agglomeration bonus can be more cost-effective than a TSARs only policy for species sensitive to large core habitat requirements and landscape connectivity.
Q27|Open-access Renewable Resources and Urban Unemployment: Dual Institutional Failures in a Small Open Economy|This paper investigates when poverty reduction and environmental resource preservation can be compatible in developing economies with two prominent institutional failures: wage rigidity in urban labor markets and open access to rural natural resources. We develop a small open dualistic economy model with these institutional features, and investigate the effects of an export tax on the resource good on urban unemployment and overexploitation of the rural resource. At the steady state, the first-best policy calls for an urban wage subsidy while rural labor should be subsidized at a lower rate, or be taxed. A rural tax constitutes the first-best policy when the domestic price of urban manufactured good is sufficiently high. Thus the well-known first-best policy prescription by Bhagwati and Srinivasan (1974) does not apply to developing countries when the world price of the resource good is low under free trade and/or an import tariff on the manufactured good is high. Unlike what the literature indicates, an increase in the export tax rate generally reduces the rate of urban unemployment, thereby improving welfare. However, the level of urban unemployment is more likely to increase if the initial rate of export tax is lower. A small export tax always improves welfare by mitigating the two institutional failures.
Q27|Renewable energy trade within Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) countries: an exploratory analysis|Though the availability of cost effective and potentially efficient renewable energy technologies is a necessary condition for the promotion of green growth nationally and internationally, it is the intended nationally determined contributions (INDC) to make use of such technologies is crucial. International trade in low carbon renewable energy goods provides an effective way of achieving INDCs nationally, even when individual countries may not have sufficient infrastructure readily available to them to fulfill INDCs. It is in this context, examination of whether renewable energy goods exports have been flowing without constraints in the Asian region and whether the RCEP regional cooperation mooted by the ASEAN can potentially facilitate minimizing those constraints at the regional level. The short answers to those questions are no and yes respectively. The answer is no mainly due to the existing institutional rigidities of which the major one is the non-tariff measures. The answer is yes mainly due to the possibility of improving the technical cooperation in producing renewable energy goods and consultations in removing non-tariff barriers through the effective functioning of RCEP..
Q27|Consumer Demand for Rhino Horn in Vietnam: insights from a choice experiment|The international demand for endangered animal and plant species as traditional medicine, luxury foods and curios is strong and rising, especially in eastern Asia. The illegal poaching of wildlife to supply this market represents an immediate and growing threat to the survival of many endangered species. To counter the illegal international wildlife trade, the global community remains committed to supply-side trade restrictions and enforcement of poaching laws. However, despite these actions recovery in the populations of many species is being threatened by rising poaching rates over the last 10 years. In this paper, we use a choice experiment undertaken with over 800 residents of Vietnam, in order to investigate how the demand for rhino horn varies according to its source attributes. The survey sample includes 130 respondents who reported having either purchased or used rhino horn medicinal products in the past 5 years and a further 345 who expressed some interest in purchasing rhino horn medicinal products in the future. In particular, we estimate willingness to pay for horn that differs according to source (farmed, semi-wild, farmed) harvesting method (lethal and non-lethal), rarity of the rhino species and price. We also compare preferences elicited in the context of illegal trade in rhino horn, compared to legalised trade, and how consumer preferences vary according to socio-economic variables such as income. We find that preferences are significantly influenced by source and harvesting method and income level, with non-lethal harvesting and wild sourced horn generally preferred especially by the richest consumers, who are also the consumers most likely to have previously bought horn products. Under a legal trade demand would fall for all horn types and consumer groups.
Q27|Using Income Contingent Loans for the Financing of the Next Million Australian Solar Rooftops|Rooftop solar systems have two major benefits: a reduction of carbon emissions (a public good) and future energy bill savings for consumers. However, the availability of solar energy systems to low-income households is constrained by access to finance for the initial investment cost, an issue which could potentially be addressed with the use of income contingent loans (ICLs). By applying unconditional quantile econometric methods to HILDA income data we illustrate that for a $10,000 loan for home owners ICLs can be used with little or no cost to government to help finance the next one million solar energy devices.
Q27|Water-Storage Capacities versus Water-Use Efficiency: Substitutes or Complements?| We investigate the economic relation between two common approaches to tackling water scarcity and adapting to climate change, namely expanding water-storage capacities and improving water-use efficiency. We build, analyze, and extend a simple model for capacity choices of dams, incorporating stochastically dynamic control of water inventories and efficiency in water use. We show that expanding water-storage capacities could encourage water users to improve water-use efficiency and improving water-use efficiency could increase optimal dam sizes even if water-use efficiency improvement decreases the water demand. The possibility of complementarity is numerically illustrated by an empirical example of the California State Water Project. Our analysis implies that, if complementarity holds, resources should be distributed in a balanced way between water-storage expansions and water-use efficiency improvement instead of being concentrated on one side with the other side being ignored.
Q27|Using Income Contingent Loans for the Financing of the Next Million Australian Solar Rooftops|Rooftop solar systems have two major benefits: a reduction of carbon emissions (a public good) and future energy bill savings for consumers. However, the availability of solar energy systems to low-income households is constrained by access to finance for the initial investment cost, an issue which could potentially be addressed with the use of income contingent loans (ICLs). By applying unconditional quantile econometric methods to HILDA income data we illustrate that for a $10,000 loan for home owners ICLs can be used with little or no cost to government to help finance the next one million solar energy devices.
Q27|Water Storage Capacities versus Water Use Efficiency: Substitutes or Complements?| We investigate the economic relation between two common approaches to tackling water scarcity and adapting to climate change, namely expanding water-storage capac- ities and improving water-use efficiency. We build, analyze, and extend a simple model for capacity choices of dams, incorporating stochastic, dynamic control of water inventories and efficiency in water use. We show that expanding water-storage capacities could encourage water users to improve water-use efficiency and improving water-use efficiency could increase optimal dam sizes even if water-use efficiency improvement decreases the water demand. This possibility of complementarity is numerically illus- trated by an empirical example of the California State Water Project. Our analysis suggests that, if complementarity holds, resources should be distributed in a balanced way between water-storage expansions and water-use efficiency improvement instead of being invested on one activity while the other being ignored. Implications of this paper are applicable to the storage demand and consumption efficiency of other resources, for example, energy and food.
Q27|Changing patterns of global agri-food trade and virtual water flows| International agri-food trade has expanded rapidly during the past decades and changed considerably in structure with important implications especially for developing economies. One of the main environmental concerns regarding international trade is about the exploitation and redistribution of water resources. In this paper we use the virtual water approach for analyzing the relation between global agri-food trade, its structure and virtual water flows in the period of 1986 to 2011. Specifically, for five world regions we calculate growth rates of interregional trade values and virtual water volumes, the contribution of different product groups to trade and the economic water efficiency of imports and exports. Our findings show that over time trade values have generally increased more rapidly than virtual water volumes. In Africa and South America virtual water exports have roughly quadrupled since 1986. In all regions staples and industrial products account for the largest share in virtual water trade. The recent shift towards high-value exports is beneficial for developing countries from a regional water efficiency perspective due to high trade values and low associated virtual water volumes. Water efficiency of trade has increased in all regions since 2000 and export water efficiency is especially high in Europe.
Q27|Shale gas - Saviour or destructive technology|The discovery of shale gas reopens the fierce struggle for energy control at regional and global level and reconfigures the geostrategic interests map of the great powers. The new technology of unconventional gas extraction, hydraulic fracturing has supporters andopponents on its size. But at the gate of scientific discoveries beats a new form of energy: the energy based on thorium. Cheaper, safer, less polluting.
Q27|Re-evaluation of Hydrocarbons origin is to be a necessary challenge|Although most of the worldwide scientific community accepted and supported the theory that oil and gas formed during remote geological eras, from organic matter under anaerobic conditions, on the bottom of the seas and oceans and that it migrated to the so-called rock collectors, exhaustible in time, in the last decades, some researchers brought forward the theory of inorganic origin (abiogene) of oil and gas formation, including the idea that it should be renewable. The detection and exploitation of the great oil and gas field White Tiger, located in the Vietnamese coasts, hosted in granite, impossible to explain using the biogenic theory, and the recent development of hydraulic fracturing technology for shale gas are at the frontier of a scientific leap which raises many other questions: is the oil era coming to an end or to a new beginning? If energy resources are renewable, how will the human society evolve? What long-term effects on the environment will be recorded by using polluting technologies?
Q27|Oil-gas technique and technology, scientific bridge in both directions between East and West|The discovery of oil and gas one hundred and fifty years ago, in Romania, United States and in further other states, has lead the way of human development towards a society based on hydrocarbons whereas the technical and technological competition between companies and states for the ultimate supremacy evolved and is still in progress. In the past century, the two world wars and the most recent conflicts we were and are contemporary with (Falkland Islands war, Iraq, Libya, Syria etc.) began with and for energy resources which resulted in a fierce battle on the front of research and streamline of this field. The technical and technology transfer in many areas, including the oil and gas one, disregarded ideological barriers imposed by the “Cold War” so that, through legal methods (imported licenses) and “reverse engineering” (intelligence), it carried through. Since the emergence of the “drilling method with rotary table”, discovered by the Romanian engineer Ioan Basgan which revolutionized the worldwide deep drilling technology and whose patent is still disputed by Romania and the United States, up to offshore drilling platforms, high pressure blowout preventers, drilling rigs for mining and transport for extreme weather conditions and to the controversial method of extracting shale gas, the transfer of science, engineering and technology knew and will know no boundaries.
Q27|Shark Hunting: International Trade and the Imminent Extinction of Heterogeneous Species|This paper examines the unprecedented decimation of sharks. We develop a Ricardian Gordon-Schaefer model with a continuum of heterogeneous species which are subject to combined harvesting and perfect substitutability in consumption. The model implies that slow-growing species, surviving in autarky, will be driven to extinction in an open trade regime. In the empirical analysis, we show that the model is in line with observations of shark biology and the international shark market. In particular, the likelihood of extinction turns out to be significantly greater for shark species which are part of trade in shark fins and exhibit low intrinsic growth.
Q27|Trade with Endogenous Transportation Costs: The Value of LNG Exports|This paper investigates the economic value of trade when prices of transportation services are endogenous to cross-market price spreads. This is relevant for liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. LNG transportation capacity is limited in the short-run, and long lead-times are involved in extending the transportation infrastructure. We establish empirically that LNG transportation costs have been endogenous to regional gas prices spreads. As such, transportation service providers have been able to capture part of the price spread. We proceed to develop a method to value LNG exports under conditions of endogenous transportation costs and market integration. We use this method to quantify the effect of endogenous transportation costs on the value of LNG exports from the US to Japan. Our analysis shows that when transportation costs are correctly treated as endogenous, the LNG export benefit can drop by as much as 20-50% relative to the case of exogenous cost.
Q27|Modeling UK Natural Gas Prices when Gas Prices Periodically Decouple from the Oil Price|When natural gas prices are subject to periodic decoupling from oil prices, for instance due to peak-load pricing, conventional linear models of price dynamics such as the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) can lead to erroneous inferences about the nature of cointegration relationships, price adjustments and relative values. We propose the use of regime-switching models to address these issues. Our regime switching model uses price data to infer whether pricing is oil-driven (integrated) or gas-specific (decoupled). We find that UK natural gas (NBP) and oil (Brent) are cointegrated for the majority of the sample considered (1997-2014). UK gas prices tend to decouple during fall and early winter, when they increase relative to oil consistent with seasonal demand for natural gas creating gas-specific pricing. When evidence favors integrated markets, we find that the industry 10-1 rule-of-thumb holds (the value of one MMbtu of natural gas in the UK market is one tenth the value of one barrel of Brent oil), while the overall relationship, including decoupling periods, is 9.2-1. The paper highlights that what relative value to use, depends on the purpose of its use.
Q27|Economics of co-firing coal and biomass: An application to Western Canada|Co-firing biomass and coal in retrofitted power plants is an efficient means to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the energy sector. Under IPCC reporting rules, the impacts of energy produced from biomass would not be reported in the energy sector, thereby effectively lowering the emission intensity of a power plant. In this study, a carbon tax is compared to a feed-in tariff for incentivizing conversion of coal plants to co-fire with biomass. In the application, a model of the Alberta electrical grid with an intertie to British Columbia is linked to a fiber transportation model for these provinces. Results indicate that there is an upper threshold on a carbon tax after which retrofitting of coal plants is less efficient than increasing natural gas generating capacity. This is not the case with a feed-in tariff as it specifically targets biomass energy. Although the optimal generating mix achieved with a carbon tax leads to lower aggregate emissions than the mix achieved using a feed-in tariff, it will result in higher average generating costs. Results indicate that it is optimal for Alberta to retrofit approximately 500MW of current coal capacity (8.6%) to co-fire with biomass, although Alberta wood pellet production acts as a constraint on further conversions.
Q27|Exploring Easter Island economics with Excel|Students learn more from doing than from viewing. By seeing and diagramming the relationships they have developed themselves, students learn more than by merely reading over what someone else has done. For the dynamic problems encountered in environmental and resource economics, Excel has a comparative advantage as a learning aid. We develop a simple, flexible Excel assignment to illustrate the Brander and Taylor (1998) model of the Easter Island economy. On Easter Island a crucial natural resource, the island's palm forest, was an open-access resource, leading to over harvesting and eventual societal collapse much like ordinary predator–prey models in biology. This paper guides instructors through an assignment using Excel to illustrate this dynamic. We also provide suggested extensions from the literature on Easter Island economics.
Q27|Health shocks and natural resource management: Evidence from Western Kenya|Poverty and altered planning horizons brought on by the HIV/AIDS epidemic can change individual discount rates, altering incentives to conserve natural resources. Using longitudinal household survey data from Western Kenya, we estimate the effects of health status on investments in soil quality, as indicated by households’ agricultural land fallowing decisions. We first show that this effect is theoretically ambiguous: while health improvements lower discount rates and thus increase incentives to conserve natural resources, they also increase labor productivity and make it more likely that households can engage in labor-intensive resource extraction activities. We find that household size and composition are predictors of whether the effect of health improvements on discount rates dominates the productivity effect, or vice-versa. Since households with more and younger members are better able to reallocate labor to cope with productivity shocks, the discount rate effect dominates for these households and health improvements lead to greater levels of conservation. In smaller families with less substitutable labor, the productivity effect dominates and health improvements lead to greater environmental degradation
Q27|Connecting Mediterranean countries through electricity corridors: New Institutional Economic and regulatory analysis|A super grid connecting the two shores of the Mediterranean could help Europe meet its targets for integrating renewable energy. This paper assesses the business models for building a platform for wholesale renewable energy trade via electricity corridors linking the two regions of the Mediterranean basin. We demonstrate that the optimal framework for designing the corridor project is a long-term contractual agreement to coordinate bilaterally the necessary investments. Furthermore a hybrid governance structure requiring only limited regulatory adaptation seems to be the most efficient structure for facilitating investment in the corridor's infrastructure.
Q27|Distributed energy generation techniques and the competitive fringe effect in electricity markets|We analyse the impact of two different generation techniques used by fringe suppliers on the intensity of competition in the electricity wholesale market. For that purpose, we derive a Cournot model of this market taking into account long-term contracts, international trade and fringe suppliers using different energy generating technologies. We apply this model to the Dutch market and estimate the impact of fringe supply on the Lerner index. We find that the fringe supply coming from both intermittent wind generation and combined heat and power (CHP) plants operated by horticultural farmers increases competition, which leads to lower prices in the electricity market. However, this impact is relatively small. The effect per unit of intermittent wind electricity generation on competition and, therefore, prices is stronger than that of the CHP technology.
Q27|China’s Salmon Sanction|Angered by the Norwegian Nobel Committee’s awarding of the 2010 Peace Prize to a Chinese dissident, China signalled its displeasure by allegedly applying more stringent regulatory measures and import licensing procedures on Norway’s iconic product, salmon. This has been widely reported in the media internationally, but not formally investigated by the scientific community. Through interviews with stakeholders in the Norway-China salmon trade and examination of trade data, personal accounts corroborate the evidence from trade data that nontariff border measures have been disproportionately applied against Norwegian salmon. These measures have distorted China’s fresh/chilled whole salmon market since 2011, and are likely to have long-term consequences in terms of trade patterns, re-routing and smuggling of salmon, and for quality concerns. Accounting for the transhipped and the smuggled Norwegian salmon via Hong Kong and Vietnam, we challenge the popular misbelief that Norway has lost its majority share in China’s fresh/chilled whole salmon market, but rather has increased its exports, suggesting that these measures have failed to prevent more salmon from entering mainland China’s market. However, the Norwegian government’s refusal to meet the Dalai Lama in May 2014 suggests that the full effect of China’s salmon sanction has made its way upstream to affect Norway’s policy.
Q27|Trade with Endogenous Transportation Costs: The Value of LNG Exports|This paper investigates the economic value of trade when prices of transportation services are endogenous to cross-market price spreads. This is relevant for liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. LNG transportation capacity is limited in the short-run, and long lead-times are involved in extending the transportation infrastructure. We establish empirically that LNG transportation costs have been endogenous to regional gas prices spreads. As such, transportation service providers have been able to capture part of the price spread. We proceed to develop a method to value LNG exports under conditions of endogenous transportation costs and market integration. We use this method to quantify the effect of endogenous transportation costs on the value of LNG exports from the US to Japan. Our analysis shows that when transportation costs are correctly treated as endogenous, the LNG export benefit can drop by as much as 20-50% relative to the case of exogenous cost.
Q27|Water Resources – an Analysis of Trends, Weak Siglans and Wild Cards with Implications for Russia|Water resources are crucial for the continuity of life. Humans and living species need fresh water for drinking and sanitation, while industries in most sectors of the economy need water for some part of production processes themselves. Access to fresh water is a grand challenge at the global level, mainly due to increasing water consumption, a low rate of replenishment of resources as well as external factors, like climate change, that significantly reduce amount of water available. The solutions to the existing water problems require systemic approaches for the sustainable use of water resources, while advancing water infrastructure and providing circular use of water. Russia is one of the countries, which is relatively better positioned compared to a number of other countries in the world regarding the availability of water resources. However, there are still considerable issues regarding the protection and use of water resources, purification processes, water networks, consumption patterns, discharge, treatment and re-use. The present study focuses on the use of water resources in Russia with a long term perspective developed through a Foresight study. The first step involved a scanning exercise, to be followed by future scenarios on the second step, and strategy proposals for action on the third one. The paper presents the results of the scanning phase. The present paper consists of four parts. The introduction reviews the key issues and challenges concerning water resources. The first part describes the detailed research methodology. Furthermore, trends and uncertainties are identified in the course of the study, and their implications for water resources in Russia are discussed. Particular attention is paid to state-of-the-art situation in three domains identified in the scope of research: sustainability of water systems, water use by households and industry, and new water products and services. Weak signals and wild cards are described in the third part. The paper concludes with a brief description of the next phases of the study and follow-up activities planned in the project.
Q27|Russia’S Water Resources 2030: Plausible Scenarios|The research presented in this paper focuses on the sustainable use of water resources in Russia based on a Foresight study with a 20-year time horizon. The study uses a scenario-planning method to develop four trajectories: economic depression, economic stagnation, visionary future, and national priority. These four trajectories offer significantly different yet plausible alternative futures. The current paper draws upon the earlier horizon scanning activity, which identified a set of trends, weak signals and wild cards, along with their implications for water resources in Russia. Based on this work, it identifies key factors and indicators, which may characterize future developments in the following domains: (i) the sustainability of water systems; (ii) water use by households and industry; and (iii) new water products and services. The evolution of variables and indicators will then be considered under the scenarios termed ‘Nearly perfect future’ (economic growth), ‘Problem conservation’ (economic stagnation), ‘Losses and accidents’ (economic depression), and ‘National priority’ trajectories. The paper concludes with a brief description of further research directions, including a discussion on the probability of the scenarios being implemented. Russian policy makers and water companies may use the scenarios to adapt (i.e. plan for timely responses), avert certain undesirable future developments, or approximate the visionary future of the sector
Q27|Water Resources 2030: Policy Recommendations|The Foresight study presented in this paper is devoted to the sustainable use of water resources in Russia. The authors analyse possible trajectories of development in the three thematic areas (i) sustainability of water systems; (ii) water use by households and in industry; and (iii) new water products and services. The Foresight methods cover expert interviews and seminars, desk research, and policy analysis. The state and corporate policy recommendations for the water sector offered in this study correspond with the water scenarios earlier identified by Saritas et al.: “Nearly ideal future”, “Losses and accidents”, “Problem conservation”, and “National Priority” [Saritas et al., 2015]. For each of these four scenarios, policy recommendations for water companies were identified covering new solutions (including technological innovations), new values and competencies, organisational changes, modernisation of the infrastructure, financial issues, and legal and regulatory changes. Moreover, we recommend certain policy measures and approaches to state policy in the water sector. The paper concludes with the main directions and instruments for the sector’s development, which should be planned and implemented jointly by the government and businesses, as well as other stakeholders (organisations and people).
Q27|The Romanian export with livestocks- live animals – a far-reaching activity?|In the period 2003-2014, Romania became an important source for the export of live animals (bovines and sheep), both for the intra-Community trade and for third countries. Although in the same period the imports consisted mainly of breeding animals, the balance of trade was constantly positive. The method used in the paper was the comparative analysis of trade-specific set of indicators, the main information sources being international information, reports and studies, FAOSTAT and EUROSTAT statistics. From our analysis, it results that that Romania practiced a conjuncture export, as the herds specialized in meat production, both in the case of bovines and sheep, have a significant share in total livestock herds. The reason why Romania is agreed as supplier of live animals is rather represented by the raising of animals under extensive system, where feeding is mainly based on grazing.
Q27|Global water in a global world a long term study on agricultural virtual water flows in the world|: Agricultural and food products have been increasingly exchanged during the last half century. With them, water has been virtually transferred among countries. Thus, this paper studies the evolution of virtual water flows on the long term, analyzing the main factors driving them by means of a Decomposition Analysis. In particular, our study points at a gradual increase in virtual water consumption as a result of agricultural and food products trade in the world from 1965 to 2010. At the global level, the increase in the volume of trade has been the main factor driving water consumption increase.
Q27|Eco-regional Cartels on the Genetic Resource Market and the case of the Andean Community's legislation| The United Nations' Convention on Biological Diversity raised expectations of high benefits in genetic resource trade with megadiverse countries. As a reaction the Andean Community (CAN) passed strict community access legislation. Against this background the main objective of this paper is to investigate whether public eco-regional cartels of megadiverse countries on the genetic resource market can increase the appropriable benefits from biodiversity. We analyse how cartel design affects cartel benefits and discuss the benefit distribution among cartel members. As a case study we examine the CAN community access legislation (Decision 391) in the light of biodiversity collusion. Our main finding is that cartels-contrary to their negative connotation-are potentially able to stimulate genetic resource trade, increase the providers' appropriable benefits from biodiversity, and reduce the costs for customers. This depends largely on the cartel design and the ability to attract bioprospecting agents. A member's benefit share rises in the member's relative biodiversity richness and even more in the quality of the institutional environment. The CAN collusion nullifies its market power by a deterringly overly strict access regulation and a lack of internal cooperation.
Q27|Is Free Trade the End All Be All? The Case of Log Exports|The government of British Columbia imposes restrictions on the export of logs from public and private forestlands, primarily to promote local processing and associated employment benefits. Economists wholeheartedly oppose BC’s export restrictions, arguing that BC’s citizens are worse off as a result of the government’s measures. In this paper, it is shown that, while free trade in logs might well maximize global wellbeing, it might not necessarily result in the greatest benefit to British Columbia. Indeed, both economic theory and a follow-up numerical analysis indicate that some restrictions on the export of logs can lead to higher welfare for BC than free trade.
Q27|Modelling Bi-lateral Forest Product Trade Flows: Experiencing Vertical and Horizontal Chain Optimization|This paper serves to document the REPA Forest Trade Model – a global model of forest trade that consists of ten products across two horizontal layers in a vertical chain. The model includes 20 regions: Five Canadian regions (Atlantic Canada, Central Canada, Alberta, BC Interior and BC Coast), three U.S. regions (South, North and West), China, Japan, Rest of Asia, Chile, Rest of Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, Finland, Sweden, Russia, Rest of Europe, and the Rest of the World. The underlying economic theory upon which the model is built is discussed in detail; we demonstrate that changes in region-level forest management policies (e.g., related to harvests) and/or trade policies have a larger impact on income transfers among regions and agents than they have on global welfare. The objective function and constraints to the quadratic programming implementation of the model are developed, and the method used to calibrate the model to existing bilateral trade flows via positive mathematical programming is discussed. Finally, the data sources and actual data are provided, as are the corrections to shipping and handling costs needed to calibrate the model.
Q27|Economic drivers of biological invasions: A worldwide, bio-geographic analysis|The introduction of invasive alien species (IAS) is generally acknowledged to depend both on the propagule pressure imposed by openness to international trade and on the health of the receiving ecosystem. Bio-geographic factors however play a crucial role in determining the level of risk associated with trade. We develop an analytical treatment of bioclimatic similarity between trade partners, within a model that links the incidence of invasive species to resource extraction, pollution and to import volumes disaggregated by country and region of origin. The model, estimated with data on invasive species of all taxa in 123 countries, shows that considering the geographical structure of trade flows and the bioclimatic similarity between sources and destinations substantially improves our understanding of the drivers of biological invasions. The results allow us to identify, in a worldwide perspective, the relative risk of biological invasions (in general, and by habitat type) entailed by different commercial partners.
Q27|Economic evaluation of the conversion of industrial paper sludge to ethanol|The conversion of industrial paper sludge to ethanol was simulated using engineering process simulation software loaded with laboratory generated conversion data and financially analyzed. In one scenario, sludge is fractionated to remove ash, generating a higher concentration carbohydrate stream for separate hydrolysis and fermentation (SHF). In a second scenario, non-fractionated sludge is processed with only pH adjustment. Four primary sludges from mills producing either virgin or recycled paper were analyzed and the experimental conversion results used to inform the simulations. Financial analysis was conducted assuming ethanol wholesale price of US$ 0.608 per liter. The most profitable case was fractionated virgin sludge (from a virgin paper mill) to ethanol (F-VK1) with a net present value (NPV) of US$ 11.4million, internal rate of return (IRR) of 28%, payback period of 4.4years and minimum ethanol revenue (MER) of US$ 0.32 per liter. Risk analysis showed that the F-VK1 case obtained a near 100% probability of business success with both central and bearish (pessimistic) assumptions.
Q27|Benefits and costs of impeding free trade: Revisiting British Columbia's restrictions on log exports|The government of British Columbia (BC) imposes restrictions on the export of logs from public and private forestlands, primarily to promote local processing and associated employment benefits. Most economists wholeheartedly oppose BC's export restrictions, arguing that BC's citizens are worse off as a result of the government's measures. In this paper, it is shown that, while free trade in logs might well maximise global wellbeing, it might not necessarily result in the greatest benefit to BC. Indeed, both economic theory and a follow-up numerical analysis indicate that some restrictions on the export of logs can lead to higher welfare for BC than free trade. Thus, log export restrictions could be economically efficient from a local perspective, but only if the transaction costs of obtaining necessary permits are not excessive.
Q27|Global impacts of Russian log export restrictions and the Canada–U.S. lumber dispute: Modeling trade in logs and lumber|Forest product trade analysis is complicated by the inter-relationships among forest products. This paper deals with the development and application of an integrated log-lumber trade model that divides the globe into 20 regions. These regions play a significant role as producers and/or consumers of coniferous logs and softwood lumber. The model is calibrated using positive mathematical programming (PMP) so that the baseline scenario precisely duplicates observed 2010 bi-lateral trade flows of both logs and lumber. The calibrated model is then used to examine (1) liberalization of Russian log export taxes and (2) removal of the export restrictions on Canadian lumber exports to the United States. By permitting expanded log exports, Russian welfare increases by $2.3billion, with losses to lumber consumers and producers more than covered by the gain in rents to timber land. However, the impacts on other regions in the model are surprisingly small. Likewise, removal of the export tax on Canadian lumber to the U.S. also leads to very small changes in welfare; Canada gains $91.8million, but the U.S. loses only $16million as it shifts lumber sales from domestic to export markets. Russia loses $485million because it produces less logs and lumber, while the impact on other regions is imperceptible. Clearly, by modeling logs and lumber together, the overall impacts of forest policies in one region are mitigated at the global scale.
Q27|The main support mechanisms to finance renewable energy development|Considering that the major part of greenhouse gases is carbon dioxide, there is a global concern aimed at reducing carbon emissions. In addition, major consumer countries are looking for alternative sources of energy to avoid the impact of higher fossil fuel prices and political instability in the major energy supplying countries. In this regard, different policies could be applied to reduce carbon emissions, such as enhancing renewable energy deployment and encouraging technological innovation and the creation of green jobs. This study compares three main support mechanisms employed by governments to finance renewable energy development programs: feed-in-tariffs, tax incentives, and tradable green certificates. Considering that many of the promising technologies to deploy renewable energy require investment in small-scale energy production systems, these mechanisms could be used to enhance renewable energy development at the desired scale. Employing a carbon emission tax or emission trading mechanism could be considered ideal policies to mitigate emissions at the lowest cost. The comparison of feed-in-tariffs and renewable portfolio standard policies showed that the former is good when a policy to develop renewable energy sources with a low level of risk for investors is considered. However, the latter is an appropriate policy when a market view policy is applied by the government. Finally, considering technological progress and the cost reduction for power generation by renewable energy sources, we suggest that support mechanism policies should be reconsidered from the financial point of view.
Q27|Estimating the value of additional wind and transmission capacity in the rocky mountain west|The expansion of wind-generation in the United States poses significant challenges to policy-makers, particularly because wind's intermittency and unpredictability can exacerbate problems of congestion on a transmission-constrained grid. Understanding these issues is necessary if optimal development of wind energy and transmission is to occur. This paper applies a model that integrates the special concerns of electricity generation to empirically consider the challenges of developing wind resources in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Given the lack the high frequency data needed to address the special problems of intermittency and congestion, our solution is to create a dispatch model of the region and to use simulations to generate the necessary data, then use this data to understand patterns that have occurred as wind resources have been developed.
Q27|Can a unilateral carbon tax reduce emissions elsewhere?|One country or sector that tries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may fear that other countries or sectors will get a competitive advantage and increase emissions. Computable general equilibrium (CGE) models such as Elliott et al. (2010a, 2010b) indicate that 15–25% of abatement might be offset by this “leakage.” Yet the Fullerton et al. (2012) simple two-sector analytical general equilibrium model shows an offsetting term with negative leakage. In this paper, we use a full CGE model with many countries and many goods to measure effects in a way that allows for this negative leakage term. We vary elasticities of substitution and confirm the analytical model's prediction that whether this negative leakage term offsets the positive leakage terms depends on the ability of consumers to substitute into the untaxed good relative to the ability of firms to substitute from carbon emissions into labor or capital.
Q27|Markket Integration and Energy Trade Efficiency: An Application of Malmqvist Index to Analyse Multi-Product Trade|As This paper uses the data envelope analysis method to investigate the Malmquist index-based gravity relationship between bilateral energy trade flows and their determinants throughout the world. Using a balance panel data of 40 countries between 1995 and 2008, this paper shows that market integration will increase energy trade by improving trade efficiency between trade partners, though allowing for a flexible substitution between different energy products tends to weaken these effects. This result highlights cross-product substitution and its implications for the aggregate energy trade pattern, providing insights on the importance of prioritising product-specific trade facilitating policies.
Q27|Does a Renewable Fuel Standard for Biofuels Reduce Climate Costs?|Recent literature on biofuels has questioned whether biofuels policies are likely to reduce the negative effects of climate change. Our analysis explicitly takes into account that oil is a nonrenewable natural resource. A blending mandate has no effect on total cumulative oil extraction. However, extraction of oil is postponed as a consequence of the renewable fuel standard. Thus, if emissions from biofuels are negligible, the standard will have beneficial climate effects. The standard also reduces total fuel (i.e., oil plus biofuels) consumption initially. Hence, even if emissions from biofuels are nonnegligible, a renewable fuel standard may still reduce climate costs. In fact our simulations show that even for biofuels that are almost as emissions intensive as oil, a renewable fuel standard has beneficial climate effects.
Q27|The consequences of trade openness on the availability of seafood resources: Methodology and evidence based in the case of Turkey|In this study, we investigate whether the trade in fish and fish prod- ucts contributed to the decline of 57 fish species observed from 1996 to 2009 in Turkey. Our aim is to test the theoretical prediction that trade liberalization in the presence of open access resources can lead to a re- duction in harvest at the long-run due to stock depletion. To this end, we carry out an instrumental variable estimation for a panel data model.
Q27|Market Design for Trading Commoditized Renewable Energy|Information and communication technology plays an important role in achieving a higher level of energy efficiency. In particular, energy efficiency can be achieved by integrating information technology into electricity networks to enable the interaction between suppliers and customers (smart grids). Power generation by renewable energy sources can also benefit from this integration of technologies. Distributed power generation, which will be the basis of renewable energy production, encourages the production of renewable energy resources and, accordingly, decreases transmission loss, increases energy saving, and enhances energy efficiency. Therefore, integrating distributed, renewable energy sources and smart grids within local marketplaces for trading renewable energy in small units can be a promising combination. In this paper, we propose a structure of a marketplace for renewable energy sources, design a market mechanism for trading in this market, and outline the requirements for such a market to function efficiently. Finally, we conclude and present recommendations to policymakers to provide incentives to generators to increase deployment of renewable energy sources and to end users to save electricity and to consume clean energy.
Q27|Uninsurance through Trade|Trade with differentiated goods normally provides a form of insurance against disasters, such as floods and fires, through an increasing relative price of goods from the a­fflicted country. With open access renewable resources this is reversed. A country hit by a negative shock recovers faster if trading with fewer countries and, if trading with many, shocks affecting also the trading partners are preferred over idiosyncratic shocks. Trade thus increases economic vulnerability to disasters and local disasters will be worse than global. Furthermore, world markets transmit shocks so a natural disaster in one country can cause man-made disasters in competitor countries. These results are particularly relevant for developing countries due to high renewable resource reliance, more problems of open access and more economic vulnerability to disasters. A calibration suggests these concerns may apply to around 60 percent of world fisheries and that around 20 percent risk collapsing following small idiosyncratic shocks.
Q27|Setting one voluntary standard in a heterogeneous Europe - EMAS, corruption and stringency of environmental regulations|This article addresses the mediating effect of corruption on the influence of stringency of environmental regulation on firms' voluntary environmental performance. Using panel data from adoption of the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) across European Union countries from 1995 to 2011, we unveil a direct and an interacting effect of countries' corruption and regulatory stringency on the rate of adoption. First, stricter environmental regulation reduces the rate of EMAS certificates, thus supporting a crowding-out effect of mandatory regulation on voluntary action. Second, increased corruption reduces the rate of EMAS certificates. Third, the negative effect of stringency of regulation on EMAS certification rates is reinforced by corruption. In sum, these results suggest that previous studies address- ing the implications from stricter regulations on firms' voluntary action that abstract from corruption might underestimate the potential negative effect of stringency of regulation on firms' voluntary action.
Q27|Economic Growth in the Euro-Med Area through Trade Integration: Focus on Agriculture and Food – The case of Turkey|In this study, we analyse the effects of trade liberalization, world price increase of basic staple and productivity growth in agricultural activities on Turkey by using a dynamic CGE model calibrated to 2008 data. The simulation results suggest that Turkish economy is capable of accommodating the adverse effects of trade liberalization. There are significant welfare gains if trade liberalization is accompanied by the CAP payments in the accession scenario. Trade policy turns out to be a strong instrument to stabilize the domestic prices and avoid the adverse effects of world price increase. Productivity increase in agri-food production has prominent effects on welfare and trade.
Q27|Market Design for Trading Commoditized Renewable Energy|Information and communication technology plays an important role in achieving a higher level of energy efficiency. In particular, energy efficiency can be achieved by integrating information technology into electricity networks to enable the interaction between suppliers and customers (smart grids). Power generation by renewable energy sources can also benefit from this integration of technologies. Distributed power generation, which will be the basis of renewable energy production, encourages the production of renewable energy resources and, accordingly, decreases transmission loss, increases energy saving, and enhances energy efficiency. Therefore, integrating distributed, renewable energy sources and smart grids within local marketplaces for trading renewable energy in small units can be a promising combination. In this paper, we propose a structure of a marketplace for renewable energy sources, design a market mechanism for trading in this market, and outline the requirements for such a market to function efficiently. Finally, we conclude and present recommendations to policymakers to provide incentives to generators to increase deployment of renewable energy sources and to end users to save electricity and to consume clean energy.
Q27|Compliance with Global Quality Requirements in Pakistan’s Export Sector|This paper describes the level of compliance with quality standards in relation to Pakistan’s top export product categories. With greater competition, innovations in technology, and stricter measures of quality being enforced, Pakistan needs to adopt a holistic, systematic approach to not just meeting, but also exceeding, international quality standards and certifications for its exports. Focusing on rice and textiles, we identify which compliance-related gaps need to be filled to ensure the sustainable growth of high-quality exports to major global markets. The study outlines the key dimensions of international quality standards as well as specific standards and requirements for textiles and rice, examines the quality assurance infrastructure in Pakistan, and presents policy recommendations.
Q27|Recent Developments in Fisheries Economics Research|Fisheries economics stand on the cusp of potentially sizeable changes in orientation and policy focus, leading in turn to comparable changes in modeling and general analysis. Notably, fisheries are increasingly framed as part of the overall marine environment rather than considered as solely or largely a commercial fishing issue. Other changes further challenge this traditional conceptual foundation, including technological change, multiple externalities, asymmetric information, marine planning and strategic interactions among players that are especially pronounced in international settings. This paper contends there is a potential for re-development of fishery economic models related to fishery and marine economics in several directions also related to the economic foundation.
Q27|Is Free Trade the End All Be All? The Case of Log Exports| The government of British Columbia imposes restrictions on the export of logs from public and private forestlands, primarily to promote local processing and associated employment benefits. Economists wholeheartedly oppose BC’s export restrictions, arguing that BC’s citizens are worse off as a result of the government’s measures. In this paper, it is shown that, while free trade in logs might well maximize global wellbeing, it might not necessarily result in the greatest benefit to British Columbia. Indeed, both economic theory and a follow-up numerical analysis indicate that some restrictions on the export of logs can lead to higher welfare for BC than free trade.
Q27|Modelling Bi-lateral Forest Product Trade Flows: Experiencing Vertical and Horizontal Chain Optimization| This paper serves to document the REPA Forest Trade Model – a global model of forest trade that consists of ten products across two horizontal layers in a vertical chain. The model includes 20 regions: Five Canadian regions (Atlantic Canada, Central Canada, Alberta, BC Interior and BC Coast), three U.S. regions (South, North and West), China, Japan, Rest of Asia, Chile, Rest of Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, Finland, Sweden, Russia, Rest of Europe, and the Rest of the World. The underlying economic theory upon which the model is built is discussed in detail; we demonstrate that changes in region-level forest management policies (e.g., related to harvests) and/or trade policies have a larger impact on income transfers among regions and agents than they have on global welfare. The objective function and constraints to the quadratic programming implementation of the model are developed, and the method used to calibrate the model to existing bilateral trade flows via positive mathematical programming is discussed. Finally, the data sources and actual data are provided, as are the corrections to shipping and handling costs needed to calibrate the model.
Q27|Consumption of Wood Products and Dependence on Imports|This article has made an attempt to assess the prospect of sustainable forest management for an emerging economy, like India, where the area under forest coverage has gone up marginally over the last three decades in spite of population growth and rapid urbanization. A conscious attempt towards conservation is noted from the supply side. However, with rapid income growth, given the high demand elasticity of the wood-based products, there is a sharply growing gap between demand and supply. The import of forestry-based products is increasing in terms of volume, value and unit prices throughout this period, and the major importers of raw and semi-finished forestry-based inputs are the South and East Asian countries. Indiaâ€™s unleashed demand (met through import from outside) will eventually have its impact (like China) on reduced wood stock of the other countries and the consequent pressure on the climatic cycle of the planet will not only thwart the process of economic development but mere sustainable existence of the system will be doubtful. This pattern of the use of forest and wood-related products is indicating the absence of any consistently designed integrated policy position towards forest conservation. If no restriction is imposed from the demand-side, mere supply-side management would be inadequate to ensure sustainable forest use in the near future.
Q27|Corruption, conflict and the management of natural resources|The documented link between natural resources and civil conflict is not well understood. This paper uses a political economy framework to explore the prevalence of resource-based civil conflict driven by group-level discontent. The theoretical model proposed here offers a policy-based explanation: under conditions related to the quality of governance, discontent about resource management can affect the likelihood of an insurgency. Resource policy arises endogenously as the corrupt government trades-off industry contributions and the cost induced by manifestations of resource-related discontent. The conservation effects of civil unrest are analyzed and government corruption emerges as an important determinant of conflict. The paper also presents some empirical support for the model’s predictions. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
Q27|On the redistributive effects of Germany’s feed-in tariff|This article assesses the redistributive effects of a key element of German climate policy, the promotion of renewables in the electricity generation mix through the provision of a feed-in tariff. The tariff shapes the distribution of households’ disposable incomes by charging a levy that is proportional to household electricity consumption and by transferring financial resources to households who are feeding green electricity into the public grid. Our study builds on representative household survey data, providing information on various socio-demographics, household electricity consumption, and ownership of photovoltaic facilities. The redistributive effects of the feed-in tariff are evaluated by means of inequality indices. All the indices indicate that Germany’s feed-in tariff is regressive. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
Q27|REDD+ and international leakage via food and timber markets: a CGE analysis|This paper studies the effect of international trade in food and timber on land use and potential carbon leakage in the context of actions to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+). First a simple analytical model of international leakage is presented that focuses on international competition between firms that produce food and timber. A formula for the leakage rate in the model is derived. The results of the analytical model are then tested with a large Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model and it is verified that the qualitative results from the analytical model hold. Finally, a scenario of leakage rate trajectories is presented for a number of key tropical forest regions for the next two decades and a sensitivity analysis is performed on key parameters. Computed leakage rates range between 0.5 % for Brazil and 11.3 % for Malaysia and are fairly stable over the projection period. Leakage rates increase with a higher supply elasticity of land and a higher trade elasticity, they decrease with a higher elasticity of input substitution in production and appear to be independent of the rates of forest conservation and absolute prices of food and timber. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q27|New trade in renewable resources and consumer preferences for diversity|The literature on trade in renewable resources implicitly assumes that the traded resources are perfect substitutes. We model trade in renewable resources as stipulated not only by autarky price differences, but also by consumers' love of variety. We show that the love-of-variety effect enables welfare gains from trade even if total consumption decreases. Total consumption may decrease because the love of variety weakens the link between resource scarcity and demand. If consumers are willing to pay the rising prices for harvests from increasingly depleted stocks, trade liberalization may end in stock collapse. The love of variety may thus threaten variety.
Q27|Designing cost-efficient surveillance strategies for early detection of invasive species| Wood borers and bark beetles are among the most serious forest pests worldwide. Many such species have become successful invaders, often causing substantial, costly damages to forests. Here we design and evaluate the cost-efficiency of a trap-based surveillance program for early detection of wood borers and bark beetles at risk of establishing in New Zealand. Though costly, a surveillance program could lead to earlier detection of newly established forest pests, thereby increasing the likelihood of successful eradication and reducing control costs and damages from future invasions. We develop a mechanistic bioeconomic model that relates surveillance intensity (i.e., trap density) and invasion size to probabilities of detection and control; it captures the dynamics of invasive species establishment, spread, and damages to urban and plantation forests. We employ the model to design surveillance programs that provide the greatest net present benefits. Our findings suggest that implementing a surveillance trapping program for invasive wood borers and bark beetles would provide positive net benefits under all scenarios considered. The economically optimal trapping strategy calls for a very high investment in surveillance: about 10,000 traps in each year of the 30-year surveillance program, at a present value cost of US$54 million. This strategy provides a 39% reduction in costs compared with no surveillance, corresponding to an expected net present benefit of approximately US$300 million. Although surveillance may provide the greatest net benefits when implemented at relatively high levels, our findings also show that even low levels of surveillance are worthwhile: the economic benefits from surveillance more than offset the rising costs associated with increasing trapping density. Our results also show that the cost-efficiency of surveillance varies across target regions because of differences in pest introduction and damage accumulation rates across locales, with greater surveillance warranted in areas closer to at-risk high-value resources and in areas that receive more imported goods that serve as an invasion pathway.
Q27|The World Market of Fragrant Rice, Main Issues and Perspectives| Worldwide rice production totaled 481 million metric tons in 2011, including 7.1% in trade. Fragrant rice is estimated to account for 15-18% of the rice trade procuring the highest prices on the world market. Some new players are interested in entering this premium segment, including the US, Vietnam, and other rice growers and traders. The fragrant rice commodity chain is deciphered through a meta-analysis of data on rice cropping and trading. We conclude on a possible split between fragrant and coarse rice markets. The upcoming challenges for fragrant rice industry are discussed with the next release of genetically modified varieties; water scarcity in rice cropping; and land use trade-offs between fragrant and coarse rice.
Q27|Modeling Forest Trade in Logs and Lumber: Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis|This paper deals with forest trade modelling from a theoretical, analytic and empirical perspective. An integrated dynamic log-lumber trade model is developed and then used to examine two trade issues, namely, a reduction of Russian taxes on log exports and removal of the taxes on Canadian lumber destined for the United States. To demonstrate the dynamic aspect of the model, both sets of taxes are lowered over a period of time. The trade model consists of five Canadian regions, three U.S. regions, New Zealand, Australia, Chile, Rest of Latin America, Russia, Sweden, Finland, Rest of Europe, Japan, China, Rest of Asia, and Rest of the World – a total of 20 regions. It concerns only coniferous logs and softwood lumber, ignoring hardwoods. The model is also calibrated on 2010 observed bi-lateral flows of logs and lumber using positive mathematical programming. The forest trade model is written using an Excel-GAMS interface, with input data retrieved by GAMS from Excel and GAMS output written to Excel, where final calculations are made.
Q27|Crude Oil, Palm Oil Stock and Prices: How They Link|This paper reviews the nature of links or relationships between crude, palm oil prices and stocks and its short term implications on the palm oil price trend in 2013. An econometric method is used to empirically forecast the palm oil price movements in the year 2013 using monthly historical data over the period of January 2002 to December 2012. A single equation model using Autoregressive Distributed Lag (ARDL) procedure was estimated to achieve the stated objective. The results provide a strong evidence of long-run equilibrium relation between crude palm oil price, its stock level and the crude oil prices. The study also uses the findings to provide projections for the palm oil prices during 2013.
Q27|Energy Consumption in Central and East European Countries Members of European Union – Comparative Analysis|In the paper is done a comparatively analysis of the Bulgarian economy with Central and East European countries, members of European Union, which are quite close to the Bulgarian economy. It is found a serious retardation of the energy efficiency dynamics in Bulgaria. That is why, there are given many recommendations to improve the energy consumption, energy and carbon intensity and energy structure of the Bulgarian economy. As well, it is presented forecast data about Bulgaria up to 2030 in the context of the effective energy consumption of economy and respective comparative analysis with the Central and East European countries. In conclusion are suggested a lot of measures for improving the production, energy, ecological and investment policy of the country aimed to increase the Bulgarian energy safety, energy efficiency, sustainable development and competitivity of the economy.
Q27|Effective Energy Consumption of the Bulgarian Economy|In the paper are shown the preconditions, factors and indicators for analysis and assessment of the Bulgarian economy energy consumption. As well, there are discussed the specificities of energy and carbon intensity, effective energy consumption and indicators for analysis of economic structure and dynamics. As well, it is presented an empirical study covering the period 2000-2008 of the main factors influencing on the economy energy consumption as foreign direct investments, structure of production, structure of the value added, etc. On the base of the selected system of indicators for assessment the energy consumption in the country are distinguished the branches with comparatively low energetic and carbon intensity and high share of value added. A lot of suggestions are given on the base of the obtained results. The outcomes, recommendations and measures for improving branch structural, production, energy and ecological policy of the country are aimed to increase the energy safety, energy efficiency, sustainable development and competitivity of the Bulgarian economy.
Q27|Trends in the development of the energy sector in Bulgaria until 2030|În the base of the European Commission forecast up to 2030 it is done a comparative analysis of the Bulgarian energy tendencies with those of EC-27 and some Central East European Countries members of European Union. The results point that regarding some main energy indicators the Bulgarian economy will continue being after the considered countries. In the end of the paper are given a lot of measures and recommendations to improve the energy, investment, structural and ecological policy of the country aimed at energy efficiency, sustainability and competitivity of the Bulgarian economy.
Q27|Forest Conservation Performance Rating (fCPR) Report 2: Bad News for the Pan-Tropics and Everybody Else|This paper updates Working Paper 294, “FCPR—Forest Conservation Performance Rating for the Pan-Tropics.” Forest Conservation Performance Rating (fCPR) is a system of color-coded ratings for tropical forest conservation performance that can be implemented for local areas, countries, regions, and the entire pan-tropics. The ratings reward tropical forest conservation in three dimensions: (1) Progress toward elimination of tropical forest clearing by 2050; (2) progress toward achieving more ambitious REDD+ goals; and (3) achieving an immediate reduction in forest clearing. We assign green ratings to areas that meet condition (2); yellow to areas that meet (1) only; dark red to areas that fail both conditions, with forest clearing still increasing; and light red to areas that fail both conditions, but with declining forest clearing. This paper introduces quarterly conservation performance ratings for 56 tropical forest countries, as well as 781 of their states and provinces that contain tropical forests. We also combine the fCPR country ratings to produce ratings for major regions and the entire pan- tropics. Overall, we find that conservation performance has deteriorated significantly since 2005 at the global and regional levels. Some gains were made at the height of the global economic crisis, but they have proven to be temporary. Since 2010, forest clearing has exhibited rapid growth in most of tropical Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Q27|El ICMS-E (“IVA verde”) brasileño como instrumento de compensación a los municipios con áreas de conservación|"Al ocuparse de las compensaciones fiscales a municipios que tienen áreas de conservación en su territorio, se presentará el caso del IVA ""ecológico"" (ICMS-E) que se aplica en algunos estados de la unión brasilera. Este fue el primer instrumento económico para remunerar los servicios prestados por los bosques en pie de Brasil. Se busca con la presentación ambientar la discusión sobre su adaptabilidad y adoptabilidad para el caso de Colombia, país donde se hace cada vez más evidente la necesidad y conveniencia de contar con instrumentos similares. Para validar la aplicación del instrumento en Brasil se presenta la situación en tres momentos diferentes del tiempo que lleva de estarse aplicando a través de sendos estudios: …antes y hasta 2000: los planteamientos, la explicación, los alcances y el potencial; y las dificultades que encontraba el instrumento para su puesta en marcha. La fuente principal: May, Vega, Denardes y Loreiro (2002); la mirada desde la CEPAL (Jorge Jatobá) en 2005 el ICMS en general y el ICMS-E en particular, la aplicación del instrumento y lo que se veía venir ante la inminencia de una reforma tributaria de orden federal en Brasil, y sobre cómo se lee la situación en 2012 según el trabajo presentado en la 12th Conferencia bienal de la Sociedad internacional de economía ecológica: El ICMS-E en Brasil y su efectividad en la conservación estatal de la biodiversidad, un análisis comparativo de May, Guevara, Conti y Rodrigues (2012). Al final se incluyen algunas conclusiones y recomendaciones."
Q27|Evolución y alternativas del sistema pensional en Colombia|El sistema Colombiano de pensiones ha sido ajustado con la Ley 100 de 1993; la Ley 797/2003; las Leyes 168 y 712 de 2003; y el Acto Legislativo 01 de 2005. Gracias a estos ajustes la deuda a cargo de la nación se redujo de cerca del 270% al 114% del PIB. Sin embargo, el sistema colombiano presenta dos grandes problemas, como son la desigualdad en los beneficios que reciben los pensionados, siendo éstos una de las fuentes que más inciden en la desigualdad del ingreso en Colombia, y la baja cobertura del sistema. Apenas el 30% de la población trabajadora cotiza efectivamente, sólo el 37% de la población mayor de los 60 años tiene un beneficio pensional, y se prevé que ésta va a descender cuando se apliquen los ajustes adelantados. Si bien a mediano plazo, luego de los ajustes al régimen de transición y al régimen general, el sistema se hará más equitativo gracias a la reducción en los subsidios a las altas pensiones, la cual fue refrendada recientemente por la Corte Constitucional, y se espera que el problema de cobertura mejorará con la universalización de los subsidios a la población más pobre y la puesta en operación del sistema de BEP, se requieren esfuerzos adicionales de parte del Estado, de los resultados esperados de la Ley 1607 de reforma tributaria en materia de formalización y de ajustes actuariales necesarios para hacer sostenible el sistema de seguridad social de cubrimiento en la vejez. El presente documento hace un resumen de los ajustes efectuados en los últimos años, se hace una contextualización de la situación de pensiones en algunos países y se presentan los principales retos y alternativas exploradas en el Gobierno para responder a éstos en el mediano plazo incluyendo sus costos y beneficios.
Q27|Modelo DNPsalud 1.0: Proyecciones fiscales del sistema de salud|La alta incidencia fiscal de la salud y la crisis que afronta el SGSS desde 2009, planteó la necesidad de desarrollar un modelo que permitiera proyectar los costos generados por el Sistema. El modelo DNP_Salud es un modelo contable discreto, basado en un componente demográfico que simula el comportamiento del sistema de salud colombiano a un horizonte de 50 años. Contiene diversos módulos de funcionamiento independiente, con la posibilidad de interactuar entre ellos . Los resultados del modelo alimentan hojas de Excel en donde se calcula el componente financiero, lo cual lo convierte en un instrumento para calcular el costo de la salud de la población por grupo etario, región o por patología; así como el balance financiero del sistema de salud en el mediano y largo plazo. Para dar fundamento al modelo, se adelantaron estudios sobre caracterización de la trayectoria de las enfermedades en Colombia según edad, género y localización geográfica de las personas y verificando con base en la literatura existente y en los Registros Individuales de Prestación de Servicios en Salud - RIPS. En el marco de la validación y ajuste de la información de los RIPS, se utilizaron las estadísticas vitales y los reportes de egresos hospitalarios
Q27|A review of the spatial economics of non-timber forest product extraction: Implications for policy|Patterns of forest cover and forest degradation determine the size and types of ecosystem services forests provide. Particularly in low-income countries, nontimber forest product (NTFP) extraction by rural people, which provides important resources and income to the rural poor, contributes to the level and pattern of forest degradation. Although recent policy, particularly in Africa, emphasizes forest degradation, relatively little research describes the spatial aspects of NTFP collection that lead to spatial degradation patterns. This paper reviews both the spatial empirical work on NTFP extraction and related forest degradation patterns, and spatial models of behavior of rural people who extract NTFPs from forest. Despite the impact of rural people's behavior on resulting quantities and patterns of forest resources, spatial–temporal models/patterns rarely inform park siting and sizing decisions, econometric assessments of park effectiveness, development projects to support conservation, or REDD protocols. Using the literature review as a lens, we discuss the models' implications for these policies with particular emphasis on effective conservation spending and leakage.
Q27|Public economics of hitchhiking species and tourism-based risk to ecosystem services|This paper is the first to examine the public economics of export-based externalities arising within the provisioning of ecosystem services, with direct application to policies to prevent the spread of hitchhiking invasive species. We find when risk enters through exports, policy makers face a tradeoff between welfare improvements and reducing risk of invasion. Estimates of visitor demand elasticity for ecotourism are low, so price policies are not likely to reduce risk, though they can raise tax revenue. If demand is elastic enough to reduce risk, trade effects can cause loss of income greater than the risk of the invasion. The paper is motivated by the expansion of invasive species’ within the United States. We apply our model to the specific example of quagga and zebra mussels invasion into the U.S. Pacific Northwest.
Q27|Analysis Of Howecotourismin Protected Areas Influence The Development Of Local Communities|Tourism, which, by its specific, uses natural resources, is an important contribution to environmental damage. In this context, efforts to find and promote holiday forms that have a low environmentalimpact, forms known as ecotourism, ecological tourism, tourism in protected areas, green tourism. Tourism industry stakeholders have become increasingly sensitive to environmental issues and few are those who now believe commercial activities have nothing to do with the development of ecological actions. Also many tour operators believe that the natural resources have economic value only if they are reasonably valued.
Q27|The Greenhouse Gases Business And The Clean Development Mechanism El Negocio Del Carbono Y El Mecanismo Para Un Desarrollo Limpio|Carbon markets emerged as a consequence of efforts carried out by the United Nations in its efforts aimed at combating the effects of climate change. The United Nations Framework Convention for Climate Change through the Kyoto Protocol (KP) is a key part of this effort as it encouraged the creation of market mechanisms by creating special financial instruments that spawned carbon markets. In the last years these assets have sharply decreased in value, to the point of endangering new projects. This paper analyzes if the decrease in value of these instruments is a consequence of the general recession of the world economy. It will also attempt to encourage the idea of generating wealth through clean, environmentally friendly processes. We found that itâ€™s not possible to verify the given hypothesis because the global crisis has not seriously damaged the productive system of the KP participating members, who even increased their outputs while using cleaner technologies.
Q27|The Complete Issue|Is aid dead? Dead Aid was the provocative title of a book that appeared on the 2009 New York Times bestseller list in which Dambisa Moyo outlined the shortcomings of traditional aid to Africa and proposed some even more contentious solutions for her continent. But has development assistance really run its course? Does all aid follow old colonial patterns and actors, as Moyo maintains?. We argue that aid is alive and kicking with some exciting turns that have been gathering momentum in recent years both among traditional donors and new and still emerging South-South Cooperation (SSC) actors. Developed country aid alone still channeled US$134 billion in 2011, a 154 percent increase from a decade earlier; preliminary figures for 2012 show to little surprise a slight decline to US$126 billion. Despite its shortcomings, aid provided by Development Assistance Committee (DAC) members is rapidly changing to be more effective, inclusive, and recipient-owned; principles that were reflected in the Paris Declaration of Aid Effectiveness (2005) and that were later reinforced in the Accra Action Plan and the Busan outcome document (2011) ...
Q27|Interview : Sandra Bessudo Lion (APC-Colombia)|She is a Marine Biologist, graduated from the Ecole Pratique de Hautes Etudes (EPHE), and holds a Master’s in Life and Earth Sciences from Perpignan, France. She is a professional scuba diver with over 5,000 dives in open waters. Ms. Bessudo is a professional strongly committed to the conservation of marine biodiversity and the protection of the environment. In January 2012, she took office as head of the General Directorate, Presidential Agency of International Cooperation, Colombia (APC-Colombia), a government agency in charge of technically managing, guiding and coordinating international public, private, technical and financial cooperation (grants), in which the country is either a grantor or recipient. She was High-Level Presidential Counselor for Environmental Management, Biodiversity, Water and Climate Change; and also Director of the Malpelo and Other Marine Ecosystems, (Fundación Malpelo y otros Ecosistemas Marinos).
Q27|Interview : Juan Manuel Valle Pereña (AMEXCID)|He graduated in Economics from the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM), and holds a Master’s degree in Public Policies, Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton University. He is the Executive Director of the Mexican Agency for International Development Cooperation (AMEXCID). Previously, he has been Head of the Banking, Securities and Savings Unit, Undersecretariat of Finance and Public Credit, Mexico. Before that, he held other posts in government, as well as in the private sector, related to loans and financial systems. He has been the Representative of the Mexican Government to international cooperation agencies.
Q27|La Revista Completa|Es la ayuda el problema? 'Cuando la ayuda es el problema' es el provocador título de un libro que figuró en la lista de best sellers del New York Times del año 2009. En él, su autora, Dambisa Moyo, reseña las deficiencias de la cooperación que tradicionalmente se realiza con Africa y propone algunas soluciones aún más polémicas para su continente. Pero ¿realmente la cooperación para el desarrollo ya ha cumplido su ciclo? ¿Y acaso toda la cooperación sigue las antiguas pautas coloniales y continúa en manos de los actores de siempre, tal como sostiene Moyo? En nuestra opinión, la cooperación sigue 'viva y coleando', con algunos cambios interesantes que han venido ganando impulso en los últimos años, tanto entre los donantes tradicionales como entre los nuevos actores de la Cooperación Sur-Sur (CSS), que siguen sumándose. La ayuda de los países desarrollados canalizó US$134.000 millones en 2011, lo que equivale a un aumento del 154 por ciento respecto de la cifra movilizada en la década anterior; los cálculos preliminares correspondientes a 2012 muestran, para sorpresa de pocos, una ligera caída (US$126.000 millones). A pesar de sus posibles carencias, la cooperación que otorgan los países miembros del Comité de Ayuda al Desarrollo (CAD) de la OCDE está pasando rápidamente a ser más eficaz e inclusiva y a fortalecer la apropiación por parte de sus beneficiarios, principios que quedaron reflejados en la Declaración de París sobre la Eficacia de la Ayuda para el Desarrollo (2005) y que luego se consolidaron en el Programa de Acción de Accra y en el documento de resultados de Busan (2011) ...
Q27|Entrevista : Juan Manuel Valle Pereña (AMEXCID)|Licenciado en Economía del Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM) con Maestría en Políticas Públicas del Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs de la Universidad de Princeton. Es el Director Ejecutivo de la Agencia Mexicana de Cooperación Internacional para el Desarrollo (AMEXCID). Anteriormente se ha desempeñado como Jefe de la Unidad de Banca, Valores y Ahorro, de la Subsecretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público de México, como también en otros cargos de la administración pública y en el sector privado relacionado con créditos y sistemas financieros. Se desempeñó como Representante del Gobierno de México ante organismos de cooperación internacional.
Q27|Entrevista : Sandra Bessudo Lion (APC-Colombia)|Bióloga Marina del Ecole Pratique de Hautes Etudes Ephe, con Máster en Estudios de Ciencias de la Vida y de la Tierra en Perpignan, Francia. Es buzo profesional con más de 5.000 inmersiones en aguas abiertas, siendo una profesional muy comprometida con la conservación de la biodiversidad marina y con el cuidado del medio ambiente. A partir de enero de 2012 asumió la Dirección General de la Agencia Presidencial de Cooperación Internacional de Colombia (APC-Colombia), entidad gubernamental encargada de gestionar, orientar y coordinar técnicamente la cooperación internacional pública, privada, técnica y financiera no rembolsable que reciba y otorgue el país. Se desempeñó como Alta Consejera Presidencial para la Gestión Ambiental, la Biodiversidad, Agua y Cambio Climático; como Directora de la Fundación Malpelo y otros Ecosistemas Marinos.
Q27|Quo Vadis European Biofuel Policy: The Case of Rapeseed Biodiesel|The European Union's (EU) Renewable Energy Directive (RED) continues to be the focus of much debate over the validity of biofuel sustainability. The debate is driven in part by ongoing concerns of transparency and regional variations of emissions from feedstock cultivation and processing. In a working paper, Pehnelt and Vietze (2012) undertook a general analysis of rapeseed biodiesel greenhouse gas (GHG) savings. In light of the recent effort to decentralize assessments to regional (i.e. Member State) authorities to assess the sustainability of biofuel feedstocks, we have done the same for three Member States, incorporating the comments and critique we received on our latest working paper (Pehnelt and Vietze 2012). Using publicly available cultivation and production figures from Germany (the largest producer and consumer of rapeseed biodiesel), Poland and Romania, we analyse the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions savings of rapeseed biodiesel which we then compare to the values of GHG savings identified in the RED. Under average conditions and conservative assumptions on N2O emissions, German rapeseed biodiesel meets the GHG savings requirements of 35 percent in the RED. However, in years with unfavourable weather conditions and lower yields, German rapeseed biodiesel may fail to reach the 35 percent threshold even with efficient production technologies in the subsequent steps of the supply chain. Taking into account higher N2O emissions due to fertilizer input as suggested by some researchers, German rapeseed biodiesel clearly fails to fulfil the 35 percent criterion required by the RED. Meanwhile, in no instance Polish or Romanian rapeseed biodiesel meet the RED's 35% GHG savings threshold. The assessment of the sustainability of rapeseed biodiesel heavily depends on the very production conditions and assumptions regarding the N2O field emissions. As a matter of fact, not every liter of rapeseed biodiesel produced in the EU is 'sustainable' in the sense of RED. Therefore, the use of standard values (e.g. default values) in order to categorize rapeseed biodiesel - or any other biofuel - as sustainable or not is not justifiable. With renewable energy strategies proliferating throughout the world, the validity of technical criteria has become increasingly critical to the success of these strategies - particularly the fiercely debated RED. The application of technical criteria remains inconsistent, and in the case of the RED, resulting in unreliable assessments of biofuel feedstocks and heated debates over the authority of these assessments.
Q27|Leakage, Welfare, and Cost-Effectiveness of Carbon Policy|We extend the model of Fullerton, Karney, and Baylis (2012) to explore cost-effectiveness of unilateral climate policy in the presence of leakage. We ignore the welfare gain from reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and focus on the welfare cost of the emissions tax or permit scheme. Whereas that prior paper solves for changes in emissions quantities and finds that leakage may be negative, we show here that all cases with negative leakage in that model are cases where a unilateral carbon tax results in a welfare loss. With positive leakage, however, a unilateral policy can improve welfare.
Q27|Ship inspections in invasive species management: Alternate regimes and their properties|When it comes to inspections in invasive species management, the literature has shown that there is frequently a tension between economic cost reduction and inspection stringency. As such, we analyze the properties of two probabilistic inspection regimes that are designed to screen arriving ships in a seaport for the presence of one or more deleterious invasive species. In the first regime, the seaport inspector screens arriving ships by using fast (less stringent) and slow (more stringent) protocols. In the second regime, the inspector uses a uniformly stringent protocol with stages. We use the theory of continuous time Markov chains (CTMCs) to delineate both inspection regimes. Next, we derive some key long run performance measures associated with each of these two regimes. Finally, we discuss the implications of our analysis for practical invasive species management.
Q27|Internal and External Determinants of Economic Growth: A closer look at Pakistan’s Economy|This study aims to investigate the impact of internal and external determinants of economic growth on the economic growth of Pakistan. Major internal determinants include stock of physical capital and developmental expenditures, while external determinants include trade openness and real effective exchange rate. In doing so, study utilizes the annual time series data from 1972 to 2011. Advanced Autoregressive Distributed Lag model (ARDL) approach has been employed for co-integration and error correction model (ECM) for short-run results. Empirical investigations indicate that developmental expenditures, physical capital and trade openness are positively correlated with economic growth in long run, while real effective exchange rate negatively and significantly affect economic growth in long run in case of Pakistan.
Q27|Modeling Forest Trade in Logs and Lumber: Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis| This paper deals with forest trade modelling from a theoretical, analytic and empirical perspective. An integrated dynamic log-lumber trade model is developed and then used to examine two trade issues, namely, a reduction of Russian taxes on log exports and removal of the taxes on Canadian lumber destined for the United States. To demonstrate the dynamic aspect of the model, both sets of taxes are lowered over a period of time. The trade model consists of five Canadian regions, three U.S. regions, New Zealand, Australia, Chile, Rest of Latin America, Russia, Sweden, Finland, Rest of Europe, Japan, China, Rest of Asia, and Rest of the World – a total of 20 regions. It concerns only coniferous logs and softwood lumber, ignoring hardwoods. The model is also calibrated on 2010 observed bi-lateral flows of logs and lumber using positive mathematical programming. The forest trade model is written using an Excel-GAMS interface, with input data retrieved by GAMS from Excel and GAMS output written to Excel, where final calculations are made.
Q27|Market Power in the Log and Lumber Import Market in Japan|Japan imports rather than exports forestry products even though it has ample forestry resources. Moreover, the leading exporters of forest products often have strong market power in the trade market of forestry products. The possibility of incomplete competition in the Japanese wood import market can also be suspected from the fact that the structure of imports of logs and lumber has remained unchanged over the past 10 years. However, there has been limited empirical economic analysis of the timber trade market to support this assertion. In this study, we examine the market power of the primary exporting countries in the Japanese log and lumber market based on the residual demand model. We analysed the import data of forestry products from 1988 to 2010 with respect to every main item exported to Japan. The analysis shows that Canada has market power over several items of logs in the Japanese import market, while the United States and Canada have market power over several items of lumber. The study also clarifies that imperfect competition exists in the Japanese timber import market and that the timber price in Japan is partially determined by the exporting countries. JEL Classification: Q17, Q23, Q27
Q27|Recalculating GHG emissions saving of palm oil biodiesel|In 2010, the Renewable Energy Directive (RED) came into force in the EU and establishes a framework for achieving legally binding greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. Only sustainable biofuels can be counted towards Member State targets. The aim of this paper is to calculate realistic and transparent scenario-based CO 2 -emission values for the GHG emissions savings of palm oil fuel compared with fossil fuel. Using the calculation scheme proposed by the RED, we derive a more realistic overall GHG emissions saving value for palm oil diesel by using current input and output data of biofuel production (e.g. in South-East Asia). We calculate different scenarios in which reliable data on the production conditions (and the regarding emission values during the production chain) of palm oil diesel are used. Our results indicate values for the GHG emissions savings potential of palm oil biodiesel not only above the 19 % default and 36 % typical value published in RED but also above the 35 % sustainable threshold. Our findings conclude the more accurate GHG emissions saving value for palm oil feedstock for electricity generation to be 52 %, and for transportation biodiesel between 38.5 and 41 %, depending on the fossil fuel comparator. Our results confirm the findings by other studies and challenge the official typical and default values published in RED. As a result, the reliability of the Directive to support the EU’s low-carbon ambitions is being undermined, exposing the EU and commission to charges of trade discrimination and limiting the ability of Member States to achieve their legally binding GHG emission reductions. Copyright The Author(s) 2013
Q27|Possibilities for Romanian Valuers to Cope With The Realities of Future Real Estate Market in the Context of Sustainable Development|"Energy efficiency regulations imposed in the recent years lead, in the real estate valuation field, from ""if"" to ""when"" and ""how"" will real estate sustainable features impact its value. A sustainable building is a building that is placed on the land tract, designed, built, operated, modernized and reused in a way that allows it to be environmentally friendly and to also ensure the efficient use of the natural resources existing onsite or nearby. The sustainable building is also called ""green"", ""passive"", ""ecological"", ""natural"" or ""nearly zero"" energy building. In order to facilitate the valuers to cope with the reality of future real estate market - market which must adopt and include, step by step, the above-mentioned regulations, the present article goes into the most recent specialised literature which tackles this topic, presents important elements included in the several valuation guidelines in force (of TEGoVA and RICS) regarding the sustainable buildings and their valuation, presents the contents of the specific Romanian legislation in force and proposes a mean to sample information related to the green features of real estate properties that allow to easily create specific databases which will be very useful to Romanian valuers in the near future."
Q27|Demand for Vacations /Travel in Protected Areas – Dimension of Tourists’ Ecological Behavior|Tourism, in itself, is one of the main users of the environment and, implicitly, an important contributor to its deterioration. Intensification of tourist travel will naturally generate an increase of the negative environmental impacts and, in the long term, a decline in tourism development opportunities. In this context, more and more emphasis is placed on finding and promoting low environmental impact forms of travel, including eco-tourism, rural tourism, tourism in protected areas, cultural tourism, adventure tourism, etc., at the same time on encouraging, inciting potential tourists to consume these categories of products (holidays). Globally conducted studies have revealed a good understanding of and an increasing receptivity to sustainable forms of travel among tourists. Nevertheless, the place they hold in the structure of tourist circulation is still modest, mainly due to the insufficient supply, in its turn determined by ignorance of the demand and by the additional requirements the consumer of such holidays has to meet, especially in regard to behavior. In line with these developments and trends, this study aimed to identify the behavior of tourists in protected areas and its determinants, to encourage a responsible attitude towards the environment and its quality. For this purpose, desk and field researches were made to allow the characterization of holiday request in protected areas and to formulate proposals regarding tourists’ education.
Q27|From Ethanol Shuffle to Ethanol Tourism— Why the RFS Does Not Make Sense| The U.S. fuel ethanol industry has experienced phenomenal growth in recent years, with roughly a 3.6-fold increase in ethanol production since 2005 (RFA, 2012). A fuel blender’s credit (the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit), a secondary tariff on imported ethanol, and mandatory use of renewable fuels supported the development of the industry. However, two of these three policy instruments— the federal tax credit and the secondary tariff— were allowed to lapse at the end of 2011. The Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS)—which sets annual mandates for renewable transportation fuels sold in the United States— has been maintained and currently requires 15.2 billion gallons of renewable fuel, an increase of roughly 9% from last year, to be contained in motor vehicle fuels in 2012 (EPA, 2011). In an earlier assessment of U.S. biofuels policies (Yano, Blandford and Surry, 2010), we argued that the mix of policies did not make economic sense, particularly in terms of their impact on international trade. In this article we examine whether things have changed and focus on the key issue of whether the RFS should continue to be applied.
Q27|Greening the Cap: The Way Forward|Greening the CAP: The Way Forward This paper reviews the debate up to June 2012 on the proposal to introduce a green payment in Pillar 1 of the Cap following the publication of the Commission’s legislative proposals for the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy post-2013 in October 2011. While many details of how the proposals will be implemented remain unclear, an attempt is made to examine their potential contribution to environmental improvement. The paper argues there is further scope to improve the environmental impact of Cap spending in the next Mff period.
Q27|Production Profitability of Ethanol from Alternative Feedstocks in the Texas Panhandle| The potential of three feedstocks: grain sorghum, sweet sorghum, and switchgrass for ethanol production in the top 26 counties of the Texas Panhandle Region is analyzed using yield and production costs of feedstock, processing cost of feedstock, final demand for ethanol, farm to wholesale marketing margin, and the derived demand price of feedstock. The calculated economic returns per acre of grain sorghum, sweet sorghum, and switchgrass are -$45.37, -$410.19, and -$150.17 respectively under irrigated condition and -$38.25, -$145.09, and -$29.04 respectively under dryland condition. The evaluation in this study demonstrates that ethanol production from grain sorghum, sweet sorghum, and switchgrass in the Texas Panhandle Region is not economically feasible given the current price for ethanol in Texas. This is consistent with the status of the ethanol industry in the Texas Panhandle.
Q27|Adoption Versus Adaptation, with Emphasis on Climate Change|This article presents lessons from the rich adoption literature for the nascent research on adaptation. Individuals' adoption choices are affected by profit and risk considerations and by credit and biophysical constraints. New technologies spread gradually, reflecting heterogeneity among potential adopters, processes of learning and technological improvement, and policies and institutions. Adaptation is the response of economic agents and societies to major shocks. We distinguish between reactive and proactive adaptation. The latter is important in the context of climate change and consists of mitigation, reassessment, and innovation that aim to affect the timing and location of shocks. Adaptation strategies also include adoption of innovation and technology transfer across locations, insurance and international trade, and migration and invasions. Recent research emphasizes multidisciplinary collaborations; historical analysis; and the roles of returns to scale of key technologies, social networks, behavioral economics, path dependency, and ex ante adjustment in explaining patterns of adoption and adaptation.
Q27|FCPR–Forest Conservation Performance Rating for the Pan-Tropics - Working Paper 294|This note introduces and illustrates fCPR (Forest Conservation Performance Rating), a system of color-coded ratings for tropical forest conservation performance that can be implemented for local areas, countries, regions, and the entire pan-tropics. The ratings reward tropical forest conservation in three dimensions: (1) exceeding expectations, given an area’s forest clearing history and development status; (2) meeting or exceeding global REDD+ goals; and (3) achieving an immediate reduction in forest clearing. We assign green ratings to areas that meet condition (2); yellow to areas that meet (1) only; and red to countries that fail to meet either condition. We have developed fCPR at the Center for Global Development (CGD), using monthly forest clearing indicators from CGD’s FORMA (Forest Monitoring for Action). This first release rates the quarterly conservation performance of 27 countries currently tracked by FORMA, as well as 242 of their states and provinces that contain tropical forests. The 27 countries accounted for 94 percent of tropical forest clearing during the period 2000–2005. Future releases will include additional countries as FORMA begins tracking them.
Q27|International differences in emissions intensity and emissions content of global trade|Understanding international differences in the emissions intensity of trade and production is essential to understanding the effects of greenhouse gas limitation policies. We develop data on emissions from 41 industrial sectors in 39 countries and estimate the CO2 emissions intensity of production and trade. We find no evidence that developing countries specialize in emissions-intensive sectors; instead, our evidence suggests that emissions intensities differ systematically across countries because of differences in production techniques. Our results confirm that international differences in emissions intensity are substantial, but suggest that they do not play a significant factor in determining patterns of trade.
Q27|Electricity provision with intermittent sources of energy|We analyze the interaction between a reliable source of electricity production and intermittent sources such as wind or solar power. We first characterize the optimal energy mix, emphasizing the availability of the intermittent source as a major parameter for the optimal investment in capacity. We then analyze decentralization through competitive market mechanisms. We show that decentralizing the efficient energy mix requires electricity to be priced contingently on the availability of the intermittent source. By contrast, traditional meters impose uniform pricing, which distorts the optimal mix of energy sources. Decentralizing the efficient energy mix with uniform prices requires either cross-subsidies from the intermittent source to the reliable source of energy or structural integration of the two types of technology.
Q27|The Sustainability Approach of Romanian Agriculture|Transition in Romania has been perceived in an original way by the structures of society, social and political factors, but mainly by the economic one. Romanian society has been deprived of the existence of market economy for a long period of time; this made the transition period from statistic economy to a capitalist, market one to acquire some specific coordinates such as: high social costs, poor adaptability of the labour force to the requirements of market economy; low efficiency of economic sectors in relation to the economy of developed countries; lack of correlation between work productivity and salary requirements; unequal development of regions of the country, leading to greater social and economic disparities, reduced capacity to attract private investments; existence of the development gap between rural and urban environment; inadaptability of educational and health system to the current requests of economic and social development; irrational exploitation of natural resources, the high share of underground economy in GDP.
Q27|Uncertainties about the GHG Emissions Saving of Rapeseed Biodiesel|During the last years, the renewable energy strategy of the European Union (EU) and the proposed policies and regulations, namely the Renewable Energy Directive (RED), have been heavily discussed among scientific circles and various interest groups. The sustainability of different biofuels and their contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the whole renewable strategy has become one of the most controversial issues. RED requires that the greenhouse gas emissions associated with production and use of biofuels are at least 35% lower than those associated with the production and use of conventional fuels to be classified as 'sustainable' and therefore eligible for the mandatory blending scheme applied within the EU. In a recent working paper, we analyze the GHG emissions savings potential of rapeseed biodiesel. For this purpose, we ran a life cycle assessment of rapeseed biodiesel using the same basic methodology and background data contained in RED by considering the whole production chain from cultivation of the feedstock up to use of the biofuels. Unlike other studies, we refer only to publicly available and published data in our calculations. In order to ensure full transparency - again contrary to the vast majority of other studies - we provide a detailed documentation of all data. We follow a rather conservative approach by using average values and assuming common conditions along the supply chain in our scenarios. In most of the scenarios, rapeseed biodiesel does not reach the GHG emissions saving values using the formula contained in RED. Neither the RED typical value for rapeseed oil (45%) nor even the lower default value (38%) can be supported by the analysis. Furthermore, most of the scenarios indicate that rapeseed biodiesel does not reach the 35% threshold required by the EU Directive for being considered as sustainable biofuel. In the standard scenario, we calculate a GHG emissions saving value of not even 30% which is not only well below the GHG emissions saving values (default and typical) that can be found in RED but also far below the 35% threshold. To summarize, we are not able to reproduce the GHG emissions saving values published in the annex of RED. Therefore, the GHG emissions saving values of rapeseed biodiesel stated by the EU are more than questionable. Given these striking differences as well as the lack of transparency in the EU's calculations, we assume that the EU seems to prefer 'politically' achieved typical and default values regarding rapeseed biodiesel over scientifically proven ones.
Q27|Evolutions and Trends in the International Tourism|The domestic and international world tourism is at present and in the future – as the WTO experts consider- one of the most important world economy industry – one of the economic and social development engines in many countries of the world. In its evolution, between 1970 over 2010, the basic indicators to measure the international tourism (arrivals and incomes) had an ascending evolution, though at some stages the growing rhythms slowed down, as a result of negative factors such as terrorism, floods. Earthquakes, military conflicts, financial and economic crises etc. Meanwhile, a lot of evident changes took place in terms of the regions share in the total income and arrivals (according to the WTO delimitations), with growth in the Asian and the Pacific areas, the Middle East and with decreases in Europe, the North and South America. Apart from considering our country in the general world trends and direction, which is a must, we have to strengthen the promotion efforts (to conquer more in the competition on the markets in Germany, Swede, Japan, China, Great Britain, Canada, the Russian Federation, Italy etc, the “10 top countries”, with a view to tourism foreign expenditures outside frontiers).
Q27|Environmental Kuznets Curve : Panel Data Evidence from Developing Countries|This paper aims at analyzing the shape of the environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) for developing countries. We compare four different techniques of estimations, such as pooled ordinary least square (OES), fixed effect, random effect, dynamic panel data, and pool OLS at first difference. We obtain three major findings. First, state of assumptions, data span, and model specification, have important implication on sign and parameter estimate. We argue that those conditions contribute to uncertainty in parameter estimate. Second, the models share a common findings such as inverted U-curve in explaning the relationship between per capita COi emissions and per capita GDP. Second, we find that the economic transition from the agricultural to the services sector has a positive impact to ease CO2 emissions. Third, in the long run, an increase in per capita GDP will lead to much higher CO2 emissions per capita than in the short run. We suggest that due to uncertainty on turning point and most people are riskaverse, wisdom of knowledge prefer anticipatory instead of reactive policy toward global warming. A climate-friendly path needs to be a basis in economic development planning
Q27|Real-Time Feedback and Residential Electricity Consumption: The Newfoundland and Labrador Pilot|A pilot study was undertaken in Newfoundland and Labrador to determine whether provision of a real-time feedback device is sufficient to provide residential customers with the information needed to reduce their electricity consumption. A panel based econometric methodology, which controlled for such factors as weather, appliance and housing stock, and demographic determinants influencing electricity consumption, was used to quantify the impacts of the realtime monitor in reducing energy (kWh) use. The study also provided some important insights about socio-economic factors that influence conservation responsiveness, a feature that may assist in developing targeted energy efficiency programs. For example, the electric water heating households showed a higher savings than non-electric water heating households. While positive attitudes toward conservation significantly increase the reduction in electricity when using the real-time monitor, seniors, in their employment of the real-time monitor, do not conserve as much. Overall, the aggregate reduction in electricity consumption (kWh) across the study sample was 18.1%. The paper describes the experimental design, the data collection, the evaluation model, the conservation results, and customers’ attitudes and perceptions regarding the real-time monitor.
Q27|Real-time Feedback and Residential Electricity Consumption: The Newfoundland and Labrador Pilot|A pilot study was undertaken in Newfoundland and Labrador to determine whether provision of a real-time feedback device is sufficient to provide residential customers with the information needed to reduce their electricity consumption. A panel based econometric methodology, which controlled for such factors as weather, appliance and housing stock, and demographic determinants influencing electricity consumption, was used to quantify the impacts of the realtime monitor in reducing energy (kWh) use. The study also provided some important insights about socio-economic factors that influence conservation responsiveness, a feature that may assist in developing targeted energy efficiency programs. For example, the electric water heating households showed a higher savings than non-electric water heating households. While positive attitudes toward conservation significantly increase the reduction in electricity when using the real-time monitor, seniors, in their employment of the real-time monitor, do not conserve as much. Overall, the aggregate reduction in electricity consumption (kWh) across the study sample was 18.1%. The paper describes the experimental design, the data collection, the evaluation model, the conservation results, and customers’ attitudes and perceptions regarding the real-time monitor.
Q27|Timing of adoption of clean technologies, transboundary pollution and international trade|The authors consider a symmetric model composed of two countries and a firm in each country. Firms produce the same good by means of a polluting technology which uses fossil energy. However, these firms can adopt clean technology which uses renewable energy, having lower costs. Interestingly, opening markets to international competition increases the per-unit emission-tax and decreases the per-unit production subsidy. The socially optimal adoption date under a common market better internalizes transboundary pollution than that under autarky. In autarky (resp. a common market), firms adopt the clean technology earlier (resp. later) than what is socially optimal and, therefore, regulators induce clean technology adoption at the socially optimal adoption date by firms postponing (resp. speeding up) adoption subsidies. Opening markets to international trade speeds up socially optimal adoption dates and reduces global flow of pollution.
Q27|Environmental Depletion, Governance, and Conflict|While the link between natural resource dependence and internal conflict has been approached from a variety of angles in a large and growing interdisciplinary literature, the feasibility-discontent dichotomy still frames a fluid research agenda in both economics and political science. This article attempts to help bridge the gap by allowing for both intrinsic and extrinsic motivations of potential rebels. Simple non-cooperative bargaining yields a nonlinear impact of regulatory quality on the likelihood of conflict and shows that corruption and resource depletion jointly affect the outcome. The empirical analysis that follows looks at the effect of environmental depletion and government corruption on the emergence of civil conflicts using a large panel data set. Resource depletion, the quality of governance, and their interaction are found to be significant determinants of civil conflict incidence. Results are robust to model and specification as well as to several steps taken to address potential endogeneity concerns.
Q27|Institutional, geographic, and facility factors affecting differences in prices for wastewater services|The provision of wastewater services is an important infrastructure service that affects social welfare. It improves the quality of community life by promoting sanitary conditions and minimizing the negative impact of wastewater on ecosystems. The price for this important public service, however, varies considerably across regions and localities. In this paper, we examine the physical factors and institutional characteristics that affect wastewater service prices across regions and localities. Our major concerns are the following: (1) institutional arrangements and characteristics of a wastewater utility, (2) government regulations, (3) supply factors and characteristics, and (4) natural environments and local characteristics. To analyze the price differences, we employ the demand and price equations for wastewater services using a simultaneous equations framework. For empirical estimation, we utilize a seemingly unrelated regression (SUR) method to account for the correlations between the residuals in the four price equations for wastewater services. Our empirical results are that the institutional arrangement of services, including monthly charges (versus bi-monthly or quarterly charges), provision of other infrastructure services in addition to wastewater services, and long-term debt, explain much of the price difference. In addition, the wastewater prices are influenced by state environmental regulations as well as supply factors, such as the number of wastewater treatment plants and infiltration and inflow into the sewer system. Interestingly, local geographic and meteorologic factors that were hypothesized to affect the selection of treatment processes were not found to be associated with price. These findings suggest ways wastewater services might be offered at lower prices for users. Copyright Springer-Verlag 2012
Q27|International Trade and Management of Shared Renewable Resource|This paper examines the effects of international trade and resource management in a two-country model where each country controls domestic harvest to prevent over-exploitation of an internationally shared renewable resource (e.g., fishery resources). We show that contrary to conventional wisdom, an opening up of trade is likely to raise the steady state utility of a resource-good exporting country, even if it implements weak resource management standards, because the expansion of the resource sector which enjoys economic rent increases its total income. To maximize world welfare in a trading steady state, a resource-good importing country should implement stricter resource management after trade than under autarky but it will implement weak resource management to enjoy economic rent by mitigating the contraction of the resource sector (i.e., rent shifting). Thus, a resource-good exporting country should give some side payments to give a resource-good importing country an incentive to implement strict resource management standards. Keywords: Gains from trade; Shared renewable resource; Resource management JEL Classification: F11; Q27
Q27|Addressing the wicked problem of water resource management: An ecosystem services approach| This paper develops a systematic assessment of the sustainability of ecosystem services provided by rivers impacted by water storage projects. Given the conflicting preferences amongst stakeholders and the incomplete, uncertain and contradictory understanding about river ecology it is recognized that managing water resources sustainably is a wicked problem. In order to address this wicked problem, the methods of multi-criteria analysis and graph analysis are applied, in accordance with integrated water resource management, to assess the potential of investing in water storage projects and explore for sustainable solutions through the construction of an ecosystem services index.
Q27|Evaluating the sustainability of impounded river systems and the cost-effectiveness of dam projects: An ecosystem services approach| In recent times, there has been increasing demand in the Canterbury region of New Zealand for the abstraction of water from rivers. The impact of this demand has lead to unacceptable minimum river flows and has adversely affected river ecology. In an effort to resolve these issues dams have been constructed. To evaluate the impact of these dam projects on all river values, an ecosystem services approach is developed. This ecosystem services approach coupled with various evaluation methods are applied for the purposes of assessing the cost-effectiveness of the Opuha Dam and the sustainability of the Opihi river system now modified by the Opuha Dam. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this dam project cost utility analysis is applied through the development of an ecosystem services index (ESI). The index is constructed from the aggregation of normalized indicators that represent each ecosystem service and preferential weights of each ecosystem service. The evaluation of sustainability is considered both according to weak and strong criteria. Weak sustainability is evaluated by a non-declining ecosystem services index over time. Strong sustainability is evaluated by the thresholds or safe minimum standards where an ecosystem service, as represented by an indicator, should not pass below. Fifteen ecosystem services provided by the Opihi river were identified and data for forty-two indicators was compiled to assess the provision of these services pre- and post-dam. Fifteen regional and six local stakeholder representatives were interviewed to elicit preferential weights for each ecosystem service. Assessment of both the ESI and safe minimum standards indicates that since dam construction the river has progressed towards both weak and strong sustainability in its provision of ecosystem services. The cost-effectiveness of the dam however was poor. While further work remains to refine the approach, namely to develop more effective indicators of river ecosystem services, the work does present a novel method to evaluate the impacts of dams on river systems.
Q27|The Implications of Alternative Biofuel Policies on Carbon Leakage| We show how leakage differs, depending on the biofuel policy and market conditions. Carbon leakage is shown to have two components: a market leakage effect and an emissions savings effect. We also distinguish domestic and international leakage and show how omitting the former like the IPCC does can bias leakage estimates. International leakage is always positive, but domestic leakage can be negative. The magnitude of market leakage depends on the domestic and foreign gasoline supply and fuel demand elasticities, and on consumption and production shares of world oil markets for the country introducing the biofuel policy. Being a small country in world oil markets does not automatically imply that leakage is 100 percent or above that of a large country. We show leakage due to a tax credit is always greater than that of a mandate, while the combination of a mandate and subsidy generates greater leakage than a mandate alone. In general, one gallon of ethanol is found to replace only 0.35 gallons of gasoline – not one gallon as assumed by life-cycle accounting. For the United States, this translates into one (gasoline-equivalent) gallon of ethanol emitting 1.13 times more carbon than a gallon of gasoline if indirect land use change (iLUC) is not included in the estimated emissions savings effect and 1.43 times more when iLUC is included.
Q27|The Increasing Multifunctionality of Agricultural Raw Materials: Three Dilemmas for Innovation and Adoption| Agricultural raw materials are increasingly being used for multiple industries or sectors beyond the traditional fiber and nutrition industries: energy in the form of ethanol and biodiesel, industrial products such as polymers and bio-based synthetic chemicals and fibers, and pharmaceutical/health products such as functional foods, growth hormones and organ transplants. A combination of the new science of biotechnology, the new potential end uses of the products of that science and the broadened social/public goals that these products can respond to surfaces at least three fundamental challenges or dilemmas: (1) the competing goals dilemma, (2) the incumbent vs. new entrant competition dilemma, and (3) the industry boundaries dilemma. This paper reviews the innovation and adoption research related to renewables and the bio-economy, and then frames the three dilemmas with the objective of identifying important research issues and the conceptual frameworks that might be useful to analyze these issues.
Q27|Innovativeness and Innovation: Implications for the Renewable Materials Supply Chain| This paper leverages the current literature on innovativeness to provide a framework that summarizes the characteristics of firms that exhibit a culture of innovativeness. This framework can assist firms entering the renewable raw materials market in identifying gaps in their internal capacity for innovation as well as the necessary characteristics of supply chain partners that will match their own innovativeness—a necessary albeit insufficient requisite for success in the development of renewable raw materials supply chains.
Q27|Supply Chains for Emerging Renewable Polymers: Analysis of Interactive Sectors and Complementary Assets| Revitalized interest in biobased or renewable ingredients in manufacturing has emerged in recent years due to rising real petroleum prices, concerns regarding environmental impacts of crude oil, and national security issues related to petroleum resources. This research analyzes the complexities of renewable supply chains. In particular, polymers manufactured from renewable feedstocks will augment various industrial markets, such as plant material used as a renewable ingredient in paint manufacture, partially substituting for crude oil derivative ingredients. The analysis defines polymer industrial supply chains and estimates the market opportunity for renewable polymers. A section of the analysis is devoted to complementary assets as a new product development bridge to supply chain issues.
Q27|Desmatamento e Crescimento Econômico no Brasil: uma análise da Curva de Kuznets Ambiental para a Amazônia Legal| Over the last years,concerns about the possibility that the economic growth may cause deforestation in the Amazon region have been increasing.This work is aimed at studying the relation between income and deforestation by the hypothesis of Environmental Kuznets Curve (EKC) approach at municipal level in the period from2001-2006. A panel data model with spatial dependence was estimated. Some other variables mentioned in the literature as important causes of deforestation (cattle and agricultural activities, population density and others) were included. The best model specified is the one that includes a spatial error term and spatial spillovers. The relation founded is not the traditional inverted “U” shaped, but an inverted “N” shaped relation.
Q27|El Tema Ambiental: Una Visión General Sobre Su Desarrollo|El tema ambiental en la teoría económica no cobra importancia sino hasta después de la década de los sesenta. En principio, la teoría clásica centró su preocupación en el problema del crecimiento e hizo posible, a través del análisis marginal, asignar al mercado la función de ser un proveedor eficiente de recursos. Sin embargo, en los años setenta se reconocen los impactos negativos del crecimiento económico sobre los recursos ambientales. En este escenario y con ayuda de los lineamientos dados por las Conferencias de Estocolmo (1972) y Río de Janeiro (1992) se posibilita la aparición formal de la economía ambiental la cual centra su interés en el desarrollo sustentable y se involucra en este objetivo la educación ambiental como estrategia para posibilitar el uso óptimo de los recursos ambientales. Este artículo presenta una revisión de las diferentes escuelas de pensamiento económico y se destaca su contribución teórica a la formación de ladisciplina de la economía ambiental.
Q27|Can domestication of wildlife lead to conservation? The economics of tiger farming in China|Tigers are a threatened species that might soon disappear in the wild. Not only are tigers threatened by deteriorating and declining habitat, but poachers continue to kill tigers for traditional medicine, decoration pieces and so on. Although international trade in tiger products has been banned since 1987 and domestic trade within China since 1993, tigers continue to be poached and Chinese entrepreneurs have established tiger farms in anticipation of their demise. While China desires to permit sale of tiger products from captive-bred tigers, this is opposed on the grounds that it likely encourages illegal killing. Instead, wildlife conservationists lobby for more spending on anti-poaching and trade-ban enforcement. In this study, a mathematical bioeconomic model is used to investigate the issue. Simulation results indicate that, unless range states are characterized by institutions (rule of law and low corruption) similar to those found in the richest countries, reliance on enforcement alone is insufficient to guarantee survival of wild tigers. Likewise, even though conservation payments could protect wild tigers, the inability to enforce contracts militates against this. Our model indicates that wild tigers can be protected by permitting sale of products from tiger farms, although this likely requires the granting of an exclusive license to sellers. Finally, it is possible to tradeoff enforcement effort and sale of products from captive-bred animals, but such tradeoffs are worsened by deteriorating tiger habitat.
Q27|Raising finance to support developing country action: some economic considerations|This article explores the principles that should guide efforts to raise finance for climate action in developing countries. The main conclusions are that, first, there is an important role for private finance, which would be facilitated by having pervasive and broadly uniform emissions pricing around the world. Second, public finance is warranted by a range of market – and policy – failures associated with climate change and its mitigation. Third, raising tax revenues may be preferable to borrowing as a means of raising public finance, although the economics is not clear-cut. Public finance theory advocates taxing ‘bads,’ of which a number have escaped the tax base so far. But it discourages hypothecation of specific revenue streams to particular uses. Fourth, how much could or should be raised by the many specific proposals for finance for climate action in developing countries is often uncertain. So is how multiple schemes would interact. Several schemes could depress carbon prices. Earmarking is often assumed to be justified despite the arguments to the contrary. Fifth, two sets of proposals do particularly well judged against this analysis: (i) expanding the scale and scope of the CDM (ii) expanding the use of international financial institutions’ balance sheets.
Q27|Delivering on US Climate Finance Commitments|At the United Nations climate change conference in Copenhagen in 2009 and Cancun in 2010, the United States joined other developed countries in pledging to mobilize $100 billion in public and private sector funding to help developing countries reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to a warmer world. With a challenging US fiscal outlook and the failure of cap-and-trade legislation in the US Congress, America's ability to meet this pledge is increasingly in doubt. This paper identifies, quantifies, and assesses the politics of a range of potential US sources of climate finance. It finds that raising new public funds for climate finance will be extremely challenging in the current fiscal environment and that many of the politically attractive alternatives are not realistically available absent a domestic cap-and-trade program or other regime for pricing carbon. Washington's best hope is to use limited public funds to leverage private sector investment through bilateral credit agencies and multilateral development banks.
Q27|Does going green pay off? The effect of an international environmental agreement on tropical timber trade|Trade-related measures aim to regulate side-effects in international environmental agreements and are expected to positively influence the level of participation in the agreements as well as their degree of stability. In this paper we examine one side-effect of the 1994 International Tropical Timber Agreement - its impact on tropical timber trade. We use a cross-sectional dataset on bilateral trade flows of tropical timber that additionally contains information on trading partners' economic and geographical characteristics. Our empirical specification is based on a gravity equation, which is estimated using Heckman's selection model to address the potentially systematic selection of trading partners. We find significantly positive impacts of the 1994 ITTA on member countries' level of tropical timber trade. Furthermore, poor exporter countries benefit more from this trade enhancing effect than their richer counterparts.
Q27|Recalculating Default Values for Palm Oil|"On 05 December 2010, the Renewable Energy Directive (RED) came into force in the EU. Member States are still working to fully transpose the Directive into national law and establish a framework for achieving their legally binding greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions. However, governments got off to a slow start as debate continues on the validity of the directives foundations including the default values used to measure the sustainability of biofuels. Only sustainable biofuels can be counted towards Member State targets. This, as a matter of principle, makes sense with respect to the very aim of renewable energy policies. On the other hand, the vague and distortive formulation and values regarding what is to be classified as ""sustainable"" have negatively impacted the perception of the underlying scientific base and methodologies as well as the reliability in the European biofuels sector. This uncertainty and the ongoing controversial debates are affecting investment and progress in the biofuel sector not just in Europe but all over the world. Producers of soybeans in the US, sugarcane in Brazil and palm oil in Malaysia and Indonesia as well as European importers and end-users of these products have all been sharply critical of the default values, citing significant variations in calculations that undermine the credibility of the values contained in the Directive. Given the remarkable difference between the calculation of carbon reduction performance of palm oil based biofuel by the EU and a range of scientific studies which we documented in an earlier paper (Pehnelt and Vietze 2009), we are re-calculating GHG emissions saving potentials for palm oil biodiesel in order to further assess the carbon footprint of palm oil to overcome the lack of transparency in existing publications on the issue and EU regulations governing the biofuel feed-stocks. The aim of this paper is to calculate realistic and transparent scenario based CO2-emission values for the GHG emission savings of palm oil fuel compared with fossil fuel. Using the calculation scheme proposed by the Renewable Energy Directive (RED), we derive a more realistic overall default value for palm oil diesel by using current input and output data of biofuel production (e.g. in South-East Asia) and documenting every single step in detail. We calculate different scenarios in which reliable data on the production conditions (and the regarding emission values during the production chain) of palm oil diesel are used. Our conservative calculations based on the Joint Research Centre's (JEC 2011) background data and current publications on palm oil production result in GHG emissions saving potentials of palm oil based biodiesel fairly above the 35% threshold. We cannot reproduce the EU's GHG saving values for palm oil. Rather, our results confirm the higher values obtained by other studies mentioned in our last paper (Pehnelt and Vietze 2009) and elsewhere in this study. Our results indicate default values for the GHG emission savings potential of palm oil biodiesel not only way beyond the 19 percent default value published in RED but also beyond the 35 percent threshold. Our findings conclude that the more accurate default value for palm oil feedstock for electricity generation to be 52%, and for transportation biodiesel between 38.5% and 41%, depending on the fossil fuel comparator. Our results confirm the findings by other studies and challenge the official default values published in RED. As indicated by lawsuits filed by environmental NGOs against the Commission for greater transparency related to the assessment of biofuels, the process has been severely lacking in full disclosure of metrics used to achieve the values contained in the Renewable Energy Directive. As a result, the reliability of the Directive to support the EU's low-carbon ambitions is being undermined, exposing the EU and Commission to charges of trade discrimination and limiting the ability of Member States to achieve their legally binding GHG emission reductions. This analysis demonstrates that a full review of the values contained in the Directive should be undertaken and the values revised to ensure their accuracy, and raises questions as to the method that the values were originally established. Were outside parties consulted, including the industries directly affected by the assessments in the Directive? Were these values peer reviewed? In light of grievances expressed by producers throughout the world, including US soybean growers, Brazilian sugarcane farmers, and Malaysian and Indonesian palm growers, ensuring the Directive does not discriminate against imports is critical to the long-term efforts in the EU to reduce GHG emissions."
Q27|Fisheries Subsidies and Management in Open Economies| The WTO members are conducting negotiations to clarify and improve disciplines on fisheries subsidies at the Doha Round. In this paper, I investigate how worldwide subsidy reform in the fisheries sector could affect fisheries output and resource stocks in a trading equilibrium. I demonstrate that the effects of a reduction in subsidies on fisheries output will differ, depending on the conditions of the economy and fisheries management in different countries. A possible outcome of a reduction in non-capacity-enhancing subsidies is that fisheries output will rise in countries where catch quotas are not enforced and remain the same in countries where catch quotas are strictly enforced, expanding the total supply of fisheries products in the short run. In the long run, the world fisheries resource stock may be reduced.
Q27|The market for conservation and other hostages|A “conservation good” (such as a tropical forest) is owned by a seller who is tempted to consume (or cut), but a buyer benefits more from conservation. The seller prefers to conserve if the buyer is expected to buy, but the buyer is unwilling to pay as long as the seller conserves. This contradiction implies that the market for conservation cannot be efficient and conservation is likely to fail. A leasing market is inefficient for similar reasons and dominates the sales market if and only if the consumption value and the buyer's protection cost are large. The theory thus explains why optimal conservation often fails and why conservation abroad is leased, while domestic conservation is bought.
Q27|Practical Considerations in Using Bioeconomic Modelling for Rebuilding Fisheries|Many of the world.s fish stocks are considered to be in need of rebuilding. In response, global agreements, including UNCLOS, have sought to adopt some (optimal) level of fish biomass, usually the level associated with the maximum sustainable yield (MSY). While establishing a sustainable level of harvest is goal with intuitive appeal, the pursuit of MSY ignores many relevant economic and social factors that are critical to the sustainability of a fishery.
Q27|Regional Trade Agreements - Treatment of Agriculture|This study develops earlier OECD work on the treatment of agriculture in regional trade agreements for Latin America by extending the geographic coverage to Asia-Pacific and selected agreements in Africa. It covers over 50 regional trade agreements with respect to market access, subsidies, trade remedies, and requirements relating to sanitary & phytosanitary measures (SPS) and technical barriers to trade (TBT). These are compared to the requirements of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in order to assess whether they provide for greater market access. Most of the agreements studied show substantial progress with respect to tariff elimination in conformity with Article XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Agricultural export subsidies are banned in over half the agreements, signalling greater trade liberalisation. However, there is much less progress made in the areas of SPS and TBT.
Q27|Climate-Change Policy in the United Kingdom|The United Kingdom started to pursue policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at a relatively early date and now has a comprehensive set of measures in place. It has set clear targets for emission reductions consistent with international goals of limiting global warming and has pioneered statutory underpinning of target-setting. On the international stage, it has been an active protagonist of a global deal to limit human-induced climate change. The new Government has endorsed the direction of previous policies in this area and is introducing further measures, despite heavy fiscal pressures. The United Kingdom is likely to reduce emissions by more than its near-term domestic targets and its target under the Kyoto Protocol, outperforming many OECD countries in the latter respect. But some of the success has been due to ‘one-off’ factors such as the ‘dash for gas’, reductions in non-CO2 greenhouse gases in the 1990s and the recent recession, rather than explicit climate-change policies. The pace of decarbonisation of the power sector has been slow and the spread of renewable energy technologies limited. Implicit carbon prices vary across sectors, and should be harmonized to increase the cost efficiency of policy. The unevenness partly reflects the way in which policies have proliferated and overlap and a simplified structure would be desirable. A step–change in the pace of emission reductions is required to put the UK on the path towards its ambitious 2050 target. Given the central role of the EU emissions trading scheme, a key element of the UK strategy should be to seek tighter quotas within the EU scheme. Preparations to adapt to climate impacts also need to be stepped up, focusing on the provision of more information, better risk-assessment frameworks and more advanced metrics for monitoring and evaluation of adaptation planning. This paper relates to the 2011 Economic Survey of the United Kingdom (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/uk) La politique climatique au Royaume-Uni Le Royaume-Uni, qui a entrepris d’adopter des mesures de réduction des émissions de gaz à effet de serre à une date relativement précoce, met aujourd’hui en oeuvre une panoplie complète de mesures. Il s’est fixé des objectifs précis de réduction des émissions, cohérents avec les objectifs internationaux de limitation du réchauffement planétaire, et a fait oeuvre de précurseur en les adossant à un socle réglementaire. Sur la scène internationale, il a joué un rôle actif en faveur d’un accord mondial visant à limiter le changement climatique d’origine anthropique. Le nouveau gouvernement a repris à son compte les orientations des politiques antérieures dans ce domaine et il introduit actuellement de nouvelles mesures, malgré la rigueur des contraintes budgétaires. Le Royaume-Uni devrait atteindre un taux de réduction de ses émissions supérieur à celui de ses objectifs nationaux à court terme et de son objectif au titre du Protocole de Kyoto, et même dépasser nombre de pays de l’OCDE quant à la réalisation de ce dernier objectif. Mais une partie de ce succès s’explique, non par des mesures explicites de politique climatique, mais par des facteurs ponctuels comme la « ruée vers le gaz » et les réductions des émissions d’autres gaz à effet de serre que le CO2 dans les années 90 et la récession récente. Le rythme de décarbonisation du secteur de l’électricité a été lent et la diffusion des technologies des énergies renouvelables est encore limitée. Les prix implicites du carbone varient selon les secteurs et devraient être harmonisés pour une meilleure efficacité économique. Ces disparités reflètent la prolifération des mesures et leur chevauchement et il serait nécessaire d’en simplifier la structure. Un changement radical dans le rythme de réduction des émissions est nécessaire pour engager le Royaume-Uni sur la voie de la réalisation de l’objectif ambitieux qu’il s’est fixé à l’horizon 2050. Étant donné le rôle central du système communautaire d’échange de quotas d’émission, la stratégie du Royaume-Uni devrait en particulier viser l’adoption de quotas plus rigoureux dans le cadre du système communautaire. Les efforts d’adaptation aux impacts climatiques doivent aussi être renforcés, en s’attachant à développer l’information, à améliorer les cadres d’évaluation des risques, et à affiner les outils de mesure utilisés pour le suivi et l’évaluation de la planification des mesures d’adaptation. Ce document se rapporte à l’Étude économique du Royaume-Uni 2011 (www.oecd.org/eco/etudes/uk)
Q27|Romania'S Energy Potential Of Renewable Energies In The Context Of Sustainable Development|"The concept of \""sustainable development\"" and the necessity for its realization has gone a long way in order to be unanimously accepted. Over time many authors have written about the problem regarding resources depletion, about the effects of pollution and their economic, ecological and social aspects of it. From the observation of the pollution phenomenon and its implications and until this problem has been acknowledged and accepted by a large number of people this problem has been extensively described by various authors be they economists, ecologists, biologists or psychologists and discussed at multiple conferences conducted in order to find a solution to this problem. In the last century, the use of fossil fuels (coal, gas, oil) has had disastrous effects, catastrophic even on the environment, greater than any human activity in history. Among these effects we can enumerate: global warming, the emergence of acid rains, thinning of the ozone layer, etc. In consequence, the use of alternative energy resources becomes imminent for the today world. Among these resources we can include the sun, the wind, geothermal water, biomass, water, etc., which have the capacity to generate alternative energy namely solar energy, wind energy, hydro energy, wave energy, geothermal energy, bioenergy (biofuels), biodiesel, etc. that have the as purpose the reduction of the thermal, radioactive and chemical pollution anywhere on the globe. Renewable energy sources are largely indigenous; they are not based on the future availability of conventional sources of energy, and natural or predominantly decentralized makes that the respective economy to be less vulnerable in front of the supply with volatile energy. Therefore, they constitute a key element of a sustainable energy future. This paper is meant to highlight the need for achieving a sustainable development both in terms of the problem that humanity faces which threatens the entire ecosystem and namely the environmental pollution as well as the depletion of the conventional resources that are highly polluting, highlighting the energy potential that renewable energy resources Romania has. This issue will be extensively discussed in the thesis entitled \""The necessity and importance of sustainable development of Romania. Case study on the use of renewable energies for heating the population in the western part of Romania"" which I intend to realize and support at The West University of Timisoara, Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, under the guidance of Professor Doctor Laura Cismaș."
Q27|Challenge of Economic Growth and the Concern for Energy Security: A Comparative Analysis of South and South-East Asia|Rapidly increasing dependence of the economic growth process on energy and the depletion of fossil fuel reserves at a fast pace have raised concerns for securing energy supply across the world. The developing nations remain the worst affected on at least two counts: first, they are at the lower levels of economic development and thereby have the pressing need for growth; second, they have the limited affordability to finance their energy imports in the face of rapid surge in the prices of fossil fuels. In such a context, this study provides a comparative analysis of South and South-east Asia – the major economies of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh are selected from the former region and Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand are selected from the latter for focused analytical inquiry into energy supply situation and energy policy framework.
Q27|Payments for Ecosystem Services: Mechanisms to Achieve Desired Landscape Patterns|This paper evaluates the effectiveness of five payment for ecosystem service (PES) schemes at meeting conservation objectives when the spatial configuration is important in meeting desired landscape patterns. The five PES schemes are: 1) fee-simple acquisition; 2) subsidies; 3) tradable development rights (TDR) with zoning; 4) mitigation banking; and 5) purchased development rights (PDR) easements. Findings are that tradeoffs exist between PES schemes for meeting spatial conservation objectives. The appropriate PES scheme incentive mechanism for a given region will depend upon economic demand as well as the landowner and landscape characteristics of the conservation region.
Q27|Climate Change, Trade, and Competitiveness: Climate Trade Performance of India, SAARC and Asia Pacific Region|This paper examines trade performance of climate friendly goods using some trade indices for India and other Asian countries during 2002 - 2008. Climate friendly goods (CFG) are those goods which have less harmful to environment. Paper identifies India’s performance in CFG trade with other Asian nations. Most of the countries in Asia are importers of climate friendly goods and technologies. The Comparative advantage analyses indicate that Hong Kong, China, and Japan have comparative advantage in the production of CFG goods and are net exporters of such products. The competitiveness measures also show that China, Hong Kong and Japan, and Asia Pacific region are major exporter of CFG during 2002-2008. Competitiveness of India, China and South Korea has improved in 2008. Pakistan, Sri-Lanka, and India prefer to trade in CFG regionally and have shown interest in production and trade of clean coal technologies (CCT). SAARC countries have developed expertise in the production of CCT. India and Pakistan enjoy comparative advantage in CCT trade. Few regions have comparative advantage in Solar Photovoltaic Systems (SPVS) and Energy Efficient Lighting (EEL). China is performing better than other in EEL. Japan, China, Malaysia and Macao show good in 2008 for SPVS. Japan, Philippines, China, Hong Kong and South Korea have a comparative advantage in production of other climate friendly items in 2008.
Q27|The value of improved water quality in Guadiana estuary—a transborder application of contingent valuation methodology|No abstract is available for this item.
Q27|Economy And Environment - Strategic, Integrative And Convergent Approach Of The Financial Flows For A Regenerative (Industrial) Economy|The research aimed to evaluate the concept of resourceseconomy- environment complex network, under the conditions of composite and interactive financing projects for environmental protection, with elements which derive from such notion. Within this context, the paper analyses the topic of interaction and convergence of the processes of integration and globalization of the economic and financial needs, requirements, interests and technologies, building the methodological and conceptual support needed to connect the Romanian activities and sectors to the world movement of the regenerative economy. The paper reveals the complex problem of the resourceseconomy- environment relation, as well as the multidimensional perspective of these elements, with financial resonances both at the level of the economic subjects with polluting behaviours, and at the level of communities, regions, country and cross-border regions
Q27|What is wrong with virtual water trading?|"So-called virtual water, the water embedded in internationally traded goods, has come under discussion. The amount of quantitative studies which attempt to estimate volumes and flows of virtual water in relation to agricultural trade is rising rapidly, while the concept has been recognized by large firms and international institutions. From the viewpoint of economic trade theory, the endowment with abundant water resources gives countries a comparative advantage in the export of waterintensive goods, while water scarce countries gain the option to alleviate stress on domestic water resources by substituting the production of water-intensive goods by imports. However, fairness implications are seen to arise in the reallocation of water resources through the means of mostly agricultural trade. In this perspective, moral problems can be attached to both imports and exports, and even to a country's own consumption of virtual water. Global institutional arrangements are therefore suggested, to regulate virtual water flows in a ""fair"" and ""efficient"" manner. This paper will give a short overview of the concept's history and findings, and subsequently analyse it from the perspective of economic trade and resource theory. The contribution of this paper will be to examine the concept of virtual water in terms of the problems it evokes, its informative value and the policy suggestions which are made in this context. It must be concluded that the concept is unspecific and inconsistent, implying governance schemes which will neither improve efficiency nor sustainability in today's trade patterns."
Q27|Commercialization of Holidays in the Protected Natural Areas - Form of the Sustainable Development in Tourism|Sustainable development of tourism in the protected areas should be regarded as a continuous improvement process in the management quality of the protected natural areas that are included in the tourist circuit as well as of the ecological tourism products, merchandised by the travel agencies. In Romania, the best-represented types of protected natural areas are the biosphere reservations, our country having three of these areas, followed by 13 national parks and 14 natural parks. The total surface of the protected areas in Romania is of approximately 1.9 million hectares, which represents almost 8% from the total surface of the country. Regarding the structure, we notice the typological diversity and the alignment to the international standards and IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) category system. The fieldwork done at the 2009 (March 19th – 22nd) Romanian Tourism Fair has shown the fact that, even if they recognize the benefits of the vacations in protected areas, the travel agencies’ preoccupations of creating specialized packages have been reduced, displaying a poor offer, or a special offer created at the tourists’ request. The research was realized within the project called “Dynamics of the implementation of community policies in the valuing of the Romanian protected areas through tourism and designing architecture of integrated management for them”. Consequently, considering, on the one hand, the advantages of the vacations in protected areas and, on the other hand, the tourists’ increasing interest towards this type of vacation is necessary in the future, a more intense involvement of the travel agencies, but also of the protected natural areas administrations in their promotion, fructification and sustainable development.
Q27|On the EU–U.S. Biodiesel ‘Splash & Dash' Controversy: Causes, Consequences and Policy Recommendations| This paper shows that the effects of the U.S. blender’s tax credit of $1/gallon and ‘splash & dash’ had minimal impacts on the EU biodiesel market. Reduced world oil prices and EU tax exemptions, increased rapeseed oil prices and market uncertainty are shown empirically to be the major contributors to reduced profitability of EU biodiesel production. Nevertheless, the EU imposed tariffs sometimes exceeding the tax credit in retaliation for the U.S. ‘splash & dash’ program. Instead, EU imports from the United States can be beneficial for EU taxpayers, fuel consumers as well as U.S. biodiesel producers.
Q27|The Implications of Alternative Biofuel Policies on Carbon Leakage| We show how leakage differs, depending on the biofuel policy and market conditions. Carbon leakage is shown to have two components: a market leakage effect and an emissions savings effect. We also distinguish domestic and international leakage. International leakage is always positive, but domestic leakage can be negative. The magnitude of market leakage depends on the domestic and foreign gasoline supply and fuel demand elasticities, and on consumption and production shares of world oil markets for the country introducing the biofuel policy. Being a small country in world oil markets does not automatically imply that leakage is 100 percent or above that of a large country. We show leakage due to a tax credit is always greater than that of a mandate, while the combination of a mandate and subsidy generates greater leakage than a mandate alone. In general, one gallon of ethanol is found to replace only 0.35 gallons of gasoline – not one gallon as assumed by life-cycle accounting. For the United States, this translates into one (gasoline-equivalent) gallon of ethanol emitting 1.13 times more carbon than a gallon of gasoline if indirect land use change (iLUC) is not included in the estimated emissions savings effect and 1.43 times more when iLUC is included.
Q27|Do Current U.S. Ethanol Policies Make Sense?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q27|Contributions of U.S. Crop Subsidies to Biofuel and Related Markets| The U.S. crop subsidies provide incentives for farmers to expand feedstock production, which benefits the biofuel producers by lowering input costs. This study develops a general equilibrium model to analyze the effects of a reduction in the U.S. crop subsidy on biofuel industries and social welfare. The impacts of feedstock policies on the biofuel market are marginal. In contrast, the biofuel mandate has a larger impact and counteracts the effects of the crop subsidy reduction. The mandate increases the demand for feedstock and causes not only grain ethanol, but also cellulosic ethanol production to rise. The mandate exacerbates the distortion, and government spending increases significantly, leading to greater welfare loss.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q27|Contributions of U.S. Crop Subsidies to Biofuel and Related Markets| The U.S. crop subsidies provide incentives for farmers to expand feedstock production, which benefits the biofuel producers by lowering input costs. This study develops a general equilibrium model to analyze the effects of a reduction in the U.S. crop subsidy on biofuel industries and social welfare. The impacts of feedstock policies on the biofuel market are marginal. In contrast, the biofuel mandate has a larger impact and counteracts the effects of the crop subsidy reduction. The mandate increases the demand for feedstock and causes not only grain ethanol, but also cellulosic ethanol production to rise. The mandate exacerbates the distortion, and government spending increases significantly, leading to greater welfare loss.
Q27|Elephants and the Ivory Trade Ban: Summary of Research Results|No abstract is available for this item.
Q27|Decisions Regarding Investments In Renewable Energy|The article approaches issues regarding the decisions to invest in projects concerningthe area of renewable energy resources. The decisions have been taken on the basis of the cost-benefit analysis. The central issue, that arises inhere, concerns the foundation of the investmentdecision in terms of an EU funded project through structural funds, if the financial analysisindicators are sufficiently relevant for the decision, or when it should or should not resort toindicators of economic analysis for this, even for private investors, as if these projects should not befinanced solely by public beneficiaries as infrastructure projects and not in the context of economiccompetitiveness, respectively.
Q27|Impactos Econômicos para o Brasil de um Choque Tecnológico na Produção de Etanol|O objetivo deste artigo é avaliar os impactos econômicos no Brasil quando ocorre uma mudança tecnológica no setor de cana-de-açúcar, em função de um aumento da demanda mundial por etanol. O instrumento utilizado para as simulações dos cenários, o GTAP (Global Trade Analysis Project), trata-se de um modelo de Equilíbrio Geral Computável (EGC) que dispõe de uma base de dados de 87 países e 57 setores e suas interligações. Os resultados obtidos com as simulações apresentaram ganhos de bem-estar e aumento do PIB para todas as regiões consideradas no modelo. Para o Brasil, o cenário que mostra maiores ganhos ocorre quando se simula uma melhora tecnológica e uma liberação total para a comercialização do etanol. Esses ganhos viriam, principalmente, do efeito direto da melhora tecnológica na produção e da melhor alocação dos recursos produtivos nos setores de manufaturas e no próprio setor sucroálcooleiro.
Q27|Capital social organizacional, base de la sustentabilidad organizacional para el desarrollo ambiental y económico: el caso de las micro y pequeñas empresas en la explotación del tule typha spp de la Laguna de Zapotlán|En este trabajo se analiza la sustentabilidad de las organizaciones que realizan actividades de explotación del tule thypha spp en la Laguna de Zapotlán y su impacto en el desarrollo socioeconómico y ambiental en los municipios de Gómez Farías y Zapotlán el Grande. La hipótesis inicial de trabajo se delimita con la consideración de que el escaso capital social de las organizaciones que realizan la explotación del tule typha spp de la Laguna de Zapotlán, pese a que se limita a la sustentabilidad del desarrollo, contribuye al sostenimiento de ingresos de más de 300 familias de San Sebastián y en menor escala de Cd. Guzmán. El método de investigación empleado es el etnográfico, complementado con el trabajo de campo, apoyado con entrevistas informales, investigación documental y bibliográfica. La principal conclusión es que no existe un equilibrio entre la sustentabilidad de las organizaciones por el escaso capital social y la sustentabilidad del desarrollo ambiental y económico que debería ser considerado por el programa de rehabilitación de la Laguna de Zapotlán a efecto de mejorar los niveles de ingreso, rescatar y crear nuevas fuentes de empleo y mejorar los niveles de calidad de vida de cerca de 300 que dependen del cultivo y explotación artesanal del tule. Asimismo, se sugiere dar mayor sustentabilidad a las pequeñas y micro empresas artesanales con la creación de un programa de asesoría de exportación del producto artesanal derivado del tule con el fin de ampliar el valor agregado que proporciona el manejo propio de los procesos de comercialización en mercados internacionales. Aunque no se explicitó en los objetivos de la investigación, se encontró que el escaso capital social organizacional y la falta de forma adecuadas de organización para la productividad contribuyen a limitar los alcances y beneficios económicos que debe proporcionar una adecuada explotación del tule de la Laguna de Zapotlán.
Q27|Los modelos económicos de utilización de recursos naturales en Latinoamérica|Se analiza la influencia de los diferentes modelos económicos sobre la utilización de los recursos naturales de Latinoamérica desde una perspectiva histórica, con un énfasis en los productos de exportación. En primer lugar, se aporta una breve mirada histórica al tema: cómo las políticas del modelo exportador y del modelo de substitución de importaciones e industrialización han influido en el crecimiento económico y la explotación de los recursos naturales. Enseguida, el nuevo modelo económico y sus efectos en el uso de los recursos naturales se describe a detalle y, finalmente, se presentan algunas observaciones sobre la crisis global actual y sus posibles implicaciones.
Q27|Biocombustibles: el debate internacional y el caso de México|El paradigma energético vigente es tema de amplio debate por el cambio climático y los incrementos de precios del combustible fósil. El nuevo entramado es impulsadoprincipalmente por Estados Unidos y Brasil por su ventaja tecnológica en la producción de biocombustibles. En México bajo la Ley de Promoción de los Bioenergéticos se implementan políticas para impulsar alternativas sustentables, concordandoasí con el Protocolo de Kyoto. En ambos casos la estrategia es cuestionable, pues las ventajas de una tecnología verde, sin las políticas adecuadas en la expansión de producción de bioenergía con base en el cambio de uso del suelo agrícola o la incorporación de nuevas tierras para este fin, ocasionarían problemas alimentarios y de destrucción del hábitat, así como incremento de precios en los insumos utilizados.
Q27|Impact of Global Recession on Sustainable Development and Poverty Linkages|The global financial crisis and the resulting economic slowdown may be assumed to have at least the benefit of also reducing environmental degradation in the individual countries. This paper discusses the consequences of the crisis for energy use, pollution prevention, and land use in Asia and the associated emissions of greenhouse gasesthe principal global warming pollutantsas well as their linkage with poverty. There are some short-term benefits to the global environment from the economic slowdown. Such benefits include reduction in the rate of air and water pollution from reduced energy usewhich has direct implications for the urban poors health. However, modest benefits to global and local environments arising from the economic slowdown are likely to be much smaller than the costs associated with many environmental conservation measures, related to energy savings, natural resources protection, and water environment. Both supply and demand side investments in energy and environment are being affected. Many ongoing projects are being slowed and a number of downward revisions are being made in expected profitability. Meanwhile, businesses and households are spending less on energy efficiency measures. Tighter credit and lower prices make investment in energy savings and environmental conservation less attractive financially, while the economic crisis is encouraging end users to rein in spending across the board. This is delaying the deployment of more efficient technology and equipment. Furthermore, solution providers are expected to reduce investment in research, development, and commercialization of more energy-efficient models, unless they are able to secure financial support from governments. The economic slowdown is likely to alter land use patterns by increasing the pressure to clear forests for firewood, timber, or agricultural purposesthe livelihood opportunities available with the rural poor. Further, the likely additional delay in many countries in the construction of effluent treatment plans for limiting the discharge of pollutants into the rivers is expected to harm the water environment. Thus on balance, the modest benefits to global and local environments arising from the economic slowdown are likely to be much smaller than the costs of many environmental conservation measures for improving the livelihood conditions of the poor. Natural resources and ecosystem services provided by the environment are essential to support economic growth and better livelihood conditions of the poor. Inaction on key environmental challenges, such as climate change, could lead to severe economic consequences in the future. These concerns justify government action to support investment in green growth measures, promoting direct investment or fiscal incentives for energy efficiency and clean environment low-carbon technologies. But much more needs to be done. The investment needed to put national economies in lowcarbon green growth pathways far exceeds what is expected to occur. Governments should be looking to increase the new funds they commit to long-term energy and environmental policies to improve livelihood conditions and to shift our development trend into an environmentally sustainable future. Hence a commitment that extends well beyond the economic stimulus packages is needed.
Q27|How does the stock market respond to chemical disasters?|In this paper, we examine the stock market reaction to industrial disasters. We consider an original sample of 64 explosions in chemical plants and refineries worldwide over the period 1990-2005. A quarter of the accidents resulted in a toxic release, and half of them caused at least one death or serious injury. On average, petrochemical firms in our sample experience a drop in their market value of 1.3% over the two days immediately following the disaster. Using multivariate analysis, we show that this loss is significantly related to the seriousness of the accident as measured by the number of casualties and by chemical pollution: each casualty corresponds to a loss of $164 million and a toxic release to a loss of $1 billion.
Q27|Optimal Dynamic Water Allocation: Irrigation Extractions and Environmental Tradeoffs in the Murray River, Australia|A key challenge in managing semi-arid Basins, such as in the Murray-Darling in Australia, is to balance the trade-offs between the net benefits of allocating water for irrigated agriculture, and other uses, versus the costs of reduced surface flows for the environment. Typically, water planners do not have the tools to optimally and dynamically allocate water among competing uses, and water is misallocated. We address this problem by developing a general stochastic, dynamic programming model with four state variables (the drought status, the current weather, weather correlation and current storage) and two controls (environmental release and irrigation allocation) to optimally allocate water between extractions and in-situ uses. The model is calibrated to Australia’s Murray River and shows: (1) ‘pulse’ or artificial flood events are insensitive to parameter values; (2) from 2001-2009 a water reallocation that would have given less to irrigated agriculture and more to environmental flows would have generated between half a billion and over three billion USD in overall economic benefits; and (3) water markets increase optimal environmental releases by reducing the losses associated with reduced water diversions.
Q27|Impact of Global Recession on Sustainable Development and Poverty Linkages|The global financial crisis and the resulting economic slowdown may be assumed to have at least the benefit of also reducing environmental degradation in the individual countries. This paper discusses the consequences of the crisis for energy use, pollution prevention, and land use in Asia and the associated emissions of greenhouse gases-the principal global warming pollutants-as well as their linkage with poverty. There are some short-term benefits to the global environment from the economic slowdown. Such benefits include reduction in the rate of air and water pollution from reduced energy use-which has direct implications for the urban poor's health. However, modest benefits to global and local environments arising from the economic slowdown are likely to be much smaller than the costs associated with many environmental conservation measures, related to energy savings, natural resources protection, and water environment. Both supply and demand side investments in energy and environment are being affected. Many ongoing projects are being slowed and a number of downward revisions are being made in expected profitability. Meanwhile, businesses and households are spending less on energy efficiency measures. Tighter credit and lower prices make investment in energy savings and environmental conservation less attractive financially, while the economic crisis is encouraging end users to rein in spending across the board. This is delaying the deployment of more efficient technology and equipment. Furthermore, solution providers are expected to reduce investment in research, development, and commercialization of more energy-efficient models, unless they are able to secure financial support from governments. The economic slowdown is likely to alter land use patterns by increasing the pressure to clear forests for firewood, timber, or agricultural purposes-the livelihood opportunities available with the rural poor. Further, the likely additional delay in many countries in the construction of effluent treatment plans for limiting the discharge of pollutants into the rivers is expected to harm the water environment. Thus on balance, the modest benefits to global and local environments arising from the economic slowdown are likely to be much smaller than the costs of many environmental conservation measures for improving the livelihood conditions of the poor. Natural resources and ecosystem services provided by the environment are essential to support economic growth and better livelihood conditions of the poor. Inaction on key environmental challenges, such as climate change, could lead to severe economic consequences in the future. These concerns justify government action to support investment in green growth measures, promoting direct investment or fiscal incentives for energy efficiency and clean environment low-carbon technologies. But much more needs to be done. The investment needed to put national economies in low-carbon green growth pathways far exceeds what is expected to occur. Governments should be looking to increase the new funds they commit to long-term energy and environmental policies to improve livelihood conditions and to shift our development trend into an environmentally sustainable future. Hence a commitment that extends well beyond the economic stimulus packages is needed.
Q27|Electricity Production with Intermittent Sources|The paper analyzes the interaction between a reliable source of electricity production and intermittent sources such as wind or solar power. We first characterize the first-best dispatch and investment in the two types of energy. We put the accent on the availability of the intermittent source as a major parameter of optimal capacity investment. We then analyze decentralization through competitive market mechanisms. We show that decentralizing first best requires to price electricity contingently on wind or solar availability. By contrast, traditional meters impose a second-best uniform pricing, which distorts the optimal mix of energy sources. Decentralizing the either cross-subsidy from the intermittent source to the reliable source of energy or structural integration of the two types of technology.
Q27|A Role for the G-20 in Addressing Climate Change?|Following the chaotic Copenhagen conference of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), policymakers and pundits have discussed the G-20 as an alternative forum for advancing climate change diplomacy. This paper assesses the risks and rewards of tackling climate change in the G-20 and finds that despite its seeming attractiveness, the G-20, as structured, is not a suitable replacement for the UN-led process and has limited ability, at present, to advance climate change negotiations. There is much, however, that the G-20 can do to contribute to the goals of the climate negotiations outside of wading into the negotiations themselves. Building on its existing agenda the G-20 has the power to significantly reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, accelerate the deployment of clean energy technology, and help vulnerable countries adapt to a warmer world through the mobilization of public and private finance. Following through on the existing G-20 pledge to phase out and rationalize inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, establishing new green guidelines for multilateral development banks, coordinating green stimulus exit strategies, promoting open markets for environmental goods and services, and rebalancing global economic growth all fall well within the G-20's mandate and help meet the climate challenge.
Q27|Toward a Sunny Future? Global Integration in the Solar PV Industry|Policymakers seem to face a trade-off when designing national trade and investment policies related to clean energy sectors. They have pledged to address climate change and accelerate the large-scale deployment of renewable energy technologies, which would benefit from increased global integration, but they are also tempted to nurture and protect domestic clean technology markets to create green jobs at home and ensure domestic political support for more ambitious climate policies. This paper analyzes the global integration of the solar photovoltaic (PV) sector and looks in detail at the industry’s recent growth patterns, industry cost structure, trade and investment patterns, government support policies and employment generation potential. In order to further stimulate both further growth of the solar industry and local job creation without constructing new trade and investment barriers, we recommend the following: (1) Governments must provide sufficient and predictable long-term support to solar energy deployment. Such long-term frameworks bring investments forward and encourage cost cutting and innovation, so that government support can decrease over time. A price on carbon emissions would provide an additional long-term market signal and likely accelerate this process. (2) Policymakers should focus not on solely the manufacturing jobs in the solar industry, but on the total number of jobs that could possibly be created including those in research, project development, installation, operations and maintenance. (3) Global integration and broader solar PV technology deployment through lower costs can be encouraged by keeping global solar PV markets open. Protectionist policies risk slowing the development of global solar markets and provoking retaliatory actions in other sectors. Lowering existing trade barriers—by abolishing tariffs, reducing non-tariff barriers and harmonizing industry standards—would create a positive policy environment for further global integration.
Q27|Trade and Migration with Renewable Natural Resources: Out-of-Steady-State Dynamics|"Commodity price increases associated with the entry of China, India and other countries into the world economy has led to increased pressure on common-property renewable natural resources (NR). The problem is particularly worrisome for economies that obtain a large share of their income from the exploitation of NR in the production of an exportable commodity. This paper contributes to the analysis by examining the issue in the framework of a general equilibrium dynamic model and by solving for both the steady state and the transition dynamics. We show that i) a resource-rich, capital-poor economy is more likely to be subject to a ""natural resource curse"" and complete (irreversible) NR depletion; ii) the latter's likelihood rises with the relative commodity price and labor inflow; iii) a labor inflow under internal equilibrium results in a higher steady-state capital-labor ratio and manufacturing output, and unchanged NR and commodity output; iv) import and export taxes result in a larger steady-state NR and commodity output and a smaller capital stock and manufacturing output, and may prevent complete NR depletion; and v) the latter may also be prevented through capital inflows (foreign aid) and labor outflow (openness by the North), improved regulation, technical change and a production tax."
Q27|Spatial Management of Invasive Species: Pathways and Policy Options|No abstract is available for this item.
Q27|Do people respond to low probability risks? Evidence from tornado risk and manufactured homes|No abstract is available for this item.
Q27|Use of Incentive-Based Management Systems to Limit Bycatch and Discarding|In most fisheries, a number of species are unintentionally caught as bycatch while attempting to catch the targeted species. While much of the bycatch problem is technological in nature due to imperfect selectivity of the fishing gear, fisher behaviour also plays a major role. How, when and where fishers choose to fish can influence catch composition and thereby the quantity of bycatch. Behavioural changes can be encouraged through the development of an appropriate set of incentives — both economic and social — to avoid bycatch and reduce discarding. In this paper, a number of alternative incentive-based bycatch management systems are reviewed. The potential applicability of these systems to quota species, non-commercial species and threatened or conservation-dependent species (such as turtles, seals, dolphins) is reviewed, and examples of their application are presented. The review concludes that incentive-based approaches can reduce the level of bycatch and discarding in most fisheries.
Q27|Differentiated Intellectual Property Regimes for Environmental and Climate Technologies|Prior to the Copenhagen meeting on developing a new framework for climate-change policy there were sharp differences between the positions of developed and developing countries regarding the role of intellectual property rights (IPRs) in fostering international technology transfer (ITT). Expanding effective ITT is central to meeting needs for acquiring and adapting environmentally sound technologies (ESTs) in poor nations. Policymakers in developed economies generally view IPRs, particularly patents and trade secrets, as positive and critical inducements to ITT, while those in developing countries often describe them as sources of market power that impede access to new technology. This report reviews the economic logic of these positions and reviews available empirical evidence. The relationships among IPRs, innovation, ITT and local adaptation are complex and neither of the basic views described captures them well. Policy should be based on a more nuanced view. In that regard, to date there is little systematic evidence that patents and other IPRs restrict access to ESTs, which largely exist in sectors based on mature technologies in which there are numerous substitutes among global competitors. This situation may change as new technologies based on biotechnologies and synthetic fuels, which are likely to be more dependent on patent protection, become more prominent. At present, however, there is little evidence to support significant limitations on the issuance and use of IPRs in this area. In particular, it is unlikely that an international agreement on a compulsory licensing regime could achieve significant ITT benefits, while it may raise considerable costs. However, there may be scope for beneficial differentiation in patent rights, which is the primary subject of the report. Among these elements include ex ante extensions of patent terms tied to licensing commitments, expedited patent examinations in ESTs, investments in patent transparency and landscaping efforts, and facilitation of voluntary patent pools. The report argues that such changes are unlikely to achieve significant gains in innovation and ITT unless they are accompanied by broader policy approaches, including publicly financed fiscal supports for local technology needs and adaptation. Perhaps most important are finding means to raise the global costs of using carbon-based energy resources and improving the climate for investments in poor countries. Avant le Sommet de Copenhague sur l’élaboration d’un nouveau cadre d’action pour la lutte contre le changement climatique, pays développés et pays en développement nourrissaient des conceptions divergentes quant à l’incidence des droits de propriété intellectuelle (DPI) sur la promotion du transfert international de technologies. Or, pour répondre aux besoins d’acquisition et d’adaptation de technologies écologiquement rationnelles dans les pays pauvres, il est indispensable d’accroître l’efficacité de ces transferts. Les décideurs des pays développés considèrent généralement les DPI, en particulier les brevets et les secrets de fabrique, comme des incitations positives essentielles pour le transfert international de technologies, tandis que ceux des pays en développement les présentent souvent comme des sources de pouvoir de marché qui les empêchent d’accéder aux nouvelles technologies. Le présent rapport examine la logique économique de ces positions et passe en revue les données empiriques disponibles. Entre les DPI, l’innovation, le transfert international de technologies et l’adaptation locale, il existe une relation complexe dont aucune des deux conceptions très générales évoquées précédemment ne rend véritablement compte. Les politiques publiques doivent se fonder sur un point de vue plus nuancé. A ce jour, on ne dispose guère d’éléments solides attestant que les brevets et autres DPI restreignent l’accès aux technologies écologiquement rationnelles, car ces droits concernent essentiellement des secteurs basés sur des technologies matures pour lesquelles la concurrence mondiale offre de nombreux produits de substitution. La donne pourrait changer au fur et à mesure de la montée en puissance de nouvelles technologies faisant appel aux biotechnologies et aux carburants de synthèse, qui risquent d’être davantage protégés par des brevets. Pour l’heure toutefois, il n’y a guère d’arguments incitant à limiter notablement l’attribution et l’utilisation des DPI dans ce domaine. En particulier, un accord international sur un régime de licences obligatoires ne serait probablement pas très efficace en termes de transfert international de technologies, alors qu’il risquerait d’imposer des coûts considérables. En revanche, il serait possible d’apporter diverses modifications aux conditions attachées aux brevets, ce qui constitue le principal thème de ce rapport. Parmi les possibilités figurent la prolongation ex ante de la durée de validité du brevet assortie d’engagements en matière d’octroi de licences, l’examen accéléré des demandes de brevets visant les technologies écologiquement rationnelles, les investissements dans les efforts de transparence et de cartographie des brevets, les incitations à créer des communautés volontaires de brevets. D’après le rapport, des changements de ce type ne sauraient procurer des avantages significatifs en termes d’innovation et de transfert international de technologies s’ils ne s’accompagnent pas de stratégies publiques plus larges, comprenant des aides publiques pour répondre aux besoins en technologies et assurer leur adaptation à l’échelle locale. Mais l’essentiel est peut-être de trouver les moyens d’augmenter le coût d’utilisation des ressources énergétiques à base de carbone et d’améliorer le climat de l’investissement dans les pays pauvres.
Q27|Green Certificates – An Incentive For Investors|In a global economy, the energetic strategy of a country is realized taken into acount every change or evolution in the world. Counties, as China or India, or countries with economies in transition put a higher pressure on the supplied quantity of energy, due to their economic growth and/or economic structure change. In fact, between 1994-2004, these countries doubled their request for oil, and in 2006, their request was over 20 mil. Barils per day, which is about 40% of the global oil production. The forecast shows that in 2030, it is quite possible that they will double again their oil needs, which will be over the actual, know oil reserves of the Planet. In this situation it is a must to reorient the energy policy of all countries, in such a way that they will take into consideration the renewable energy sources and improve their energy efficiency. Romania has made its first step by entering in the green certificates programme in 2005 and has as objective to reach at a level of green energy production of 38% of gross internal consumption.
Q27|Purging Wastewater – a Priority for Romania|Considering the global diminishing of water resources, treating and purging the waters represents a desideratum for all of us, as water quality is affected most of all by the spill of wastewater. Water is essential to life and the lack of it or drinking polluted water generates negative consequences for a person and his health. That is why EU lays emphasis on creating performing purging stations according to the latest quality standards. Of the 2,605 cities in Romania, only 505 are equipped with sewage systems, out of which only 18 are in concordance with the requirements of the European norm in this field. The percentage of connections to the sewage network was, in 2008, of 49.46% and by the end of 2010 it has to reach 60.8% - in order meet the terms of the EU agreement. Out of the already mentioned total number of cities, only 390 are served by 337 purging stations – only 14 of them are in concordance with the European norms and have the secondary level of purging. The year 2010 is the first deadline at which Romania has to report about the progress made with the implementation of the European Norm concerning the purge of wastewater. The public eye has to convince itself about the gravity of the current situation. The mass of the polluting substances we spill in waters grows each day and if no measures are to be taken in order to prevent this danger, the pollution today will be insignificant in comparison with the one from tomorrow.
Q27|Strategic Vectors Of Food Production Development In Serbia In Terms Of The Global Crisis|The world economic crisis was a major factor that caused industrial production and trade over the globe decrease. It closed millions of working places and effected fear of political instability to spread even over the states that have been considered as stable. Economies all over the world face with wide range recessions, that will lead to the 3% to 7% GNP drop with respect to the last decade increasing trend. In such uncertainty conditions, where authorities are not sure about crisis development and duration, banner task is imposed: uncertainty must be passed. In Serbian economy, good model for crisis overcoming is agriculture strategic development and especially within it, the safe food production. One of guidelines of Serbian agriculture development is modernization and change of production structure towards stronger market orientation and improvement of alimentary industry total efficiency. Increased productively technological restructuring achieving increased efficiency, as well as greater competitiveness at domestic and foreign markets should be based on economical, ecological and energy criterions. Also, applied scientific research papers should allow significant increase of size and competitiveness of Serbian agriculture production
Q27|Agro-Ecosystem Services – Governance Needs and Efficiency|This paper incorporates the interdisciplinary New Institutional and Transaction Costs Economics and suggests a holistic framework for analysis of management agro-ecosystem services. That new approach for analyses and assessment of management of agro-ecosystem services includes: definition of the agro-ecosystem services and the governance; specification of governance needs of agro-ecosystem services and the spectrum of available governing modes (formal and informal institutions, market, private, public and hybrid forms); assessment of efficiency of different modes of governance in terms of their potential to protect diverse eco-rights and investments, assure a socially desirable level of agro-ecosystem services, minimize overall costs, coordinate and stimulate eco-activities, meet individual and social preferences and reconcile conflicts of related agents etc.
Q27|Taking a Community Biodiversity Management Approach to ABS in Local Communities: The Nepal Experience|Although the International Regime on Access and Benefit-Sharing (IRABS) is a global legal instrument, the provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and Bonn Guidelines shows implementation of the international regime should start at the local community. While an international instrument for regulating ABS is required to generate the incentive for conservation of rapidly depleting biodiversity, the execution should effectively guarantee the recognition of the local communities and indigenous people as the true custodian of the genetic resources, and their right to make decisions on documentation, conservation, development and sustainable use and access to and benefit sharing.
Q27|Elephants and the Ivory Trade Ban: Summary of Research Results|No abstract is available for this item.
Q27|Impact of Global Recession on Sustainable Development and Poverty Linkages|The global financial crisis and the resulting economic slowdown may be assumed to have at least the benefit of also reducing environmental degradation in the individual countries. This paper discusses the consequences of the crisis for energy use, pollution prevention, and land use in Asia and the associated emissions of greenhouse gasesâ€”the principal global warming pollutantsâ€”as well as their linkage with poverty. [ADBI Working Paper 227]
Q27|Cuba's alternative/inward-looking development policies. Changing production patterns and land decentralisation: towards sustainable small farming (1990-2008)|While most Latin American countries followed outward-looking policies of agrarian development, since the 1990s Cuba shifted towards food self-provisioning, internal liberalisation and sustainable small farming to face the harsh crisis that followed the Socialist demise of the late 1980s. Although it was an indispensable response to the worst crisis in Cuban history, Cuba is today one of the few countries experimenting with alternative development on a national scale. By considering the current context of globalisation where free trade agreements and progressive agrarian liberalisation have created asymmetrical trade relations, increasing import dependency and vulnerability for small farmers in less developed countries, this paper aims at answering the following questions: (1) What were the policies implemented under inward-looking agrarian development in Cuba (1990-2008)? (2) How did the policies transform Cuba's agrarian production patterns and land structures? (3) How have the inward-looking policies generated new spaces for small farmers in Cuba?
Q27|Electricity Production with Intermittent Sources|The paper analyzes the interaction between a reliable source of electricity production and intermittent sources such as wind or solar power. We first characterize the first-best dispatch and investment in the two types of energy. We put the accent on the availability of the intermittent source as a major parameter of optimal capacity investment. We then analyze decentralization through competitive market mechanisms. We show that decentralizing first best requires to price electricity contingently on wind or solar availability. By contrast, traditional meters impose a second-best uniform pricing, which distorts the optimal mix of energy sources. Decentralizing the either cross-subsidy from the intermittent source to the reliable source of energy or structural integration of the two types of technology.
Q27|Renewable Resources, Pollution and Trade in a Small Open Economy| Industrial pollution can have damaging effects on resource-based productive sectors. International trade creates opportunities for overexploitation of the open-access renewable resources but also for separating the sectors spatially. The paper shows that, depending on the relative damage inflicted by the two industries on the environment, it is possible that the production externality will persist and that specialization in the dirty good may not be the obvious choice from a welfare perspective. Also, the resource exporter does not necessarily have to lose from trade even when specializing incompletely, due to the partially offsetting external effects.
Q27|Drinking and protecting: a market approach to the preservation of cork oak landscapes|With the availability of new techniques to close wine bottles avoiding the risk of “corky” taste the tradition of closing wine bottles with cork stoppers is on the retreat. As a consequence the Mediterranean cork oak forests with their rich biodiversity are endangered since their cultivation is not profitable anymore. This paper explores the viability of a market approach to the preservation of these ecologically valuable landscapes. In an internet-based Contingent Valuation survey we assess wine consumers' willingness to pay a higher price for wine bottles closed with high-quality cork stoppers instead of buying wine with alternative stoppers in order to preserve the cork oak landscapes. We find that though many wine consumers have experience with tainted wine they are, nevertheless, willing to buy wine with (highquality) cork stoppers at higher prices. Their average WTP is, however, not sufficient to cover the additional costs of these stoppers. Thus, we propose a financing mix of market returns and government subsidies for preserving the cork oaks. As a precondition for this market approach to be successful bottles with high-quality cork stoppers must be clearly identifiable in the shops, and consumers must be informed about the ecological consequences of supporting the cork production.
Q27|La Dinámica del Sector de Castaña y su Impacto sobre el Mercado Laboral y la Pobreza en el Norte Amazónico de Bolivia|La dinámica económica y social del norte amazónico de Bolivia en gran medida fue configurada en la época del boom de la goma, casi 100 años atrás, desde entonces hasta hoy en día, las relaciones económico-sociales han variado muy poco. Luego del colapso de la industria de la goma al principio de los años 90, la castaña se convirtió en la principal fuente de generación de empleo y movimiento económico para la región. La pregunta básica sobre la que giró la investigación fue: ¿Puede la actividad exportadora de castaña influir positivamente en la generación de ingresos y la reducción de la pobreza en la región del norte amazónica?
Q27|Can virtual water 'trade' reduce water scarcity in semi-arid countries? The case of Spain| Agricultural trade is by far the largest vehicle to ‘move’ water virtually around the world. Observing that most countries import and export water embedded in the exchanged products, the objective of this study is to assess the virtual water ‘trade’ in Spain for the period 1997-2006. We differentiate between the green and blue components of virtual water from a hydrological and economic perspective. The combination of spatial and time dimensions offers a unique empirical setting to determine whether virtual water ‘trade’ can contribute to reduce water scarcity. The study reveals that Spain is a net ‘importer’ of virtual water. By far the largest virtual water ‘imports’ are linked to cereals and animal feed products whilst the virtual water ‘exports’ are linked to exports of animal products, fruits and vegetables. Virtual water ‘trade’ is one way to reduce the vulnerability of the agri-food sector to climate instability. It reinforces the competitive advantages of its natural endowments capital investments in agriculture. The econometric analysis using provincial water exports water exports are invariable to cyclical water scarcity, and largely explained by fixed factors. Virtual water ‘trade’ does not exacerbate water scarcity, though it is certainly a source of pressure for resources management.
Q27|Exports and Externalities: the other side of trade and ecological risk and Technology Diffusion in a Competitive World|This paper develops a general equilibrium model to measure welfare effects of taxes for correcting environmental externalities caused by domestic trade, focusing on exter- nalities that arise through exports. Externalities from exports come from a number of sources. Domestically owned ships, planes, and automobiles can become contaminated while visiting other regions and bring unwanted pests home, and species can be in- troduced by contaminated visitors that enter a region to consume goods and services. The paper combines insights from the public finance literature on corrective environ- mental taxes and trade literature on domestically provided services. We find that past methods for measuring welfare effects are inadequate for a wide range of externalities and show the most widely used corrective mechanism, taxes on the sector imposing the environmental externality, may often do more harm than good. The motivation for this paper is the expansion of invasive species' ranges within the United States. We apply our analytical model to the specifc example of quagga and zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha and Dreissena rostiformis bugenis) invasion into the U.S Pacific Northwest.
Q27|Standardization, Certification and Labeling: Lessons from Theory and Practice|Voluntary regulations have emerged in recent years as a popular way to address environmental problems. In particular, standards, certification and labeling are popular, market-based mechanisms that aim to use the provision of otherwise difficult to obtain information in order to create a market for more environmentally favorable products. The use of standards, certification, and labeling has been growing in a number of areas, as consumers demand more information about the products that they use. From a consumer perspective, they have become increasingly common in relation to information regarding nutrition, safety, and most recently, the environmental impact of a range of products. Understanding both the theory and the reality of these efforts to date are key to developing a deeper understanding of when and how standards, certification and labeling can be used with the greatest positive impact. Empirical experience has shown that while some programs have been successful, there are many challenges in creating effective certification systems. Like any policy tool, they need to be considered along with other policy options. In cases where certification systems are used, they need to be designed with care. First, they must address a clear goal, to which the standard, the certification process, and the labels can be clearly linked. Secondly, process, not just the end product, matters. Inclusion of stakeholders, and the institutional arrangements used in the decision making process can have long-lasting impacts on the eventual acceptance and uptake of a standard. Standards need to be based on solid scientific and technical knowledge - they must be salient to the goal, and the underlying knowledge should be credible. Similarly, the certification process must also be credible—it must be able to measure compliance and catch cheating. It must also be seen as legitimate, and free from capture or corruption. And finally, labels must also be credible, relate to the underlying goal, and be effectively targeted and branded. The entire process, at the end, should be able to relate otherwise unknown information to the consumers, in order to influence their purchasing decisions and create a market for the labeled products.
Q27|Weltweite Nachfrage nach Umwelt- und Klimaschutzgütern steigt: gute Wachstumschancen für deutsche Anbieter|Die weltweiten Ausgaben für Umweltschutzgüter und Investitionen in erneuerbare Energien beliefen sich im Jahr 2004 auf über 580 Milliarden US-Dollar - konservativ gerechnet. Aufgrund des langfristigen Wachstums der Weltwirtschaft und zunehmender ökologischer Herausforderungen werden die Ausgaben in Zukunft stark wachsen. Daraus ergeben sich für Deutschland erhebliche Chancen für Wachstum und Beschäftigung. Das DIW Berlin hat jetzt ein methodisches Verfahren entwickelt, das die zukünftige weltweite Nachfrage nach Umweltschutzgütern in ökonomischen Szenarien quantifiziert. Dabei wird vor allem auch der internationale Handel mit solchen Gütern analysiert. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass die in Deutschland wirksame Nachfrage nach Umwelt- und Klimaschutzgütern von derzeit rund 75 Milliarden US-Dollar bis zum Jahr 2020 auf 106 bis 171 Milliarden zunehmen dürfte (zu Preisen und Wechselkursen von 2004). Die Dynamik ergibt sich insbesondere aus der Entwicklung der deutschen Exporte. Sensitivitätsrechnungen weisen darauf hin, dass diese unter ungünstigen Bedingungen auch geringer ausfallen können.
Q27|Global Demand for Environmental Goods and Services on the Rise: Good Growth Opportunities for German Suppliers|"According to conservative calculations, over $580 billion was spent worldwide on environmental goods and services and renewable energy technologies1 in 2004. So-called ""green spending"" is set for strong growth in the future on account of the long-term expansion of the global economy and mounting environmental challenges. Significant opportunities for growth and employment in Germany are also offered by forecasted trends in the market for green technologies. DIW Berlin has developed a method to quantify future global demand for environmental goods and services based on alternative economic scenarios. The method places a key focus on the international trade of environmental goods and services. Our calculations predict that the effective annual demand for environmental goods and services in Germany will increase from $75 billion in 2004 to between $106 and 171 billion by 2020 (at 2004 prices and exchange rates).The high growth in German exports is responsible in particular for this trend. Nevertheless, sensitivity calculations indicate that demand could also grow at a much slower rate through 2020 under unfavorable economic conditions."
Q27|How do domestic attributes affect international spillovers of CO2-efficiency?|Although there is evidence that CO2-efficiency enhancing innovations in one country diffuse into other countries to contribute to the goals of climate change mitigation, very little is known about the conditions under which such international spillovers are most likely to take place. Our contribution in the present article seeks to address this gap by examining whether the strength of cross-border CO2-efficiency interdependence working through import ties and inward foreign direct investment (FDI) stocks is greater in (a) countries with lower existing levels of domestic CO2-efficiency and (b) countries with greater social capabilities in terms of a better educated workforce and a less risky institutional environment for investment. We find that less CO2-efficient countries and countries with a more investment-friendly institutional environment experience stronger FDI-weighted CO2-efficiency spillovers, whereas a higher level of human capital increases domestic receptivity to import-weighted international spillovers.
Q27|Reducing the Polluting Emissions. A Source for Diminishing the Climate Changes|The USA and the Western Europe are responsible for 2/3 of the CO2 emissions accumulated until today. On the other hand, Africa has produced only 3% of polluting emission since 1900 until today, by burning mineral fuels. Since 1992, the most industrialized countries have promised to help “the most vulnerable nations face the adverse consequences of climate changes” by supporting the costs of adaptation. The commitment was included in the convention frame that gave birth to the Kyoto Treaty, which was rejected by the George W. Bush Administration, even though the initial document, issued in 1992, had been signed by George Bush. The industrialized countries that signed the Kyoto Treaty have decided to create a special fund for “climate adaptation”. Hundreds of millions of dollars had to be used in order to diminish the impact of the global warming in the most exposed areas.Lately, maybe because the CO2 emissions increase due to human activities, the planet climate has changed for worse. 2007 was a key year in evaluating the reply the planet would give to the global overheating, mainly caused by the green-house effect and worsen by El Nino oceanic stream. This superposition of climate factors made 2007 to be one of the warmest years ever registered.
Q27|What Drives Biodiversity? An Empirical Assessment of the Relation between Biodiversity and the Economy|The environmental discussion is increasingly extended to the question of how to preserve biodiversity. As sensible regulation of biodiversity utilization uses politically set incentive schemes, it is required to discus the monetary value of biodiversity. Consequently, the relation between economic incentives and biodiversity is in the focus of our paper. By using bird species as bio indicators we derive first empirical results. In sum, one still may conclude that indeed economic growth is harmful for biodiversity. This is at least in line with the first part of biodiversity Kuznets curve. However, the existence of good institutions (especially a high quality of regulation) can in part prevent this effect, which can be cautiously interpreted as a hint that economic growth is not necessarily related to losses of biodiversity. With good governmental institutions, these losses may be prevented or mitigated.
Q27|European Policies towards Palm Oil - Sorting Out some Facts|This paper analyses the role of palm oil and its sustainability from different perspectives. We consider the role of palm oil within the GHG context. We discuss the impact of palm oil on biodiversity and analyse how palm oil can contribute to economic growth and development in tropical countries. Finally, based on this analysis, we assess the current concerns about and politics towards palm oil with special focus on the EU. Palm oil is a low-energy and low-fertilizer crop that offers much higher yields per hectare than other oil crops. Furthermore, if the energy obtained by the residuals in the production process is used properly, the energy balance of palm oil production is much more favourable compared to other biofuels. Overall, palm oil turns out to be much more efficient than other oil crops and therefore offers significant advantages within the context of GHG savings. Contrary to some recent campaigns and the perception among European citizens, oil palm plantings are not a major contributor to deforestation in tropical countries. Deforestation associated with oil palm plantings is much less significant than postulated by some recent campaigns. Furthermore, biodiversity in oil palm plantations is much higher than in most monocultures in the EU. Palm oil is an important driver of economic development and growth in tropical countries and contributes to the reduction of poverty and hunger in the developing world. The EU Renewable Energy Directive is discriminatory from the outset and the GHG saving values and their interpretation are based on wrong assumptions and faulty calculations. Therefore, the EU should reshape its policies towards palm oil, conduct objective and non-discriminatory calculations regarding the GHG emissions saving values and support palm oil imports from developing countries rather than restricting them. Together with certain initiatives to further enhance energy efficiency and to protect precious habitats combined with strategies to strengthen property rights and encourage efficient land use and successful strategies of agricultural development, this would not only prevent political conflicts and trade disputes in conjunction with the issue of palm oil but also foster economic growth and development, reduce poverty and - not least - contribute to the ambitious GHG emissions savings goals on a fair and reasonable basis.
