Q29|Analysis of Individual Renewable Energy Support: An Enhanced Model|This paper investigates an intergenerational conflict arising from renewable energy support. Using a politico-economic overlapping generations (OLG) model, it can be shown that older individuals unambiguously lose from renewable energy support and therefore vote to keep it at a minimum level. In contrast, younger individuals face ambiguous effects arising from renewable energy support. In the short run, they also lose from a negative consumption effect. In the long run, however, younger individuals benefit from a positive environmental effect. Renewable energy support also generates both positive and negative effects on consumption. The voting outcome is determined through a political process, whereby political parties converge to platforms that maximize the aggregate welfare of the electorate. Zusammenfassung: Dieses Papier untersucht einen Generationenkonflikt, der aufgrund der Förderung erneuerbarer Energien entsteht. Unter Verwendung eines einfachen polit-ökonomischen Modells sich überlappender Generationen kann gezeigt werden, dass die älteren Individuen durch die Förderung erneuerbarer Energien eindeutig schlechter gestellt werden und deshalb für ein minimales Niveau der Förderung stimmen. Im Gegensatz dazu sind die jungen Individuen mit einem nicht eindeutigen Effekt konfrontiert. In der kurzen Frist werden sie durch die Förderung erneuerbarer Energien genauso wie die älteren Individuen schlechter gestellt werden. Allerdings profitieren sie in der langen Frist von einem positiven Umwelteffekt und stehen unter bestimmten Bedingungen auch einem positiven Konsumeffekt gegenüber. Aus diesem Grund wählen sie ein höheres Niveau der Förderung. Das Abstimmungsergebnis wird im Rahmen eines politischen Prozesses bestimmt, wobei die politischen Parteien zu einer Plattform konvergieren, die aggregierte Wohlfahrt der Wählerschaft maximiert.
Q29|Small-scale fishery of the Eastern Mediterranean Sea: A case study in the Kalymnos Island, Greece|This study analyzes the small-scale fishery in Kalymnos Island (located in Eastern Mediterranean Sea) to evaluate fishing practices in this fishery. The métiers of this fishery are defined with a multivariate analysis approach for assessing the main fishery resources and fishing gear employed. The empirical findings show that longlines in this fishery practice 10 types of métiers. Some of these métiers, in terms of target species, gear and seasonality are also used in other small-scale Mediterranean fisheries. The main 6 type of métiers with fishing gear: set longlines, drifting longlines, handlines and squid jig-lines with target species P.pagrus, D.vulgaris, P.erythrinus, S.aurata, X.gladius, O.vulgaris, and L.vulgaris. The seasonal rotation of métiers is determined by the availability of different fish species rather than market price. Identified the métiers provides information for developing monitoring and management strategies for the small-scale fishery. The small-scale fishery constitutes an important social component of local coastal communities.
Q29|Sustainable management of fish stock: An assessment of small-scale fishing in Greece|The aim of this study was to identify the main métiers practiced by gillnet, trammel net and combined net fishery in the Kalymnos Island. The catch was obtained every 15 days of the small-scale fleet for the period from February 2013 to May 2014 by interviews during unloading. A total 315 fishing operations were recorded. Multivariate analysis applied to either species landings composition or economic revenue. The most important métiers identified were those B. boops with gillnet, intense fishing activity during December-February and mesh size 26 mm, métier which targeting S. porcus and S. officinalis with fishing gear trammel net, intense fishing activity during April-May and mesh size 26 mm. Both of these métiers appeared high produce and income. The results of this study confirm the multi-species natural of small-scale fishing and fishing activity in the area of Kalymnos specific difference from the other area in Greece.
Q29|Socioeconomic aspects and characteristics of small-scale fishery in eastern Mediterranean Sea|Small-scale fishery represents an important part of Mediterranean fishery. In order to improve the knowledge on this sector primary research was carried out in the Dodecanese fishery aiming to identify the fishery and socioeconomic characteristics, fishing activities, and to identify the small-scale fisheries métiers. Specifically, data were collected over the time period 2013-2014 by interviews aiming to characterize fleets, fishing gear used, fishing activity and socioeconomic elements and interviews during unloading aimed at catch data. The highest CPUE values were reported for Boops boops (2.38±2.93 kg/1500 m net*day) caught by gillnet in the winter season, Xiphias gladius (101.03±86.06 kg/800 hooks*day) by drifting longline in the spring season. The catch is traded in both the wholesale and the retail market. The most important métiers with fishing gear and target species: gillnet, B. boops, trammel net, Scorpaen porcus and Mullus surmuletus, set longline, Pagellus erythrinus, Pagrus pagrus, Diplodus sargus, drifting longlines, X.gladius and handlines, Octopus vulgaris. The Dodecanese fishery need management measures to protect fishery resources and maintain small-scale fishery.
Q29|Integration and Analysis of Resource Inventory Data for Risk Assessments of Environmental Contamination in Mixed Use Landscapes in Pakistan|This paper examines the various metals that are associated with land contamination for instances arsenic, cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel, and mercury that are well known as the ingredient of contamination of the ecology in the region where there is a high rate of anthropogenic burden. The study investigates land contamination in Pakistan's context. The researches have used the quantitative method to analyze the most recent literature available on the land contamination of Pakistan following funnel approach. The three main steps followed to analyze are first, assessment of the site initially, secondly, assessment of the exposure of the contaminated site that also contains a survey of few places and the amount of contamination found and lastly, remediation of the site. The finding revealed that the contamination in Pakistan is both men made as well due to the terrain they belong to that contains various anthropogenic elements, which are harmful to live beings. Additionally, it is evident that the different elements, which can cause soil contamination, are higher in many places in Pakistan than the standard or tolerable rate mentioned by WHO and other survey board. Lastly, the paper confirms that the pollution can be reduced only if there is a reduction in the man made cause of the land contamination such as oil spill and other industrial emissions that constitute most of Pakistan’s land contamination.
Q29|Medical decision-making by patients and providers under uncertainty and in the presence of antibiotic resistance|We analyze the medical decision-making process, first from the perspective of a patient and then from the perspective of a health care provider. Using a decision-tree, we describe the different actions a mother can take to treat her daughter, who she suspects has otitis media—an ear infection. Next, we use comparative statics and numerical analysis to show how altering inputs (magnitude of infection probability, cost terms) can affect the outputs. Finally, we examine how different socioeconomic variables influence the mother's decision making process. With regard to the health care provider, we delineate the setting in which the physician operates and then derive the long run expected cost of providing health care that this physician seeks to minimize. Next, we set up the cost minimization problem and describe the optimal solution implicitly. Finally, we explain why this implicit characterization of the optimal solution is all that is possible analytically.
Q29|India’s Biodiesel Programme: A Pathway for Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Employment Generation and Inclusiveness|The biodiesel programme introduced by the Government of India in the beginning of this century represents a unique case of the development of numerous sustainable entrepreneurs, substantial employment generation for the poor and reduction of carbon footprints without compromising food security and thus promote equity and social justice. It is estimated that a 20% biofuel blending through domestic feedstock production would create 6.37 million sustainable entrepreneurs and185.15 million man-days per year by 2020. Given the availability of wasteland in the country this target is achievable. The two most important factors that restrained the success of the programme are the uncertainties in yield and seed prices for the farmers. As the domestic price of petroleum is linked to global crude price, any decline in the price of crude in the world market would reduce the feedstock prices in the local market. It therefore requires fixing minimum support prices for seeds and stabilizing yield at higher level through R&D. Given all this potential benefits and the recent trend of jobless growth in the country the programme deserves to be implemented more vigorously.
Q29|Un’analisi multidimensionale della sostenibilità per l’agricoltura familiare. Il caso dell’area amazzonica peruviana/A multidimensional assessment of sustainability for small farming production. The case study of the Peruvian Amazon|In the last century the agricultural sector grown exponentially with outstanding increase in food productions that released poverty and malnutrition in many parts of the world. These important results have been achieved to the detriment of the environment and equity caused by massive externalities that the new productive paradigm had generated. Since 1992 sustainability in agriculture is one of the main cornerstone of the international agenda for reaching global sustainable development and reducing poverty. One of the main challenge in designing sustainable agricultural policies is the use of effective measurement of sustainability that would encompass the intrinsic multidimensionality of small farming agriculture that is characterized to be a complex socio-ecological system in which social, economic and environmental aspects strictly interacts. This paper examines the application of an experimental method of sustainability assessment using HESOFI, a measurement framework developed in Central America for small scale agriculture. The paper analyzes by the use of several indicators of sustainability thirty mixed small farms located in Peruvian Amazon. In addition, the assessment has been developed with different categories of agricultural units divided by ethnic origin (Andean or Indigenous) and by certification (Fair Trade and Organic) in order to compare the different levels of sustainability reached by each category.
Q29|Costs of traffic accidents with ungulates in Sweden|Traffic accidents with ungulates pose a serious problem in many countries, and there is a need for predicting accidents and costs at a large scale for an efficient management of the accidents. Based on the assumption that traffic accidents are determined by traffic volume and ungulate population sizes, this study provides a relatively simple method for calculating and predicting costs of current and future traffic accidents with roe deer, wild boar, and moose in Sweden. A logistic population model is assumed for all ungulates, and econometric methods are used for predicting vehicle accidents with panel data on traffic accidents, traffic load, bags, hunting licenses, and landscape characteristics for each county and year during 2003-2015. The calculated total discounted cost of traffic accidents over a period of 15 years is relatively stable around 1300 million SEK per year in present value (which corresponds to 0.03% of gross domestic product in 2015), but the allocation of costs among ungulates differs. Costs of vehicle accidents with moose account for the largest share of the cost (44%), but accidents with wild boar show the most rapid increase over a 15 year period because of the estimated relatively high intrinsic growth rate and the recent establishment of this animal in several counties. The predicted costs are, however, sensitive to the assumption of future hunting pressure and traffic volume.
Q29|Managerial Decision Making And Cost Reduction For Wind Deployment As An Alternative Energy|This paper analyses the modern aspect and framework of business decision making related to investments and cost reduction in wind energy companies. It describes different strategies of measuring the efficiency level of installed wind capacities. The research is presented with consideration to the methodology approach specific for wind energy. Special attention is given to the cost-effective business operations of contemporary systems of energy accumulation and the process of optimal decision making in the course of energy distribution. The focus is on the framework for sustainable business in compliance with complex external environment. The impact of unpredictable market and climate circumstances show the importance of the strategy mix and its role in creating value for the end-users of electrical energy. The dynamics of exploitation of the preferential conditions for wind energy companies is also important in the context of return on investment. The perspective of investing in wind energy projects is also given, along with the specificities of their implementation according to the principle of creating positive energy balance. The paper also points out the significance of government incentives and their variations. It also provides useful guidelines for successful business decision making for managers in wind energy.
Q29|Choosing between adaptation and prevention with an increasing probability of a pandemic|The risk of pandemics is increasing, driven by changes in human behavior and climate, both of which are difficult for policymakers to control. There are two main strategies available for reacting to these changes. This paper considers the decision to invest in either adaptation (domestic) capital or prevention (foreign) capital before a pandemic in an interval of time when pandemic risk is increasing. This paper demonstrates how relatively small investments in the two strategies can provide large savings through smaller expected future damages. The technical relationships between adaptation, prevention and risk also determine the optimal mixture of investment over time. As risk increases, the technical relationships between these three stocks causes the optimal mixture of strategies to change over time.
Q29|Economic Incentives for the Conservation of Bharathapuzha River: Focus on Sand Mining|Rivers in Kerala are assailed by pollution, sedimentation, sand mining, and constriction of flows. The indiscriminate and unscientific sand mining, even in the midst of many regulatory and protective measures for their conservation, have made the condition of these rivers pathetic. Bharathapuzha basin is the largest among all the 44 river basins of Kerala and the second longest river of the State. The drying up of Bharathapuzha River has become a matter of grave concern to the scientists and environmentalists. This paper tries to establish that implementing economic incentives is a possible method which can be adopted in the conservation practices of Bharathapuzha River.
Q29|Hunting value of wild boar in Sweden: A choice experiment|The purpose of this study is to estimate hunters’ valuation of wild boar in Sweden. However, hunters have access to hunt, not only wild boar, but also other game such as moose and roe deer. Therefore, wild boar is regarded as an attribute of hunting together with other game, which includes moose, roe deer, and small game. A discrete choice experiment framework is used to elicit hunters’ trade-offs between wild boar, moose, roe deer and small game. Estimates with a mixed logit model showed that the average annual willingness to pay (WTP) for a wild boar is approximately SEK 330/animal, which corresponds to 1/8 of the average WTP for a moose and ¼ of that for a roe deer. The range in WTP is determined by the activity of the hunters, as measured by number of hunting days per year, the least active gives the lowest WTP (SEK 113) and the most active the highest WTP (SEK 529). This can be a result of the specific challenges when hunting the wild boars, which are active in night time and equipped with excellent hearing and smell. Hunters that are farmers also give a relatively low WTP (SEK 134), which can be explained by the damages on crops created by the animal.
Q29|Renewable Energy and the Environment|The rush for renewable energy, as an alternative to energy from fossil fuels, generates a number of problems. This paper proposes to investigate domestic energy production using waterfalls. The country has a tradition of harnessing water power by building hydroelectric crowned with success. To these were added in recent years, small hydropower plants (SHP)whose beneficiaries aim to tap the energy of mountain water courses. The amount of energy produced in the country, which has water source, covers about a third of necessary. Is it a renewable energy with minimal environmental impact? Amid legislation and especially of taxation that favors the construction of such SHPs the number of such projects has exploded, although at the same amount of electricity produced an SHP has a 5-8 times higher impact on biodiversity, compared to a hydroelectric dam with. The impact that these have on the environment (SHP) is underreported. We present in this paper how the intervention works in the minor bed for installing water abstraction and adduction results in reduced water flow rate, to change the morphological characteristics of the river beds, the impaired quality of surface waters, and not least to the deterioration of ecosystems of river beds. The case studies that will be presented will focus on SHP Capra in FagaraÈ™ Mountains where deforestation were not the only danger, and SHP Nera, project that would be carried out in the vicinity of the protected area Nera and was provisionally blocked.
Q29|Economic Incentives for the Conservation of Bharathapuzha River: Focus on Sand Mining|Rivers in Kerala are assailed by pollution, sedimentation, sand mining, and constriction of flows. The indiscriminate and unscientific sand mining, even in the midst of many regulatory and protective measures for their conservation, have made the condition of these rivers pathetic. Bharathapuzha basin is the largest among all the 44 river basins of Kerala and the second longest river of the State. The drying up of Bharathapuzha River has become a matter of grave concern to the scientists and environmentalists. This paper tries to establish that implementing economic incentives is a possible method which can be adopted in the conservation practices of Bharathapuzha River.
Q29|Cascading Defections from Cooperation Triggered by Present-Biased Behaviors in the Commons|This work shows that defective behaviors from the cooperative equilibrium in the management of common resources can be fueled and triggered by the presence of agents with myopic behaviors; a similar phenomenon is also possible with cooperative motivations. This paper demonstrates and discusses that the apparent and detectable decay of the cooperative choices in the dilemmas of common resources are not an exclusive and indisputable signal of an escalation in free-riding intentions, but can also be an outcome of the present-biased preferences and myopic behaviors of the cooperative agents. In fact, within the context populated by conditional cooperators with a heterogeneous myopic discount factor, in the absence of information about agents’ intentions, the present-biased preferences can trigger a strategy that directs the community to excessively increase its harvesting level, even in presence of the other-regarding motives. The behavior implemented by naïve agents, even if done with cooperative intent, can activate a dynamic of cascading defections from the cooperative strategy within the harvester group. Therefore, a lowering of the cooperative behaviors can also be the effect of the absence of coordination instruments in response to the cognitive bias that influences human behaviors.
Q29|Climate and Happiness in the Tropics|Despite the increasing number of studies on self-reported happiness, due to data availability, only a few studies from developing countries exist. Moreover, even though climate is among the most important input to human activities, only a handfull of studies explicitly associate it with self-reported wellbeing. This paper combines a survey of 17,000 individuals representing 85% of Indonesian population and GIS data on local climate to establish a causation between climate variables (temperature and rainfalls) on individual subjective well-being. We found that happiness is not associated with temperature, as expected because tropical country like Indonesia does not have much temperature variation. However, rainfall is found to significantly associated with self-reported happiness. We found that the relationship is not linear, where higher rainfall is associated with more happiness but it reduces it after some point. Policy implications are discussed.
Q29|Parochial Conservation Practices and the Decline of the Koala - A Draft| Considerable resources are invested in conserving species that may be locally, but not globally, threatened. There are a variety of motivations for such parochial conservation practices and policies, though often they are likely to be ineffective or inefficient in achieving meaningful conservation outcomes at either local or broad scales. We examine the koala in Australia as a case study of this problem as it is a species that is highly valued by the public, is only threatened over a portion of its range, and yet attracts considerable conservation effort in the portions of its range where it is in decline, especially in urban areas. We identify several approaches to koala conservation that have been favoured for many years despite the fact that they are likely to be ineffective at advancing koala conservation and suggest possible reasons for their continued use. We also identify opportunities for relatively cost-effective rural conservation that have not been adequately explored. Explicitly clarifying specific goals and objectives of conservation actions and evaluating of their efficacy would facilitate more effective prioritisation of investment of resources to improve conservation outcomes.
Q29|The Impact of Environmental Accounting on Strategic Management Accounting: A Research on Manufacturing Companies|The aim of this study is investigating the sensitivity of manufacturing companies operating in the organized industrial zone of Diyarbakýr to environmental issues and environmental accounting approaches within the scope of social responsibility accounting as well as investigating the applicability of these concepts in the enterprises and as a result their impacts on strategic management accounting. According to the basic findings of the research and their responses to environmental accounting concepts and approaches, it is believed that enterprises applying environmental accounting get a competitive advantage and the added value of the company also increases as a result of the concept of social responsibility.
Q29|Managing the endogenous risk of disease outbreaks with non-constant background risk|There is a growing concern that risks of disease outbreak and pandemics are increasing over time. We consider optimal investments in prevention before an outbreak using an endogenous risk approach within an optimal control setting. Using the threat of pandemic influenza as an illustrative example, we demonstrate that prevention expenditures are relatively small in comparison to the potential losses facing the USA, and these expenditures need to be flexible and responsive to changes in background risk. Failure to adjust these expenditures to changes in background risk poses a significant threat to social welfare into the future.
Q29|Economic impacts of renewable power generation technologies and the role of endogenous technological change|This paper brings together the debate on economic impacts of renewable energy (RE) deployment and the discussion on modelling endogenous technological change on the global markets for the different renewable power generation technologies. Economic impacts of RE deployment are still mostly discussed on national level, where different effects have been identified. Recent research for Germany shows positive effects on the macro level and different distributional impacts. High investment in solar photovoltaics (PV) from 2010 to 2012 and induced increases in the RE surcharge are the main drivers. At the same time, cost reductions for wind and solar PV take place on global markets, with global learning curves explaining the cost reductions very well. This calls for better including the international dimension into the modelling. The complex feedback loops between global cost curves and national policies, which react to global learning with some time lags, are not yet integrated into quite complex economic models. These models have to capture different RE technologies, different industries, either delivering the RE technologies or strongly depending on electricity prices, which are influenced by national support policies and macroeco- nomic development. As a first step to better understand the role of international markets, assumptions on RE exports based on global scenarios can be used. Results show the importance of global markets at least for the German RE industries. If the international dimension is taken into account, mainly positive economic impacts of further RE deployment can be observed.
Q29|A review of the literature on benefits, costs, and policies for wildlife management|Wildlife management is a source of conflict in many countries because of the asymmetric allocation of benefits and costs among stakeholders. A review of studies on benefits, costs, and policies shows most valuation studies estimate recreational values of hunting, which can range between 13 and 545 USD/hunting day (in 2013 prices). A majority of the studies on costs calculate losses from livestock predation and crop destruction, and show that they can correspond to 40% of profits in the agricultural sector in wildlife rich regions in the US. Most of the studies are carried out for animals in developed economies, in particular in the US. This is in contrast to studies on costs of wildlife, which to a large extent are born by farmers neighboring national parks in developing and emerging economies. However, a common feature of both valuation and cost studies is the exclusion of several costs and benefits items and of indirect effects in the economies, which can be considerable for economies with high reliance on tourism and agriculture sectors. With respect to policy choice, the literature suggests economic incentives for conflict resolutions, where the winners from wildlife compensate the losses, but studies evaluating such policies in practice are lacking.
Q29|The Value of Endangered Forest Elephants for Local Communities in a Conservation Landscape|The purpose of this paper is to determine and characterize the social and cultural preferences for endangered forest elephants’ conservation in the Congo Basin’s Tridom landscape. The paper uses data from a 2014 representative face-to-face survey with a stratified random sample of 1035, in 108 villages in the Cameroonian and the Gabonese part of the landscape. To assess the willingness-to-pay (WTP) for elephant conservation, the questionnaire included two contingent valuation (CV) elicitation formats: Double Bounded Dichotomous choice (DBDC) and Open-Ended (OP). Combining both elicitation formats is expected to lead to an estimate that is closer to the true WTP. We find on average that local households are willing to pay monthly CFA 1139.4 (€1.74) to avoid forest elephants extinction. That’s CFA 62.8 million (€95,778) for the overall population per month or annually CFA 753.9 million ( €1.15 million). Indigenousness has a positive and significant higher WTP for elephant conservation. This is due to the loss of the spiritual enrichment, the cultural identity as well as the lifestyle of the indigenous Baka Pygmies with an extinction of the elephant. Applying spatial data, we find that local communities prefer elephant far from their crops. The estimates show that the existence of Human-Elephant Conflict does not influence their preferences for elephant conservation. Yet, this result is important, as the hypothetical scenario proposed to the households included the prevention of Forest-Elephant Conflict. Therefore, our study suggests that local communities can be willing to engage in biodiversity preservation, when the public benefit from conservation comes along with private benefits related to the avoidance of Human-Elephant Conflict.
Q29|Analyzing the Water Footprint of Indian Dairy Industry|Water footprint is a multidimensional indicator, showing water consumption volumes by source and by type of pollution; all components of a total water footprint are specified geographically and temporally. The issue of water scarcity in India is getting serious day-by-day. Water scarcity is fast becoming urban India's number one woe, with government's own data revealing that residents in 22 out of 32 major cities have to deal with daily shortages. In this paper the authors have calculated the water footprint in Indian dairy industry to assess the water intensity.
Q29|The environmental setting, farming activities and rural accommodation prices|The objective of this study is to analyze how the characteristics of the environment associated with agricultural activities influence the prices of rural tourism accommodation. To this end the model of hedonic prices is applied, which allows to break down the price of a good or service depending on the characteristics that it entails, including those of its environment. The study is carried out in the autonomous community of Asturias. The results indicate that the market values positively accommodation establishments located in municipalities with a high percentage of forests and pastureland, and negatively those located in municipalities with a high percentage of cultivated land. The study serves as a starting point for cost-benefit analysis of the policies aimed to promote activities that will improve the rural environment.
Q29|The Impact of Renewable Energy on the Environmental Kuznets Curve in Iran|Economic growth is the main purpose of economic policies. However, when economic growth is rapid we have serious environmental harm. Hence, a potential contrast between the economic policies and environmental state is stated in the Environmental Kuznets Curve.The main purpose of this study was to estimate the static and dynamic environmental Kuznets curve for the Iranian economy with assuming renewable and fossil energy simultaneously in the model. On the other hand, in this study we considered non-linear pollution function. In order to estimate the parameters related to this function should be used nonlinear methods. In this study, environmental Kuznets curve is estimated using genetic algorithms, (accurate method for numerical optimization). Comparison of the model predictions shows that the power of LAD in prediction is better than the least squared errors (LS). Also the dynamic model is powerful than static model. The results further indicate that the Iranian economy is located on the upward of environmental Kuznets curve. The other hand 12% of the total energy must be used by renewable energy, in order to Iranian economy perch at the critical point of environmental Kuznets curve.
Q29|The Commodity Futures Contract Pricing Using Spot Price Dynamics: Implication of Models in Iran’s Gold Futures Market|Economic growth is the main purpose of economic policies. However, when economic growth is rapid we have serious environmental harm. Hence, a potential contrast between the economic policies and environmental state is stated in the Environmental Kuznets Curve.The main purpose of this study was to estimate the static and dynamic environmental Kuznets curve for the Iranian economy with assuming renewable and fossil energy simultaneously in the model. On the other hand, in this study we considered non-linear pollution function. In order to estimate the parameters related to this function should be used nonlinear methods. In this study, environmental Kuznets curve is estimated using genetic algorithms, (accurate method for numerical optimization). Comparison of the model predictions shows that the power of LAD in prediction is better than the least squared errors (LS). Also the dynamic model is powerful than static model. The results further indicate that the Iranian economy is located on the upward of environmental Kuznets curve. The other hand 12% of the total energy must be used by renewable energy, in order to Iranian economy perch at the critical point of environmental Kuznets curve.
Q29|Cost-effectiveness as Energy Policy Mechanisms: The Paradox of Technology-neutral and Technology-specific Policies in the Short and Long Term|When choosing policy mechanisms to design and deploy energy policies, policymakers typically seek cost-effective ones, linking cost effectiveness to the lowest cost of support for RES-E generation and/or consumer costs. The objectives of this paper are to analyze the cost-effectiveness of renewable portfolio standards (RPS), feed-in tariffs (FIT) and auctions in the short and long term, considering both technology-neutral and technology-specific approaches. Results show that RPS and auctions are more cost-effective than feed-in tariffs (FIT) in the short term if cost-effectiveness is defined as minimizing consumer costs. Also, if one or more emerging technologies with higher levelized life cycle costs (LCC), low cumulative production and high experience elasticity are considered in the pool of RES-E policy design, a technology-neutral approach in the short-term could lock out these emerging technologies, avoiding a long term LCC reduction. In this case, a technology-specific policy used in the short-term would reflect lower total generation policy costs in the long term if compared with a technology-neutral policy in both short and long term. This paper calls this phenomenon the paradox of technology-neutral and technology-specific policies in the long term. Considering the results, this paper suggests a mix of technology-neutral and technology-specific policies using RPS or auction mechanisms to promote RES-E.
Q29|Estimating the Outdoor Recreational Value of Chitgar Forestial Park of Tehran with the Use of Contingent Valuation Method (CV)|Among issues related to the environment, one of the most important issues is pricing the environment. In the present study, the outdoor recreational value of Chitgar Jungle Park of Tehran and its visitors' willingness to pay per visit (WTP) were estimated by using Contingent Valuation method (CV) and 140 questionnaires based on dichotomous choice. The results revealed that 30 percent of the surveyed people were willing to pay an entrance fee and the mean willingness to pay for each visitor was estimated at 3076 Rials and its total annual recreational value was estimated at 5 billion Rials. Among the effective variables on individuals' visit of this park, recommendation, income, per-visit cost, family size, and visits during a year were 1% significant; park facilities and quality were 5% significant; and the visitors' use of personal vehicles, education, type of house, as well as job were 10% significant.
Q29|Towards an Agent Based Framework for Modelling Smart Self-Sustainable Systems|Self-sustainability is a property of a system; a system is considered to be self-sustainable if it can sustain itself without external support in an observed period of time. If this property is mapped to a human settlement in context of resources (water, energy, food, etc.), it would describe a human settlement which is independent of external resources (like the national electrical grid or a central water distribution system), where such external resources are either not available, or not desirable. This article contributes to presenting the state-of-the-art overview of self-sustainability-related research. While self-sustainability as in the above described form was not a direct subject of research, there are several fields which are either related to, or could be of significant value to the self-sustainability research in this context. The extensive literature overview also showed no frameworks for modeling self sustainable systems in the context of human settlements. Herein a motivation for using agent-based modeling and simulation techniques will be given.
Q29|Allocating shadow prices in a multiobjective chance constrained model for biodiesel blending|Biodiesel production sustainability relates to decision making on blending involving economic and environmental criteria. Several feedstocks candidate in European countries biodiesel industry, namely different vegetable origin oils. The present research aims at assessing the impact of technological constraints allocated to the decision objectives taking into account inherent uncertainty. For this purpose chance?constrained programming is used in order to maintain tolerance towards fuel quality.
Q29|Political-Economic Aspects of Renewable Energy: Voting on the Level of Renewable Energy Support|This paper investigates an intergenerational conflict arising from renewable energy support (RES). Using a simple polito-economic overlapping generations (OLG) model, it can be shown that old individuals unambiguously lose from renewable energy support and therefore vote for its minimum level. In contrast, young individuals benefit from positive environmental and consumption effects and, therefore, vote for a higher level of renewable energy support. The voting outcome is determined through a political process, whereby political parties converge to platforms that maximize the aggregate welfare of the electorate. Depending on the size of the exogenous parameters, the level of RES varies between the voting preferences of younger and older individuals. As a result, this model offers a good starting point for possible medium to long-term policy recommendations in order to increase the accepted level of RES.
Q29|Risk preferences and purchase of energy-efficient technologies in the residential sector|Perceived risk in future energy cost savings of energy efficient technologies has been well identified as a major barrier to the adoption of such technologies. However, direct empirical evidence of the impact of consumer risk aversion on the adoption of energy efficient technologies has been limited. In this paper, we elicit consumer risk preferences using a multiple price list experiment tailored to household energy decisions. We then use the elicited risk preferences to explain consumers' self-reported historical purchase of energy efficient appliances and installation of energy efficiency retrofitting technologies. Using data from 432 homeowners from Arizona and California, USA, results show that more risk averse consumers are less likely to adopt energy efficient technologies (except for the case of energy efficient air-conditioners). In addition, the findings provide evidence that households' perceived mobility as measured by the probability of moving within five years, can amplify the negative impact of risk aversion on the adoption of energy efficiency retrofitting technologies. Overall, the results provide implications for policy makers and companies involved in promoting energy efficient technologies.
Q29|Costs of traffic accidents with wild boar populations in Sweden|Traffic accidents with wild boar have increased rapidly over the last years in Sweden. This paper calculates and predicts costs of current and future accidents, totally and for different Swedish counties, based on estimates of wild boar populations. A logistic population model is assumed, and econometric methods are used for calculating populations with panel data on traffic accidents, traffic load, hunting pressure, and landscape characteristics for each county. The results show an annual average growth rate of 0.48, which varies between 0.39 and 0.52 for different counties. This, together with predictions on changes in traffic load, forms the basis for calculations of costs of traffic accidents for a 10 year period. In total, the predicted costs can increase from 60 million SEK in 2011 to 135 or 340 million SEK in 2021 in present value depending on assumed hunting pressure. The variation is, however, large among counties; costs can increase by ten times in Stockholm and Södermanland where the wild boar populations are relatively small and by 50% in counties with mature populations.
Q29|Analyzing the Pathway to Improve Tiger Conservation in India|Despite substantial conservation investments by governments and international agencies, the existence of tigers in the wild is still threatened. The main threats to the survival of wild tigers are poaching, prey depletion, and habitat degradation and fragmentation. All international trade in tiger parts has been prohibited since 1975, with China introducing a domestic ban in 1993. The domestic trade ban in China was followed by the establishment of captive tiger breeding farms in East Asia. China has considered partially lifting the trade ban to permit sales from tiger farms. This has been a matter of much debate with the proponents to the trade ban opposing it on the grounds that it result in an increase in the illegal killing of tigers and would also result in an increase in demand for tiger products, while the proponents to tiger farming favouring a supply side approach to conservation with products from tiger farms meeting all the demand. This research paper argues that it is possible to protect wild tigers by permitting the sale of products from tiger farms. India has mainly targeted tiger conservation with the establishment of tiger reserves all over the country, but this has resulted in the displacement of local communities from land that was traditionally belonged to them. Community based conservation seeks to conserve wildlife by giving local people a stake in its conservation and thus, providing an incentive to conserve it. This paper using a bio-economic model argues that giving local communities a stake in conservation of tigers like a share of tourism revenues aids conservation, as it would result in an increase in anti-poaching effort undertaken by the local communities, but this is contingent upon the additional revenue being higher than the cost of intrusion.
Q29|Szolárkataszter - egy eszköz a kistérségi/járási napenergia hasznosítás arányának növelésére|Az energiaellátás folyamatos, fenntartható (mind környezetileg és mind gazdaságilag) biztosítása a XXI. századra elérte azt a szintet, hogy nem korlátozható a „hagyományos” energiahordozók hasznosítására, továbbá a környezetünk megóvása érdekében szükségessé vált az alternatív energiaforrások részarányának növelése az energiatermelésben. Számos kutatás, felmérés született arról, hogy milyen mélységű ismeretekkel, tudással, tapasztalattal rendelkeznek hazánk egyes térségeiben élők, települési vezetők, döntéshozók a megújuló energiaforrások hasznosításáról, annak lehetőségeiről illetve mekkora hajlandóságuk van ezen energiaforrásokat hasznosító berendezések telepítésére saját háztartásukban. Az eredmények azt mutatják, hogy a hazai lakosság alapszintű ismerete a téma aktualitása miatt is folyamatosan bővül és megfelelőnek mondhatóak a megújuló energiaforrások témakörében (energiaforrások és azokhoz köthető felhasználási módok ismerete), azonban a bekerülés-megtérüléshez köthető, gazdaságossági oldalhoz kapcsolható számszerűsített információval való ellátottságban erőteljes elmaradás mutatkozik. Ezen adatok pótlására egy tökéletes eszköz a szolárkataszter, mely a térinformatika segítségével egy egyszerűen kezelhető online információszolgáltatást tesz lehetővé, amely az adott pontra/koordinátára vonatkoztatott természeti és építészeti tényezők figyelembevételével ad pontos, sok mindenre kiterjedő tájékoztatást a lakos/beruházni kívánó számára. A következő tanulmányban egy ilyen szolárkataszter létrehozásának főbb lépéseit, szükségességét, valamint hasznosításának lehetőségeit és azok várható hatásait szeretném bemutatni.
Q29|The impact of the solar energy collecting systems on an individual agricultural household|Using solar energy through photovoltaic systems implementation in an agricultural household leads to the increasing of it’s efficiency, to optimizing energy balance thus implying the decreasing of the primary energy costs. The solar energy refers to a renewable energy source that is produced directly by light and solar radiation. It can be used to generate electricity through solar cells (photovoltaic); to generate electricity through thermal power plants; to generate electricity through solar towers,etc. The introduction and development of new technologies and processes through the use of energy from renewable sources leads to production costs reduction and implicitly to the increase of economic profitability of the agricultural holding.
Q29|Studies on the present situation of agricultural heritage the Archdiocese of Bucharest|The Romanian Orthodox Church, founded as Patriarchy in 1925, performs alongside the pastoral and missionary works specific to the orthodox cult and administrative works. The cult units of the Archiepiscopate of Bucharest, as part of the Metropolitanate of Muntenia and Dobrogea, own agricultural, horticulture and forestry land. The agricultural and horticultural lands are cultivated under own regime or under a lease. For the areas with forest vegetation the cult units have forest service contracts with private or state Forest Districts, specialized inspectors of the Archiepiscopate of Bucharest participating in the sustainable forest management. Vineyards are subject to the reconversion program (by APIA programs) with noble varieties of vineyards and for producing wine it was built a section of vinification , by accessing European funds, with modern technology. The cult units participate in improving the quality of life in rural areas by implementing programs for accessing European funds (job creation, efficient exploitation of land, economic development, strong correlation between the creditworthiness of agricultural land and infrastructure).
Q29|Ecosystems -- burden or bounty ?|This paper presents a somewhat novel approach to explore the economic contribution of ecosystems. It develops linked models to capture connections between resource stocks and flows and the resulting microeconomic and macroeconomic impacts. A bioeconomic model is developed that is imbedded into a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. Incorporating imperfect regulation, the bioeconomic model characterizes optimal policies, while the CGE model explores the economy-wide consequences of possible changes to the ecosystem. The model is parameterized and calibrated to the case of the Serengeti ecosystem which is perhaps the most intensively researched biome with a relative abundance of data. This ecosystem is also undergoing rapid change from a host of factors related to developments within and around the protected area system. The analysis identifies the contribution of the ecosystem to the economy and finds that changes in tourism and bushmeat hunting have surprisingly diffuse economy-wide impacts, that are especially large in the rural sector. To guard against overstatement, ecosystem impacts are under-stated relative to other effects. The results suggest that linkages to the natural resource sector (backward and forward multipliers) are important and neglecting these may lead to biased estimates.
Q29|On Productivity: The Influence of Natural Resource Inputs|The production function underlying standard estimates of multifactor productivity (MFP)typically restricts the list of explicitly measured inputs to capital, labour and intermediate inputs (energy, materials and services). These inputs are measured in the national accounts, and in most industries are the most important or significant inputs to production. All other influences on output are captured by the MFP ‘residual.’ However in some industries – mining, agriculture, and utilities – output can also depend significantly on unmeasured inputs of natural resources. Rainfall in agriculture is an obvious example, but so too is the issue of mineral resource deposits in the mining sector, particularly where mining is a mature industry and the richest and most accessible deposits have already been developed. In this article we attribute a substantial part of recent large negative changes in MFP growth in the mining, agriculture and utilities industries in Australia to unmeasured natural resource input changes. As MFP growth estimates derived from the application of the usual production function are generally interpreted as measuring improvements in the ‘technology’ used to convert standard inputs into output, where there are significant changes in natural resource dependent industries this interpretation of MFP needs to be adjusted.
Q29|Negotiating the Nagoya Protocol: Indigenous Demands for Justice|In October 2010, parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization. One impetus behind the Nagoya Protocol was the mandate to address the unjust impactsâ€”such as the loss of access to resources, exploitation of traditional knowledge, and expropriation of rights to resourcesâ€”of the global demand for genetic resources on indigenous peoples and local communities (ILCs). Using collaborative event ethnography, this article demonstrates the limited nature, scope, and engagement of the ILC justice discourse in the negotiations, despite the supposedly inclusive nature of the CBD. I attribute the constrained discourse in part to the existence of a justice metanorm as evidenced through the emergence of shared meanings and prescriptive status of justice instruments. Â© 2014 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Q29|Access to electricity and socio-economic characteristics: panel data evidence from 31 countries|The case study literature on access to electricity highlighted a number of socio-economic variables linked to it. The purpose of our research is to check whether these variables also show up in panel data/cross-country regressions and to assess their relative strength. Our results support the widespread belief that electrification plans in developing countries should target rural areas and extensively rely on renewable energy sources. They should also be accompanied by measures fostering human capital accumulation and the involvement of local population. These general results need to be gauged within each country's specific context, carefully considering its own complexities. Therefore, our results complement, rather than substitute the available case study literature.
Q29|Ecosystems - Burden or Bounty?|This paper presents a somewhat novel approach to explore the economic contribution of ecosystems. It develops linked models to capture connections between resource stocks and flows and the resulting micro and macroeconomic impacts. A bioeconomic model is developed that is imbedded into a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. Incorporating imperfect regulation, the bioeconomic model characterizes optimal policies, while the CGE model explores the economy-wide consequences of possible changes to the ecosystem. The model is parameterized and calibrated to the case of the Serengeti ecosystem which is perhaps the most intensively researched biome with a relative abundance of data. This ecosystem is also undergoing rapid change from a host of factors related to developments within and around the protected area system. The analysis identifies the contribution of the ecosystem to the economy and finds that changes in tourism and bushmeat hunting have surprisingly diffuse economy-wide impacts, that are especially large in the rural sector. To guard against overstatement, ecosystem impacts are under-stated relative to other effects. The results suggest that linkages to the natural resource sector (backward and forward multipliers) are important and neglecting these may lead to biased estimates.
Q29|Az Árttéri Vadgazdálkodás Lehetséges Szerepe A Vidékfejlesztésben| A zárttéri vadgazdálkodás, mint a vadgazdálkodás egyik rohamosan fejlődő területe, jelentős mértékben hozzájárulhat a vidéki térségek fejlesztéséhez, a foglalkoztatási viszonyok javításához, a jövedelemszerzési lehetőségek bővítéséhez, a versenyképes élelmiszeripari termékek előállításához és a turisztikai potenciál erősítéséhez. Vizsgálatainkat a Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén megyében található Megyaszó településen és annak külterületén fekvő vadászterületen végeztük, a következő kutatási kérdésekre keresve a választ: • A vizsgált területen mely vadfajok zárttéri tartására, hasznosítására van igény és miért? • Milyen módon járulhat hozzá a zárttéri vadgazdálkodás a vizsgált településen élők életkörülményeinek javításához? • Hogyan járulhat hozzá a zárttéri vadgazdálkodás a helyi foglalkoztatási lehetőségek bővítéséhez, a turisztikai potenciál erősítéséhez? A kérdőíves és interjús vizsgálatok eredményei alapján megállapítható, hogy a vizsgált területen a zárttéri apróvad-gazdálkodásnak a jövőben szerepe lehet a fogoly visszatelepítésében, a fácán állománynagyságának növelésében. A zárttéri nagyvad-gazdálkodás összekapcsolható a helyi, minőségi élelmiszertermeléssel, a vadkár csökkentésével, a műveletlen mező- és erdőgazdasági területek termelésbe vonásával és hozzájárul a vadfauna bővítéséhez is. Jelentősen bővíthető a turisztikai vonzerőleltár, a vendégkör, az alacsonyabb iskolai végzettségű helyi lakosság is munkalehetőséghez juttatható. --------------------------------------------------------------- The captive wildlife management such as a branch of game management may have a meaningful role in development of rural areas, in improvement of rural employment conditions, enlargement of income generating potential, marketable food industry production, enhancement of tourism potential. Our survey we performed in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, in a hunting ground that is located in the periphery of Megyaszó village. Our goals are to answer the following research questions: • What kind of wild species required for captive wildlife management and utilization in the study area, and why? • How can the captive wildlife management contribute to the improvement of the quality of living in the circle of local people? • How can the captive wildlife management contribute to the growth of employment opportunities and enhancement of tourism potential? Based on research findings of questionnaire and interview study it can be proved that captive small game management may have an important role in the repatriation of partridge and increase in population size of pheasant. The captive big game management is connectible to quality local food production, reduction of wild boar damage, initiation production in uncultivated agricultural and silvicultural lands and contributes to expand wild fauna. It can contribute to enlargement of the attractive forces of tourism and growth of guests’ number. This activity offers new possibility of employment for local people who have lower education level.
Q29|Infoenergy: Technology for Replacing Massive Degradation with Speedier (Cleaner) Energy|This paper provides an information technology perspective of energy that can help explain and promote more environmentally friendly energy sources. Following the equation energy equals mass times velocity squared (E = m * v2), a source 10 times more massive will produce 10 times more energy, but a source 10 times faster will produce 100 times more energy. Since chemical sources such as oil combustion are about ten times faster than mechanical sources such as waterfalls and winds, getting the same quantity of energy out of wind would require 10 times more mass (steel and concrete for wind towers), than getting it out of burning oil (CO2 and oil plants materials). A nuclear source is one million times faster than chemical, thus its mass requirement is negligible but technology (mainly information technology) is needed to safely drive its speed allowing us to substitute mass -i.e. future debris- with information.
Q29|Allmenningsrett og naturvern i Skjåk kommune|Denne artikkelen tar for seg hvordan det er å være allmenningsberettiget i Skjåk Almenning når det kommer strenge reguleringer fra offentlig hold. Hvordan påvirker verneforskriftene den faktiske bruken? Og hvordan er brukernes holdninger rundt vernet i områdene? Studiens resultater er basert på en undersøkelse blant allmenningsberettigede i Skjåk Almenning og intervjuer med Skjåk Almenning og forvaltningen. Studien har vist at bruken i forhold til de ulike allmenningsrettene ikke blir direkte påvirket av verneforskriftene. Det er ikke veldig store forandringer i bruken før og etter vernet kom. Det er imidlertid tydelig at vernet har en negativ konsekvens når det gjelder oppfatningen blant brukerne. Det oppleves som et stort overtramp, tap av tillit og at de blir umyndiggjort når forvaltningen blir lagt til sentrale myndigheter. De mener selv – og ingen har sagt seg uenige - at områdene i Skjåk Almenning har blitt forvaltet av bygdefolket på en god måte i mer enn 200 år. Men vil dette fortsette inn idet nye forvaltningsregimet?
Q29|Control and adaptation strategies for invasive species with different life history|The issue of timing and scope of policies to manage invasive species has achieved considerable attention in the economic literature. Whereas many earlier studies compare prevention and control for a single invading species, we focus instead on the optimal balance of adaptation and control when an invasive species competes for scarce resources with a resident species. In particular, we focus on the role that species’ life history, i.e. the degree of evolutionary specialization in survival or reproduction, plays for the choice of strategy. A numerical age-structured optimization model is used for the analysis. Results show that life history is an important factor for the trade-off between direct control of the invader and adaptation of harvesting strategies for the resident species. Life history is also crucial for the trade-off between early and delayed control of the invader. When a direct control technology is not available, there are larger economic losses with a resident species specialized in survival, whereas if such technologies are available, the larger losses occur with a resident species specialized in reproduction.
Q29|Incentives to give up resource extraction and avoid the tragedy of the commons|This paper develops a general model of common resource extraction where we introduce payments for environmental services to encourage resource users to give up extraction. The goal is to reach a balance between resource use and conservation. As the essence of conservation is dynamic, we use a dynamic model to study the implementation of the compensation scheme. A stable heterogeneous equilibrium can be reached where both extractors and non-extractors live together. We analyze how the success of the compensation depends on factors such as the elasticity of demand and the biological characteristics of the resource.
Q29|The Interdependence Of Forest Resources With The National Economy And The Necessity To Ensure Their Sustainable Development|The evolutions of the human society in past thirty years prove the necessity of an intervention to ensure a sustainable development. One of the most important principle of sustainability consist in preservation of natural resources and development of those activities, that can assure a real evolution of human society for a long period of time. The approach of aspects regarding to the situation of land, freshwater, biodiversity, atmosphere or forests can explain the real situation of environment and could help the economists find the best strategies for economic development. This goal of this article is to analyze the stage of present forestry resources and provide the reason for economists to take into account the limits in consumptions of environmental goods.
Q29|Agricultural Land In Vojvodina As Roe Deer Habitat – Hunting - Tourism Aspect| This paper is aimed at the acquisition of scientific data on the dynamics of development and actual status of roe deer populations on agricultural lands in Vojvodina (which occupy about 90% of its territory), and their utilisation for the advancement of hunting-tourism activities. The research is based on the following scientific methods: field research (monitoring and questionnaires), content analysis, measurement and evaluation of roe deer trophies, comparison and statistical method (descriptive statistics). The observed increasing trend in roe deer density and shooting in the field hunting grounds in Vojvodina (excepting the period 1992-2000), proves that this big game species is adapted to habitats with dominant arable crops. Despite the attained results, which are at the level of the European average, the potentials of roe deer, as the important hunting-tourism resource of Vojvodina, have not yet been sufficiently exploited, therefore an additional improvement of hunting management and hunting-tourism marketing is still required.
Q29|Environmental Evaluation and Benchmarking of Traditional Mediterranean Crop Farming System of Dryland Agriculture in the Alentejo Region of Portugal|This paper presents a case study in which the effects of traditional Mediterranean crop farming system of the Alentejo region of Portugal on environment are evaluated and benchmarked. With this objective a typical farm of the region using that traditional system based on a crop-rotation of durum wheat with sunflower and peas was selected. Environmental indicators were used to evaluate production activities environmental effects. These include nitrogen balance and energy input determined using input and output processes analysis, and greenhouse gas emissions, acidification and eutrophication impacts and an aggregate eco-indicator evaluated using life cycle analysis. Results show the relevance of rotating other crops with cereals to control environmental effects and promote typical Mediterranean crop farming system sustainability. Green peas and sunflower estimated contribution is a 40% decrease of overall composite indicator system impact. Energetic input and nitrogen balance levels of these crops also allow for a substantial reduction (34 and 24 %) of magnitude of average environmental effects of crop system due to their lower intensification energy and nitrogen input levels. Benchmarking of environmental indicators for Mediterranean traditional crop farming system of the Alentejo indicates that results are within bounds reported in the environmental scientific literature interval at levels below average, indicating relatively low environmental impacts relatively to other farming systems.
Q29|Preserving or escaping? On the welfare effects of environmental self-protective choices|In modern societies individuals often try to alleviate their personal damages from environmental degradation by increasing their consumption of private goods. Although this “self-protective” behavior is very frequent in industrial economies, insufficient attention has been paid to its economic and environmental consequences. In this paper we show that such a behavior can make everyone worse-off. For this purpose, using as paradigmatic case a two-islands evolutionary model, we prove analytically that environmental “self-protection” may trap the system into an undesirable (Pareto-dominated) situation and discuss a few real-life examples in which this mechanism may have actually occurred. Although the proposed model is deliberately extremely simple, it may provide some interesting insights on an aspect that has been mainly ignored in the literature so far.
Q29|Biodiversity Conservation and Ecosystem Services Provision: Tale of Confused Objectives, Multiple Market Failures and Policy Challenges|Most research and funding in conservation has been oriented toward biodiversity per se. Until recently there has been little tangible effort in linking conservation to ecosystem service provision. Nevertheless, this trend seems to be changing due in part to the relative success of payment mechanisms that provide funding for the conservation of ecosystem services – defined as discrete and identifiable end-products. This paper describes the features of optimal policies to protect (i) biodiversity vs. (ii) ecosystem services and analyze to what extent the criteria in (i) and (ii) set against each other or create synergies. We also analyze how payments for ecosystem services affect the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem services conservation.
Q29|Agricultural Productivity Impact of a Mini-Dam: A Case Study of Ziarat, Balochistan|Water scarcity in Balochistan is more severe as of Pakistan. Ground water level is depleting day by day. One of the solutions for such problem is to store water through mini-dams. This study is conducted to find an impact of mini-dam on agricultural productivity in Ziarat, taking apple as the main crop. Primary data of 80 households are collected from two villages (one having a dam and other without having a dam) namely Kawas and Verchoom through stratified random sampling. Cobb-Douglas production function is utilised to form the production function for apple and estimated by using OLS technique. Nine explanatory variables are used for finding the impact over apple yield i.e. farm size, farmer education, farming experience, tree age, fertiliser, irrigation number, pruning and dummy (for capturing the importance of dam). Results revealed that all variables are found significant except farming experience, pruning and tree age. It is concluded that mini-dam played an important role in increasing agricultural productivity, livelihood of the community and contribute positively in improving their living standard.
Q29|Investments For A Sustainable Energy Future|Taking into account that today the consumption of energy has grown six times since half a century ago, investments are needed for diversifying the sources of energy consumption and raising the efficiency of energy use. In this article authors concentrate on declaring trends in the energy field in the last decade, with emphasis on production, consumption and installed capacity. We also focus on shaping a view for Romanian energy market, which even though it is a net importer of energy, it also has a great potential for various resources: natural gas, coal, oil, uranium ore and renewable resources. Finally the subject of financing investments in renewable energy is discussed. All this arguments combined may explain our country’s average score for the Energy Sustainability Index that gives us a middle place in this country ranking.
Q29|The Implied Market Price of Weather Risk| Weather derivatives (WD) are end-products of a process known as securitization that transforms non-tradable risk factors (weather) into tradable financial assets. For pricing and hedging non-tradable assets, one essentially needs to incorporate the market price of risk (MPR), which is an important parameter of the associated equivalent martingale measure (EMM). The majority of papers so far has priced non-tradable assets assuming zero or constant MPR, but this assumption yields biased prices and has never been quantified earlier under the EMM framework. Given that liquid-derivative contracts based on daily temperature are traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), we infer the MPR from traded futures-type contracts (CAT, CDD, HDD and AAT). The results show how the MPR significantly differs from 0, how it varies in time and changes in sign. It can be parameterized, given its dependencies on time and temperature seasonal variation. We establish connections between the market risk premium (RP) and the MPR.
Q29|El Tema Ambiental: Una Visión General Sobre Su Desarrollo|El tema ambiental en la teoría económica no cobra importancia sino hasta después de la década de los sesenta. En principio, la teoría clásica centró su preocupación en el problema del crecimiento e hizo posible, a través del análisis marginal, asignar al mercado la función de ser un proveedor eficiente de recursos. Sin embargo, en los años setenta se reconocen los impactos negativos del crecimiento económico sobre los recursos ambientales. En este escenario y con ayuda de los lineamientos dados por las Conferencias de Estocolmo (1972) y Río de Janeiro (1992) se posibilita la aparición formal de la economía ambiental la cual centra su interés en el desarrollo sustentable y se involucra en este objetivo la educación ambiental como estrategia para posibilitar el uso óptimo de los recursos ambientales. Este artículo presenta una revisión de las diferentes escuelas de pensamiento económico y se destaca su contribución teórica a la formación de ladisciplina de la economía ambiental.
Q29|Management of Wind Power Generation with the Attachment of Wind Tunnel|This study presents a new approach in which a wind tunnel apparatus is used to identify the efficiency of power output by a wind turbine with a 400W rating. Moreover, the study addresses a significant issue concerning the turbulence formed by a natural wind which can be eliminated or reduced with the use of the proposed wind tunnel. Wind power characteristics that indicate power output versus wind velocity are obtained by performing a number of case studies. The case studies include normal operation of the experimental wind turbine at variable wind velocity values with and without proposed wind tunnel. A certain level of turbulence is formed and the wind turbine power output is measured and recorded for a number of cases. The statistical t-Test and ANOVA analyses showed that the suggested approach could be useful for wind turbine manufacturers to evaluate the degree that contributes to the variability of renewable energy production. Besides, the results may be helpful to support educational institutions in providing renewable energy awareness in Iowa and in the US by providing adequate information for the selection and handling of the parameters that control the variability of the energy needs.
Q29|Wildlife Disease Bioeconomics|We review the disease ecology and bioeconomic literature on managing wildlife disease problems, and we also describe how wildlife disease problems relate to other health and resource problems. The disease ecology literature advocates managing populations relative to fixed ecological thresholds to produce disease eradication. We show that thresholds are generally endogenous functions of management choices, so that management involves manipulating both populations and thresholds. We also explore the conditions for optimal disease eradication and illustrate how harvest values and stock-related values may influence the optimality of eradication. When eradication is not optimal, we describe how the characteristic features of wildlife disease problems (i.e., multiple, interacting state variables and imperfect controls) make it unlikely that an optimal management plan will involve a monotonic path to a steady-state outcome.
Q29|How Volatile is ENSO?|The El Niños Southern Oscillations (ENSO) is a periodical phenomenon of climatic interannual variability which could be measured through either the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) or the Sea Surface Temperature (SST) Index. The main purpose of this paper is to analyze these two indexes in order to capture ENSO volatility. The empirical results show that both the ARMA(1,1)-GARCH(1,1) and ARMA(3,2)-GJR(1,1) models are suitable for modelling ENSO volatility. Moreover, 1998 is a turning point for the volatility of SOI, and the ENSO volatility has became stronger since 1998 which indicates that the ENSO strength has increased.
Q29|Institutional management of greenhouse gas emissions: How much does 'green' reputation matter?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Calibrating CAT Bonds for Mexican Earthquakes|This article examines the calibration of a real parametric catastrophe bond (CAT bond) for earthquakes sponsored by the Mexican government, which is of a high interest as it delivers several policy‐relevant findings. The results demonstrate that a combination of reinsurance and CAT bond is optimal in the sense that it provides coverage for a lower cost and lower exposure at default than reinsurance itself. A hybrid CAT bond for earthquakes is also priced in order to reduce the basis and moral risk borne by the sponsor and to reflect the value of the loss by several variables.
Q29|How Volatile is ENSO?| The El Ninos Southern Oscillations (ENSO) is a periodical phenomenon of climatic interannual variability which could be measured through either the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI) or the Sea Surface Temperature (SST) Index. The main purpose of this paper is to analyze these two indexes in order to capture ENSO volatility. The empirical results show that both the ARMA(1,1)-GARCH(1,1) and ARMA(3,2)-GJR(1,1) models are suitable for modelling ENSO volatility. Moreover, 1998 is a turning point for the volatility of SOI, and the ENSO volatility has became stronger since 1998 which indicates that the ENSO strength has increased.
Q29|Integrating biodiversity indices into a multi-species optimal control model|Biodiversity is often adversely affected by human activities. This reduces social welfare but may be external to private economic decisions. Consequently, these external effects on biodiversity need to be considered explicitly in economic models, which is only partly reflected in the literature. So far, biodiversity is mostly treated only implicitly in multiple renewable resource models, or it is considered in terms of (genetic) variability or species richness only, but not in terms of indices that simultaneously account for species richness and evenness. However, both constitute important dimensions of biodiversity. This paper integrates such biodiversity indices into an optimal control model, thus accounting for non-use values derived from the existence of multiple living resources. Main findings include that a unique equilibrium satisfying sufficient optimality conditions can be determined although the biodiversity index is non-concave. Compared to a model set-up with a monotonically increasing, concave utility function, steady state stocks are distributed more evenly and biodiversity is higher but the total number of individuals is lower when the biodiversity index is applied.
Q29|Biomass Supply for Biofuel Production: Estimates for the United States and Canada| The potential supply of biomass feedstocks in the US and Canada is estimated using a static supply function approach. Estimated total biomass available at a price of $100 per metric ton is 568 million metric tons in the US and 123 million tons in Canada, which together can displace 23-45 billion gallons of gasoline. Sufficient biomass, mainly agricultural and mill residues, will be available at prices of around $50/ton to meet the advanced biofuel mandates of the US Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The estimates of agricultural residue supply are very sensitive to the assumed fraction of residues that can be sustainably removed from the field, and the potential of municipal solid waste as a feedstock depends on which components can be economically converted into liquid biofuels.
Q29|Umweltinnovationen und Umweltpatente in Deutschland – erste empirische Ergebnisse|Um die Bestimmungsgründe, Ausbreitungsmechanismen und Wirkungen von Umweltinnovationen zu erklären, wurde bisher stark auf einzelnen Fallstudien abgestellt. Um die Forschung auf eine neue und breitere Grundlage zu stellen, führt das ifo Institut derzeit eine Studie zu Entstehung, Diffusion und Wirkungen von Umwelt- bzw. Nachhaltigkeitsinnovationen durch, die mit Hilfe einer branchenübergreifenden Unternehmensbefragung und einer Patentanalyse auf der Basis der Datenbank des Europäischen Patentamts innovations- und umweltbezogene Informationen gewinnt. In dem Beitrag wird ein Überblick über die bislang erzielten empirischen Ergebnisse gegeben. Es zeigte sich z.B., dass bei allen Innovationstypen die Innovationsneigung mit der Größe des Unternehmens zunimmt, große Unternehmen also von Skaleneffekten profitieren oder zumindest häufiger innovieren als kleine. Auffällig ist im Hinblick auf ökologisch bedeutsamste Innovation, dass diese in zwei Drittel aller Fälle sehr stark oder stark von zurückliegenden Innovationstätigkeiten begünstigt wird. Bezüglich der Art der Umweltentlastungen überwiegt schließlich die Verringerung der CO2-Emissionen und des Energieverbrauchs andere Arten von Umweltentlastungen.
Q29|Agricultural Risk Management through Community-Based Wildlife Conservation in Rural Zimbabwe|This paper investigates whether the risk faced by rural farmers in Zimbabwe could potentially be managed by using community-based wildlife conservation. Community-based wildlife conservation could be an additional asset in the rural farmers. investment portfolio thereby potentially diversifying and consequently reducing the risk they face. Such investment could also help efforts to conserve wildlife. By making use of national historical data and statistical analysis, this paper finds that community-based wildlife conservation is a feasible hedge asset for agricultural production in rural Zimbabwe. The benefits of diversification into community-based wildlife conservation are likely to be high only in those rural areas that can sustain wildlife populations sufficient to generate adequate returns from wildlife activities such as tourism, trophy hunting, live animal sales and meat cropping
Q29|Energia solar fotovoltaica: Contributo para um roadmapping do seu desenvolvimento tecnológico [Fotovoltaic solar energy: a contribute to a technological development roadmapping]|The main goal for this report is to alert for the need of a continuous investment in policies that should be developed worldwide, with respect to research and development (R&D), at all levels, in photovoltaic energy. The R&D in this area leads to a strong and possible solution to the actual environmental problems. Such problems are based on the climate change due to polluted gas emissions and due to the non-renewable resources exhaustion. Therefore, this contribution for a roadmap of photovoltaic technology aims to support the knowledge on projects that allow photovoltaic module cost reduction, efficiency and longevity improvement. In this paper we analyze the implemented policies and projects that were and are being developed worldwide. A development monitoring is done in photovoltaic energy since its origin, in order to predict its evolution in actual market. The data was analyzed and the conclusion was drawn that the solar energetic consumption evolution is related to the efficiency improvement and cost reduction in photovoltaic technologies, mainly due to the rising competitiveness among other sources of energy. The non-dependency on non-renewable and pollutant resources implies a significant rising of hope for a better future.
Q29|Political influence on historical ESA listings by state: a count data analysis|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Mechanisms and assembly of alternative financing by environmental protection in Romania|Preventing of environmental damage, restoration and maintenance of quality parameters, improving the quality of the environment involves investment environment, labor consumption, materials and technologies, which requires financial support, financing of environmental investments which are concretize in financial flows, currency, the currency providers of any kind, for recipients, executives or end.
Q29|Diversification of Agricultural Production by Implementation of Biomass Action Plan within the EU Energy Policy|Such as other sectors of industry, the agricultural sector has to find the way how to deal with new conditions within the world financial crisis. Other negatives which this sector has to deal are coming from the grant policy of EU, which creates different conditions in particular member countries. Financial crisis brought to agricultural industry new problems and challenges, which the private farms have to solve by the diversification of their business strategies. Some of the farms have already implemented new steps in their business plans by the growing of biomass for energetic purposes. Authors of the article are assessing the aim and scope of the action plan of biomass exploitation and its transformation to final energy in the farm PD Kapusany. This farm has close cooperation with the University of Economics Bratislava, Technical universities of Kosice and Zvolen. Result of this cooperation is the project of biomass exploitation in energetic sector. There was implemented new biogas station technology with the performance 180 kWh within the project.
Q29|Agricultural Risk Management through Community-Based Wildlife Conservation in Rural Zimbabwe|This paper investigates whether the risk faced by rural farmers in Zimbabwe could poten- tially be managed by using community-based wildlife conservation. Community-based wildlife conservation could be an additional asset in the rural farmers’ investment portfolio thereby potentially diversifying and consequently reducing the risk they face. Such investment could also help e¤orts to conserve wildlife. By making use of national historical data and statistical analysis, this paper …nds that community-based wildlife conservation is a feasible hedge asset for agricultural production in rural Zimbabwe. The bene…ts of diversi…cation into community-based wildlife conservation are likely to be high only in those rural areas that can sustain wildlife pop- ulations su¢cient to generate adequate returns from wildlife activities such as tourism, trophy hunting, live animal sales and meat cropping.
Q29|Calibration of Parametric CAT bonds. A case study of Mexican earthquakes|The study of natural catastrophe models plays an important role in the prevention and mitigation of disasters. After the occurrence of a natural disaster, the reconstruction can be financed with catastrophe bonds (CAT bonds) or reinsurance. This paper examines the calibration of a real parametric CAT bond for earthquakes that was sponsored by the Mexican government, which is based on the estimation of the intensity rate of the arrival process of earthquake (which would trigger this particular CAT bond) from the two sides of the contract: the reinsurance and the capital markets. Additionally, the intensity rate from the historical data was estimated to conduct a comparative analysis. The results demonstrate that, under specific conditions, the financial strategy of the government, a mix of reinsurance and CAT bond, is optimal in the sense that it provides coverage of USD 450 million for a lower cost than the reinsurance itself.
Q29|Los profesionales del agro en la difusión de innovaciones agrícolas sustentables en la región oriental de Colombia|La participación de los profesionales de diversas disciplinas del agro en los procesos de reconversión sustentable de los agroecosistemas en Colombia, es factor clave para el desarrollo de la nueva agricultura que el país necesita frente a los problemas ocasionados por las inadecuadas prácticas de manejo de la agricultura convencional. En el presente trabajo se hace una exploración sobre la actuación de un importante grupo de profesionales vinculados a la reconversión agropecuaria de la región oriental colombiana. Los resultados encontrados y analizados con sistema estadístico multivariado indican que los profesionales participan en una amplia gama de actividades en las tres zonas climáticas de la región (frío, templado y cálido) y que las preferencias a ciertos sistemas de innovación tienen relación directa con la formación académica recibida por ellos. Asimismo se refleja un debilitamiento en el ejercicio profesional del ingeniero agrónomo, que ha sido capitalizado por otras profesiones y que amerita un proceso de renovación curricular en los programas académicos de esta profesión en el país
Q29|Animal rationality and implications for resource management: the case of biological reserves for moose and pine|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Valoracion de activos ambientales mediante metodos multicriterio. Aplicacion a la valoracion del Parque Natural del Alto Tajo| The valuation of these goods can be a relevant element for the conservation and improvement, though the intangible and inmaterial aspects of environmental asseets difficult the utilisation of the traditional methods of valuation. This work presents a methodology for the valuation of those assets combining multi-criteria methods, the Analytic Hierarchy Process and the Goal Programming and traditional method the Discounted Cash Flows. The combinatio of both techniques allows extracting and indicator of the Total Economic Value (TEV) of an environmental asset, as well as of each partial value which make up the TEV, including tangible and intangible elements. The proposed methodology is applied to the valuation of the Alto Tajo Natural Park RESUMEN Calcular el valor de los activos ambientales puede ser un elemento importante par su conservación y mejora, pero con los métodos tradicionales de valoración la consideración tanto de sus aspectos intangibles, es difícil, y en algunos casos imposible. En el presente trabajo se presenta una metodología de valoración de dichos activos que combina métodos multicriterio (Proceso Analítico Jerárquico y la programación por metas) con métodos tradicionales (método de actualización de rentas). La combinación de dichas técnicas permite deducir un indicador del Valor Económico Total de un activo ambiental y de los distintos valores parciales que lo componen, ya sean tangibles o intangibles. La metodología propuesta se ha aplicado a la valoración del Parque Natural del Alto Tajo. Palabras clave: valoración económica, recursos naturales, proceso analítico jerárquico, programación por metas
Q29|Invasive Species and Delaying the Inevitable: Results from a Pilot Valuation Experiment| Herein we explore the economic value of delaying inevitable environmental damage due to aquatic invasive species, which is a problem especially relevant to tropic and subtropical regions. We developed an analytical framework and tested it using a stated preference survey. The results suggest that delaying the impacts can be valuable. Other tests reveal characteristics of the willingness-to-pay estimates that are consistent with economic theory.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q29|Invasive Species and Delaying the Inevitable: Results from a Pilot Valuation Experiment| Herein we explore the economic value of delaying inevitable environmental damage due to aquatic invasive species, which is a problem especially relevant to tropic and subtropical regions. We developed an analytical framework and tested it using a stated preference survey. The results suggest that delaying the impacts can be valuable. Other tests reveal characteristics of the willingness-to-pay estimates that are consistent with economic theory.
Q29|Adoption of Environmental Management Systems by Farmers: An Empirical Application to ISO 14001| This article undertakes an empirical investigation of the determinants of voluntary adoption of the ISO 14001 environmental management system by French farmers. The adoption model incorporates the expected profitability of implementing the standard and investigates the impact of prior knowledge on the probability of adopting. Two information measures are considered: a “reported information” indicator and an “estimated knowledge” score. The probit parameter estimates reveal that, while the expected profitability of implementing the standard is a significant determinant of adoption, real and perceive prior knowledge measures play a significant but potentially counterintuitive role.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q29|Adoption of Environmental Management Systems by Farmers: An Empirical Application to ISO 14001| This article undertakes an empirical investigation of the determinants of voluntary adoption of the ISO 14001 environmental management system by French farmers. The adoption model incorporates the expected profitability of implementing the standard and investigates the impact of prior knowledge on the probability of adopting. Two information measures are considered: a “reported information” indicator and an “estimated knowledge” score. The probit parameter estimates reveal that, while the expected profitability of implementing the standard is a significant determinant of adoption, real and perceive prior knowledge measures play a significant but potentially counterintuitive role.
Q29|Costo de Capital: Estudio de la Incidencia de las variables determinantes del costo de Capital y el consiguiente reflejo en los estados financieros de|En la primera parte del estudio se denota la importancia que, desde el punto de vista financiero, tiene el concepto del costo del uso del capital en la situación de cualquier organización; luego se presenta una breve reseña del sector avícola y su importancia en la economía colombiana, como también, la población y la muestra de las empresas objeto de este estudio. En la segunda, se encuentra la importancia que tiene esta herramienta financiera para el apoyo de la información necesaria al tomar decisiones. En la tercera, se expone el análisis de la información obtenida, se realiza el cálculo del costo de capital para Colombia en el período 1995-2005 y se determina la importancia que cada variable estudiada tiene en dicho costo. En esta parte también se hace el cálculo del costo del capital promedio ponderado para las empresas seleccionadas y la incidencia que este costo tiene en los estados financieros de las empresas estudiadas. Por último, se presentan las conclusiones respectivas y los anexos correspondientes.
Q29|Ethanolomics: The Think-About's of the Mexican Ethanol Project|The Mexican Ethanol Project has the potential of power up rural economy, improve the environment quality, and substitute the non-renewable fossil energy resources. But the risk of not achieving these is latent: the market distorts that it could unleash can change the expected outcomes. Public policies, such as No Deforestation, Investments in Agricultural Productivity, and Ethanol Manufacture in situ, could help orientate the private incentives to increase social welfare. In a big proportion, PEMEX and the Mexican Federal Government would be directly, or indirectly, affected by the domestic ethanol production, opening a door for them to participate in it and avoid damage on their interests. But there's still a question to answer: how long it would take before these benefits could be felt?
Q29|Industrialists hand in hand with environmentalists: how eco-labeling schemes can help firms to raise rivals’ costs|Industrialists may promote eco-labeling schemes in order to gain the support of environmentalists and ultimately gain market protection. Beyond the environmental effects of such coalitions, these schemes can provide industrialists a legitimate way to disadvantage rivals, frequently foreign rivals, by raising their costs. We consider a Stackelberg model that determines the conditions under which a domestic firm has incentive to impose an eco-label in order to raise the costs of its foreign rivals. The effects of eco-labeling on domestic social welfare are ambiguous. Policy recommendations are drawn. Notably, factors that may help policy makers to identify situations more vulnerable to undesirable outcomes from a welfare viewpoint are developed.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q29|Volkswirtschaftliche Effekte der Erzeugung von Bioethanol zum Einsatz im Kraftstoffbereich|Der Einsatz von Ethanol, erzeugt aus landwirtschaftlichen Grundstoffen, wird in vielen Ländern als vorrangige Form praktiziert, um fossile Kraftstoffe in einem gewissen Umfang zu substituieren. Dabei ist weltweit eine steigende Tendenz zu beobachten, und es entstehen durch den Aufbau eines neuen Wirtschaftszweigs volkswirtschaftliche Effekte. Das ifo Institut berechnete für eine Studie im Auftrag der LAB Landwirtschaftliche Biokraftstoffe e.V., Berlin, mit Hilfe von Input-Output-Tabellen diese Effekte. Demnach kann für das Jahr 2010 die Bioethanolbranche eine Zunahme der inländischen Erzeugung auf einen Produktionswert von ca. 1,1 Mrd. € bzw. 1,9 Mill. Tonnen erwarten. Dies stellt im Vergleich zu den Produktionsplänen für das Jahr 2007 eine Verdreifachung dar. Die inländische Wertschöpfung, die direkt oder indirekt auf die Ethanolerzeugung und deren Einsatz im Kraftstoffsektor zurückzuführen ist, wird sich auf etwa 2,1 Mrd. € belaufen. Dieser Wertschöpfung liegt eine gesamtwirtschaftliche Produktionsleistung von insgesamt 3,7 Mrd. € zugrunde.
Q29|Carbon Capture and Sequestration: How Much Does this Uncertain Option Affect Near-Term Policy Choices?|One of the main issues in the climate policy agenda, the timing of abatement efforts, hinges on the uncertainties of climate change risks and technological evolution. We use a stochastic optimization framework and jointly explore these two features. First, we embed in the model future potential large-scale availability of Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technologies. While non-CCS mitigation that reduces fossil energy use is modelled as exerting inertia on the economic system, mainly due to the durability of the capital in energy systems and to technology lock-in and lock-out phenomena, the implementation of CCS technologies is modelled as implying less resilience of the system to changes in policy directions. Second, climate uncertainty is related in the model to the atmospheric temperature response to an increase in GHGs concentration. Performing different simulation experiments, we find that the environmental target, derived from a cost-benefit analysis, should be more ambitious when CCS is included in the picture. Moreover, the possible future availability of CCS is not a reason to significantly reduce near-term optimal abatement efforts. Finally, the availability of better information on the climate cycle is in general more valuable than better information on the CCS technological option.
Q29|Malthus in Rwanda? Scarcity, Survival and Causes of the Genocide|This paper does two things. First, it develops a game theoretical model over population groups that optimize their survival under resource scarce conditions. The model includes two rather obvious, but in the theoretical literature neglected, strategies - survival by migration and, once a conflict is ignited, survival by taking refuge. Results include determinants of migration and refugee flows, the threshold for violent conflict and its intensity. Second, it derives the necessary and sufficient conditions for a genocide and applies the model in order to analyze the 1994 genocide in Rwanda. It suggests that the extremist regime that seized power on April 6th 1994, while being on a genocide agenda exploited the underlying resource scarce conditions by way of forcefully destroying property rights and massively support appropriative actions, thereby facilitating the killings and persecutions of Tutsis on the scale of a genocide. Finally, key to understanding the scope of the genocide in 1994, is suggested to be that the extremist regime was not only the active support of appropriative actions, but the simultaneous and deliberate destroying of the refugee infrastructure. The difference in the level of refugee infrastucture can possibly explain why earlier violent episodes had lower conflict intensity although sharing some similar characteristics.
Q29|An Analytical Foundation of the Ratio-Dependent Predator-Prey Model|Predator-prey models of the Lotka-Volterra type and their refinements describe predator-prey interactions taking populations as basic units of analysis. In contrast to these macro models we derive interdependent population growth functions of a predator and a prey species from a micro ecosystem model whose basic entities are representative prey and predator organisms which behave as if they maximize their net offspring under constraints. In the short-run periods prices (scarcity indicators) coordinate and determine all biomass transactions and net offspring which directly translates into population growth and thus constitutes the dynamics of the predator-prey relations. For a specific parametric version our model offers a theoretical foundation of the ratio-dependent predator-prey model with Michaelis-Menten type functional response.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q29|Introducing Genetically Modified Plants: Now or Later - An Option Value Approach| Using market data, we have estimated the quasi option value of delaying to grow genetically modified corn and soybeans in Europe. We find that the current quasi option value of growing genetically modified soybeans and corn in Europe is high. This makes it likely that for the time being the information value of waiting exceeds the market gains of growing genetically modified plants in Europe.
Q29|Accounting for Uncertainty Affecting Technical Change in an Economic-Climate Model|The key role of technological change in the decline of energy and carbon intensities of aggregate economic activities is widely recognized. This has focused attention on the issue of developing endogenous models for the evolution of technological change. With a few exceptions this is done using a deterministic framework, even though technological change is a dynamic process which is uncertain by nature. Indeed, the two main vectors through which technological change may be conceptualized, learning through R&D investments and learning-by-doing, both evolve and cumulate in a stochastic manner. How misleading are climate strategies designed without accounting for such uncertainty? The main idea underlying the present piece of research is to assess and discuss the effect of endogenizing this uncertainty on optimal R&D investment trajectories and carbon emission abatement strategies. In order to do so, we use an implicit stochastic programming version of the FEEM-RICE model, first described in Bosetti, Carraro and Galeotti, (2005). The comparative advantage of taking a stochastic programming approach is estimated using as benchmarks the expected-value approach and the worst-case scenario approach. It appears that, accounting for uncertainty and irreversibility would affect both the optimal level of investment in R&D –which should be higher– and emission reductions –which should be contained in the early periods. Indeed, waiting and investing in R&D appears to be the most cost-effective hedging strategy.
Q29|Accounting for Uncertainty Affecting Technical Change in an Economic-Climate Model| The key role of technological change in the decline of energy and carbon intensities of aggregate economic activities is widely recognized. This has focused attention on the issue of developing endogenous models for the evolution of technological change. With a few exceptions this is done using a deterministic framework, even though technological change is a dynamic process which is uncertain by nature. Indeed, the two main vectors through which technological change may be conceptualized, learning through R&D investments and learning-by-doing, both evolve and cumulate in a stochastic manner. How misleading are climate strategies designed without accounting for such uncertainty? The main idea underlying the present piece of research is to assess and discuss the effect of endogenizing this uncertainty on optimal R&D investment trajectories and carbon emission abatement strategies. In order to do so, we use an implicit stochastic programming version of the FEEM-RICE model, first described in Bosetti, Carraro and Galeotti, (2005). The comparative advantage of taking a stochastic programming approach is estimated using as benchmarks the expected-value approach and the worst-case scenario approach. It appears that, accounting for uncertainty and irreversibility would affect both the optimal level of investment in R&D which should be higher and emission reductions which should be contained in the early periods. Indeed, waiting and investing in R&D appears to be the most cost-effective hedging strategy.
Q29|Precautionary Effect and Variations of the Value of Information|For a sequential, two-period decision problem with uncertainty and under broad conditions (non-finite sample set, endogenous risk, active learning and stochastic dynamics), a general sufficient condition is provided to compare the optimal initial decisions with or without information arrival in the second period. More generally the condition enables the comparison of optimal decisions related to different information structures. It also ties together and clarifies many conditions for the so-called irreversibility effect that are scattered in the environmental economics literature. A numerical illustration with an integrated assessment model of climate-change economics is provided.
Q29|Biodiversity Conservation under an Imperfect Seed System: the Role of Community Seed Banking Scheme|The study is an empirical investigation of agrobiodiversity conservation decisions of small farmers in the central highlands of Ethiopia. The primary objective is to measure the effectiveness of Community Seed Banking (CSB) in enhancing diversity while providing productivity incentives. The analytical framework draws from the synergetic nature of the possible improvment of the working of the seed system and enhanced diversity. We employ Amemiya’s GLS estimator to investigate simultaneity between participation and the level of diversity. Our results indicate a significant impact of participation in CSB on farm-level agrobiodiversity. However, farmer knowledge and experience associated with biodiversity conservation were not found to have the expected reinforcing impact on the degree of biodiversity. CSB participation also led to a moderate productivity increase consistent with the need for such incentives to enhance diversity at a farm level. Our assessment of the performance of the GLS estimator yielded a significant discrepancy between the GLS and bootstrap estimates. This led to the conclusion that bootstrapping asymptotic estimations might be required for appropriate inference even when sample sizes are reasonably large.
Q29|Reinforcing economic incentives for carbon credits for forests|Afforestation is a cost-effective way for some countries to meet part of their commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and its eventual extensions. Credits for carbon sequestration can be mediated through markets for emissions permits. Both new and old forests are subject to pestilence and fire, which are events that could release substantial, discrete quantities of carbon at irregular intervals. Permits markets, the use of green accounting, and insurance markets for sudden emmisions could increase the efficiency of the scheme and its attractiveness to potential participants. La plantation de forêts est une manière peu coûteuse pour certains pays de remplir leurs engagements à l'égard du Protocole de Kyoto et de ses extensions éventuelles. Les marchés pour les permis d'émissions peuvent s'assortir de crédits pour la séquestration de carbone. Tant les nouvelles que les anciennes forêts sont exposées aux incendies et aux invasions de parasites, qui peuvent se donner lieu à l'émission d'importantes quantités de gaz carbonique à intervalles irréguliers. Les marchés des permis et les marchés d'assurance, mis en ?uvre dans un cadre de comptabilité verte, peuvent rendre plus efficace et plus attrayant un système de crédits pour séquestration du carbone.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q29|The Amenity Value of Climate to German Households|This study uses the hedonic approach to measure the amenity value of climate in Germany. Unlike in earlier research separate hedonic wage and house price regressions are estimated for relatively small geographic areas and formal tests undertaken to determine whether the coefficients describing the impact of climate variables are homogenous across these areas. Evidence suggests that German households are compensated for climate amenities mainly through hedonic housing markets. Given that climate is largely unproductive to industry and few industries spend more on land than labour this is consistent with what theory would predict. Throughout Germany house prices are higher in areas with higher January temperatures, lower July temperatures and lower January precipitation. In East Germany wages are higher in areas with higher January precipitation. The full implicit price of climate variables however is very uncertain.
Q29|The Amenity Value of Climate to German Households|This study uses the hedonic approach to measure the amenity value of climate in Germany. Unlike in earlier research separate hedonic wage and house price regressions are estimated for relatively small geographic areas and formal tests undertaken to determine whether the coefficients describing the impact of climate variables are homogenous across these areas. Evidence suggests that German households are compensated for climate amenities mainly through hedonic housing markets. Given that climate is largely unproductive to industry and few industries spend more on land than labour this is consistent with what theory would predict. Throughout Germany house prices are higher in areas with higher January temperatures, lower July temperatures and lower January precipitation. In East Germany wages are higher in areas with higher January precipitation. The full implicit price of climate variables however is very uncertain.
Q29|Análisis econométrico del riesgo de extinción del las especies de fauna en Colombia: reptiles y peces dulceacuícolas|A species' risk of extinction is estimated by the deterioration state of the population. A wild and non extinct species could be evaluated and ranked as follows: Critically Endangered, Endangered, Vulnerable, Near Threatened, Of Minor Concern. This ranking has been applied in Colombia for some groups of fauna and flora. Information of the Red Books Series of Threatened Species of Colombia —Libros rojos de especies amenazadas de Colombia— (reptiles, fresh water fish), is used in this paper for estimating the probability change of extintion risk upon changes in economic variables which show some kind of pressure for direct exploitation of habitat change. The quantitative tool for information analysis is a model of ordered discrete dependent variabl
Q29|Effects of norms, warm-glow and time use on household recycling|The aim of this paper is to quantify the relative importance of motivations based on warm-glow, social and moral norms and cost of time used recycling on household recycling efforts. We also test for crowding-out of intrinsic motivations when recycling is perceived as mandatory. We find that the most important variable increasing household recycling efforts is agreeing that recycling is a pleasant activity in itself, which may be interpreted as a warm-glow effect. The most important variable reducing household recycling is the opportunity cost of time spent recycling. We find no evidence of crowding-out of intrinsic motivation when recycling is perceived as mandatory. On the contrary, we find that governmental legislation increases household recycling efforts on most materials.
Q29|Use of On-Farm Reservoirs in Rice Production: Results from the MARORA Model| The present article uses the modified Arkansas off-stream reservoir analysis and the environmental policy-integrated climate models to examine the impacts of on-farm reservoirs and tail water recovery systems in conjunction with other best management practices on profitability, water use, and sediment control for rice-soybean farming operations. Results suggest that, under limited water availability conditions, reservoirs and tail water recovery systems can improve profitability, reduce ground water dependence, and reduce the movement of sediment, nutrients, and pesticides off-farm. Although reservoirs may not be profitable under plentiful water conditions, cost-sharing opportunities may make them a viable means of addressing environmental concerns.
Q29|Management Challenges for Multiple-Species Boreal Forests|Recent research in natural sciences shows that boreal forests' dynamics are much more complex than what many models traditionally used in forestry economics reflect. This essay analyses some challenges of accounting for such complexity. When forest owners continuously harvest several species, more than one harvesting strategy can be optimal. Which one it is depends on the forest's initial state. For some initial states, two different strategies may yield the same welfare. If whole stand harvesting of one tree species is preferred, the optimal period between each harvesting occasions depends on other species' dynamics.
Q29|Threshold Effects in Coral Reef Fisheries|Coral reefs may naturally flip between coral-dominated and algae-dominated states, when species' stocks trespass some threshold levels. This essay uses a stylized model of a coral reef to show how fishing may induce flips towards more algae-dominated states. Threshold effects have consequences for fisheries management, which are analyzed for open access fisheries and sole ownership.
Q29|L'écologie comme atout stratégique:une validation de l'approche ressources par la méthode PLS|No company can nowadays remain indifferent to the impact of its activities on the biosphere. On the contrary, respecting the environment now appears as a truly potential competitive asset for companies. Starting from a Resource approach, the author is attempting to demonstrate, through an empirical and formal approach, a relationship between ecological resources and competencies development and the acquisition of competitive assets for a company. The results partly confirm the supposed connection between these two groups of variables and suggest the necessity for a firm to initiate a truly pro-active approach of environmental concerns.
Q29|What Are Food Stamps Worth?|"The carte-blanche principle implies that food stamp recipients would be better off if they were given cash instead of an equivalent amount in food stamps. I estimate the cash-equivalent value of food stamps and the lowest price a recipient would accept to sell her ""extra"" food stamps on the underground market. I estimate that between 20 and 30 percent of food stamp recipients spend less on food than their food stamp benefit amount if they receive cash instead of stamps, and therefore would be better off with cash. Using a theoretical model I present and data from experiments conducted in two states, I estimate that on average ""distorted"" food stamp recipients value their total benefits at 80 percent of their face value. Aggregating over recipients, the annual deadweight loss associated with the food stamp program is one-half billion dollars. Food diary data indicate that providing cash instead of stamps causes some distorted recipients to decrease their food spending - especially on soda and juice - but has no negative consequence for nutrition. As predicted by theory, inframarginal food stamp recipients do not alter their behavior if they are given cash instead of food stamps. Although paying in-kind benefits results in some deadweight loss, it is thought that an underground market for the excess stamps will be created to alleviate some of the loss. I present new survey evidence indicating that stamps trade for only about 65 percent of their face value on the underground market."
Q29|Improving the Prevention of Environmental Risks with Convertible Bonds|In this paper, a manager borrows external funds in order to invest in production and also in prevention. The latter action must reduce the environmental risk driven by the activity of the firm. Prevention is observable neither by outside lenders nor by institutions such as environmental agencies for instance. In such a situation, we show that issuing convertible bonds - which permits the holder to exchange his bonds for a predetermined number of shares of the firm - from a limited liability firm could be a way to improve prevention compared to what can usually be done with standard debt. Such a relationship between the firm and the bank might be an alternative, or a complement, to the CERCLA legislation about extended liability which prevails in the United States and which is often discussed in Europe as a possible support of a more tightened European environmental legislation. We obtain an optimal convertible bond contract that induces more prevention and higher expected net revenues for the firm than standard debt. The expected social welfare is also improved. Finally, the economic implications of our findings are discussed.
Q29|An economic evaluation of the environmental benefits from pesticide reduction|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Carbon Credits for Forests and Forest Products|It is possible to make a current valuation of the effects of carbon dioxide which tracks a valuation done under the metric of expected present value and also tracks realized values. The implementation of a carbon credit scheme based on green accounting could go as follows: 1) At dates strictly between planned harvests, impute a credit of the value of carbon fixing through forest growth; it is possible to subtract from that credit a premium corresponding to an insurance against fire. 2) At dates when a fire occurs, do not make any debit if an insurance has been charged; otherwise impose a debit corresponding to the carbon value of the forest lost through fire. 3) At all dates, for each past harvest, impute a debit for the value of the current decay of forest products. 4) At the time of harvest, impute a discrete debit for the value of waste. L'évaluation des effets de verrouillage du gaz carbonique par la forêt et les produits forestiers fait intervenir des espérances mathématiques de valeurs futures. Pourtant nous montrons qu'on peut en faire la mesure à partir de valeurs courantes, ce qui suggère le système suivant d'attribution de crédits carbone. 1) Entre les dates des coupes, imputer un crédit correspondant à la valeur du carbone immobilisé par la croissance des arbres; éventuellement en soustraire un montant correspondant à une assurance contre les incendies. 2) Lorsque se produit un incendie, n'imputer aucun débit si la prime d'assurance a été déduite en 1); sinon déduire la valeur carbone de la forêt brûlée. 3) En toute date déduire la valeur des produits forestiers anciens dont le carbone est restitué à l'atmosphère. 4) Au moment des coupes imputer un débit correspondant aux déchets.
Q29|Carbon Credits for Forests and Forest Products|It is possible to make a current valuation of the effects of carbon dioxide which tracks a valuation done under the metric of expected present value and also tracks realized values. The implementation of a carbon credit scheme based on green accounting could go as follows: L'évaluation des effets de verrouillage du gaz carbonique par la forêt et les produits forestiers fait intervenir des espérances mathématiques de valeurs futures. Pourtant nous montrons qu'on peut en faire la mesure à partir de valeurs courantes, ce qui suggère le système suivant d'attribution de crédits carbone:
Q29|La gestion optimale d’une forêt exploitée pour son potentiel de diminution des gaz à effet de serre et son bois|This papers aims to determine the optimal rotation and the best alternative use of a forest stand when wood price is assumed to follow a Geometrical Brownian Motion and the externality generated by the forest capacity to reduce the level of carbon dioxide in the air is adequately taken into account. It is shown that the decision-making of cutting the trees depends heavily of the use which will be made of the harvested wood. The results of the model indicate what follows: Cet article cherche à déterminer les âges optimaux de coupe d’un peuplement forestier lorsque le prix du bois suit, par hypothèse, un processus de mouvement brownien géométrique et l’externalité qu’engendre une forêt, par sa capacité à réduire le niveau du dioxyde de carbone de l’air et donc l’effet de serre, est adéquatement prise en compte. L’utilisation qui sera faite du bois récolté se révèle déterminante dans la prise de décision de coupe des arbres. Les résultats du modèle indiquent ce qui suit :
Q29|Comportement des groupes d’investissement face à une incertitude sur l’environnement|Nous proposons d'étudier dans un modèle à deux secteurs de production, les effets d'une incertitude portant sur la qualité de l'environnement sur les comportements de choix de portefeuille et d'épargne des agents. Nous supposons que les individus investissent dans les firmes par l'intermédiaire de groupes d'investissement. Nous montrons, alors qu'à l'équilibre macroéconomique, un accroissement de risque peut conduire à une diminution du stock de capital et favoriser les firmes à effet certain sur l'environnement. Ces résultats dépendent des effets de la pollution sur la consommation et des comportements de précaution des individus
Q29|A Note on the Valuation of Ecosystem Services in Production|There has been considerable recent interest in the valuation of ecosystem services. We focus here on the value of such services in the production of market goods. Although the conceptual basis for conducting such exercises is straightforward, the data with which to implement them empirically is generally not available. An upper bound on the value of ecosystem services arises when the production technology exhibits constant returns to scale in ecosystem services and market inputs jointly. There are compelling reasons to suppose that the existence of fixed factors of production would imply that production technologies exhibit decreasing return to scale. Under these circumstances, no general conclusions can be drawn. We show in an illustrative example that a range of outcomes is possible, depending on the substitutability between ecosystem services and other inputs and the scarcity of ecosystem services relative to other factors of production.
Q29|The economics of ethical behaviour and environmental management| Ethics and economics have long been viewed, if not as being incompatible, at least as being at odds with each other. This has often translated in the field of environmental policy and management into radical opposition between supporters of economic performance and environmentalists. It has seemed that the ethics of economics and that of environmental preservation were themselves at odds. The discussion has opposed utilitarian and duty-based philosophies. Ultimately, the firm manager, especially when under financial pressure, must decide between keeping the firm in business and doing the right thing for the environment. This view of things is now itself at odds with reality. One needs to explain why an increasing number of firms, both big and small, are setting up environmental management systems, making environmental investments and reducing risks over and beyond legal requirements, even when the benefits are not at all obvious, even in the long run. Is it that economics and ethics have not only become compatible, but lend support to each other? If so, how is this possible? What are the social processes at work? And can we come up with a theoretical framework that can describe this new reality? Even at the philosophical level, are utility based and duty based ethics as contradictory as they seem? This paper investigates these questions and shows how, philosophically, the two ethics may be efficiently combined and how an analytical framework may be devised to explain society’s new ‘ethical incentives’ and self-moralising processes. A new role for government emerges.
Q29|Green national accounting: why and how?|The present paper gives an overview of the theory of green national accounting. Three purposes of green national accounting (measurement of sustainable income, social welfare or net social profit) and two measures (Green NNP and Hicksian income) are considered. It is argued that sustainable income and social welfare correspond to different purposes. Under the assumption of no exogenous technological progress, Green NNP is shown equal to Hicksian income if there is a constant interest rate or if consumption is constant.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q29|Economic associations among causes of species endangerment in the United States|Associations among causes of species endangerment in the United States reflect the integration of economic sectors, supporting the theory and evidence that economic growth proceeds at the competitive exclusion of nonhuman species in the aggregate.
Q29|Permis de pollution et accumulation du capital dans un modele a generations imbriquees|Cet article etudie la question des permis de pollution dans le cadre d'un modele a generations imbriquees: la pollution resulte de l'utilisation de l'environnement dans le processus de production et constitue un externalite negative qui vient diminuer l'utilite des agents.
Q29|Voluntary Contributions with Uncertainty: The Environmental Quality|This article presents a model in which production causes pollution that diminishes the welfare of its agents. Each agent is concerned with the quality of its environment and may voluntary contribute to improve it by financing depollution technology. The effectiveness of this technology on the quality of the environment is uncertain. We show that if an agent is sufficiently risk averse, voluntary contribution is a decreasing function of the average efficiency of depollution technology. If, on the contrary, the pollution effect is weaker than the substitution effect, the opposite holds. We show that precaution about environmental quality has two possible consequences that depend on agents' risk aversion. Therefore, the implications of a precautionary attitude lead us to consider the agents' risk-aversion characterization, which implies knowledge about prudent attitude. The Geneva Papers on Risk and Insurance Theory (1998) 23, 151–165. doi:10.1023/A:1008678228249
Q29|Conflicts and Choices in Biodiversity Preservation|The purpose of this article is to examine the preservation of biodiversity as an economic problem. Using a very simple prototype model, the authors discuss how to include diversity in the objective function and how to develop a simple cost-benefit ranking criterion for ordering priorities. Then they analyze data on endangered species preservation decisions in the United States to shed light on the conformity of theory with practice. A basic theme is that the core issue in biodiversity preservation today is the fuzziness of the objective function.
Q29|Material Accounting in a Macroeconomic Framework Forecast of waste generated in manufacturing industries in Norway|This paper analyses the generation of waste in production processes, based on the physical law of conservation of mass. By this law, mass going into a production process must equal the mass coming out of the same process. The paper uses this mass balance perspective to refine a previously developed technique for forecasting waste amounts. A macro economic model predicts the use of intermediate inputs and production in monetary units, and by multiplying these variables with weight conversion factors we estimate physical amounts going in and out of production. The difference between input and output, the residual, consists of discharges to land, water and air. We predict a growth in the residuals for manufacturing industries of 83 per cent from 1993 to 2010. The growth is partly explained by an anticipated growth in material intensity.
Q29|A Positive Model of Growth and Pollution Controls|"This paper describes a growth model in which pollutants are internal to a jurisdiction. To this end we develop a model of the joint determination of the rate of development of the economy through market interactions and the extent of pollution regulation through collective decision making. We show that depending on the collective decision making mechanism in place, the time path of pollution can display an inverted U shape, a ""sideways mirrored"" S, or an increasing (but bounded) level over time.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
Q29|New Estimates of Climate Demand: Evidence from Location Choice|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Choix d'investissement dans un modele a generations imbriquees avec incertitude et pollution|En considerant que l'une des caracteristiques des problemes environnementaux est le niveau d'incertitudequi les accompagne, nous proposons d'etudier les effets de ces incertitudes sur les comportements de choix de portefeuille et d'epargne des agents. Nous montrons alors qu'a l'equilibre macro-economique, un accroissement de risque peut conduire a une diminution du stock de capital et favoriser les firmes a effet certain sur l'environnement.
Q29|Saving Rhinos|We develop a model which is intended to accurately portray the behavior of the key players in this drama centering on the survival of the black rhinos and we estimate the optimal prices and quantities of rhino horn delivered to the market which will result in the preservation of the black rhino species.
Q29|Saving Rhinos|We develop a model which is intended to accurately portray the behavior of the key players in this drama centering on the survival of the black rhinos and we estimate the optimal prices and quantities of rhino horn delivered to the market which will result in the preservation of the black rhino species.
Q29|Models and scenarios for European freight transport based on neural networks and logit analysis| In this paper we analyse interregional freight transport movements in Europe with a view on new spatial patterns based on transport economic scenarios for environmental sustainability. Two different approaches are compared. viz. the logit model and the neural network model. The paper will essentially deal with a research experiment for the robustness of interregional freight flows by comparing the two above methodologies. Our results in this framework highlight the fact that the two models adopted, although methodologically different, are both able to provide a reasonable spatial representation of the interregional transport flows in Europe.
Q29|On the Welfare Significance of Green Accounting as Taught by Parable|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Economic Efficiency and Property Rights Issues in the Management of Rural Water|In Australia, the state water Acts and related legislation determine the broad outline of property rights governing the water entitlements of irrigators and rural towns. Thus, these water rights may be described as state property regimes (Bromley 1991, p. 23). Irrigators, however, operate in a private sector environment where adaptability to climatic and market, forces is necessary for the maintenance of profitability. We critically assess the pricing, reliability and intertemporal characteristics of water rights in the major irrigation districts of Victoria and NSW.
Q29|Cost Benefit Analysis of Private Sector Environmental Investments. A Case of Study of the Kunda Cement Factory|This study entails an environmental cost-benefit analysis of a private sector project, using the Kunda cement factory in Estonia as a case study.
Q29|Elephants|Existing models of open-access resources are applicable to non-storable resources, such as fish. Many open-access resources, however, are used to produce storable goods. Elephants, rhinos, and tigers are three prominent examples. Anticipated future scarcity of these resources will increase current prices, and current poaching. This implies that, for given initial conditions, there may be rational expectations equilibria leading both to extinction and to survival. Governments may be able to eliminate extinction equilibria by promising to implement tough anti-poaching measures if the population falls below a threshold. Alternatively, they, or private agents, may be able to eliminate extinction equilibria by accumulating a sufficient stockpile of the storable good.
Q29|Future Waste Generation - Forecasts Based on a Macroeconomic Model|Generation of solid waste is closely associated with the use of tangible factor inputs and production levels in the economy. In this paper, we present projections of waste generated in the Norwegian manufacturing industry based on the development in these factors as simulated by a computable general equilibrium model. Over the simulation period, material input becomes relatively cheaper than labour and energy, thereby making it profitable to substitute materials for other factor inputs. This substitution effect is a general equilibrium effect mainly due to technological change. It dominates the direct material saving impact of technological progress in most production sectors. Thus, generated solid waste rises over the simulation period, both in terms of unit produced and per capita. The analysis predicts an increase in generated waste over the period from 1993 to 2010 in the range of 45 - 110 per cent, depending on the type of waste.
Q29|A Positive Model of Growth and Pollution Controls|The most recent addition to the economics of gloom concerns the interplay between income and environmental degradation. The main question raised is whether or not continued environmental degradation is a necessary part of the process of industrialization. Will pollution continue to increase without bound as more and more countries pass through the development phase or will it be controlled? Intuitively, if 'clean air' is a normal good, we would expect that societies might be 'self-regulating' in the sense that as income increases, pollution controls also increase. However, this intuition is somewhat misleading as the presence of external effects is an essential feature of environmental regulation. This paper describes a growth model in which pollutants are internal to a jurisdiction. To this end we develop a model of the joint determination of the rate of development of the economy through market interactions and the extent of pollution regulation through collective decision making. We show that depending on the collective decision making mechanism in place, the time path of pollution can display an inverted U shape, a 'sideways mirrored' S, or an increasing (but bounded) level over time. This paper contributes to the literature on both the large differences in income per capita across countries as well as the discrepancies in their growth rates. It shows that by relying on collective decision making mechanisms to choose policies, the dynamics of convex models can resemble those usually ascribed to models of multiple equilibria.
Q29|A State-Contingent Production Approach to Moral-Hazard Problems with an Application to Point-Source Pollution Control|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Economic Implications of Greenhouse Gas Policy|This paper summarizes the debate on the costs and benefits of regional and global action to reduce future emissions of greenhouse gases. The paper also presents new evidence on possible future global emissions of carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels where these emissions are disaggregated by major developed and developing country regions. The basis of the projections is a global simulation model called the G-Cubed model. Given these projections of future emissions, the model is used to estimate the size of carbon taxes necessary to stabilize emissions within each region in the year 2000 at the levels of emissions in 1990. It is shown that the costs of stabilizing carbon dioxide emissions vary across countries when each country stabilizes its own emissions at a 1990 level. These differences in costs reflect differences in the energy intensity of production, differences in the source of energy generation, differences in projections of population growth and different projections of productivity growth.
Q29|International Dimensions of Environmental Policy|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Markets and Biodiversity|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Employee Participation in Pollution Reduction: Preliminary Analysis on the Toxics Release Inventory|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|The Impact of Early Career Experiences on Youth's Proactive Work Socialization Behavior|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Les ressources les moins couteuses ne sont pas necessairement celles qu'il faut exploiter en priorite|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Seminar, May 23-24, 1994. East Asia's Environment. Principles and Prioritie s for Action|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Global Climate Change: Economic and Policy Issues|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Valuing Tropical Forests. Methodology and Cade Study of Madagascar|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|Environmental Regulations and Plant Exit: A Logit Analysis Based on Establishment Panel Data|No abstract is available for this item.
Q29|The environmental drag on long- term economic performance: Evidence from Norway|The environmental drag is the cost to society of environmental constraints. This paper estimates the long-run environmental drag on the Norwegian economy. We employ a model called DREAM (dynamic resource / environmental applied model). This is an applied general equilibrium model extended to include important environmental linkages. After having explained the structure of our model, the paper presents macroeconomic effects, and impacts on growth and welfare of environmental constraints. To check robustness we perform a number of sensitivity analyses. Most of our results are remarkably robust to alternative assumptions. Contrary to widespread opinion, a low discount rate increases the environmental drag on welfare. Reducing the rate of technological progress will have similar effects.
Q29|Picking Apples: Can Multi-Attribute Ecolabels Compete?|Global food markets in Europe, the U.S. and elsewhere, are experiencing a rapid growth in the number of private party and government environmental labeling programs. Most current ecolabels are defined by standards related to multiple environmental practices. This study presents an analysis of consumers’ choice of food products, in this case apples with or without ecolabels, where the ecolabels present varying combinations of farm practices with implications for environmental quality. These practices include: whether or not standards are met specific to on-farm pest management; presence of stream or groundwater quality protection; presence of on-farm wildlife habitat provision; and which certifier provides the guarantee. Factors influencing consumer preferences for ecolabel attributes are evaluated as a choice-based conjoint analysis. To empirically test the effect of heterogeneity of consumers on preferences for ecolabel attributes, surveys were conducted in a stratified sample in three regions (Portland, Oregon; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Rhode Island) with a focus on sampling across shoppers at different types of markets including conventional supermarkets, farmers markets, natural food stores and food co-ops. Results show that preferences for ecolabels are most strongly driven by type of pesticide usage, in particular for non-synthetic pesticides which were identified with organic production. With an appropriate price premium, ecolabels with an alternative pest management practice and other environmental practices were preferred to conventionally produced apples. These results varied according to age and gender of respondents, and type of store at which respondents shopped.
Q29|Property Rights to Radio Spectrum in Guatemala and El Salvador: An Experiment in Liberalization|In most countries, wireless communications rely on administrative allocation of radio spectrum. The inefficiencies associated with this centralized approach have led economists, starting with Coase in 1959, to suggest propertyzing radio spectrum. Critics of this approach assert that property rights impose prohibitive transaction costs and inhibit development of wireless services. Reforms enacted in Guatemala (in 1996) and El Salvador (in 1997) have largely implemented policies suggested by Coase, yielding a natural experiment. Evidence generated in the mobile telephone market suggests that these regimes are associated with relatively efficient policy outcomes, including abundant spectrum availability and a high degree of competitiveness, and with correspondingly low retail prices and high rates of output (minutes of use). Further, such markets appear to avoid high transaction costs in the public or private sectors. We conclude that these liberal reforms tend to produce results consistent with Coases policy conjecture.
