Q30|Monetary policy for commodity booms and busts|Macroeconomic volatility in commodity-exporting economies is closely tied to fluctuations in international commodity prices. Commodity booms improve exporters' terms of trade and loosen their borrowing conditions, while busts lead to the reverse. This paper studies optimal monetary policy for commodity exporters in a small open economy framework that includes a key role for financial conditions. We incorporate the interaction between the commodity and financial cycles via a working capital constraint for commodity producers, which loosens as commodity prices increase. A rise in global commodity prices causes an inefficient reallocation towards the commodity sector, which expands and increases its demand for inputs. The real exchange-rate appreciates, but because domestic fims do not internalize that the appreciation reduces the scale of the reallocation, they do not raise prices enough. An inefficient boom takes place, with inflation rising and output increasing relative to its welfare-maximizing level. Returning inflation to target is not sufficient to close the output gap, leaving the policymaker facing a stabilization tradeoff. The optimal policy lets the exchange rate appreciate and raises interest rates, with a larger rate rise required the greater the loosening in borrowing conditions. The paper compares alternative policy rules and discusses a key practical challenge for emerging and developing economies: how to transition to a stable path from initial conditions of high and persistent inflation.
Q30|The optimal carbon tax with an endogenous chance of a tipping climate|This paper describes an integrated assessment model with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. The possibility of tipping leads to the following linked outcomes: a prolonged period of peak temperature; a rebound in emissions prior to and during peak temperature; and a fall in the optimal carbon tax as a ratio of output prior to and during peak temperature. Although tipping can occur in any period where temperature rises to a new maximum, the optimal carbon price can be calculated from future temperature outcomes conditional on no tipping. Learning that tipping has not occurred lowers the tax.
Q30|Weighing cows and coal: Optimal taxes for methane and carbon from a tipping risk|Different optimal tax paths for short-lived methane and long-lived carbon arise in a cost-benefit framework with an unknown temperature threshold where severe and irreversible climate impacts, called a tipping point, occurs. Tax paths are compared with a cost minimising approach where an upper-temperature limit is set. In both approaches, the weight (ratio) of methane to carbon taxes converge to the same value by the end of the peak temperature stabilisation period. Numerical results from the cost-benefit framework suggest: the optimal weight is close to the current United Nations policy of a 100-year Global Warming Potential; and the time-frame should decrease to align with the expected end of peak temperature.
Q30|Optimal climate policy with directed technical change, extensive margins and a decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|This paper extends the climate model with endogenous technology of Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012). A non-energy sector is introduced which decreases the costs of abatement by more than an order of magnitude through the extensive margin of labour, as labour can move freely between sectors. An extensive margin of research, where researchers can switch between non-energy and energy research, leads to a period of intense research in the clean sector above the long-run share and increases the power of policy to avert environmental disaster. A decreasing elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean energy rises is also considered, reflecting the increasing difficulty of integrating intermittent clean energy supply in electricity. A decreasing elasticity increases the initial optimal tax on dirty energy and therefore lowers the subsidies required to direct technical change towards clean energy.
Q30|"A comment on innovation in ""The environment and directed technical change"""|The framework used to endogenise technology growth by Acemoglu, Aghion, Bursztyn, and Hemous (2012), hereafter AABH, allows the existence of unstable equilibria and does not provide a rationale for specifying which equilibrium should apply when more than one exists. This paper: (i) suggests a rationale for choosing one corner solution used in AABH that constitutes a lower bound for the subsidy or tax required to direct clean research; (ii) argues against use of the other corner solution; and (iii) provides an alternative equilibrium that constitutes an upper bound to the policy required. The alternative methods can produce substantially different results when the elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs is high.
Q30|Evidence for and modelling of a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty energy|A review of the literature indicates a decreasing long-run elasticity of substitution between clean and dirty inputs as the share of clean inputs rises. In the power sector, which is the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, integrating intermittent clean energy supply becomes increasingly difficult as the clean share rises. This paper describes a simple structural model of electricity generation which: demonstrates how the elasticity falls as the clean share rises; can replicate the range of results from the electricity literature; considers the effects of storage, and; facilitates estimation of a suitable production function. A bimodal production function with two elasticity regimes - an elasticity above 8 up to a 50 to 70 per cent clean share and an elasticity below 3 beyond this share – can replicate results well from the structural model.
Q30|The Social Cost of Carbon and the Ramsey Rule|The objective of this paper is to critically assess the use of simple rules for the social cost of carbon (SCC) that employ a rudimentary form of the Ramsey Rule. Two interrelated caveats apply. First, if climate change poses a serious problem, it is hard to justify an exogenous constant growth rate of consumption and GDP, as is done in several contributions by prominent scholars. Second, to derive the optimal SCC one needs full knowledge of the entire future, in spite of the use of popular ways to try to get around this. Moreover, it is shown that some simple rules suffer from inconsistencies in their derivation.
Q30|Sprawiedliwa transformacja weglowa w regionie slaskim. Implikacje dla rynku pracy|Raport wskazuje, jak ulatwic dostosowanie siê do zmian, ktore beda zachodzic na rynku pracy w regionie slaskim, w wyniku transformacji niskoemisyjnej. Spodziewany dalszy spadek produkcji wegla oraz zwiazany z tym spadek zatrudnienia nie musza rodzic problemu bezrobocia. Wedlug przeprowadzonej analizy makroekonomicznej, ta niewielka czesc zatrudnionych obecnie gornikow, ktorzy beda odchodzic z sektora przed osiagnieciem wieku emerytalnego, bedzie mogla znalezc prace w sektorze przetworstwa przemyslowego, transportu lub budownictwa. Odpowiada to preferencjom gornikow, ktorzy w przeprowadzonych ankietach wlasnie te sektory wskazuja jako najatrakcyjniejsza alternatywe dla swojego obecnego zatrudnienia. Co istotne, wiekszosc ankietowanych wysoko ocenia swoje szanse na rynku pracy, biorac przy tym pod uwage wlasne kwalifikacje zawodowe. W oparciu o analize dostepnych instrumentow wskazujemy, ze zastosowanie m.in. tymczasowych subsydiow placowych oraz gwarancji pierwszenstwa zatrudnienia moze ulatwic proces przechodzenia pracownikow z gornictwa do innych sektorow.
Q30|The Impact of Natural Gas Consumption on Industry Value Added in the Mediterranean Region|The current paper assesses the link between natural gas consumption (NGC) and macroeconomic variables for the period between 1980 and 2018 in the Mediterranean region. Analyses accounts for assessing the significance of the natural gas consumption on the industry value added (IVA) using fixed-effects panel data regression. In addition to that, this contribution evaluates the causal link between the variables cited above. Empirical findings indicate that there is a significant relationship between IVA and NGC. Furthermore, these two latter variables showcase a mutual causality in a sense that an increase in each of these variables will lead to the increase of the other one. Results also indicate that GDP causes the increase in natural gas consumption
Q30|Fridays for Future meets the Hotelling rule: some thoughts on decarbonization policies|The Hotelling rule is applied to the case of a fixed CO2 budget restriction which has to be met in order to reach the global warming goal according to the Paris Agreement. While the theoretical result is well-known and simple, the practical implementation under technological uncertainty suggests that tradable emission certificates are superior to CO2 taxes. The practical implementaion has also to consider that production chains are globalized, and that decarbonization strategies will be pointless if the Global South is not part of it.
Q30|Pushing One's Luck: Petroleum ownership and discoveries|Does institutional change in the petroleum sector lead to more oil and gas exploration and discoveries? Foreign ownership and investment in the sector has traditionally been unrestricted. We document that this is no longer the case; foreign-domestic partnerships are the norm today. Tracking changes in legislation between 1867 and 2008 for a panel of countries, we show that switching to foreign ownership results in more drilling and more discoveries of petroleum than domestic ownership. Switching to partnership yields even more drilling, but yields fewer discoveries. Discoveries, and the intensity and quality of exploration drilling, are endogenous to industry-specific institutional change.
Q30|On the Axiomatic Foundation of Ecological Footprint Indices|The objective of this paper is to provide an axiomatic foundation to the concept of ecological footprint indices. For this purpose, we propose five axioms representing general properties which any ecological footprint measure should fulfill. It can be shown that there exists a unique index which is characterized by the given set of axioms. Its functional form is determined and an economic interpretation is given. We find that the proposed index may resolve or confirm some important issues discussed in the literature. First, it incorporates a trade component indicating the ecological footprint of economic activities embodied in the trade pattern of a country or region. Moreover, the productivity of land use in production as a means to mitigate the pressure on the ecological system is reflected. But most importantly, from a methodological point of view, there is no longer the need for designing ecological footprint indices ad-hoc, in particular for the sake of empirical application.
Q30|Good mine, bad mine: Natural resource heterogeneity and Dutch disease in Indonesia|We analyse the local e ect of exogenous shocks to the value of mineral deposits at the district level in Indonesia using a panel of manufacturing plants. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to model and estimate the effect of heterogeneity in natural resource extraction methods. We find that in areas where mineral extraction is relatively capital-intensive, mining booms cause virtually no upward pressure on manufacturing earnings per worker, and both producers of traded and local goods benefit from mining booms in terms of employment. In contrast, labour-intensive mining booms drive up local manufacturing wages such that producers of traded goods reduce employment. This source of heterogeneity helps to explain the mixed evidence for `Dutch disease' effects in the literature. In addition, we find no evidence that fiscal revenue sharing between sub-national districts leads to any spillovers.
Q30|Good mine, bad mine: Natural resource heterogeneity and Dutch disease in Indonesia|We analyse the local effect of exogenous shocks to the value of mineral deposits at the district level in Indonesia using a panel of manufacturing plants. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to model and estimate the effect of heterogeneity in natural resource extraction methods. We find that in areas where mineral extraction is relatively capital-intensive, mining booms cause virtually no upward pressure on manufacturing earnings per worker, and both producers of traded and local goods benefit from mining booms in terms of employment. In contrast, labour-intensive mining booms drive up local manufacturing wages such that producers of traded goods reduce employment. This source of heterogeneity helps to explain the mixed evidence for `Dutch disease' effects in the literature. In addition, we find no evidence that fiscal revenue sharing between sub-national districts leads to any spillovers.
Q30|Notes on the Underground: Monetary Policy in Resource-Rich Economies|How should monetary policy respond to a commodity price shock in a resource-rich economy? We study optimal monetary policy in a simple model of an oil exporting economy to provide a first answer to this question. The central bank faces a trade-off between the stabilization of domestic inflation and an appropriately defined output gap as in the reference New Keynesian model. But the welfare-relevant output gap depends on oil technology, and the weight on output stabilization is increasing in the size of the oil sector. Given substantial spillovers to the rest of the economy, optimal policy therefore calls for a reduction of the interest rate following a drop in the oil price in our model. In contrast, a central bank with a mandate to stabilize consumer price inflation may raise interest rates to limit the inflationary impact of an exchange rate depreciation.
Q30|A preliminary assessment of the indicators for Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development”|The SDGs are intended to address sustainable development processes in both developed and developing countries, and to facilitate action at all levels and with all actors, including government, civil society, the private sector and the science community to strengthen the capacity of the State to achieve the desired outcomes. The SDG 14 “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development” covers, among other features, economic pressures on the marine environment, as well as the Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and coastal communities since they are particularly impacted by the economic pressures and dependent on the oceans in socio-economic terms. This paper reviews the rational for the SDG 14, as well as the framework for the SDG 14 indicators including (i) the basic concepts, i.e. the role of uncertainty, irreversibility and thresholds in the marine context, the multidimensionality of the SDG 14 indicators, and how to ensure effective SDG 14 monitoring and implementation through SMART SDG 14 targets; (ii) synergies and trade-offs among the SDG 14 targets and between SDG 14 and other SDGs targets, and how to track progress on policy coherence at the national level; (iii) synergies between SDG 14 indicators, and ocean-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 7 and Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs) targets and indicators; and (iv) the role of non-traditional sources of data such as big data. In addition, some preliminary indicators for the SDG 14 at the global and national scales (France) are also explored. As a result of this analysis, some areas for future research in the framework of SDG 14 indicators are proposed, i.e. building on the frontiers of ocean science, the development of innovative approaches for data collection, the development of common approaches in valuing marine ecosystem services and national accounting, the provision of incentives for best practice and peer-learning, the harmonisation of measurement methodologies and the selection of SDG 14 indicators according to the geographical level of intervention.
Q30|Farmers’ perception of Controlled Traffic Farming (CTF) and associated technologies|This report presents descriptive results from a recent survey conducted with the objective of assessing the use of Controlled Traffic Farming (CTF) practices and associated precision farming technologies among farmers in eight European countries. About 26 % of the surveyed farmers use some CTF systems of which 45 % apply CTF on their entire farm. For the CTF users, the major motives to use CTF are to reduce soil structure damage and to improve efficiency (reduce cost) followed by a desire to make more profit. Concern about heavy machinery – induced soil compaction and perceptions about the potentials of CTF are considerably high. However, adoption appears to be constrained mainly by: high cost of machinery modification and RTK purchase, lack of compatibility of equipment and also GPS systems from different manufacturers, and lack of decision support systems. Issues about evidence on demonstrated benefits under local conditions and availability of contractors are also mentioned as limiting factors.
Q30|"Contemporary Frontier Transformation for Inclusive Growth: The Dual Role of ""Smart"" Competitiveness Factors"|"Objective - This paper aims to contribute to inclusive development literature by empirically verifying that some ""smart"" or ""knowledge-and innovation-related"" competitiveness enhancing factors, besides raising competitiveness and growth, enable inclusiveness and sustainability. Methodology/Technique - The methodology used includes making ranks of frontier, advanced countries based on World Economic Forum data regarding competitive quantities and qualities of smart factors and growth and inclusive and sustainable outcomes. Then, a Spearman's rank correlation analysis is used to determine the similarities between each factor rank and each outcome rank. Findings - The smart factors show a significant relationship with both growth and inclusiveness/sustainability outcomes; this may be a target for use as policy instruments to promote both growth and inclusiveness. The study found that higher levels of business-sophistication and network-related training, access and use of existing-technology, and ICT utilization factors contribute to higher levels of growth and also infer higher levels of employment, intergeneration eco-adjusted savings and lower levels of inequality, poverty and carbon intensity. Novelty - Given that current government and international organization policies aimed at improving competitiveness/growth vis-à-vis inclusiveness/sustainability remain separated, the results of this study may assist in improving the collaboration between these two objectives. The policy implications of this study include: certain dual competitive-inclusive enhancing policies can be suitably designed and targeted to uplift smart elements and the acceleration of inclusiveness and sustainability alongside the competitiveness-growth nexus. Further, developing countries may learn to leapfrog the development frontier without developing competitiveness and inclusiveness/sustainability separately, but rather each at a time."
Q30|How effective is lithium recycling as a remedy for resource scarcity?|We investigate to what extent recycling can remedy resource scarcity, and whether market intervention is desired. For doing so, we develop a dynamic model of the global lithium market. An efficient market for resource waste allows consumers to internalize the waste value when they buy the resource. In the analytical part of our paper, we show that the efficient market can alternatively be realized through a proper set of worldwide subsidies to either buyers or sellers of both virgin and recycled lithium. In our numerical simulations, we find that optimal subsidies may become quite substantial in the second half of this century. The size of these subsidies depends, however, on a number of uncertain assumptions such as technological progress in both extraction and recycling, quality-grade of recovered lithium, and demand elasticity.
Q30|Increasing resource rent taxation when the corporate income tax is reduced?|Under international tax competition, corporate income tax rates are predicted to decrease, and the tax burden will shift onto immobile factors. This case study considers tax changes that illustrate the predictions for Norway 2012–2018. Petroleum rent was taxed at high rates in 2012, and while corporate income tax rates were reduced in four steps, the marginal tax on rent was kept constant. The four steps are analyzed in light of the tax burden shift predicted by theory, and possible intentions of the government. The tax on petroleum rent has not been increased. Government intentions seem to have been shifting.
Q30|Biodiversitatea patrimoniului natural montan. Provocările prezentului și perspective durabile de acțiune<BR>[Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives]|Între zonele montane și biodiversitate există o legătură directă și indisolubilă: zonele montane reprezintă, poate, cel mai important izvor de eco-sisteme la nivel global, adevărate laboratoare științifice, de cercetare și cunoaștere a evoluției și distribuției speciilor și organismelor vii, a relațiilor dintre acestea, a adaptării lor la diferite medii și a influențelor hotărâtoare ale acțiunilor umane care au condus la actualele schimbări climatice. Munții funcționează ca adevărate refugii pentru speciile endemice afectate de acțiunile umane necontrolate, în timp ce pajiștile alpine sunt expuse pierderii practicilor tradiționale de pășunat. Regiunile montane, diverse și complexe, sunt elementele centrale ale politicilor de mediu și dezvoltare durabilă, problemele lor și dificultățile de adaptare la noile schimbări climatice necesitând măsuri adecvate, rapide și, mai ales, permanente (susținute continuu). Munții aparțin, de regulă, geografiei mediului, dar, deopotrivă, pot fi analizați și din perspectivă economică, socială, culturală etc., multidisciplinaritatea lor fiind recunoscută atât de mediul academic-universitar, cât și de factorii decizionali implicați în politicile de dezvoltare teritorială. Recent, Noua Geografie Economică (New Economic Geography) promovată intens pe plan global, consideră dezvoltarea economică și socială a regiunilor montane ca fiind una deosebit de importantă: zonele montane sunt surse importante de materii prime și materiale necesare producției și consumului de bază (agricultură, industrie, servicii), aspect ce afectează, în condițiile actuale, atât biodiversitatea, cât și nivelul de viață al comunităților locale. Perspectiva economică este deosebit de importantă atât la nivelul marilor grupuri de interese regionale, cât mai ales la nivel local, pentru comunitățile dependente direct și permanent de resursele și condițiile oferite de munte. Din ce în ce mai vizibil, impactul negativ al activităților economice asupra zonei montante, atât de înaltă cât și de joasă altitudine, trebuie să conducă spre o viziune comună și o abordare durabilă a stării biodiversității acesteia, deoarece, afectarea unui habitat poate atrage după sine distrugerea întregului echilibrul ecologic, și așa atât de fragil, în prezent. Pornind de la considerentele prezentate mai sus, articolul oferă o imagine generală asupra relației dintre biodiversitatea zonelor montane și implicațiile dezvoltării economice și sociale asupra acesteia, apelând, în principal, la surse documentare naționale și internaționale, la date și informații statistice, care vin să completeze imaginea globală a evoluției relației, în timp și spațiu.
Q30|Subject Pools and Deception in Agricultural and Resource Economics Experiments|Abstract The use of student subjects and deception in experiments are two controversial issues that often raise concerns among editors and reviewers, which might prevent quality research from being published in agricultural and resource economics (ARE) journals. We provide a self-contained methodological discussion of these issues. We argue that field professionals are the most appropriate subjects for questions related to policy or measurement, and students are the most appropriate subjects for scientific research questions closely tied to economic theory. Active deception, where subjects are provided with explicitly misleading information, has been avoided in the mainstream economics discipline because it can lead to a loss of experimental control, lead to subject selection bias, and impose negative externalities on other researchers. Disciplinary ARE journals may want to abide by these norms against deception to maintain credibility. Interdisciplinary ARE journals may have more flexibility, although it is important to provide guidelines to avoid too much reviewer-specific variation in standards. For ARE researchers, we suggest employing a deception-free experimental design whenever possible because we know of no field in which deception is encouraged.
Q30|Fiscal regimes in resource dependent African states: a political economy game|"Policy reform debates in African economies often focus on poverty alleviation programs, liberalisation of trade and market and social service provisions. These reforms are heavily dependent on funding from either foreign sources or natural resource wealth, accompanied with concessions from the East and conditionality laden Western sources. They rarely optimally explore the internal fiscal revenue sources of their economy and as such undermines the fiscal prowess of their economies. Despite the less desirable situation, most resource-dependent African economies have found themselves, the elite political class in these countries still engage in wasteful expenditure pattern. The question of demand for accountability and good governance is rather ambiguous to the majority of the electorate as there is often a weakfiscal contract between them and the elite political class. The acknowledgement of this gives politicians an ""incentive"" to perpetuate corrupt activities which enrich the elite class at the expense and well-being of the masses and widens the inequality gap. This scenario is rather worse off in natural resource-endowed developing economies. The elite classis faced with a game-like situation, where the payoffs can either be beneficial to the elite class at the expense of the electorate or beneficial to the electorate at the expense of the elite class.This study expands the discussion on how an effective fiscal regime can help improve accountability and welfare of citizens in natural resource-endowed African states."
Q30|Fiscal regimes in resource dependent African states: a political economy game|"Policy reform debates in African economies often focus on poverty alleviation programs, liberalisation of trade and market and social service provisions. These reforms are heavily dependent on funding from either foreign sources or natural resource wealth, accompanied with concessions from the East and conditionality laden Western sources. They rarely optimally explore the internal fiscal revenue sources of their economy and as such undermines the fiscal prowess of their economies. Despite the less desirable situation, most resource-dependent African economies have found themselves, the elite political class in these countries still engage in wasteful expenditure pattern. The question of demand for accountability and good governance is rather ambiguous to the majority of the electorate as there is often a weakfiscal contract between them and the elite political class. The acknowledgement of this gives politicians an \""incentive\"" to perpetuate corrupt activities which enrich the elite class at the expense and well-being of the masses and widens the inequality gap. This scenario is rather worse off in natural resource-endowed developing economies. The elite classis faced with a game-like situation, where the payoffs can either be beneficial to the elite class at the expense of the electorate or beneficial to the electorate at the expense of the elite class.This study expands the discussion on how an effective fiscal regime can help improve accountability and welfare of citizens in natural resource-endowed African states."
Q30|Leading the unwilling: Unilateral strategies to prevent arctic oil exploration|Arctic oil extraction is inconsistent with the 2 °C target. We study unilateral strategies by climate-concerned Arctic countries to deter extraction by others. Contradicting common theoretical assumptions about climate-change mitigation, our setting is one where countries may fundamentally disagree about whether mitigation by others is beneficial. This is because Arctic oil extraction requires specific R&D, hence entry by one country expands the extraction-technology market, decreasing costs for others. This means that, on the one hand, countries that extract Arctic oil gain if others do so as well. On the other hand, as countries may disagree about how harmful climate change is, they may disagree whether an equilibrium where all enter is better or worse than an equilibrium where all stay out. Less environmentally-concerned countries (preferring maximum entry) have a first-mover advantage but, because they rely on entry by others, entry in equilibrium is determined by the preferences of those who are moderately concerned about the environment. Furthermore, using a pooling strategy, an environmentally-concerned country can deter entry by credibly “pretending” to be environmentally adamant, and thus be expected to not follow. A rough calibration suggests a country like Norway, or prospects of a green future U.S. administration, could be pivotal in determining whether the Arctic will be explored.
Q30|Do The Effects of Social Nudges Persist? Theory and Evidence from 38 Natural Field Experiments|This study examines the mechanisms underlying long-run reductions in energy consumption caused by a widely studied social nudge. Our investigation considers two channels: physical capital in the home and habit formation in the household. Using data from 38 natural field experiments, we isolate the role of physical capital by comparing treatment and control homes after the original household moves, which ends treatment. We find 35 to 55 percent of the reductions persist once treatment ends and show this is consonant with the physical capital channel. Methodologically, our findings have important implications for the design and assessment of behavioral interventions.
Q30|The impact of renewable versus non-renewable natural capital on economic growth|This paper examines whether natural capital is a robust determinant of economic growth, distinguishing the contribution of direct and indirect effects in renewable and non-renewable natural capital. Our hypothesis is that renewable natural capital may have a rather indirect but more important impact on economic growth than non-renewable natural capital, particularly through human well-being. In contrast, non-renewable natural capital can be a source of immediate financial wealth, but can have adverse social and environmental effects. To test this hypothesis we use a data set on 83 countries for the period 1960-2009 to compare the relevance of proximate and fundamental theories to explain economic growth. We find some evidence of an indirect negative impact of renewable natural capital in wealth on economic growth through through human well-being and, more precisely, population growth rates and fertility. This is particularly the case for countries with higher levels of human development. In contrast, the share of non-renewable natural capital in wealth has a direct positive impact on economic growth in countries with lower income inequality and higher institutional quality. This finding reflects the effect of capital accumulation in the domestic economy, as capacity constrainst are relaxed. Finally, countries with higher income per capita, higher human development and higher institutional quality have a higher share of higher renewable natural capital per capita, although they also have a lower share of lower renewable natural capital in wealth. Such result emphasises that renewable natural capital is very necessary for people (per capita), hence isa primary concern for empowered countries, although such capital contributes less to wealth, and economic growth, in these countries . Our results question the way â€˜wealthâ€™ and economic growth are defined in economics when the effect of natural capital is examined.
Q30|Jeux d'options et stratégies d'acteurs : la confrontation des gaz de schiste américains et du gaz russe en Europe|Cet article étudie dans quelle mesure la Russie pourrait retarder une entrée massive du GNL américain en Europe en privilégiant une grande volatilité des cours sur le marché de gros du gaz en Europe. Dans un modèle de jeux d'options, caractérisé par la présence d'un fournisseur historique de gaz et d'un entrant potentiel, nous montrons que l'action visant à jouer sur l'incertitude de l'évolution du prix du gaz naturel peut prolonger d'un cran le retard de l'option d'entrée sur le marché d'un nouveau compétiteur.
Q30|Sustainability level of Bulgarian agriculture|This paper presents a holistic approach for assessing agrarian sustainability in Bulgaria based on its economic, social and ecological aspects on sectoral macro-level. It is based on official statistical and other information as well as on expert evaluation. Our study has found that the Bulgarian agriculture on macro-level has good sustainability. Some of the sustainability aspects have higher levels (e.g. the economic aspect) while others (social and environmental) are inferior. Study results could help in focusing the political efforts, so that the agrarian sustainability, in its social and ecological aspect, could be increased. However, a further research is needed to evaluate the level of sustainability at micro-level, so that the major issues and problem areas are addressed accordingly.
Q30|Impacts of an ice-free Northeast Passage on LNG markets and geopolitics|In this paper we examine the economic and geopolitical relevance of an ice-free Northeast Passage as a shipping route, with a particular view on the major LNG-supplying and LNG-consuming countries, and expected changes in LNG trade flows. Several key aspects are considered in depth, such as the developments in natural gas production in the Russian Arctic, important trends and strategies of major Asian LNG-consuming countries, and the geographical and climatic particularities of the Arctic. The analysis reveals the competitiveness of Russian LNG exports along the Northeast Passage due to Yamal LNG, which could be a game-changer for global LNG supplies. We further find that an ice-free NEP is primarily relevant for maritime bulk, and particularly LNG, shipping, and thus of great geopolitical importance and strategic interest, especially for Russia and the US on the supply side, and China, Japan, and South Korea on the demand side. The political relevance of the Arctic is becoming more lucid, because the retreating ice creates possibilities for the development of hydrocarbons but also fosters strategic and military considerations of the littoral countries.
Q30|Impacts of an Ice-Free Northeast Passage on LNG Trading: Transport Routes and Optimal Capacity Planning|We analyze the significance of an ice-free Northeast Passage (NEP) as a shipping route for LNG, and the impacts on alternative transport routes and -capacities. The following aspects are considered: (1) Trends in LNG production, particularly in the Russian Arctic; (2) Developments in the Asian LNG consumer market; (3) Specifics and prospects of Arctic shipping. The major LNG trade flows between producers and the Asian consumer market are modeled. Methods from Operations Research are contrasted and the Cycle-Cancelling Algorithm applied to the transportation problem, in order to achieve a cost-optimal capacity allocation. The impacts of demand variations and a chokepoint shutdown on transport routes and -capacities are considered. Concepts from competition theory are used to model the effects on LNG pricing. The key finding is that an ice-free NEP is highly relevant for shipping activities of Russian LNG producers. It constitutes a competitive advantage and notably impacts the supply competition and pricing on the Asian LNG market. A discussion of results and a conclusion critically reflect upon the research undertaken, providing an outlook and suggestions for future research.
Q30|Existence of equilibria in exhaustible resource markets with economies of scale and inventories|Abstract The paper proves the existence of equilibrium in non-renewable resource markets when extraction costs are non-convex and resource storage is possible. Inventories flatten the consumption path and eliminate price jumps at the end of the extraction period, so that market equilibrium becomes possible. We distinguish between two types of solutions, one with immediate and one with delayed buildup of inventories. For both cases, we do not only characterize potential optimal paths but also show that equilibria actually exist under fairly general conditions. It is found that optimum resource extraction involves increasing quantities over a period of time. What is generally interpreted as an indicator of increasing resource abundance is thus perfectly compatible with constant resource stocks.
Q30|Resources and Economic Growth|Editorâ€™s Introduction Originally published in Volume 22, Number 2, Fall 1978, pages 5-11 . Robert Solow (born 1924) is one of the most honored economists of all time. In 1961 he received the John Bates Clark medal given by the American Economic Association for significant contributions to the field by an American economist under the age of forty. Several Clark medal recipients have gone on to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences, including Professor Solow in 1987 for his work in economic growth. His work was again honored in 2014 when he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award presented by the United States. The Solow Growth Model, originally developed in the 1950s, is one of the most widely applied theories in modern economics. In this paper, Professor Solow examines how future economic growth and development is constrained if the natural resource base narrows over time. Professor Solow then applies a variant of his eponymous growth model to analyze the relationship between the ratio of nonrenewable resource inputs to GNP in the United States over the middle half of the twentieth century.
Q30|Resources and Economic Growth|Editorâ€™s Introduction Originally published in Volume 22, Number 2, Fall 1978, pages 5-11 . Robert Solow (born 1924) is one of the most honored economists of all time. In 1961 he received the John Bates Clark medal given by the American Economic Association for significant contributions to the field by an American economist under the age of forty. Several Clark medal recipients have gone on to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences, including Professor Solow in 1987 for his work in economic growth. His work was again honored in 2014 when he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award presented by the United States. The Solow Growth Model, originally developed in the 1950s, is one of the most widely applied theories in modern economics. In this paper, Professor Solow examines how future economic growth and development is constrained if the natural resource base narrows over time. Professor Solow then applies a variant of his eponymous growth model to analyze the relationship between the ratio of nonrenewable resource inputs to GNP in the United States over the middle half of the twentieth century.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|Petrol Gelirleri ve Ekonomik Büyüme: Seçilmiş Petrol Zengini Gelişmekte Olan Ülkeler Üzerine Bir Panel Veri Analizi|This study purposes to explore how the oil revenues affect the economic growth in selected 12 oil-rich developing countries. Real gross domestic product per capita represents the economic growth, while oil revenue is proxied by crude oil price and export. Real effective exchange rate and consumer price index expected to effect the relationship are also added to the model as other regressors. Panel data regression analysis for the period 2000-2010 is conducted to search for the resource curse symptom. The evidence that positive effect of oil revenues on growth is very slight, supports the ‘resource curse hypotheses’. Overall results emphasize the importance of the policies intended for using oil resources more efficiently and preventing the arising of resource curse mechanisms.
Q30|Optimal economic growth and energy policy: analysis of nonrenewable and renewable energy|This article analyzes the taxes levied on the nonrenewable energy sector and the subsidies awarded for renewable energy use. Applyin g the decentralized economy model with a parallel use of two types of energy, we find that the decentralized economy cannot attain the social optimum due to externality in the market economy. Using optimal tax to attain the social optimum in the decentralized economy entails imposing it on the nonrenewable energy sector. Using damage functions for simulation in our model, we find that the worse the environmental damage is, the larger the cost. Copyright Society for Environmental Economics and Policy Studies and Springer Japan 2016
Q30|Industriepolitik 2.0<BR>[Industrial Policy 2.0]|Zusammenfassung Europa ist ein langfristiges Erfolgsmodell, weist aber seit der Finanzkrise ein niedriges Wachstum und eine erhöhte Arbeitslosigkeit auf. Die Einkommensdifferenzen sind zudem hoch. Europa hält sich auch nicht an seine geplante längerfristige Strategie. Die Notwendigkeit einer immer stärkeren Integration wird von den Bürgern nicht akzeptiert. Sezessionsbestrebungen und politische Polarisierung sind die Folgen. Karl Aiginger und Teresa Bauer beleuchten in diesem Zusammenhang die Rolle der europäischen Industrie, ihre relative Entwicklung im Verhältnis zur Gesamtwirtschaft und zu den USA. Auch Industriepolitik braucht neue Konzepte und eine stärkere Anbindung an gesellschaftliche Ziele; dies nicht zuletzt, um falsche, nur kurzfristig attraktive Ansätze zu verhindern.
Q30|Genuine Savings in developing and developed countries, 1900-2000|This paper traces the long-run development of Genuine Savings (GS) using a panel of eleven countries during the twentieth century. This panel covers a number of developed countries (Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland, France, the US, and Australia) as well as a set of resource-abundant countries in Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Mexico). These countries represent approximately 50 percent of the world’s output in terms of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 1950, and include large economies and small open economies, and resource-rich and resource-scarce countries, thus allowing us to compare their historical experiences. Components of GS considered include physical and human capital as well as resource extraction and pollution damages. Generally, we find evidence of positive GS over the course of the twentieth century, although the twoWorldWars and the Great Depression left considerable marks. Also, we found striking differences between Latin American and developed countries when Total Factor Productivity (TFP) is included; this could be a signal of natural resource curse or technological gaps unnoticed in previous works.
Q30|Mining Matters : Natural Resource Extraction and Local Business Constraints|We estimate the impact of local mining activity on the business constraints experienced by 22,150 firms across eight resource-rich countries. We find that with the presence of active mines, the business environment in the immediate vicinity (<20 km) of a firm deteriorates but business constraints of more distant firms relax. The negative local impact of mining is concentrated among firms in tradeable sectors whose access to inputs and infrastructure becomes more constrained. This deterioration of the local business environment adversely affects firm growth and is in line with a natural resource curse at the sub-national level.
Q30|Mining Matters: Natural Resource Extraction and Local Business Constraints|We estimate the impact of local mining activity on the business constraints experienced by 22,150 firms across eight resource-rich countries. We find that with the presence of active mines, the business environment in the immediate vicinity (
Q30|Rewarding truthful-telling in stated preference studies|Stated preference surveys rarely provide conditions where a respondent’s optimal strategy is to answer truthfully. As a result, the reliability of stated preference data is often questioned. We consider a new approach economic theory-based approach to incentivize respondents to answer truthfully. Our approach is based on a lie detector coupled with a reward. We discuss theoretical predictions of the approach and test them empirically in a split sample choice experiment dealing with a tree planting program. We find lie detection (i) increases time spent to complete the valuation tasks and (ii) decreases the variance of the error term by using a hybrid choice model that accounts for possible endogeneity. Our results are encouraging but more research is needed to assess the validity of this new approach.
Q30|Spatial issues revisited: A note on the role of shared transportation modes|Spatial and environmental issues related to mobility are exacerbated in urban areas. Road congestion, rivalry of use for parking spaces and air pollution are major issues regularly at the heart of local transportation policies. They have been dealt with through various approaches. Mass transit have recently been fostered as a solution against road congestion and rivalry of use. These spatial issues relate to the space consumed by transportation modes. Private cars are assumed to consume larger quantities of space than mass transit, while offering similar services, namely origin-to-destination trips. Similarly, cars are the most polluting mode and transportation policies fostering bicycles have thrived in order to reduce air pollution, in particular CO2, and NOX emissions and PM. However, private cars remain the leading transportation mode for commuting trips (except in some large cities, such as Paris where mass transit is the leading mode). On the contrary, shared modes such as taxis, car-sharing and self-service cars or bicycles are often overlooked in transportation policies. In this article, I focus on shared modes, namely vehicle-sharing and self-service vehicles. The contribution is twofold. First, I explore the mechanisms through which shared modes help reduce road congestion and rivalry of use for parking spaces, as well as air pollution, compared to private modes. Second, I highlight the fact that transportation modes do not provide similar services to users. Therefore, gross comparisons in terms of time-space consumptions between modes (Marchand, 1993) are oversimplifying. I suggest to put these gross estimations into perspective accounting for additional services provided by transportation modes. Refined measures of time-space consumptions are presented. When the service provided is accounted for, the gap between mass transit and private cars is reduced. More importantly, the results show that car-sharing and self-service cars constitute relevant alternatives to private cars in terms of time-space consumption per unit of service provided. The analysis provides guidelines for decision-makers since it clearly indicates orders of magnitude for time-space consumptions from various transportation modes. The study reveals that both types of shared modes help reduce spatial and environmental issues related to mobility in urban areas and as such constitute key components of a comprehensive and efficient transportation system. For instance, I demonstrate that shared low-carbon modes, such as self-service bicycles, have the potential to reduce simultaneously both spatial (congestion and rivalry of use) and environmental (air pollution) issues in medium-sized city. Furthermore, I mention the limits of the present organization for shared modes. More precisely, the need for institutionalizing is highlighted for car-sharing, and network expansion required for self-service vehicles.
Q30|Oil Market Power in General Equilibrium|We analyze monopoly power in a market for a complementary fossil resource like oil in a two country/two period model with international trade in general equilibrium. Focusing on the complex interplay of capital and resource market, we elaborate how these effects feed back into the resource monopolist's extraction decision. His level of knowledge about the economic structure thereby plays a key role. The accumulation of own capital assets over time, together with a recognized influence of extraction on the interest rate, can lead the monopolist to accelerate or postpone extraction. Considering the interaction of resource market and global capital accumulation poses an incentive for the monopolist to accelerate extraction and to exploit the importers' increased resource addiction in the future. The conservationist bias of resource market power can be increased, dampened or reversed through the general equilibrium effects.
Q30|Converting Planetary Boundaries into Action, a New Approach to Meeting Global Greenhouse Gas Targets: A Pitch|This pitch letter describes personal reflections on a pitch that was developed at the early stages of the pitching idea developed by Faff (2015a, b). This letter describes the processes and insights after having used the template several times. Overall, the author has positive experiences of the pitching template, and finds that the template aids the thinking and rigor of research ideas.
Q30|The Management of Groundwater: Irrigation Efficiency, Policy, Institutions, and Externalities|The management of groundwater resources for use in agriculture is an issue that reaches far and wide; many of the world's most productive agricultural basins depend on groundwater and have experienced declines in water table levels. There is a socially optimal rate of extraction that can be modeled, measured, and achieved through policy and a complete definition of the property rights that govern groundwater. However, several factors may affect farmers' groundwater use decisions and behavior and may lead them to overextract groundwater. These factors include increases in irrigation efficiency, perverse incentives from policy, institutional incentives, and externalities.
Q30|Serranía del Perijá: Geografía, capital humano, economía y medio ambiente|La serranía del Perijá está ubicada al norte de Colombia y comparte frontera con Venezuela. Es un territorio de importancia biológica para el país y la humanidad por los servicios ambientales. Además, tiene resguardos que favorecen a los indígenas yuko-yupkas y los baris, etnias que están casi extinguidas. La economía se base en el sector primario, una parte agropecuaria y otra minera. En la primera se destacan los cultivos permanentes de palma de aceite, café, cacao y la ganadería bovina extensiva, y en la segunda la extracción de carbón que provee regalías y paga impuestos, pero contamina las fuentes hídricas, el suelo y el aire. La población rural, la cual padece altos índices de pobreza, ha sido la principal afectada por el conflicto armado en la región. ******ABSTRACT: Serranía del Perija is located at north of Colombia and shares a border with Venezuela. It is a territory with biological importance for the country and humanity because of the environmental services. Furthermore, this place has safeguards that favor indigenous yuko-yupkas and baris, ethnic groups that are almost extinct. The economy is based on the primary sector, agriculture and mining. In the first sector, stands out the permanent crops of palm oil, coffee, cocoa and extensive cattle; in the second one, the coal extraction that provides royalties and pay taxes, but it pollutes water sources, soil and air. The rural population, which suffers high rates of poverty, has been the main affected by the armed conflict in the region.
Q30|The impact of oil revenues on the Iranian economy and the Gulf states|In line with the neoclassical growth model a persistent stream of oil revenues might have a long lasting impact on GDP per capita in oil exporting countries through higher investment activities. This relationship is explored for Iran and the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) using (panel) cointegration techniques. The existence of cointegration between oil revenues, GDP and investment can be confirmed for all countries. While the cointegration vector is found to be unique for Iran, long run equations for GDP and investment per capita are distinguished for the Gulf countries. Both variables respond to deviations from the steady state, while oil income can be treated as weakly exogenous. The long run oil elasticities for the Gulf states exceed their Iranian counterparts. In addition, investment in Iran does not react to oil revenues in the long run. Hence, oil revenues may have been spent less wisely in Iran over the past decades.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|How do land markets anticipate regulatory change? Evidence from Canadian Conservation policy|Regulation often evolves, and affected consumers or firms may adjust their behavior in anticipation of potential changes to regulation. Using shifting land use regulation boundaries and oil lease prices from Canada, we estimate the effect of anticipated regulatory change on the value of land. We find that anticipated rezoning decreases the price of unregulated leases. Based on our estimates, not accounting for anticipation underestimates the total cost of the regulation by nearly one-third. Overall, the evidence suggests that anticipation effects are significant and that the cost of anticipated regulation is capitalized into land values.
Q30|From fossil fuels to renewables: The role of electricity storage|Electricity storage represents a solution to curb carbon emissions by enabling more use of intermittent renewable energy. Our goal is to empirically analyze the determinants of innovation in electricity storage and its role in fostering technological innovations in renewable and conventional electricity generation. Using a global firm-level data set of electricity patents from 1963 to 2011, we find that better electricity storage promotes innovation not only in renewable energy but also in conventional technologies. Specifically, our estimates show that an additional storage patent increases the probability to apply for patents in renewable energy and efficiency-improving fossil fuel technologies two years from now by 1.09% and 0.65%, respectively. This implies that improved electricity storage technologies can boost the energy efficiency of conventional, fossil fuel-fired power plants as well as increase the use of renewable electricity. Thus, the ability of electricity storage to curb carbon emissions depends on: the competitiveness of renewable energy against conventional electricity generation, and conventional power generation mix as storage increases fossil-fuel efficiency and reduces ramping costs.
Q30|Diffusion von Politikinnovationen im Mehrebenensystem der Energiewende – Erkenntnisse aus drei kommunalen Fallstudien|Im Rahmen der deutschen Energiewende gibt es auf lokaler und regionaler Ebene verschiedene Ansätze neue Formen der Energieversorgung zu etablieren und Energieeffizienz und Energieeinsparung zu fördern. Unklar ist, inwiefern diese Ansätze Ähnlichkeiten aufweisen und ggf. für die Erreichung energie- und klimapolitischer Ziele übergeordneter föderaler Ebenen nutzbar gemacht werden können. Zentral für diese Studie ist daher die Frage, inwiefern und (wenn ja) aus welchen Gründen und auf welche Weise sich innovative Politikmaßnahmen und –konzepte oder bestimmte Teile davon im Energiebereich unter den Kommunen und ihren Stadtwerken ausbreiten (Diffusion). In Form von Fallstudien werden dazu explizit München, Regensburg und Schönau im Schwarzwald untersucht. Die Fallstudien zeigen, dass die Energie- und Klimapolitik beträchtlich zwischen den Kommunen variiert und die Diffusion innovativer Politiken institutionell und faktisch relativ stark beschränkt ist. Dennoch geben alle drei Fallstudien verschiedene Anhaltspunkte, dass Politikinnovationen diffundieren. Dies erfolgt zum Teil über Städtenetzwerke und Verbände/ Bündnisse, vielfach aber auch ad-hoc, in einem informellen Rahmen und über persönliche Verbindungen auf administrativer oder politischer Ebene zwischen den Kommunen.
Q30|The Foreign Direct Investment In The Romanian Agrifood Production|The foreign direct investments, performed in a transparent manner and for long enough periods of time, represent a motor for the development of national economies. The present paper proposes an analysis of the foreign capital involved in the autochthonous agrifood production with a stress on the area of the agricultural and industrial food processing. Apart from the reports of National Bank of Romania, the necessary information regarding the foreign capital in the Romanian agrifood area are scarce and of a general nature. The undertaken analysis pinpointed predominant speculative aspects of the foreign investments in the agricultural lands in Romania as well as the main circumstantial character of the foreign capital involved in the agrifood processing. In crisis situations or in the absence of some profitable enough opportunities, the foreign investors leave the Romanian market, migrating towards more economically attractive areas. The bringing into effect of some mutually beneficial contracts, that allow the protection of the autochthonous capital, i.e. durable foreign investments and profitable for the national economy must be a priority for the Romanian authorities.
Q30|Natural Resources and Economic Growth: A Meta-Analysis|An important question in development studies is how natural resources richness affects long-term economic growth. No consensus answer, however, has yet emerged, with approximately 40% of empirical papers finding a negative effect, 40% finding no effect, and 20% finding a positive effect. Does the literature taken together imply the existence of the so-called natural resource curse? In a quantitative survey of 605 estimates reported in 43 studies, we find that overall support for the resource curse hypothesis is weak when potential publication bias and method heterogeneity are taken into account. Our results also suggest that four aspects of study design are especially effective in explaining the differences in results across studies: (1) controlling for institutional quality, (2) controlling for the level of investment activity, (3) distinguishing between different types of natural resources, and (4) differentiating between resource dependence and abundance.
Q30|Serranía del Perijá: Geografía, capital humano, economía y medio ambiente|Serranía del Perija is located at north of Colombia and shares a border with Venezuela. It is a territory with biological importance for the country and humanity because of the environmental services. Furthermore, this place has safeguards that favor indigenous yuko-yupkas and baris, ethnic groups that are almost extinct. The economy is based on the primary sector, agriculture and mining. In the first sector, stands out the permanent crops of palm oil, coffee, cocoa and extensive cattle; in the second one, the coal extraction that provides royalties and pay taxes, but it pollutes water sources, soil and air. The rural population, which suffers high rates of poverty, has been the main affected by the armed conflict in the region.
Q30|Energy Scientific Production In The Context Of The Green Development Models|The energy sector plays a vital role in addressing the global challenges of achieving sustainability by using the renewable energy sources and by increasing the energy efficiency and conservation, while obtaining energy security and safety. The aim of this paper is to quantitatively observe the evolution and status of the main publications on “green” energy. The study uses the Scopus database and the VOSviewer software to determine the progress of research and the main sub-themes discussed in the field of energy in the context of green economy and sustainable development. The findings suggest slightly different approaches of the scientific production on sustainable-related energy, green- related energy and renewable related-energy. This paper provides insights on the main internationally debated research areas in the energy field.
Q30|Mining Matters: Natural Resource Extraction and Local Business Constraints|We estimate the impact of local mining activity on the business constraints experienced by 22,150 firms across eight resource-rich countries. We find that with the presence of active mines, the business environment in the immediate vicinity (
Q30|Optimal transition to renewable energy with threshold of irreversible pollution|When cheap fossil energy is polluting and pollutant no longer absorbed beyond a certain concentration, there is a moment when the introduction of a cleaner renewable energy, although onerous, is optimal with respect to inter-temporal utility. The cleaner technology is adopted either instantaneously or gradually at a controlled rate. The problem of optimum under viability constraints is 6-dimensional under a continuous-discrete dynamic controlled by energy consumption and investment into production of renewable energy. Viable optima are obtained either with gradual or with instantaneous adoption. A longer time horizon increases the probability of adoption of renewable energy and the time for starting this adoption. It also increases maximal utility and the probability to cross the threshold of irreversible pollution. Exploiting a renewable energy starts sooner when adoption is gradual rather than instantaneous. The shorter the period remaining after adoption until the time horizon, the higher the investment into renewable energy.
Q30|The market for conservation and other hostages|A “conservation good” (such as a tropical forest) is owned by a seller who is tempted to consume (or cut), but a buyer benefits more from conservation. The seller prefers to conserve if the buyer is expected to buy, but the buyer is unwilling to pay as long as the seller conserves. This contradiction implies that the market for conservation cannot be efficient and conservation is likely to fail. A leasing market is inefficient for similar reasons and dominates the sales market if and only if the consumption value and the buyer's protection cost are large. The theory thus explains why optimal conservation often fails and why conservation abroad is leased, while domestic conservation is bought.
Q30|Dynamic linkages among oil price, gold price, exchange rate, and stock market in India|Governments impose taxes and levies to manage the effect of gold and crude oil imports on the exchange rate. These in return have relations with the economy of the country, best reflected in the stock market index. This study aims to explore the relation between global prices of gold, crude oil, the USD–INR exchange rate, and the stock market in India. The dynamic contemporaneous linkages have been analyzed using DCC-GARCH (standard, exponential and threshold) models and the lead lag linkages have been examined using symmetric and asymmetric Non Linear Causality tests. Empirical analyses indicate fall in gold prices and crude oil prices cause fall in the value of the Indian Rupee and the benchmark stock index i.e. Sensex. The findings of this study also support the emergence of gold as an investment asset class among the investors. More importantly, this study highlights the need for dynamic policy making in India to contain exchange rate fluctuations and stock market volatility using gold price and oil price as instruments.
Q30|Natural resources, manufacturing and institutions in post-Soviet countries|We examine the effect of natural resource exports on economic performance during the 1996–2010 period in the 15 independent countries that formerly comprised the Soviet Union. After the fall of communism, these countries began to demonstrate marked differences from one another with respect to economic development and institutions, which has resulted in unique cross-sectional and time variation. Using several panel regression models that address endogeneity and clustering issues, our results suggest that natural resources crowd out manufacturing unless the quality of domestic institutions is sufficiently high.
Q30|Limit pricing and the (in)effectiveness of the carbon tax|We present a theory of limit-pricing monopoly in non-renewable-resource production. Facing a very inelastic demand, an oil monopoly seeks to induce the highest price that does not destroy its demand, unlike the conventional Hotellian analysis: The monopoly tolerates some ordinary substitutes to its oil but deters high-potential ones. With limit pricing, policy-induced extraction changes do not obey the usual logic. For example, oil taxes have no effect on current oil production. Extraction increases when high-potential substitutes are promoted, but can be effectively reduced by supporting ordinary substitutes. The carbon tax not only applies to oil; it also penalizes its ordinary (carbon) substitutes, whose market shares are taken over by the monopoly. Thus, the carbon tax ambiguously affects current and long-term oil production and carbon emissions.
Q30|Climate and forests: The tradeoff between forests as a source for producing bioenergy and as a carbon sink|Forest harvests are a possible source of second-generation wood-based bioenergy. The carbon stored in the forest is highest when there is little or no harvest from the forest. Increasing the harvest from a forest, in order to produce more bioenergy, may thus conflict with the direct benefit of the forest as a carbon sink. We analyze this conflict using a simple model where bioenergy and fossil energy are perfect substitutes. Our analysis shows how the social optimum will depend on the size of the climate cost, and how the social optimum may be obtained by suitable taxes and subsidies.
Q30|The cost of unconventional gas extraction: A hedonic analysis|We focus on identification and estimation of potentially negative environmental impacts of unconventional natural gas extraction on property values in the United States and advance previous research by contributing new data and new identification strategies for isolating these potential impacts. Our study area consists of two counties in Pennsylvania that are home to large amounts of unconventional natural gas extraction but are otherwise isolated from other resource extraction industries or large urban areas. We deploy parametric, semi-parametric, and matching hedonic regression models that include recent quasi-experimental methods and, in contrast to previous research and much popular intuition, we fail to find robust significance that negative environmental externalities of natural gas extraction are manifested in nearby property values. While there may be plausible risks associated with unconventional natural gas extraction, we do not find consistent evidence to suggest that these risks significantly affect nearby property values.
Q30|On the multiplicity of open-loop equilibrium strategies in a non-renewable natural resource duopoly|We identify two possible open-loop equilibrium configurations for a non-renewable resource duopoly in a discrete-time framework. For the purpose of illustration, we characterize initial endowments of firms that allow for a maximum of two extraction periods. In the first possible equilibrium, the duopoly exists for two periods, while in the second possible equilibrium, the duopoly lasts only for one period and the firm with the higher initial endowment becomes a monopolist in the second and last period. As neither equilibrium configuration dominates the other for both firms at the same time, it is unclear whether firms acting simultaneously can coordinate on one particular configuration.
Q30|Finance and Sustainability Synthesis Report of WP7|This paper investigates the relationship between finance and environmental sustainability. The first part summarises a few crucial methodological and foundational issues underlying meaning and implications of financialisation, sustainability and their mutual relation. The second part focuses on a particularly significant case study: the unsustainability of the existing energy system based on carbon fuels focusing on the urgency of a rapid transition to a low carbon economy. The third part explores which role financial instruments may play to facilitate the transition towards a low carbon economy. In particular, it investigates the implications for sustainability of the growing trade of energy derivatives. The forth part examines the consequences of the disembedment of money from the socioecological flows of matter and energy. The fifth part investigates the relations between financialisation of built environments and urban sustainability. The final part of the paper draws the main policy implications from the preceding analysis in the light of the growing problems affecting environmental policy in a financialised economy. The main policy conclusion is that, notwithstanding the growing conflict between the ongoing process of financialisation and sustainability, finance has to play a crucial role to implement a process of convergence towards a sustainable path of development.
Q30|How do Land Markets Anticipate Regulatory Change? Evidence from Canadian Conservation Policy|Regulation often evolves, and affected consumers or firms may adjust their behavior in anticipation of potential changes to regulation. Using shifting land use regulation boundaries and oil lease prices from Canada, we estimate the effect of anticipated regulatory change on the value of land. We find that anticipated rezoning decreases the price of unregulated leases. Based on our estimates, not accounting for anticipation underestimates the total cost of the regulation by nearly one-third. Overall, the evidence suggests that anticipation effects are significant and that the cost of anticipated regulation is capitalized into land values.
Q30|Optimal control theory with applications to resource and environmental economics|This note gives a brief, non-rigorous sketch of basic optimal control theory, which is a useful tool in several simple economic problems,such as those in resource and environmental economics. While the mathematical analysis in the note is self-contained, there is not much explanation and intuition on the economic issues. The note should therefore be read together with articles or books that give more discussion of the economics of the problems considered.
Q30|Unilateral Climate Policies: Incentives and Effects|Abstract We analyze the effect of climate policies using a two-region partial equilibrium model of resource extraction. The regions are heterogeneous in various aspects, such as in their climate policies and resource extraction costs. We obtain analytical and numerical conditions for a Green Paradox to occur as a consequence of a unilateral increase in carbon taxation and backstop subsidy. In order to assess the welfare and climate consequences of unilateral policy changes, we calibrate the model to real world parameter values. We find that forming a ‘climate coalition’ and introducing carbon taxation even in the absence of real climate concerns is the best course of action for the largest fossil fuel-using regions.
Q30|Exhaustibility and Risk as Asset Class Dimensions: A Social Investor Approach to Capital-Resource Economies|Abstract This paper develops a framework in which asset class dimensions are extended to include both risk and exhaustibility for explaining the evolution of shadow prices of marginal units of exhaustible natural resources in capital-resource economies. It is shown that the pricing kernel function required for socially valuing marginal units of exhaustible resource, hereafter called the Exhaustion-Stochastic Discount Factor, combines a factor that discounts for risk and another factor that discounts for resource exhaustion over time. The social rate of return on the marginal unit of resource stock adds to the risk-premium an exhaustion premium that accounts for the resource depletion over time. In this setting, the principle of no-arbitrage holds by extending asset-class dimensions to include not only a risk dimension but also an exhaustibility dimension.
Q30|Rögnvaldur Hannesson, Ecofundamentalism: A Critique of Extreme Environmentalism|Professor Rögnvaldur Hannesson, an authority on natural resource management, has written a well-argued, even if polemical, book against ecofundamentalism, which, for him, puts nature before man. He cogently discusses the difficulties in applying notions of sustainability and biodiversity to the human condition and suggests that in the foreseeable future mankind should continue mainly to use fossil fuels as energy sources. Hannesson regards models of global warming as scientific, but as too uncertain for mankind radically to alter its way of life.
Q30|Intrinsic Motivation, Norms and Environmental Behaviour: The Dynamics of Overarching Goals|The understanding, prediction, and encouragement of pro-environmental behaviour (i.e., behaviour that impacts the environment as little as possible) depend to a large extent on understanding the motivational dynamics of pro-environmental behaviour. In this review paper, we discuss the state of the art with regard to these dynamics. We explain the importance of three types of goals underlying behaviour: the hedonic goal to feel good, the gain goal to enhance one's resources, and the normative goal to act appropriately. The strength of these goals differs across situation, which affects which aspects in the situation people attend to, how they evaluate these aspects, and which choices they make. We describe factors affecting the strength of goals, and how the normative goal to act appropriately can be strengthened so as to encourage sustained pro-environmental actions. More specifically, we propose that values affect the chronic strength of goals. Besides, various situational factors can affect the strength of goals in a particular situation. These situational factors explain why people do not have stable preferences and why they do not always act upon the values they prioritise. Finally, we discuss strategies that can be employed to encourage pro-environmental actions. These strategies are either aimed at reducing the conflict between different goals by aligning the hedonic and/or gain goal with the normative goal, or at strengthening the normative goal so that people will act pro-environmentally even though this may reduce the realisation of their hedonic or gain goals.
Q30|Revisiting the relationships between non-renewable energy consumption, CO2 emissions and economic growth in Iran|Exploring the short-run and long-run relationships between consumption of various sources of non-renewable energy, economic growth and carbon dioxide(CO2) emissions would be considered as a golden key to provide rational energy policies of Iran in the post sanctions era. The aim of this paper is to find these mentioned relationships by using the Johanesen cointegration approach, the VECM Granger causality test, Generalized impulse responses functions and variance decomposition in Iran for the period 1966-2013. The findings support evidence for the existence of long-run linkage between non-renewable energy consumption, economic growth and CO2 emissions. The short-run relationship examination proves the causality running from non-renewable energy consumption to economic growth in Iran. The variance decomposition highlights that economic growth changes are explained more by gas consumption than by consumption of other non-renewable energy resources. Furthermore the contribution to CO2 emissions is mainly from oil consumption. The study recommends some new policy insights for Iran in order to reach a higher economic growth by non-renewable energy resources, while lower carbon dioxide emissions.
Q30|The Management of Natural Resources Under Asymmetry of Information|We provide an introductory review to the application of the theory of incentives under asymmetry of information to the exploitation and management of natural resources. We concentrate mostly on principal-agent problems with adverse selection as posed by the regulation of nonrenewable resources, stressing the fact that the inherently dynamic nature of natural resource exploitation creates situations and results not found in other contexts. We also point out private information issues that may arise involving renewable as opposed to nonrenewable resources, strategic interactions with signaling between decision makers in resource exploitation games, and the design of environmental policy in which principal-agent problems subject to moral hazard may occur.
Q30|Economics of Antibiotic Growth Promoters in Livestock|Rapidly rising incomes are driving demand for animal protein and livestock globally. The move toward more intensive production systems to support this increased demand is projected to increase the dependence on antibiotic growth promoters. The volume of antibiotics used for growth promotion in livestock outstrips that used for disease treatment in humans and creates significant selection pressure for the evolution of antibiotic resistance—a challenge for global health and resource conservation. This review describes the benefits and costs of antibiotic growth promoters in livestock and considers the prospects for more fully accounting for the externality costs.
Q30|El choque petrolero y sus implicaciones en la economía colombiana|La economía colombiana se ha visto impactada por la fuerte caída en la cotización internacional del petróleo, la cual se caracterizó por ser sorpresiva, acelerada y de magnitud considerable. Según los analistas, este choque podría ser persistente y extenderse por varios años. Sumado a lo anterior, el volumen de producción de hidrocarburos en el territorio nacional también podría caer, como resultado de la menor inversión en el sector ante los bajos precios del crudo. El presente documento hace un análisis descriptivo del choque petrolero reciente y de sus determinantes, así como de sus implicaciones para la economía colombiana. A la fecha, el desplome de los precios ha afectado los términos de intercambio del país y con ello el ingreso nacional, impactando las cuentas externas y la tasa de cambio, las finanzas públicas, la confianza de los mercados y el riesgo país. Lo anterior se ha traducido en una significativa desaceleración de la actividad económica. La respuesta de política económica ha sido coherente con un sólido marco institucional previamente establecido, que ha propiciado un ajuste ordenado de la economía a las nuevas circunstancias externas. Entre las características más importantes de dicho marco de política se destacan un régimen de inflación objetivo con flexibilidad cambiaria, una regla fiscal para el Gobierno Nacional y una política macro-prudencial que aboga por la estabilidad financiera. ****** The Colombian economy has been hit by the sharp fall of international oil prices, which was characterized for being unexpected, sudden and of considerable magnitude. According to analysts, this shock could be persistent and last for several years. On top of that, the volume of oil production in the country could also decrease due to a fall of investment in the sector in the context of lower oil prices. This document aims to provide a descriptive analysis of the recent oil shock, its determinants, and their implications for the Colombian economy. To date, falling oil prices have deteriorated the country's terms of trade and thus, its national income. Other key variables such as the current account, the exchange rate, the public finance, market’s confidence and the country risk premium have also been affected. As a result, a significant economic slowdown is taking place. The economic policy response has been coherent with a sound institutional framework previously established, which has encouraged an orderly adjustment to the new external circumstances. Among the key elements of such framework it is worth mentioning an inflation-targeting scheme with flexible exchange rate, a fiscal rule for the central Government, and a macro-prudential policy aiming at preserving financial stability.
Q30|Genuine Savings And Sustainability| Genuine Savings (GS) has emerged as the leading economic indicator of sustainable economic development at the country level. It derives from the literatures on weak sustainability, wealth accounting and national income accounting. We discuss the theoretical underpinnings of GS, focusing on the relationship between changes in a nation's extended capital stock and the future path of consumption. The indicator has entered widespread use propelled by the World Bank's publications, despite its varying performance as a predictor for future consumption. Notwithstanding the extensive body of literature reviewed, promising future research avenues are identified.
Q30|Du bon usage des modèles théoriques en économie|Our purpose is to show that economic modelling, far from being useless, has on the contrary the advantage to emphasize the main point, on the condition results are not misinterpreted. To illustrate this point of view we analyse two canonical models of exhaustible resources of exploitation. Classification JEL : A11, Q01, Q30
Q30|Climate Policy Enhances Efficiency: A Macroeconomic Portfolio Effect|Carbon pricing regulates emission flows and collects rents from underlying fossil resource stocks. The resulting investment shift implies lower climate policy costs and improved welfare if capital is underaccumulated. We prove that under emission trading, such a beneficial macroeconomic portfolio effect between fossil stocks and capital is induced if some permits are auctioned. Alternatively, a carbon tax also induces a portfolio effect, but cannot simultaneously implement a given mitigation path and collect an arbitrary rent share. Finally, treating the right to recurrently receive a share of total emission permits as a tradable asset is formally, but not politically equivalent.
Q30|Essays on the Integration of New Energy Sources into Existing Energy Systems|Die vorliegende Arbeit wurde von Luise Röpke während ihrer Tätigkeit am ifo Institut erstellt. Sie wurde im Dezember 2013 abgeschlossen und von der volkswirtschaftlichen Fakultät der Universität München (LMU) als Dissertation angenommen. Die Arbeit besteht aus drei eigenständigen Kapiteln. Die Arbeit analysiert Aspekte zur Integration neuer Energiequellen in bestehende Energiesysteme. Die ersten beiden Kapitel behandeln dieses Thema auf der Basis von zwei theoretischen, dynamischen Modellen des Ressourcenabbaus. Das Energiemodell des ersten Kapitels bildet zwei heterogene Ressourcen sowie eine kapazitätsbeschränkte grüne Backstop-Ressource ab. Im zweiten Kapitel wird ein Energiemarkt mit steigender Substituierbarkeit erschöpfbarer und erneuerbarer Energiequellen untersucht. In beiden Modellen werden die verschiedenen Effekte herausgearbeitet, die ein Entscheidungsträger beachten muss, wenn er ein energiepolitisches Instrument entwirft. Es wird gezeigt, dass verschiedene Klimapolitiken unterschiedliche Wirkung auf die Abbaugeschwindigkeit der Ressourcen haben. Das dritte Kapitel beinhaltet eine angewandte Analyse des deutschen Strommarkts. Im Fokus steht hierbei der Einfluss des Ausbaus erneuerbarer Energien auf die Versorgungssicherheit. In einer Kosten-Nutzen-Analyse wird der Wert der Versorgungssicherheit mit seinen Bereitstellungskosten verglichen.
Q30|Finanzwissenschaftliche Begutachtung des kommunalen Finanzausgleichs in Rheinland-Pfalz|Im Rahmen des Gutachtens wurden die Kernelemente des kommunalen Finanzausgleichs in Rheinland-Pfalz einer finanzwissenschaftlichen Prüfung unterzogen. Bei Reformbedarf wurden Änderungsvorschläge erarbeitet, die sicherstellen, dass der Finanzausgleich in Rheinland-Pfalz quantitativ gesichert und qualitativ zukunftsfähig gemacht ist. Das Gutachten beschäftigt sich sowohl mit vertikalen als auch horizontalen Aspekten des Finanzausgleichsystems. Gegenstand der Untersuchung im vertikalen Bereich waren unter anderem die Zusammensetzung der Finanzausgleichsmasse und der Stabilisierungsfonds. Die Grundlage der Untersuchung im horizontalen Bereich bildete ein umfassendes Simulationsmodell für den Finanzausgleich, das dessen Mittelverteilung exakt nachbildet. Analysiert wurden insbesondere die Ermittlung von Finanzbedarf und-kraft, die verschiedenen Schlüsselzuweisungen sowie die Ausgleichsintensität des Systems.
Q30|Resource Market Power and Levels of Knowledge in General Equilibrium|We analyze monopoly power in a market for a complementary fossil resource like oil in a two country/two period model with international trade in general equilibrium. Focusing on the complex interplay of capital and resource market, we elaborate how these effects feed back into the resource monopolist's extraction decision. His level of knowledge about the economic structure thereby plays a key role. The accumulation of own capital assets over time, together with a recognized influence of extraction on the interest rate, can lead the monopolist to accelerate or postpone extraction. Considering the interaction of resource market and global capital accumulation poses an incentive for the monopolist to accelerate extraction and to exploit the importers' increased resource addiction in the future. The conservationist bias of resource market power can be increased, dampened or reversed through the general equilibrium effects.
Q30|El choque petrolero y sus implicaciones en la economía colombiana|La economía colombiana se ha visto impactada por la fuerte caída en la cotización internacional del petróleo, la cual se caracterizó por ser sorpresiva, acelerada y de magnitud considerable. Según los analistas, este choque podría ser persistente y extenderse por varios años. Sumado a lo anterior, el volumen de producción de hidrocarburos en el territorio nacional también podría caer, como resultado de la menor inversión en el sector ante los bajos precios del crudo. El presente documento hace un análisis descriptivo del choque petrolero reciente y de sus determinantes, así como de sus implicaciones para la economía colombiana. A la fecha, el desplome de los precios ha afectado los términos de intercambio del país y con ello el ingreso nacional, impactando las cuentas externas y la tasa de cambio, las finanzas públicas, la confianza de los mercados y el riesgo país. Lo anterior se ha traducido en una significativa desaceleración de la actividad económica. La respuesta de política económica ha sido coherente con un sólido marco institucional previamente establecido, que ha propiciado un ajuste ordenado de la economía a las nuevas circunstancias externas. Entre las características más importantes de dicho marco de política se destacan un régimen de inflación objetivo con flexibilidad cambiaria, una regla fiscal para el Gobierno Nacional y una política macro-prudencial que aboga por la estabilidad financiera.
Q30|Energy Consumption and Foreign Direct Investment: A Panel Data Analysis for Portugal|This research considers the relationship between energy consumption and foreign direct investment (FDI) for the period 1990-2011. As econometric strategy, we use unit root test and panel data. The empirical results illustrate that the income per capita and political globalization present a positive impact on energy consumption. The selected components of globalization (cultural, social and political) show that these variables promote Portuguese foreign direct investment. The econometric models also considered two control variables, trade openness and exchange rate. These proxies are positively correlated with FDI. The variables of income per capita and the squared income per capita validate the environmental Kuznets curve assumptions.
Q30|An Analysis of the Determinants of Households’ Energy Choice: A Search for Conceptual Framework|The aim of this paper was conceptual analysis of the determinants of household energy choice and consumption in order to provide information on current understanding of the pattern of household energy consumption behaviour in developing countries. Data for this study was obtained from existing literatures on household energy demand and the economic impact of energy as well. The methodology heavily relied on existing previous literatures on the subject being dealt with. The paper showed that previous studies (individually) used various but limited econometric models for analysing household energy consumption behaviour which limit the scope of their analysis. Variables like; degree days, electric water heater, electric clothes dryer, dish washer, number in house, family income, age of respondents, nature of employment, municipality of residence, expenditure per capita, private water connection, age of household head, were found to be positively significant related to household energy choice and consumption. The paper concluded that, not all factors are equally important in explaining household consumption behaviour for different areas. Finally, the paper pointed out three important aspects to be covered by future studies on household energy, choice, and consumption.
Q30|Improving Electricity Access in Nigeria: Obstacles and the Way Forward|Access to electricity is vital for economic development. Developing countries around the world have made various effort to improve electrcity access. In order to improve electrcity access, the obstacles need to be properly identified. Nigeria’s electrcity access have been low for a very long time with no improvement in sight. This paper examined the obstacles hindering the improvement of electricity access in Nigeria. The obstacles identified includes; low efficiency and performance, security of fuel source for power generation, data inadequacy, regulatory barriers, lack of institutional arrangement, poor grid structure, delapidated transmission and distribution network, low financial investment, lack of policy and project continuity. A way forward was presented in order to improve electricity access in Nigeria.
Q30|Testing the Environmental Kuznets Curve Hypothesis in Portugal|This paper provides empirical evidence of an environmental Kuznets curve (EKC) hypothesis for Portugal by applying autoregressive distributed lag bounds testing approach from 1971 to 2008. In order to capture Portugal’s historical experience, demographic changes and international trade on carbon emissions, we augment the traditional income-emissions model with variables such as energy consumption, urbanization, and trade openness in time series framework. Empirical results confirm the evidence of EKC hypothesis in both the short-run and long-run. All variables carry the expected signs except trade openness. Despite the success of Portugal in containing CO2 emissions so far, it is important to note that in recent years, carbon emissions have risen. In order to comply with the 1992 Kyoto Protocol on CO2 emissions, there is need for policies that focus on the sectors responsible for CO2 emissions.
Q30|Coal Sector Returns and Oil Prices: Developed and Emerging Countries|This paper examines the effect of oil price on coal sector stock returns. A multifactor market model is used to estimate the expected excess returns to the coal sector. A 1% increase in oil price return has a statistically significant positive impact on coal sector returns of between 0.06% and 0.20%. A 1% increase in coal price raises the return of coal sector returns by between 0.22% and 0.30%. Increased volatility in oil price return significantly reduces coal sector return. Participants in energy markets may perceive oil price as being determined globally and as providing information on demand for energy overall. Understanding the variables that affect the behaviour of the stock prices in the coal is of importance to market participants and policy makers, and is helpful in developing efficient hedging policies to deal with changes in energy prices.
Q30|Linking Historical Oil Price Volatility and Growth: Investment and Trade Dynamics|This paper investigates the impact of historical crude oil-price fluctuation on diverse economies. It employs the use of structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) and panel VAR methodologies as innovative paths of investigating oil-shock association. While evidence of linear and non-linear shock specifications hold for developed economies within the SVAR specification, growth patterns for emerging counterpart are only defined by the linear shock. The asymmetric behaviour of growth response along shock specifications and development is predisposed to two main channels: First is the differential systemic and institutional framework in place across economies, making shock vulnerabilities differ. Secondly, identification restrictions imposed within SVAR methodology is perceived to have overruled conditions consistent with the non-linear shock model. Positive oil-price shocks benefits accrue to the global community through investment while negative oil-price shocks are transmitted through interest rate triggered trade cut-backs.
Q30|Equilibrium transitions from non-renewable energy to renewable energy under capacity constraints|We study the transition between non-renewable and renewable energy sources with adjustment costs over the production capacity of renewable energy. Assuming constant variable marginal costs for both energy sources, convex adjustment costs and a more expensive renewable energy, we show the following. With sufficiently abundant non-renewable energy endowments, the dynamic equilibrium path is composed of a first time phase of only non-renewable energy use followed by a transition phase substituting progressively renewable energy to non-renewable energy before a last time phase of only renewable energy use. The investment into renewable energy may either begin before actual production of renewable energy or be delayed until the energy price achieves a sufficient gap with respect to the renewable energy cost. With an initially abundant non-renewable resource, the features of the transition between non-renewable and renewable energy do not depend upon the initial resource stock.
Q30|Group inefficiency in a common property resource game with asymmetric players|If the joint preferences of asymmetric players having different discount rates are represented by the sum of intertemporal utilities, they become time-inconsistent. It is shown how time-consistent solutions for this problem can be strongly inefficient: the sum of payoffs can be higher if cooperation or coordination is forbidden than if it is allowed.
Q30|Dynamic spillovers between commodity and currency markets|In this study, we examine the dynamic link between returns and volatility of commodities and currency markets. Based on weekly data over the period from January 6, 1987 to July 22, 2014, we find the following empirical regularities. First, our results suggest that the information contents of gold, silver, platinum, and the CHF/USD and GBP/USD exchange rates can help improve forecast accuracy of returns and volatilities of palladium, crude oil and the EUR/CHF and GBP/USD exchange rates. Second, gold (CHF/USD) is the dominant commodity (currency) transmitter of return and volatility spillovers to the remaining assets in our model. Third, the analysis of dynamic spillovers shows time- and event-specific patterns. For instance, the dynamic spillover effects originating in gold and silver (platinum) returns and volatility intensified (degraded) in the period marked by the global financial crisis. After the global financial crisis, the net transmitting role of gold and silver (platinum) returns shocks weakened (strengthened), while the net transmitting role of gold, silver and platinum volatility shocks remained relatively high. Overall, our findings reveal that, while the static analysis clearly classifies the aforementioned variables into net transmitters and net receivers, the dynamic analysis denotes episodes wherein the role of transmitters and receivers of return (volatility) spillovers can be interrupted or even reversed. Hence, even if certain commonalities prevail in each identified category of commodities, such commonalities are time- and event-dependent.
Q30|Physical versus economic depletion of a nonrenewable natural resource|The present paper explores the relationship between physical and economic depletion of a nonrenewable natural resource using a decomposition of mining costs akin to the one used in the literature on productivity and technical change. We argue that this decomposition can provide key insights on future availability of nonrenewable natural resources. Using data on slate mining in Galicia (Northern Spain), we provide quantitative evidence of the role played by physical depletion in economic exhaustion but also of the offsetting effects of technical change. Additionally, we provide a measure of the effects on economic depletion of input prices, output, fixed inputs and production scale. Input prices and fixed input misallocation contributes far more to economic depletion than physical depletion while technical change has a remarkable negative contribution to economic depletion. Policy implications are discussed, particularly, the importance of promoting technical change.
Q30|Rights to the forest, REDD+ and elections: Mining in Guyana|This paper examines the impact of electoral cycles and the introduction of Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+) policy upon the holding of small-scale mining property rights in Guyana. Mining is both the major cause of deforestation and the main economic activity in the country. A simple model of the incentives to hold mining property rights is developed and tested using a unique data-set of small-scale mining property rights data. Econometric techniques are used to test the findings of the model, concluding that the number of mining rights issued fall after election years, with the number rescinded rising. The introduction of REDD+ in Guyana also seems to have increased the number of mining claims being relinquished, and reduce the number being issued. The findings highlight the importance of political economy events in the evolution of small-scale mining activity, and show some evidence that the introduction of a REDD+ framework in Guyana has impacted the main driver of deforestation, despite the absence of specific policy targeting the sector.
Q30|Modeling peak oil and the geological constraints on oil production|We propose a model to reconcile the theory of inter-temporal non-renewable resource depletion with well-known stylized facts concerning the exploitation of exhaustible resources such as oil. Our approach introduces geological constraints into a Hotelling type extraction–exploration model. We show that such constraints, in combination with initially small reserves and strictly convex exploration costs, can coherently explain bell-shaped peaks in natural resource extraction and hence U-shapes in prices. As production increases, marginal profits (marginal revenues less marginal extraction cost) are observed to decline, while as production decreases, marginal profits rise at a positive rate that is not necessarily the rate of discount.
Q30|A regime-dependent assessment of the information transmission dynamics between oil prices, precious metal prices and exchange rates|We use the Bayesian Markov-switching vector error correction (MS-VEC) model and the regime-dependent impulse response functions (RDIRFs) to examine the transmission dynamics between oil spot prices, precious metals (gold, silver, platinum, and palladium) spot prices and the US dollar/euro exchange rate. Using daily data from 1987 to 2012, two regimes (low and high volatility regimes) appear to be prevalent for this system. We find evidence that among the five commodity prices the gold prices are the most informative in the group in the high volatility regime, while gold, palladium, and platinum are the most informative in the low volatility regime. Though the platinum and palladium prices impact each other, the impacts in the high volatility regime are asymmetric. In addition to its low correlation in the group, palladium's negative impact on the exchange rate and gold makes it a reliable hedge asset for investors. Gold is the least volatile variable, thus affirming its use as a “safe haven” asset, while silver and oil are the most volatile in the group. Understanding the dynamics of these commodity prices should help investors decide how to invest during periods of low vs. highly volatile regimes.
Q30|Energy Transition Under Irreversibility: A Two-Sector Approach|Abstract This paper analyses the optimal energy transition of a two-sector economy (energy and final goods) under irreversible environmental catastrophe. First, it proposes a general appraisal of optimal switching problems related to energy transition showing: (1) the possibility of a catastrophe due to accumulation of pollution; and (2) technological regimes with the adoption of renewable energy. Second, it numerically shows that for given baseline parameter values, the most profitable energy transition path may correspond to the one in which the economy starts using both resources, crosses the pollution threshold by losing a part of its capital, and never adopts only clean energy. Third, it extends the model to allow for additional investment in energy saving technologies. We then find that this additional investment favours full transition to the sole use of renewable energy. It is then profitable to take advantage of these synergies by jointly promoting deployment of clean energy and providing incentives for investment in energy saving technologies.
Q30|Preventing environmental disasters : Market based vs command and control policies|The paper compares the effects of market-based and command-and-control climate policies on the direction of technical change and the prevention of environmental disasters. Drawing on the model proposed in Acemoglu et al. (2012, American Economic Review), we show that market-based policies (carbon taxes and subsidies towards clean sectors) exhibit bounded window of opportunities: delays in their implementation make them completely ineective both in redirecting technical change and in avoiding environmental catastrophes. On the contrary, we find that command-and-control interventions guarantee policy efeffectiveness irrespectively on the timing of their introduction. As command-and-control policies are always able to direct technical change toward “green” technologies and to prevent climate disasters, they constitute a valuable alternative to market-based interventions.
Q30|Uncertainty and Natural Resources - Prudence Facing Doomsday|This paper studies the optimal extraction of a non-renewable resource under uncertainty using a discrete-time approach in the spirit of the literature on precautionary savings. We find that boundedness of the utility function, in particular the assumption about U(0), gives very different results in the two settings which are often considered as equivalent. For a bounded utility function, we show that in a standard two-period setting, prudence is no longer sufficient to ensure a more conservationist extraction policy than under certainty. If on the other hand we increase the number of periods to infinity, we find that prudence is not anymore not anymore necessary to induce a more conservationist extraction policy and risk aversion is sufficient. These results highlight the importance of the specification of the utility function and its behavior at the point of origin.
Q30|Non-renewable resources, extraction technology, and endogenous growth|We document that global resource extraction has strongly increased with economic growth, while prices have exhibited stable trends for almost all major non-renewable resources from 1700 to 2018. Why have resources not become scarcer as suggested by standard economic theory? We develop a theory of extraction technology, geology and growth grounded in stylized facts. Rising resource demand incentivises firms to invest in new technology to increase their economically extractable reserves. Prices remain constant because increasing returns from the geological distribution of resources offset diminishing returns in innovation. As a result, the aggregate growth rate depends partly on the geological distribution of resources. For example, a greater average concentration of a resource in the Earth's crust leads to more resource extraction, a lower price and a higher growth rate on the balanced growth path. Our paper provides economic and geologic microfoundations explaining why flat resource prices and increasing production are reasonable assumptions in economic models of climate change.
Q30|Biofuel Policies: The Underground Limitation on Biofuels|U.S. energy policy has seen a dramatic shift toward renewable fuels within the last 10 years. While much research has been conducted in regards to U.S. biofuel policies, a significant arena of debate has been neglected. A key argument in favor of domestic biofuel production is that it is a renewable path towards energy independence. However the inputs used in the production of biofuel feedstock, primarily fertilizer nutrients, are anything but renewable. With simple calculations, this paper shows that the U.S.’s current biofuel policy is heavily dependent on non-renewable nutrient inputs. Thus, the question of how renewable the current plant-based biofuels are needs to be asked. Copyright International Atlantic Economic Society 2015
Q30|Determination of Wages and Exchange Rate with Game Theory|In every country, wages are determined by Nash rule or governments determine wages. According to Nash equilibrium, policy of determination wages is respect to exchange rate and there is a game between NWC and MAS. In this paper, we survey a game theory method to survey policy of determination wages and exchange rate to stability economics. When exchange rate increases, import good's price rise and we have cost push inflation, therefore wages are increased and then we have unemployment. Then wages are determined respect to exchange rate changes. But in real world, some conditions affected on Nash equilibrium and wages are determined as non Nash method and government equals between benefits of workers and principals. In this paper, we survey wage making in Iran and reveal that in some courtiers such as Iran, government determines wages and create equilibrium in labor market.
Q30|Zhaoguang Hu, Xinyanh Han, & Quan Wern, Integrated Resource Strategic Planning and Power Demand-Side Management|The edited volume presents an engaging cartography of Indian economy following two decades of liberalization on the backdrop of globalization and problem of sustainability - two defining moments of post-reforms reorganization of the economy. A wide variety of sector-specific and economy-wide studies in the collection, examine the central tenets of market-centric reforms representing globalization. The research works dealing with micro- and macro-aspects of development help us form an idea of important issues, emerging debates, dominant institutions and changes required for attainment/restoration of efficiency. Most of these writings indicate the limitations of current developmental logic in their specific settings. These studies also propose measures to tackle the problems faced while presuming growth-sustainability disconnect to be temporary in nature. A number of studies introduced new analytical categories and empirical frameworks to capture current reality in better and more meaningful ways. A third strand of writings portrays conflict between the project of globalization and issue of sustainability as a distinguishing characteristic of global capitalism although the present policy framework accord highest priority to capitalist expansion. This conflict however, has put the Indian state in a perpetual act of balancing the growth objective of global capital and welfare objective meant for those experiencing exclusion in the development process.
Q30|Growth-Globalisation-Emissions Nexus: The Role of Population in Australia|Australia has sustained a relatively high economic growth rate since the 1980s compared to other developed countries. Per capita CO2 emissions tend to be highest amongst OECD countries, creating new challenges to cut back emissions toward international standards. This study explores the dynamics of economic growth, CO2 emissions (including energy consumption), population growth and globalisation (an index of openness). Our contributions toward the literature in an Australian context are the following. First, we employ a newly developed cointegration test by Bayer-Hanck (2013) to establish the long- term dynamics between CO2 emissions and growth in the presence of population growth and trade openness. Second, we find economic growth is not emissions intensive, while energy consumption is emissions intensive. Third, in an environment of increasing population, Australia needs to be energy efficient at the household level, creating appropriate infrastructure for sustainable population growth. Finally, open trade environments have been conducive to combating emissions. Our findings advocate for continued investment in alternative energy sources, particularly renewables and green technologies, as well as the development of proper infrastructure to reduce per capita energy consumption.
Q30|Growth-Globalisation-Emissions Nexus: The Role of Population in Australia|Australia has sustained a relatively high economic growth rate since the 1980s compared to other developed countries. Per capita CO2 emissions tend to be highest amongst OECD countries, creating new challenges to cut back emissions toward international standards. This study explores the dynamics of economic growth, CO2 emissions (including energy consumption), population growth and globalisation (an index of openness). Our contributions toward the literature in an Australian context are the following. First, we employ a newly developed cointegration test by Bayer-Hanck (2013) to establish the long-term dynamics between CO2 emissions and growth in the presence of population growth and trade openness. Second, we find economic growth is not emissions intensive, while energy consumption is emissions intensive. Third, in an environment of increasing population, Australia needs to be energy efficient at the household level, creating appropriate infrastructure for sustainable population growth. Finally, open trade environments have been conducive to combating emissions. Our findings advocate for continued investment in alternative energy sources, particularly renewables and green technologies, as well as the development of proper infrastructure to reduce per capita energy consumption.
Q30|The Development of the Oil Sector in Russia|The article considers the development of the oil sector of the Russian economy, which plays a?leading role in forming state budget revenues and the country’s trade balance. It analyzes the main trends and the results of development of the Russian oil sector since 1990, including the production and refining of oil, oil export, domestic consumption of oil, the prices for oil and petroleum products, tax regulation. The author suggests measures for further development of the oil sector, including the improvements in the tax system.
Q30|Conservation Planning: A Review of Return on Investment Analysis|Land and natural resource conservation programs are increasingly being evaluated on the basis of their return on investment (ROI). Conservation ROI analysis quantitatively measures the costs, benefits, and risks of investments, which allows conservation organizations to rank or prioritize them. This article surveys the literature in this area. We organize our discussion around the way studies treat the core elements of ROI, which include the definition and measurement of the conservation objective, identification of relevant baselines, the types of conservation investments considered, and investment costs. We discuss the state of the art of ROI analysis, highlight some unresolved issues, and make suggestions for improvements. We also describe options for extending ROI analysis beyond biodiversity conservation, which is the typical objective. The literature indicates that conservation planning that uses ROI analysis can considerably alter the location and targets of conservation, lead to more protection and higher quality conservation outcomes, and result in significant savings. The measurement and prediction of baseline ecological conditions and threats remains a central challenge for conservation ROI analysis, as does accounting for landowner and developer responses to conservation investments. Another key priority for future research is the identification of ways to more comprehensively incorporate ecosystem services and multiple environmental objectives into the assessment framework. (JEL: Q20, Q30, Q51, Q57)
Q30|Editor's Choice The Early History of Environmental Economics|This article traces the history of economists’ treatment of environmental problems prior to the establishment of environmental economics as a separate field in the 1960s. I examine the economics literature from the late eighteenth century onward, searching for an awareness among early economists of both the effects of economic activity on the natural and social environment and the feedback from the environment to the economy. I argue that the way in which economic theory developed made it increasingly relevant for the study of environmental issues and the design of appropriate economic policies. (JEL: B00, Q30, Q50)
Q30|Inventory management of spare parts in an energy company|We address the problem of how to determine control parameters for the inventory of spare parts of an energy company. The prevailing policy is based on an (s, S) system subject to a fill rate constraint. The parameters are decided based mainly on the expert judgment of the planners at different plants. The company is pursuing to conform all planners to the same approach, and to be more cost efficient. Our work focuses on supporting these goals. We test seven demand models using real-world data for about 21 000 items. We find that significant differences in cost and service level may appear from using one or another model. We propose a decision rule to select an appropriate model. Our approach allows us to recommend control parameters for 97.9&percnt; of the items. We also explore the impact of pooling inventory for different demand sources and the inaccuracy arising from duplicate item codes.
Q30|The Role Of The State In Creating A Green Economy|"Starting from the crisis on the real economy in 2008 it has been developed an intense discussion, supported by a number of declarations on the global scale, about the need for changes in the economy. A huge impact on this state of affairs was the analysis of the causes and effects of the economic downturn and the challenges of the future. As a result, some states have taken action to remedy the situation. Many of them were aimed at structural changes in production, consumption and environmental friendly investment. At the same time gained in importance the concept of ""low carbon economy"" and ""green economy"". The aim of this paper is to present the role of the state in the economy in terms of creating conditions for a green economy. The thesis of publication is: implementation of structural changes connected with creating a green economy requires the involvement of the state."
Q30|What Factors Drive Energy Consumption in Ghana?|Whilst most countries have drafted energy policies, the desired goals of these policies are not met. One reason may be the failure to distinguish between renewable and non-energy. The purpose of this study is to estimate the impact of economic and non-economic factors on renewable and non-renewable energy demand. The Structural Time Series Model is applied to renewable studies for the first time. The findings indicate that productivity growth and income are the major drivers of renewable and non-renewable energy consumption in Ghana. It is recommended that there should be more investments in productivity to help control non-renewable energy demand.
Q30|Energy and Economy Overview with Accent on Possibilities in Austria|With rising GDP/capita, population increase on the world scale further rise in energy demand is expected. Today’s division on rich north and poor south has added one more category: countries that are endowed with non renewable energy potentials, one that work actively on implementation of renewables and those who do have natural potential and slow to incorporate renewable due to financial, economical, war, other obstacles. Although it is said that energy should be available to all people, and strategy of diversification and security is actively promoted one more aspect even in the most developed world is not tackled: better interrelation, trade, electrical market transparent in all forms (all renewable, nonrenewable part of bills are visible), easy change and substitution of electrical source, and weak social policy to one that lives under lower income brackets. Austria as highly developed country can serve as educative source, and with reaching its own renewable potentials gain additional strength in exporting clean energy (hydroelectrically plants, wind etc.).
Q30|The agri-food sector in Romania – an analysis of the resources-utilization correlation in the post-accession period|As important part of national economy, the agri-food sector had oscillating evolutions in the post-accession period, mainly generated by the need to get in line with the EU requirements. The analysis of the resources-utilizations ratio, from the point of view of production account, reveals significant modifications, as regards both the direct relations between the different subsectors of national economy and the relation between the overall sector and the rest of national economy. Based on data processing from the input-output table from national accounts, the present approach tries to make a diagnosis of the agri-food economy resources utilization in relation to other branches of the economy.
Q30|Изследване На Социално-Икономическите Ефекти На Земетресението, Цунамито И Ядрената Авария Във Фукушима През Март 2011 Година Върху Агро-Хранителните Вериги В Япония<BR>[A study on socio-economic impacts of earthquake, tsunami and Fukushima nuclear disaster of march 2011 on agri-food chains in Japan]|В статията се прави оценка на ефектите от земетресението, цунамито и ядрената авария във Фукушима през март 2011 година върху селското стопанство и хранителния сектор на Япония. Най напред се представят трите бедствия и техните последствия. След това се оценява ефектът върху фермите и аграрните ресурси. Следва оценка на последствията върху хранителната промишленост. След това се представя размера на радиационното замърсяване на земеделските и хранителни продукти. Накрая, се прави оценка на ефектите върху пазарите, потребителите и международната търговия. Обобщена е реакцията на различните агенти, оценен е прогреса и предизвикателствата на възстановяването и реконструкцията след бедствията, и са извлечени поуки от японския опит.
Q30|Dinamica del petroleo en Mexico. Un modelo de dos sectores|El articulo hace un analisis de un monopolio que extrae un recurso no renovable que se enfrenta a dos mercados: uno nacional y uno exterior. Utilizamos evidencia de la economia mexicana respecto a las tres mezclas de petroleo que se producen y exportan. Utilizamos el modelo de Fischer y Laxminayaran (2004) y lo extendemos al caso de la economia mexicana con dos mercados y tres bienes. Los resultados que encontramos son los siguientes: (i) la mezcla mas competitiva de la economia mexicana es la Maya al ser la mas barata, la que mas se produce y la que mas se exporta; (ii) los precios son mas volatiles que las variables de produccion que se consideraron en el estudio; (iii) las elasticidades de las mezclas Istmo y Olmeca son las mas inelasticas, por lo que un aumento en el precio de estas mezclas disminuye su cantidad exportada. La mezcla Maya tiene una elasticidad mayor, por lo que un aumento en su precio incrementa la cantidad exportada; (iv) las mezclas son complementarias y sustitutas entre ellas en casos especificos y (v) el corolario numero 1 y la proposicion numero 1 del modelo de Fischer y Laxminarayan se replica en el caso de la economia mexicana.
Q30|The Controversy of Corporate Social Responsibility: What Is Best For Business|"The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the subject of permanent theoretical debates and the constant object of a company's business practices but also of some controversy. This makes it necessary to bring some valid arguments to support the growing role of CSR in the company' s efforts to achieve its objectives. This article aims to contribute to a better understanding of CSR issues and how it may help by better meeting the demands of society. It begins with a brief overview of the phenomenon of social irresponsibility which is justifying a better understanding of CSR issues. Therefore, the second part deals with the concept and the improved content of CSR which includes an authorâ€™s proposal of a new updated structure of the CSR content and ends with the presentation of its potential contribution to the company's performance and to better satisfy the demands of society. The conclusions highlight the main ideas and arguments of the article. At first, they present the arguments in favor of CSR that are justified by the changes in contemporary society and then the ones which stems from the fact that the companies are members of the society. The article has as support the idea of Riley (2012) who argues that ""ignoring CSR potentially damage stakeholders, embracing CSR creates value""."
Q30|Putting a Carbon Charge on Federal Coal: Legal and Economic Issues|US policy to limit greenhouse gas emissions is currently driven, in part, by the US Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed Clean Power Plan, which seeks a drop in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from fossil-fueled power plants—a “downstream” approach to regulation. Here, we consider an alternative, or possibly complementary, regulatory perspective - What is the legal and economic feasibility of imposing an “upstream” CO2 charge on coal production at its extraction site? Specifically, our focus is on leased coal from federal lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Such a carbon charge is designed, in principle, to embody the cumulative “lifecycle” externalities from coal mining to combustion (or other “downstream” utilization). Our legal analysis concludes that BLM has the statutory and regulatory authority to impose such a charge and that it would be best to add it to the royalty rate. But a large fee that would dramatically reduce revenues could invite judicial concern. The economic case is weaker than the legal case because production on state, private, and tribal lands (60 percent of total production) would not be subject to the charge and so could ramp up in response to the economic disadvantage the charge would cause for coal on federal lands, among other reasons. Best would be a comprehensive set of charges on royalties for all fossil fuels, irrespective of ownership.
Q30|Key determinants of shale gas impact on energy prices|Recent advances in drilling technology have led to profitable extraction of natural gas from shale gas formations. Shale gas has changed the economics of natural gas production in US as the sudden increase in supply has resulted in significantly lower gas prices. Starting 2008, the difference between gas prices in the United States and Europe has widened, with European gas prices even three times higher as compared to US ones. In North America, coal has been replaced by gas in the US electricity generating sector due to the sharp decrease of gas prices. Furthermore, coal reserves were partly exported to the EU, which has led to a decrease in prices in the EU and a replacement of gas by coal in the EU electricity sector. However, the effect cannot be entirely attributed to shale gas revolution, as other factors contributed such as minimum historical prices for carbon emission allowances in recent years and a decreasing consumption due to economic recession. The success of shale gas in the US has prompted companies and governments to assess the possibilities of replicating the shale gas production in Europe.
Q30|Preventing environmental disasters : market based vs command and control policies|"The aper compares the e?ects of market-based and command-and-control climate policies on the direction of technical change and the prevention of environmental disasters. Drawing on the model proposed in Acemoglu et al. (2012, American Economic Review), we show that market-based policies (carbon taxes and subsidies towards clean sectors) exhibit bounded win- dow of opportunities: delays in their implementation make them completely ine?ective both in redirecting technical change and in avoiding environmental catastrophes. On the contrary, we ?nd that command-and-control interventions guarantee policy e?ectiveness irrespectively on the timing of their introduction. As command-and-control policies are always able to direct technical change toward ""green"" technologies and to prevent climate disasters, they constitute a valuable alternative to market-based interventions"
Q30|Noncooperative Resource Exploitation by Patient Players|We consider a discrete-time dynamic game in which a finite number of players extract a non-renewable resource and derive consumption solely from the extracted amount (cake-eating game). Markov perfect Nash equilibria consisting of linear strategies can be constructed in this game not only if the players have time-preference factors that are smaller than 1, but also if these factors are equal to or even larger than 1. We demonstrate this result both for the case of identical players and for the case of heterogeneous players. In addition, we study the influence of the model parameters on the equilibrium. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
Q30|Zukunftsfähige Unternehmen in einer Postwachstumsgesellschaft. Eine theoretische und empirische Untersuchung|Das auf Expansion beruhende sozio-technische Gesellschaftssystem ist nicht zukunftsfähig und bedarf einer grundlegenden Transformation zu einer kleineren Ökonomie mit geringerem Ressourcenverbrauch. Der notwendige Wandel erfordert eine Abkehr von wirtschaftlichem Wachstum als gesellschaftliches Ziel. Dirk Posse analysiert die bisher wenig untersuchte Rolle von Unternehmen in einer Postwachstumsgesellschaft. Seine These ist, dass Unternehmen Handlungsspielräume besitzen, um unternehmerische Wachstumstreiber zu überwinden und um somit als Pioniere des Wandels suffiziente Konsum- und Lebensstile zu fördern. Eine wachstumskritische Betrachtung von Unternehmen baut auf der bisherigen Diskussion um nachhaltige Unternehmen auf und erweitert sie um Fragen bezüglich der Wachstumswirkung eines Unternehmens. Das Ziel ist, einen Orientierungsrahmen für zukunftsfähige Unternehmensstrategien zu entwickeln, die wachstumsunabhängiges Wirtschaften ermöglichen. Die ausführliche theoretische Auseinandersetzung ergänzt eine empirische Untersuchung von Pionierunternehmen im Ernährungssektor anhand einer Fokusgruppendiskussion. Inwiefern zukunftsfähige Unternehmenskonzepte gefunden werden können, hat eine erhebliche Auswirkung auf die Frage, ob die Menschheit es schafft, ihre Konsum- und Lebensstile by design und damit auf einem sozial ausgewogenen Weg (wieder) in Einklang mit den planetarischen Grenzen zu bringen. Dieses Buch versteht sich als Beitrag zu diesem Suchprozess.
Q30|Ulaştırma Sektöründe CO2 Emisyonu ve Enerji Ar-Ge Harcamaları İlişkisi|Harmful gases (such as; carbondioxide, methane and nitrousoxide) which are released as a result of energy activities conducted by primary energy sources lead to emergence of unintended consequences such as global warming and ozone layer depletion and in this sense disruption of the green growth process in terms of countries. Petrol, diesel and gas are used as fuels in the transport sector increases the release of toxic gases. However, in recent years, depending on the development of technological advances and R&D activities, renewable energy sources in the sense of partial provide reduction of the emission of toxic gases such as CO2. In this study, the relationship between R&D expenditures and CO2 emissions in the transport sector, on the basis of selected countries for the period 1990-2010 were analyzed by the models of Dynamic Panel Data. According to results of analysis in the selected countries it was seen that R&D expenditures has a positive impact on CO2 emissions in line with expectations. In addition, there is a long term relationship among R&D expenditures, CO2 emissions and energy consumption.
Q30|The Resource Curse Hypothesis: Evidence from Ecuador|The aim of this work is to evaluate the economic stability of the choices made by the Government of Ecuador regarding the management of natural resources in the context of the Revolucion Ciudadana designed to create a society based on Buen Vivir. The choice of an intensification of the mining sector not only shows a change in the government’s perspective (from Sumak Kawsayto sustainable development), but also requires an analysis that highlights the possible risks outlined in the recent theory defined as the Resource Curse Hypothesis. Indeed, in this work, the structural conditions, which the reference theoretical framework suggests are essential to avoiding the Resource Curse Hypothesis, will be analysed in order to assess the economic effectiveness of the change of perspective implemented in the Revolucion Ciudadana.
Q30|Chinese resource demand and the natural resource supplier| This article provides empirical evidence on the effects of Chinese resource demand on the resource-rich natural resource supplier using the example of Australia. A structural VAR model is used to examine the effects of Chinese resource demand, commodity prices and foreign output on the macroeconomy with a formally specified mining and resource export sector. The key findings of the article are that shocks to Chinese demand and commodity prices result in a sustained increase in commodity prices and mining investment and a positive impact on the resource sector. However, these shocks eventually lead to lower real domestic output with factors of production moving out of the nonresource sectors and into the resource sector, resulting in a fall in nonresource sector output which is not fully offset by the rise in resource sector output. The results also indicate some market power by the natural resource supplier.
Q30|Economic Experiments and Environmental Policy : A Review|Abstract: We summarize and review the literature on two types of economic experiments. First we discuss the use of experimental laboratories to testbed market solutions to issues in environmental policy. We concentrate on experiments with one and two-sided markets, and applications in the domain of water allocation, food safety, and tradable permit systems. Second, we explore the consequences for environmental policies of the vast body of literature refuting the assumption that humans are only concerned with their own private welfare. We review the literature addressing whether government intervention is always necessary to protect the environment, and also whether it is always effective in doing so.
Q30|Depletion and Development: Natural Resource Supply with Endogenous Field Opening|Supply of a nonrenewable resource adjusts through two margins: the rate at which new fields are opened and the rate of depletion of open fields. The paper combines these margins in a model in which there is a continuum of fields with varying capital costs. Opening a new field involves sinking a capital cost, and the date of opening is chosen to maximize the present value of the field. Depletion of each open field follows a Hotelling rule, modified by the fact that faster depletion reduces the amount that can ultimately be extracted. The paper studies the equilibrium paths of output and price. Under specific but reasonable assumptions on demand and the cost distribution of deposits it is found that the rate of growth of price is constant and independent of the rate of interest, depending instead on characteristics of demand and geology.
Q30|Does a Renewable Fuel Standard for Biofuels Reduce Climate Costs?|Recent literature on biofuels has questioned whether biofuels policies are likely to reduce the negative effects of climate change. Our analysis explicitly takes into account that oil is a nonrenewable natural resource. A blending mandate has no effect on total cumulative oil extraction. However, extraction of oil is postponed as a consequence of the renewable fuel standard. Thus, if emissions from biofuels are negligible, the standard will have beneficial climate effects. The standard also reduces total fuel (i.e., oil plus biofuels) consumption initially. Hence, even if emissions from biofuels are nonnegligible, a renewable fuel standard may still reduce climate costs. In fact our simulations show that even for biofuels that are almost as emissions intensive as oil, a renewable fuel standard has beneficial climate effects.
Q30|Industrial Policy for a Sustainable Growth Path|"Industrial policy is back on the agenda and the consensus is that it must be different ""this time"" from the past. We redefine industrial policy for industrialised countries as a strategy to promote ""high-road competitiveness"", understood as the ability of an economy to achieve ""Beyond-GDP""' Goals. High-road strategies are based on advanced skills, innovation, supporting institutions, ecological ambition and an activating social policy. This ""new industrial policy"" is systemic, working in alignment with other policy strands and supporting social and environmental goals; it affects the structure of the economy as the whole not only the manufacturing sector. Short-term actions, such as protecting employment in unviable companies, low prices for fossil fuels, or reducing wages in high-income economies are counterproductive. To pursue an industrial policy that targets society''s ultimate goals without public micromanagement will be challenging. It could be achieved 1. by setting incentives, particularly those impacting on technical progress (e.g., to make it less labour-saving and more energy-saving), 2. by the use of the important role governments play in the education and research sectors, 3. by greater public awareness and 4. if consumer preferences will call for socio-ecological transition."
Q30|Nonrenewable Resources, Strategic Behavior and the Hotelling Rule: An Experiment|We use a laboratory experiment to investigate a novel reason for the lack of empirical support for the Hotelling rule for nonrenewable resources. Specifically, we test whether producers with large resource stocks focus less on the dynamic component of their extraction decision, making them shift extraction to the present and focus more on strategic behavior. Exploiting exogenous variation in stock size in a nonrenewable resource duopoly laboratory experiment, we find that producers with large stocks indeed pay significantly less attention to dynamic optimization, and shift extraction to the present, leading them to overproduce relative to the Hotelling rule.
Q30|Are Resources Cursed? An Investigation of Chinese Provinces|No abstract is available for this item.
Q30|A Földgázfogyasztás Várható Alakulása A Magyar Energiamixben| Magyarország energiamixében jelenleg a földgáz szerepel a legnagyobb súllyal. Aránya azonban csökkenő tendenciát mutat. A hivatalos energiakoncepció a földgáz szerepének gyors mérséklődésével számol, ami annak a következménye, hogy a megújuló energiaforrások részarányát a jelenlegi (BP adatbázisából számított) 3%-ról 2020-ra 13%-ra teszik. Tekintettel arra, hogy napjainkban a tervezett és a következő másfél évtizedben belépő jelentősebb erőművek szinte mindegyike földgázra alapoz, így a földgáz súlya más előrejelzések szerint az energiafelhasználásban nem csökkenni, hanem sokkal inkább növekedni fog. A tanulmányban idősor elemzéssel bemutatásra kerül a primer energiafogyasztás, a földgázfogyasztás, valamint a megújuló energia fogyasztás várható alakulása Magyarországon. Az eredmények szerint a jövőben a primer energiafogyasztás csökkenése, majd lassú növekedése prognosztizálható. Az energiamixen belül Magyarországon a földgázfogyasztás jelentős csökkenése, valamint a megújuló energia fogyasztás növekedése jelezhető előre 2022-re. Ha a földgáz felhasználásban a jövőbeni tendencia megvalósul, a megújuló energiaforrásokkal teljes mértékben nem lehet majd kiváltani a földgázfogyasztás csökkenéséből adódó kieső energia mennyiségét. --------------------------------------------------------------------------- At present natural gas is the most significant in the energy mix of Hungary. Its share, however, is decreasing. The official energy concept presumes quick decline in respect to gas use, owing to the growing share of renewable energy sources which is expected to jump from the current 3% (calculated from BP database) to 13% by 2020. Considering the fact that almost all the planned major power plants to be implemented in the next one and a half decade will be based on natural gas, the ratio of natural gas will not decline but rather increase in the energy use. The paper uses time series analysis to introduce the expected primary energy use, natural gas use and renewable energy use in Hungary. According to the results, the primary energy use is predicted to drop then slowly increase in the future. Within the energy mix, the natural gas consumption will considerably decline and the renewable energy consumption will increase by 2022 in Hungary. If the forecasted future tendency is realised in natural gas use, the renewable energy sources cannot fully replace the quantity of energy lost due to the drop of natural gas consumption.
Q30|Mapping and Quantification of the Beef Chain in Brazil| GESis (Neves 2008) is a practical process for developing strategic plans for production chains and was applied to several projects in Brazil. One of the initial steps is mapping and quantification of production chains. This step provides knowledge of the size of the chain analyzed, in terms of social and economic magnitude. Using the method GESis, the main objective of this article was to estimate the financial transactions for one of the most important production chains to Brazil, the beef chain. In this research, the gross value of the beef sector in Brazil was estimated at $167.5 billion in 2010. This material can serve as a stimulus to public and private decision-making and it shows the intimate interconnection between the links in the chain and its ability to generate revenues, taxes and jobs.
Q30|Drivers of Price and Nonprice Water Conservation by Urban and Rural Water Utilities: An Application of Predictive Models to Four Southern States| This study examines water system characteristics, managers’ attitudes and perceptions toward water conservation, and future planning strategies that influence the adoption of water conservation programs for urban and rural communities. We surveyed water system managers in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Florida; and we parameterized predictive adoption models for price-based (PC) and nonprice-based (NPC) conservation programs. Notably, results suggest that information about the price elasticity of water demand for a community does encourage PC and NPC adoption; and we found no evidence that PC and NPC adoption is jointly considered by water systems.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|Drivers of Price and Nonprice Water Conservation by Urban and Rural Water Utilities: An Application of Predictive Models to Four Southern States| This study examines water system characteristics, managers’ attitudes and perceptions toward water conservation, and future planning strategies that influence the adoption of water conservation programs for urban and rural communities. We surveyed water system managers in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Florida; and we parameterized predictive adoption models for price-based (PC) and nonprice-based (NPC) conservation programs. Notably, results suggest that information about the price elasticity of water demand for a community does encourage PC and NPC adoption; and we found no evidence that PC and NPC adoption is jointly considered by water systems.
Q30|Are Resources a Curse? An Investigation of Chinese Provinces| The phenomenon of low economic growth in resource-rich regions is recognized as the “resource curse”. This research empirically shows the existence of a resource curse at Chinese province level. Of two widely offered explanations for the resource curse, our analysis supports the crowding-out effect in China rather than the institution explanation. Education and R&D are the two main crowded-out factors.
Q30|On the Multiplicity of Equilibrium Strategies in a Non-Renewable Natural Resource Duopoly|We identify two possible equilibrium configurations for a non-renewable resource duopoly in a discrete-time framework. For the purpose of illustration, we suppose initial endowments of firms that allow for a maximum of two extraction periods. In the first possible equilibrium, the duopoly exists for two periods, while in the second possible equilibrium, the duopoly lasts only for one period and the firm with the higher initial endowment becomes a monopolist in the second and last period. As neither equilibrium configuration dominates the other for both firms at the same time, it is unclear whether firms acting simultaneously can coordinate on one particular configuration.
Q30|Rent Taxes and Royalties in Designing Fiscal Regimes for Non-Renewable Resources|A fundamental issues in designing any fiscal regime for non-renewable resources is the balance between rent taxes and royalties. This paper reviews the core issues that arise, in terms of both efficient rent extraction and correcting various market failures. Issues of asymmetric information, for instance, can rationalize using both instruments. The paper also shows that, even though they effectively involve the choice of distinct parameters at several dates, rent taxes are not subject to the time consistency problem that is central to the extractive industries, but royalties are (although time consistent royalty policy is efficient conditional on initial resource stocks).
Q30|The Green Paradox in Open Economies|This paper explains how, in the context of incomplete coordination among all countries, unilateral policies that might at first sight seem pro-green could actually turn out to harm the global environment. The free-riding motives and the difficulty of reaching an effective international environmental agreement are reviewed. As a first step, the various channels that lead to carbon leakage in static models of open economies are identified, and some simulation results are reported. This is complemented by a review of the possibility of green paradox outcomes in dynamic open-economy models with an exhaustible resource exploited by far-sighted firms. It is shown that border tax adjustments can lead to a green paradox outcome. Directions for future research are suggested.
Q30|Wood-Based Bioenergy|During recent years increased attention has been given to second-generation wood-based bioenergy. The carbon stored in the forest is highest when there is little or no harvest from the forest. Increasing the harvest from a forest, in order to produce more bioenergy, may thus conflict with the direct benefit of the forest as a carbon sink. We analyze this conflict using a simple model where bioenergy and fossil energy are perfect substitutes. Our analysis shows how the social optimum will depend on the social cost of carbon, and how the social optimum may be obtained by suitable taxes and subsidies.
Q30|Resource rents, power, and political stability|We study the association between resource rents and political stability, highlighting the importance of the distribution of political power as a mediating factor. We present a simple theoretical model showing that increased rents are likely to be positively associated with the stability of a powerful incumbent while destabilizing a less powerful incumbent. Our empirical analysis confirms this prediction: Using panel data for more than 120 countries from 1984-2009, our results show that rents can promote political stability, but only when the political power is sufficiently concentrated. Indeed, if the incumbent is sufficiently weak, rents fuel instability. Our main results hold when we control for the effects of income, quality of institutions, time varying common shocks, country fixed effects and various additional covariates
Q30|Kurz zum Klima: Nachhaltigkeit und Naturkapital – wie viel und wie wichtig?|In der Diskussion um die Nachhaltigkeit hat das Naturkapital von jeher eine besondere Rolle gespielt, allerdings bleibt die Abgrenzung dessen, was dem Naturkapital eigentlich zugerechnet wird und wie sein Wert gemessen werden kann, schwierig.
Q30|The Romanian Food Sector Attractiveness For Foreign Investment|The investment in the Romanian food sector represents an opportunity for foreign companies due to the available natural resources, to the large number of consumers or to Romania’s European status. Agriculture, food processing and marketing are characterized by different percentages of foreign investment. Romanian agriculture is characterized by a continuous foreign capital infusion. The recent farmland purchase liberalization will constitute a supplementary motivation for foreign investors. The article proposes a short assessment of foreign investment in the local food retail sector and it highlights the main points of interest for foreign investment. The materials used were: statistical data, information from national and European databases, official statements made by community and national bodies, articles and scientific papers, specialized media information.
Q30|Definición y análisis de alternativas para desarrollar un plan de choque en el sector productor de carbón al interior del país|La minería del carbón en Colombia ha tenido un mayor dinamismo en los últimos años tanto porque los precios internacionales aumentaron hasta 2011 como porque se ha expandido la producción. Con la evolución reciente de los precios hacia abajo surgen preguntas sobre el comportamiento de este sector en el futuro y su incidencia en las cuentas fiscales, las exportaciones y las regalías, así como en la inversión extranjera. En particular, la situación de los productores carboneros a pequeña y mediana escala, en el interior del país, les ha llevado a pedir una atención especial de las autoridades. Por ello, la UPME solicitó a FEDESARROLLO un análisis de los instrumentos de política pública que podrían ser usados para estabilizar los ingresos de estos productores, tales como mecanismos para reducir las fluctuaciones de los precios al productor como medidas que contribuyan a mejorar la competitividad de este producto.
Q30|El valor del capital natural, un indicador en la sostenibilidad de la extracción del carbón colombiano (2004-2011)|Este artículo muestra una aplicación de la metodología del Valor Capital Natural en tiempo discreto de Maller (2001) buscando responder a la pregunta de si la extracción de carbón ha sido sostenible para Colombia, entre 2004 y 2011. Se estima el excedente del consumidor y del productor, a través de la estimacion de una funcion de demanda para el carbon colombiano y los estados financieros de las empresas del sector carbonífero en Colombia respectivamente. La suma de dichos excedentes da una medida de bienestar social, que junto con la tasa de descuento ambiental para Colombia determina los precios sombra bajo dos modelos de asignacion de los recursos (autónoma y no autónoma). Analizando esta informacion y el indicador de sostenibilidad empleado se concluye que la extraccion de carbón en Colombia para el periodo no ha mostrado una senda sostenible.
Q30|Optimal energy transition and taxation of non-renewable resources|This paper investigates the optimal taxation path of a non-renewable resource in the presence of an imperfect substitute renewable resource. We present an optimal growth model and characterize the social optimum and the decentralized equilibrium. We show that the economy gradually reduces the share of non-renewable resource and converges to a steady state in which it uses only the renewable resource. The decentralized economy converges to the same steady state as the social optimum in terms of capital stock and consumption whether there is a regulator intervention or not. What matters for welfare, however, is the speed at which the economy approaches the clean state - the energy transition, which determines the level of environmental damages. We obtain the optimal taxation rule and show that its time profile can be either always increasing, decreasing or U-shaped depending on the initial state of the economy. Finally we provide some simulation results to illustrate these theoretical findings.
Q30|Steady-state properties in a class of dynamic models|We characterize the location, stability and approach-time of optimal steady states in single-state, infinite-horizon, autonomous models by means of a simple function of the state variable, defined in terms of the model's primitives. The method does not require the solution of the underlying dynamic optimization problem. Its application is illustrated in the context of a generic class of resource management problems.
Q30|Trends in the extraction of non-renewable resources: The case of fossil energy|This paper considers a strategy for the extraction and production of non-renewable resources that are finite in quantity. Specifically, we illustrate empirical data on reserves, production, consumption, and price evolution for fossil fuel. Our model is an intertemporal model of a short decision time horizon with a monopolistic resource producer extracting non-renewable resources. The model is solved numerically using a finite horizon solution method called Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC), which approximates well models with a longer decision time horizon. Consistent with the results of recent empirical studies, our numerical solution method shows a U-shaped path for the price and an inverted U-shaped path for the extraction rate, in the case of modest initial stock of proved reserves.
Q30|Implications of small modular reactors for climate change mitigation|Achieving climate policy targets will require large-scale deployment of low-carbon energy technologies, including nuclear power. The small modular reactor (SMR) is viewed as a possible solution to the problems of energy security as well as climate change. In this paper, we use an integrated assessment model (IAM) to investigate the evolution of a global energy portfolio with SMRs under a stringent climate policy. Technology selection in the model is based on costs; we use results from previous expert elicitation studies of SMR costs. We find that the costs of achieving a 2°C target are lower with SMRs than without. The costs are higher when large reactors do not compete for market share compared to a world in which they can compete freely. When both SMRs and large reactors compete for market share, reduction in mitigation cost is achieved only under advanced assumptions about SMR technology costs and future cost improvements. While the availability of SMRs could lower mitigation costs by a moderate amount, actual realization of these benefits would depend on the rapid up-scaling of SMRs in the near term. Such rapid deployment could be limited by several social, institutional and behavioral obstacles.
Q30|Jump processes in natural gas markets|Many analysts believe that natural gas will have an increasingly important role in the next few decades. Accordingly, understanding the underpinnings of natural gas prices is likely to be critical, both to policy analysts and to market participants. At present, it is common to assume that these prices follow a geometric Brownian motion, i.e., that log returns – the inter-temporal differences in the natural log of prices – are normally distributed (possibly allowing for some form of mean-reversion). Increasingly, however, it has been recognized that the arrival of new information can lead to unexpectedly rapid changes – or jumps – in spot prices. The implication is that the presumption of normally distributed log-returns may be suspect. In particular, the prospect for abnormally fat tails becomes important. This article investigates the potential presence of jumps in two key natural gas prices: the spot price at the Henry Hub in the U. S., and the spot price for natural gas at the National Balancing Point in the U. K. We found compelling empirical evidence for the importance of jumps in both markets, though jumps appear to be more important in the U. K.
Q30|A new means of governing artisanal and small-scale mining? Fairtrade gold and development in Tanzania|This paper offers a critical analysis of the most contemporary development intervention concerned with ameliorating the problems of Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM) in sub-Saharan Africa, namely the emergence of Fairtrade Gold. Through an analysis of Fairtrade Gold in Tanzania, this paper argues that despite Fairtrade׳s promises to ASM operators of better prices, its potential efficacy is compromised by the informality of local gold markets and a deeply-rooted mistrust of development intervention more broadly. However, its greatest contribution may lie elsewhere in the drive for a social and environmental justice framework that privileges increased recognition for small-scale gold miners in the global South.
Q30|Slow violence, extraction and human rights defence in Tanzania: Notes from the field|This article explores the different manifestations of violence in the gold-producing region of Tanzania, drawing on findings from empirical research. In doing so, it illustrates how the gold mining sector in Tanzania, despite being associated with contestation and ongoing violence, has continued to produce at a high level. The article calls for a broadening of the definition of “violence” within resource-rich regions in order to account for significant environmental and non-physical forms of violence that occur over broad temporal scales, or what is referred to as “slow violence”. This would allow for a closer examination of the range of effects on communities and the environment at sites of extraction, including the impacts on human rights defenders, the focus of this analysis. The aim is to extend understanding of violence beyond extreme acts and rather to account for a more extensive range of manifestations across resource-rich regions of Tanzania.
Q30|Main challenges of mineral resources policy of Poland|Meeting the demand for mineral commodities is crucial for sustainable development and social welfare. Prospecting and exploration in Poland in the second half of 20th century allowed to discover and demonstrate important resources of various minerals. National economic security regarding the domestic mineral commodities supply is estimated by the mineral static sufficiency coefficient expressed in years. Mineral resources of active mines are estimated to satisfy the demand in the coming years. The estimations vary depending on the resource – lignite resources from currently operating mines will be depleted in 14 years, sand and gravel natural aggregates in 12 years, industrial dolomite in 15 years, ball clays in only 4 years. Zn–Pb ores in active mines are expected to be completely exhausted during the next 3 years. Considerable resources have been identified but are not currently extracted. The minerals may suffice for longer if the yet untapped resources will be exploited. The Polish demand for mineral commodities is only partly satisfied by the domestic supply. Numerous minerals which are not extracted in Poland need to be imported. Extraction of many mineral deposits in Poland is restrained by the actual or planned land use, land property ownership, environment protection exigencies, social opposition and the NIMBY syndrome. Legal regulations can help to solve the conflicts which limit the accessibility of mineral deposits for exploration and exploitation. Legal protection of the areas of known and expected mineral deposits occurrence is necessary.
Q30|Reviewing electricity production cost assessments|A thorough review of twelve recent studies of production costs from different power generating technologies was conducted and a wide range in cost estimates was found. The reviewed studies show differences in their methodologies and assumptions, making the stated cost figures not directly comparable and unsuitable to be generalized to represent the costs for entire technologies. Moreover, current levelized costs of electricity methodologies focus only on the producer's costs, while additional costs viewed from a consumer perspective and on external costs with impact on society should be included if these results are to be used for planning. Although this type of electricity production cost assessments can be useful, the habit of generalizing electricity production cost figures for entire technologies is problematic. Cost escalations tend to occur rapidly with time, the impact of economies of scale is significant, costs are in many cases site-specific, and country-specific circumstances affect production costs. Assumptions on the cost-influencing factors such as discount rates, fuel prices and heat credits fluctuate considerably and have a significant impact on production cost results. Electricity production costs assessments similar to the studies reviewed in this work disregard many important cost factors, making them inadequate for decision and policy making, and should only be used to provide rough ballpark estimates with respect to a given system boundary. Caution when using electricity production cost estimates are recommended, and further studies investigating cost under different circumstances, both for producers and society as a whole are called for. Also, policy makers should be aware of the potentially widely different results coming from electricity production cost estimates under different assumptions.
Q30|Strategic resource extraction and substitute development|We analyze a dynamic game between a buyer and a seller of a nonrenewable resource. The seller chooses resource supply; the buyer can pay a fixed cost to invent a perfect substitute for the resource at any time. In closed-loop equilibrium, the buyer adopts the substitute when the resource is exhausted. Investing makes the buyer worse off because it decreases resource supply, destroys his ability to derive surplus from the resource through delaying the investment cost incurrence, and causes a larger share of the resource stock to be sold at his reservation price. From the seller's perspective, the buyer's ability to develop a substitute is equivalent to an already available substitute with a higher marginal cost.
Q30|Prices of durable nonrenewable natural resources under stochastic investment opportunities|We take a capital asset pricing approach to the determination of the price of a nonrenewable natural resource in the case where the resource is durable, in the sense that once extracted it becomes a productive asset held above ground. The portfolio choice is then made up of the following assets: a stock of nonrenewable resource held in the ground that yields no dividend, a stock of resources held above ground that yields a dividend in the form of a flow of productive services, and a stock of composite good that can be held either in the form of productive capital or of a bond whose return is given. There is a stochastic element to the rate of change of productivity in both the production of the composite good and in the extraction of the resource. It is shown that the resulting prediction for the price path of the resource differs considerably from the one that follows from the elementary Hotelling model and that no unambiguous prediction can be drawn analytically about the pattern of behavior of that price path.
Q30|Forward trading in exhaustible-resource oligopoly|We analyze oligopolistic exhaustible-resource depletion when firms can trade forward contracts on deliveries – a market structure relevant for some resource markets (e.g., storable pollution permits, hydro-based power pools) – and find that trading forwards can have substantial implications for resource depletion. We show that when firms’ initial resource-stocks are the same, the subgame-perfect equilibrium path approaches the perfectly competitive path as firms trade forwards frequently. But when the initial stocks differ, firms can credibly escape part of the competitive pressure of forward contracting. It is a unique feature of the resource model that equilibrium contracting and the degree of competition depends on resource endowments.
Q30|Optimal Monetary Responses to Oil Discoveries|This paper studies how monetary policy should respond to news about an oil discovery, using a workhorse New Keynesian model. Good news about future production can create a recession today under exchange rate pegs and a simple Taylor rule, as seen in practice. This is explained by forward-looking inflation. Recession is avoided by a Taylor rule that accommodates changes in the natural level of output, which closely approximates optimal policy. Central banks have an incentive to exploit oil revenues by appreciating the terms of trade, creating “Dutch disease” and a deflationary bias which is overcome by committing to future policy.
Q30|Non-renewable Resources in Asian Economies: Perspective of Availability, Applicability Acceptability, and Affordability|This paper reviews the factors that determine the sustainability of nonrenewable energy production and consumption in Asian economies. It reviews the recent literature on the issue and all of the key findings under the 4As framework (Availability, Applicability, Acceptability, and Affordability) which is derived from the classical Hotelling non-renewable resource economics models. Conclusions derived focus on the implications of the fast growth in non-renewable energy consumption and its outpacing the growth in indigenous production, the uneven distribution of exploitable non-renewable energy resources, the potentials of shale oil and shale gas, the role of coal, renewable energy and nuclear energy, the reform of domestic energy markets, and the environmental impacts of the use of nonrenewable energy in the Asian economies.
Q30|Limit-Pricing and the (Un)Effectiveness of the Carbon Tax|This paper questions the ability of a carbon tax to reduce oil extraction. Demand for oil is very price inelastic. Facing such demand, an extractive cartel induces the highest price that does not destroy its demand: it tolerates ”non-drastic” substitutes but deters substitution possibilities that have the potential to drastically deteriorate its demand. Limit-pricing equilibria of non-renewable resource markets sharply differ from conventional Hotelling outcomes. Oil taxes become neutral. Policies only reduce current oil extraction when they support existing non-drastic substitutes. Since the carbon tax applies to oil and to its current carbon substitutes, it induces higher oil current production.
Q30|The Natural Resource Curse and Institutions in Post-Soviet Countries|We examine the effect of natural resource exports on economic performance during the 1996-2011 period in the 15 independent countries that formerly comprised the Soviet Union. These countries were a largely homogeneous group with respect to social and institutional context; however, these countries began to demonstrate marked differences from one another with respect to these factors during the transition, which has resulted in unique cross-section and time variation. Using several panel regression models that address the endogeneity and clustering issues, our results suggest that natural resources crowd out manufacturing sector unless the quality of domestic institutions is sufficiently high.
Q30|The early history of environmental economics|This paper considers economists’ treatment of problems related to the environment prior to the establishment of environmental economics as a separate field in the 1960s. In discussing the literature from the late 18th century onwards, it looks on the one hand for awareness in the work of the early economists of the effects of economic activity on the natural and social environment and of the feedback from the environment to the economy. On the other hand, it describes how economic theory developed in a way which made it increasingly relevant for the study of environmental issues and the design of economic policy.
Q30|Convergence of carbon dioxide performance across Swedish industrial sectors: An environmental index approach|The overall objective of the paper is to analyze convergence of CO2 emission intensity across manufacturing sectors in Sweden. Our approach differs from previous work on carbon convergence in that it employs a theoretical framework to construct a CO2 performance index, which explicitly takes into account that industrial firms produce good as well as bad outputs. This index is then used as the dependent variable in a growth-type regression equation. We employ a data set covering 14 industrial sectors over the time period 1990–2008. The results suggest the presence of conditional β-convergence in CO2 performance among the industrial sectors in Sweden. Moreover, the speed of convergence varies significantly in the sense that the higher the capital intensity is, the lower is the convergence rate to the different steady states. This is likely to reflect the importance of – and in part the costs associated with – capital turnover to achieve a transition towards lower CO2 emission paths.
Q30|Rationality in Precious Metals Forward Markets: Evidence of Behavioural Deviations in the Gold Markets|We offer the first examination of whether the gold forward rate is an unbiased predictor of the future gold spot rate. We find strong evidence that it is not, particularly at longer maturities. Building on Aggarwal and Zong's (2008) approach to allow for investor risk aversion, we then examine if these deviations from rationality can be explained by behavioural factors such as market optimism and over-reaction to news. We find that forecast errors in the gold market generally suffer from overreaction to observed spot price changes but underreact to outflows of gold from Exchange Traded Funds. Further, the forward premium is found to be a consistently optimistic estimate over the full sample. Finally, while the market mood is shown to vary greatly over time, swinging from pessimism in the 1990's to optimism after 2000, the forecast revision overreaction is found to be consistently stable over the full sample. These are significant, important, and consistent indications of seemingly non-rational behavioural effects in the gold forward market.
Q30|How Should Journal Quality be Ranked? An Application to Agricultural, Energy, Environmental and Resource Economics|The Thomson Reuters ISI Web of Science citations database (hereafter ISI) category of Economics has one of the largest numbers of journals, at 304 (as of 2011) and 333 (as of 2013), of any ISI discipline, and hence has wide coverage. The paper analyses the leading international journals in the Economics sub-disciplines of Agricultural, Energy, Environmental and Resource Economics using quantifiable Research Assessment Measures (RAMs), and highlights the similarities and differences in alternative RAMs. The RAMs are based on alternative transformations of citations and influence taken from the ISI database. Alternative RAMs may be calculated annually or updated daily to answer the perennial questions as to When, Where and How (frequently) published papers are cited. The RAMs include the most widely used RAM, namely the classic 2-year impact factor including journal self citations (2YIF), 2-year impact factor excluding journal self citations (2YIF*), 5-year impact factor including journal self citations (5YIF), Immediacy (or zeroyear impact factor (0YIF)), Eigenfactor, Article Influence, C3PO (Citation Performance Per Paper Online), h-index, PIBETA (Papers Ignored - By Even The Authors), 2-year Self-citation Threshold Approval Ratings (2Y-STAR), Historical Self-citation Threshold Approval Ratings (H-STAR), Impact Factor Inflation (IFI), and Cited Article Influence (CAI). As data are not available for 5YIF, Article Influence and CAI for one of the 20 journals considered, 13 RAMs are analysed for 19 highly-cited journals in Agricultural, Energy, Environmental and Resource Economics in the ISI category of Economics. The harmonic mean of the ranks of the 13 RAMs for the 19 highly-cited journals are also presented. It is shown that emphasizing the 2-year impact factor of a journal, which partly answers the question as to When published papers are cited, to the exclusion of other informative RAMs, which answer Where and How (frequently) published papers are cited, can lead to a distorted evaluation of journal impact and influence relative to the harmonic mean of the ranks. The “age” effect of journals, that is, the number of years for which the journals have been included in ISI, on the RAMs is also examined to check whether the RAMs are being compared fairly.
Q30|On the Multiplicity of Equilibrium Strategies in a Non-Renewable Natural Resource Duopoly| We identify two possible equilibrium configurations for a non-renewable resource duopoly in a discrete-time framework. For the purpose of illustration, we suppose initial endowments of firms that allow for a maximum of two extraction periods. In the first possible equilibrium, the duopoly exists for two periods, while in the second possible equilibrium, the duopoly lasts only for one period and the firm with the higher initial endowment becomes a monopolist in the second and last period. As neither equilibrium configuration dominates the other for both firms at the same time, it is unclear whether firms acting simultaneously can coordinate on one particular configuration.
Q30|Resource Rents, Power, and Political Stability|We study the association between resource rents and political stability, highlighting the importance of the distribution of political power as a mediating factor. We present a simple theoretical model showing that increased rents are likely to be positively associated with the stability of a powerful incumbent while destabilizing a less powerful incumbent. Our empirical analysis confirms this prediction: Using panel data for more than 120 countries from 1984-2009, our results show that rents can promote political stability, but only when the political power is sufficiently concentrated. Indeed, if the incumbent is sufficiently weak, rents fuel instability. Our main results hold when we control for time varying common shocks, country fixed effects and various additional covariates.
Q30|Does Information Feedback from In-Home Devices Reduce Electricity Use? Evidence from a Field Experiment|There is limited evidence of behavioral changes resulting from electricity information feedback. Using a randomized control trial from a New York apartment building, we study long-term effects of information feedback from “Modlet” in-home devices, which provide near-real-time plug-level information. We find a 12–23% decrease in electricity use for treatment apartments, concentrated among individuals reporting higher willingness-to-pay for an energy monitoring system. Decrease in overall electricity use is similar among treatment apartments which received Modlets and those which declined Modlets, and does not specifically occur for outlets with Modlets. This decrease may be due to a Hawthorne or salience effect.
Q30|Structural and Observational Uncertainty in Environmental and Natural Resource Management|Structural uncertainty arises when key features of the behavior of a system are not well understood. Observational uncertainty arises when key variables in a system are not directly observed. Both types of uncertainty lead to problems for standard dynamic optimization approaches. The replacement of uncertainties by belief distributions over those uncertainties is one approach to addressing the problem. The use of this and other approaches are reviewed, with an emphasis on applications to environmental and resource management problems.
Q30|Taxing the Rent of Non-Renewable Resource Sectors: A Theoretical Note|This study analyses the economic rent generated by the exploitation of a non-renewable resource, and the taxation of this rent. We present a synthetic model of a non-renewable-resource sector where deposits must be costly developed before they are exploited; the analysis emphasizes the effect of resource taxation on the discouragement to the development of new reserves. We discuss the limitations of neutral profit-taxation schemes and examine the distortions caused by various resource-taxation systems on the rent and its allocation: tax evasion, royalty-induced distortions, imperfect tax commitment, agency issues... We also discuss the measurement of resource rents for taxation purposes, and issues with the management of the resource tax income. Taxer la rente d'exploitation des ressources non renouvelables : Une note théorique Cette étude analyse la rente générée par l'exploitation d'une ressource non renouvelable, ainsi que la taxation de cette rente. Dans un modèle simple, nous représentons une industrie minière dont les gisements de ressource non renouvelable, pour être exploités, requièrent des efforts de développement ; l'analyse porte principalement sur les effets néfastes de la taxation sur la production de nouvelles ressources. Nous évoquons les limites à la possibilité théorique de ponctionner les profits de manière neutre, puis examinons les distorsions impliquées par les systèmes de taxation existants : évasion fiscale, capacité d'engagement limitée, redevances distorsives, problèmes d'agence... Nous discutons également les manières d'évaluer les rentes à taxer, et les problèmes relatifs à la gestion des revenus fiscaux issus des secteurs miniers.
Q30|The Future of Sustainable Consumption: What Role for Consumers? [Viitorul consumului durabil: ce rol vor avea consumatorii?]|The sustainable consumption becomes a systematic challenge for the sustainable development and its role will increase in the future. This paper discusses the increasing contribution of sustainable consumption by stressing the central role of sustainable consumers and advances some ways of playing it. This goal will be reached only if the consumers accept producers\' sustainable solutions.
Q30|The Natural Resource Curse in Post-Soviet Countries : The Role of Institutions and Trade Policies|We examine the effect of natural resource abundance on economic performance during the 1996–2011 period in the 15 independent countries that formerly comprised the Soviet Union. These countries were a largely homogeneous group with respect to institutional development, liberalization and economic performance; however, these countries began to demonstrate marked differences from one another with respect to these factors during the transition, which has resulted in unique cross-section and time variation. Using several panel regression models that address the endogeneity issues, our results suggest that natural resources crowd out manufacturing sector unless the quality of domestic institutions is sufficiently high. Conversely, trade policies do not help convert the natural resource curse into a blessing.
Q30|Optimal Monetary Responses to Oil Discoveries|This paper studies how monetary policy should respond to news about an oil discovery, using a workhorse New Keynesian model. Good news about future production can create a recession today under exchange rate pegs and a simple Taylor rule, as seen in practice. This is explained by forward-looking inflation. Recession is avoided by a Taylor rule that accommodates changes in the natural level of output, which closely approximates optimal policy. Central banks have an incentive to exploit oil revenues by appreciating the terms of trade, creating “Dutch disease” and a deflationary bias which is overcome by committing to future policy.
Q30|Comparing the Cost-Effectiveness of Water Conservation Policies in a Depleting Aquifer: A Dynamic Analysis of the Kansas High Plains| This research analyzes two groundwater conservation policies in the Kansas High Plains located within the Ogallala aquifer: 1) cost-share assistance to increase irrigation efficiency; and 2) incentive payments to convert irrigated crop production to dryland crop production. To compare the cost-effectiveness of these two policies, a dynamic model simulated a representative irrigator’s optimal technology choice, crop selection, and irrigation water use over time. The results suggest that the overall water-saving effectiveness can be improved when different policy tools are considered under different conditions. High prevailing crop prices greatly reduce irrigators’ incentive to give up irrigation and therefore cause low enrollment and ineffectiveness of the incentive payment program. In areas with low aquifer-saturated thickness, the incentive payment program is more effective, whereas in areas with relatively higher water availability, the cost-share program could be a better choice.
Q30|Comparing the Cost-Effectiveness of Water Conservation Policies in a Depleting Aquifer: A Dynamic Analysis of the Kansas High Plains| This research analyzes two groundwater conservation policies in the Kansas High Plains located within the Ogallala aquifer: 1) cost-share assistance to increase irrigation efficiency; and 2) incentive payments to convert irrigated crop production to dryland crop production. To compare the cost-effectiveness of these two policies, a dynamic model simulated a representative irrigator’s optimal technology choice, crop selection, and irrigation water use over time. The results suggest that the overall water-saving effectiveness can be improved when different policy tools are considered under different conditions. High prevailing crop prices greatly reduce irrigators’ incentive to give up irrigation and therefore cause low enrollment and ineffectiveness of the incentive payment program. In areas with low aquifer-saturated thickness, the incentive payment program is more effective, whereas in areas with relatively higher water availability, the cost-share program could be a better choice.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|Voluntary Approaches to Transitioning from Competitive Fisheries to Rights-Based Management: Bringing the Field into the Lab| This paper describes a novel experiment designed to examine how rent dissipation may occur in fisheries in which the right to participate is limited and fishermen compete amongst themselves for shares of an exogenous total allowable catch. We demonstrate that rent dissipation may occur through multiple mechanisms, and that the heterogeneity of fishermen has important implications for how rent dissipation occurs and the extent to which different individuals may benefit from the implementation of rights-based management. We apply this approach to investigate the concept of voluntary rights-based management under which managers divide the total allowable catch between two separate fisheries, and fishermen may choose between fishing for a guaranteed individual harvest quota and competing for a share of the total catch in a competitive fishery.
Q30|Voluntary Approaches to Transitioning from Competitive Fisheries to Rights-Based Management: Bringing the Field into the Lab|This paper describes a novel experiment designed to examine how rent dissipation may occur in fisheries in which the right to participate in the fishery is limited and fishermen compete amongst themselves for shares of an exogenous total allowable catch. We demonstrate that rent dissipation may occur through multiple mechanisms, and that the heterogeneity of fishermen has important implications for how rent dissipation occurs and the extent to which different individuals may benefit from the implementation of rights-based management. We apply this approach to investigate the concept of voluntary rights-based management under which managers divide the total allowable catch between two separate fisheries, and fishermen may choose between fishing for a guaranteed individual harvest quota or competing for a share of the total catch in a competitive fishery.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|Economic Efficiency of Short-Term Versus Long-Term Water Rights Buyouts| Because of the decline of the Ogallala Aquifer, water districts, regional water managers, and state water officers are becoming increasingly interested in conservation policies. This study evaluates both short-term and long-term water rights buyout policies. This research develops dynamic production functions for the major crops in the Texas Panhandle. The production functions are incorporated into optimal temporal allocation models that project annual producer behavior, crop choices, water use, and aquifer declines over 60 years. Results suggest that long-term buyouts may be more economically efficient than short-term buyouts.
Q30|Economic Efficiency of Short-Term Versus Long-Term Water Rights Buyouts| Because of the decline of the Ogallala Aquifer, water districts, regional water managers, and state water officers are becoming increasingly interested in conservation policies. This study evaluates both short-term and long-term water rights buyout policies. This research develops dynamic production functions for the major crops in the Texas Panhandle. The production functions are incorporated into optimal temporal allocation models that project annual producer behavior, crop choices, water use, and aquifer declines over 60 years. Results suggest that long-term buyouts may be more economically efficient than short-term buyouts.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|Subsurface Drip Irrigation Versus Center-Pivot Sprinkler for Applying Swine Effluent to Corn| A risk-averse irrigated corn producer would be better off choosing the more expensive subsurface drip irrigation (SDI) over center-pivot sprinkler (CPS), given limited aquifer life and swine effluent and urea fertilization. A stochastic optimization using EPIC data maximized expected utility of 100 years' worth of net revenues for a quarter section. Phosphorus accumulation was more likely with the CPS than with the SDI but soil nitrogen was constant under both systems. SDI conserves more water than CPS per acre but depletes the aquifer faster because a greater area is irrigated. These results were invariant in the sensitivity analysis.
Q30|Subsurface Drip Irrigation Versus Center-Pivot Sprinkler for Applying Swine Effluent to Corn| A risk-averse irrigated corn producer would be better off choosing the more expensive subsurface drip irrigation (SDI) over center-pivot sprinkler (CPS), given limited aquifer life and swine effluent and urea fertilization. A stochastic optimization using EPIC data maximized expected utility of 100 years' worth of net revenues for a quarter section. Phosphorus accumulation was more likely with the CPS than with the SDI but soil nitrogen was constant under both systems. SDI conserves more water than CPS per acre but depletes the aquifer faster because a greater area is irrigated. These results were invariant in the sensitivity analysis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q30|Gains from cartelisation in the oil market|In this paper we ask whether OPEC still gains from cartelisation in the oil market despite low producer prices and a modest market share. We apply two intertemporal equilibrium models of the global oil market; one consisting of a cartel and a fringe, and one describing a hypothetical competitive market. Comparing the outcome of these models we conclude that there are positive cartelisation gains of about 18 per cent in the oil market. In comparison with what Pindyck (1978) found for the 1970s this may be considered as quite modest. Moreover, we study whether the cartelisation gains to OPEC are altered by different moves by non-OPEC producers or consumer countries. Generally, we find that the relative cartelisation gains are unchanged. One exception is exploration activities, where we find that a major increase in non-OPEC reserves could remove the cartelisation gains to OPEC completely. In this case, the OPEC-countries could find themselves better off without the cartel.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
