Q32|Capital Accumulation, Green Paradox, and Stranded Assets: An Endogenous Growth Perspective|The existing studies on Green Paradox and stranded assets focus on dirty exhaustible assets (fossil fuel reserves) and show that environmental regulations, by changing the costs of dirty inputs relative to clean ones, lead to replacements of the former by the latter and stranding of dirty assets due to perfect substitution. It, in turn, induces acceleration of dirty resource extractions and pollution emissions for fear of dirty assets becoming stranded - the Green Paradox effect. This paper uses an endogenous growth framework to revisit the problem of Green Paradox and stranded assets by taking a new perspective that focuses on capital accumulation with investment irreversibility. We show that if 1) direct irreversibility of investment does not rule out the indirect channel of converting dirty capital goods into clean ones through final goods allocations, and 2) interactions between dirty and clean capital as imperfect substitutes can generate reciprocal effects, then environmental regulation, through directing investment towards clean capital, does not necessarily leads to asset stranding of dirty capital. Accumulation of clean capital with a pollution-saving effect offsets the polluting impact of dirty one and leads to reversed Green Paradox. We further propose an endogenous growth mechanism through which the accumulation of both dirty and clean capital, as well as environmental improvement, can be sustained in the long run without converging to the steady state.
Q32|Geography, Geology, and Regional Economic Development|We examine long-run development effects of regional productivity shocks in the United States. We exploit the timing and location of large resource discoveries to measure exogenous variation in labor demand and consider heterogeneous effects based on environmental amenity and geographic isolation, developing novel measures of both. Using a dynamic event-study analysis we find that productivity shocks increase population both in the short and long-run, but this largely refl ects the experience of low amenity, geographically isolated places that may otherwise struggle to develop. Moreover, this study offers several insights into the observed spatial pattern of development in the United States.
Q32|Illegal Mining and Human Capital Accumulation: Evidence from the Colombian Gold Rush|This paper assesses the local effects of gold mining on human capital accumulation in contexts where illegal mining is prevalent. Evidence is based on high-resolution geographic information of gold mining and schools, and rich administrative data from Colombia. I exploit a boom in international gold prices and the exogenous geographic distribution of gold deposits to assess the causal effects of mining. Results indicate that mining increases enrollment in primary school and reduces dropout rates throughout the school cycle. However, mining also reduces standardized test scores and college enrollment, particularly in academic degrees and STEM fields. The estimated effects are considerably larger when both legal and illegal mining are accounted for. I then assess some of the potential mechanisms through which the commodity price shock can affect human capital. While child labor is overall unaffected, young adults between 19 and 25 are more likely to work in the mining sector. Evidence also indicates that mining increases royalties and public investment, with mixed results in terms of school inputs. Mining also intensifies conflict and violence, with potential large negative effects on human capital accumulation. **** RESUMEN: Este trabajo estudia el efecto local de la minería de oro sobre la acumulación de capital humano en contextos en los cuales predomina la minería ilegal. La evidencia está basada en información geográfica de alta resolución de minería y registros administrativos detallados del sistema educativo de Colombia. Para estimar los efectos causales de la minería se explota la variación exógena en los precios internacionales del oro y la distribución geográfica de los depósitos de mineral. Los resultados indican que la minería incrementa la matrícula escolar en primaria y reduce la deserción a lo largo del ciclo escolar. Sin embargo, la minería también tiene efectos negativos sobre el aprendizaje y reduce las probabilidades de acceder al sistema de educación superior, particularmente en carreras STEM. Los efectos estimados son considerablemente más grandes cuando se tiene en cuenta tanto la minería legal como la ilegal. En la última sección se prueban distintos mecanismos a través de los cuales el boom minero puede afectar la acumulación de capital humano. Mientras que no hay evidencia de mayor trabajo infantil, los adultos jóvenes entre 19 y 25 años tienen mayores probabilidades de trabajar en el sector minero. La evidencia también muestra que las regalías y la inversión pública aumentaron en los municipios mineros, con resultados mixtos para la provisión de educación escolar. Finalmente, el boom de precios intensifica el conflicto y la violencia en estas regiones, con efectos negativos potencialmente importantes sobre la acumulación de capital humano.
Q32|Priority roads: The political economy of Africa's interior-to-coast roads|Africa's interior-to-coast roads are well suited to export natural resources, but not to support regional trade. Are they the optimal resourse to geography and comparative advantage, or the result of suboptimal political distortions? We investigate the political determinants of road paving in West Africa across the 1965-2012 period. Controlling for geography and the endogeneity of democratization, we show that autocracies tend to connect natural resource deposits to ports, while the networks expanded in a less interior-to-coast way in periods of democracy. This result suggests that Africa's interior-to-coast roads are at least in part the result of suboptimal political distortions.
Q32|Wealth Management and Uncertain Tipping Points|We analyze optimal wealth management, within a global setting, where accumulation of GHGs caused by extraction of fossil resources affects the probability distribution for hitting a threshold or tipping point, indicating a climate change. We derive an optimal strategy for overall wealth management, within a Ramsey-Hotelling-framework. We have two assets; one being reproducible (reversible capital equipment) and another being non-reproducible (stock of exhaustible natural resources – fossil fuels). Resources, along with capital equipment, are inputs in the production of an aggregate output allocated to consumption and net investment. Resource extraction adds to a stock of GHGs that affects the likelihood for a catastrophic event. If, and when, such an event occurs there is a downscaling of production opportunities. We derive a first-best precautionary global tax on using fossil fuel, which internalizes the present value of (conditional) expected welfare loss of hitting a threshold, as well as a set of risk-modified optimality conditions for overall wealth management, as long as no catastrophe has occurred.
Q32|Illegal Mining and Human Capital Accumulation: Evidence from the Colombian Gold Rush|This paper assesses the local effects of gold mining on human capital accumulation in contexts where illegal mining is prevalent. Evidence is based on high-resolution geographic information of gold mining and schools, and rich administrative data from Colombia. I exploit a boom in international gold prices and the exogenous geographic distribution of gold deposits to assess the causal effects of mining. Results indicate that mining increases enrollment in primary school and reduces dropout rates throughout the school cycle. However, mining also reduces standardized test scores and college enrollment, particularly in academic degrees and STEM fields. The estimated effects are considerably larger when both legal and illegal mining are accounted for. I then assess some of the potential mechanisms through which the commodity price shock can affect human capital. While child labor is overall unaffected, young adults between 19 and 25 are more likely to work in the mining sector. Evidence also indicates that mining increases royalties and public investment, with mixed results in terms of school inputs. Mining also intensifies conflict and violence, with potential large negative effects on human capital accumulation. **** RESUMEN: Este trabajo estudia el efecto local de la minería de oro sobre la acumulación de capital humano en contextos en los cuales predomina la minería ilegal. La evidencia está basada en información geográfica de alta resolución de minería y registros administrativos detallados del sistema educativo de Colombia. Para estimar los efectos causales de la minería se explota la variación exógena en los precios internacionales del oro y la distribución geográfica de los depósitos de mineral. Los resultados indican que la minería incrementa la matrícula escolar en primaria y reduce la deserción a lo largo del ciclo escolar. Sin embargo, la minería también tiene efectos negativos sobre el aprendizaje y reduce las probabilidades de accederal sistema de educación superior, particularmente en carreras STEM. Los efectos estimados son considerablemente más grandes cuando se tiene en cuenta tanto la minería legal como la ilegal. En la última sección se prueban distintos mecanismos a través de los cuales el boom minero puede afectar la acumulación de capital humano. Mientras que no hay evidencia de mayor trabajo infantil, los adultos jóvenes entre 19 y 25 años tienen mayores probabilidades de trabajar en el sector minero. La evidencia también muestra que las regalías y la inversion pública aumentaron en los municipios mineros, con resultados mixtos para la provisión de educación escolar. Finalmente, el boom de precios intensifica el conflicto y la violencia en estas regiones, con efectos negativos potencialmente importantes sobre la acumulación de capital humano.
Q32|The Fossil Energy Interlude: Optimal Building, Maintaining and Scraping a Dedicated Capital, and the Hotelling Rule|It is well known that the price and consumption paths of most nonrenewable resources, including the fossil primary energies, do not follow the paths predicted by the standard Hotelling rule (Krautkraemer,1998, Gaudet, 2007). We develop a model in which a dedicated capital together with the fossil fuel are both required to produce useful energy. Starting from a state of the economy in which the fossil fuel is not yet exploited, we characterize the optimal path of the double transition: The first transition from the initial renewable energy regime to a mixed or full fossil fuel regime and later the second transition from the fossil fuel regime back to a renewable energy regime when the available stock of the fossil fuel becomes more and more rare. We show that, absent any technical progress, the useful energy price must first decrease, next be constant during the phase of maximum expansion of the fossil fuel energy consumption before entering the phase of decreasing use of the fossil energy. Only this third phase of decreasing fossil fuel consumption looks like a standard Hotelling path.
Q32|Energy Conversion Rate Improvements, Pollution Abatement Efforts and Energy Mix: The Transition toward the Green Economy under a Pollution Stock constraint|To prevent climate change, three options are currently considered: improve the energy conversion efficiency of primary energy sources, develop carbon free alternatives to polluting fossil fuels and abate potential emissions before they are released inside the atmosphere. We study the optimal mix and timing of these three mitigation options in a stylized dynamic model. Useful energy can come from two sources: a non-renewable fossil fuel resource and a carbon free renewable resource. The conversion efficiency rate of fossil energy into useful energy is open to choice but higher conversion rates are also more costly. The economy can abate some fraction of its potential emissions and a higher abatement rate incurs higher costs. The society objective is to maintain below some mandated level, or carbon cap, the atmospheric carbon concentration. In the empirically relevant case where the economy is actually constrained by the cap, at least temporarily, we show that the optimal path is a sequence of four regimes: a 'pre-ceiling' regime before the economy is actually constrained by the cap, a 'ceiling' regime at the cap, a 'post-ceiling' regime below the cap and a final regime of exclusive exploitation of renewable resources. If the abatement option has ever to be used, it should be started before the beginning of the ceiling regime, first at an increasing rate and at a decreasing rate once the cap constraint binds. The efficiency performance from any source steadily improves with the exception of a time phase under the ceiling regime when it is constant. Renewables take progressively a larger share of the energy mix but their exploitation may be delayed significantly. Absolute levels of carbon emissions drop down continuously but follow a non monotonic pattern in per useful energy unit relative terms.
Q32|Priority Roads: The Political Economy of Africa's Interior-to-Coast Roads|Africa’s interior-to-coast roads are well suited to export natural resources, but not to support regional trade. Are they the optimal response to geography and comparative advantage, or the result of suboptimal political distortions? We investigate the political determinants of road paving in West Africa across the 1965-2012 period. Controlling for geography and the endogeneity of democratization, we show that autocracies tend to connect natural resource deposits to ports, while the networks expanded in a less interior-to-coast way in periods of democracy. This result suggests that Africa’s interior-to-coast roads are at least in part the result of suboptimal political distortions.
Q32|Non-Renewable Resources and the Possibility of Sustainable Economic Development in a Positive or Negative Population Growth Economy|The purpose of this study is to investigate how the long-run growth rate of per capita output is determined when an economy is subject to non-renewable resource constraints and the population growth is negative by using a theoretical model. From this, we can examine the effect of population decline and the effect of depletion of natural resources on economic growth. Our results show that irrespective of whether the population growth rate is positive or negative, the long-run growth rate of per capita output can be positive depending on conditions. This result suggests that even an economy with non-renewable resources and declining population can obtain sustainable economic growth.
Q32|Bosques en Bolivia: Una estimación espacial de los costos de la Deforestación|La deforestación en Bolivia se ha incrementado de manera considerable en los últimos años, la misma conlleva a emisiones de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad, variación del ciclo hidrológico, entre otras. El presente estudio tiene el objetivo de estimar el impacto de la deforestación y la de sus costos en términos monetarios. Debido a la complejidad de cada variable, se emplea distintas metodologías para cada una de ellas (emisión de dióxido de carbono, pérdida de biodiversidad y variación del ciclo hidrológico).La misma que consiste en una contabilidad de carbono y el uso del precio de carbono, además de un modelo BIOM de extrapolación de especies y el uso de elasticidad de consumo y riqueza absoluta de las especies para la cuantificación de los costos. Finalmente se hace uso de econometría espacial y el índice de escasez de agua para la variación del ciclo hidrológico. El análisis de los resultados es realizado en tres categorías: a nivel municipal, a nivel departamental y a nivel nacional para dos periodos de tiempo 1990-2000 y 2000-2010. Adicionalmente, en base a los resultados se formula conclusiones y recomendaciones sobre el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia. Los cuales determinan que el costo de la deforestación en Bolivia representa una cifra mayor al 10% del PIB de Bolivia.
Q32|Energy Conversion Rate Improvements, Pollution Abatement Efforts and Energy Mix: The Transition toward the Green Economy under a Pollution Stock Constraint|To prevent climate change, three options are currently considered: improve the energy conversion efficiency of primary energy sources, develop carbon free alternatives to polluting fossil fuels and abate potential emissions before they are released inside the atmosphere. We study the optimal mix and timing of these three mitigation options in a stylized dynamic model. Useful energy can come from two sources: a non-renewable fossil fuel resource and a carbon free renewable resource. The conversion efficiency rate of fossil energy into useful energy is open to choice but higher conversion rates are also more costly. The economy can abate some fraction of its potential emissions and a higher abatement rate incurs higher costs. The society objective is to maintain below some mandated level, or carbon cap, the atmospheric carbon concentration. In the empirically relevant case where the economy is actually constrained by the cap, at least temporarily, we show that the optimal path is a sequence of four regimes: a ’pre-ceiling’ regime before the economy is actually constrained by the cap, a ’ceiling’ regime at the cap, a ’post-ceiling’ regime below the cap and a final regime of exclusive exploitation of renewable resources. If the abatement option has ever to be used, it should be started before the beginning of the ceiling regime, first at an increasing rate and at a decreasing rate once the cap constraint binds. The efficiency performance from any source steadily improves with the exception of a time phase under the ceiling regime when it is constant. Renewables take progressively a larger share of the energy mix but their exploitation may be delayed significantly. Absolute levels of carbon emissions drop down continuously but follow a non monotonic pattern in per useful energy unit relative terms.To prevent climate change, three options are currently considered: improve the energy conversion efficiency of primary energy sources, develop carbon free alternatives to polluting fossil fuels and abate potential emissions before they are released inside the atmosphere. We study the optimal mix and timing of these three mitigation options in a stylized dynamic model. Useful energy can come from two sources: a non-renewable fossil fuel resource and a carbon free renewable resource. The conversion efficiency rate of fossil energy into useful energy is open to choice but higher conversion rates are also more costly. The economy can abate some fraction of its potential emissions and a higher abatement rate incurs higher costs. The society objective is to maintain below some mandated level, or carbon cap, the atmospheric carbon concentration. In the empirically relevant case where the economy is actually constrained by the cap, at least temporarily, we show that the optimal path is a sequence of four regimes: a ’pre-ceiling’ regime before the economy is actually constrained by the cap, a ’ceiling’ regime at the cap, a ’post-ceiling’ regime below the cap and a final regime of exclusive exploitation of renewable resources. If the abatement option has ever to be used, it should be started before the beginning of the ceiling regime, first at an increasing rate and at a decreasing rate once the cap constraint binds. The efficiency performance from any source steadily improves with the exception of a time phase under the ceiling regime when it is constant. Renewables take progressively a larger share of the energy mix but their exploitation may be delayed significantly. Absolute levels of carbon emissions drop down continuously but follow a non monotonic pattern in per useful energy unit relative terms.
Q32|No evidence of an oil curse: Natural resource abundance, capital formation and productivity|This chapter examines the relationship between labour productivity, capital formation, and natural resource extraction in countries with natural resource reserves. We develop a theoretical two-sector model for a closed economy that maximises consumption over time, and examine how the control variables - natural resource extraction and the savings rate - determine fixed capital investment. We find that in a closed economy, the overall labour productivity is a positive function of capital investment per labour. That is in turn related to the externally given natural resource price, natural resource reserves and the resource extraction ratio. High natural resource prices and extraction rates provide opportunities to increase the overall investment in fixed capital and thus boost the labour productivity. We empirically test this model for oil as a natural resource. The data covers 36 years from 1980 to 2015 and includes 149 countries. 85 of these countries possessed commercially recoverable oil reserves in at least a part of the time period covered. We are able to exploit the panel and carry out the estimation using two-way fixed effects. We observe that oil price has an overall positive impact on labour productivity growth in the modern sector. The savings rate and schooling are positively correlated to labour productivity growth as well as fixed capital formation per capita. We find that the oil sector variables - oil reserves and oil extraction ratio - do not contribute to labour productivity growth directly, rather through increased capital formation per capita.
Q32|A modelling approach for the German gas grid using highly resolved spatial, temporal and sectoral data (GAMAMOD-DE)|Natural gas is the fossil fuel with lowest CO2-emissions, compared to coal, lignite or oil. Regarding the ongoing energy transition in Germany, the extend usage of natural gas provide advantages that might be built a bridge to a low carbon energy system until 2050. Against this backdrop, this paper introduces a model for the German natural gas market (GAMAMOD-DE) with focus on infrastructure utilisation. Following a linear optimization approach, the model considers a highly resolved grid structure of pipelines, storages and cross-border connections to neighbouring countries. The spatial and temporal resolved gas demand is divided into three different sectors: industry, heating and electricity. An application for the year 2012 shows the performance and validation of the proposed model. Results show the utilisation of infrastructure and enable an assessment of the level of security of supply during the considered time frame. In addition, the findings suggest that although European customers suffered on cold winter days in 2012, from a system part of view, the security of supply (SoS) was always ensured. Further research should focus on analysing SoS and resilience of gas networks in the mid- and long-term, especially when sector coupling between electricity and gas is far advanced.
Q32|The U.S. fracking boom: Impact on oil prices|"As of late 2008, the steady decline of U.S. crude oil production over the last decades was reversed by the increased adoption of the hydraulic fracturing (""fracking"") technology. Adapting the supply-side model proposed by Kaufmann et al. (2004) to assess OPEC's ability to influence real oil prices, this paper investigates the effect of the increase in U.S. oil production due to fracking on world oil prices. Among our key results obtained from (dynamic) OLS estimations, there is a statistically significant negative long-run relationship between increased U.S. oil production and oil prices."
Q32|Bewässerung in der Landwirtschaft - Tagungsband zur Fachtagung am 11./12.09.2017 in Suderburg|"Am 11. und 12. September 2017 fand an der Ostfalia Hochschule, Campus Suderburg, eine vom Thünen-Institut, dem Julius-Kühn Institut und der Ostfalia Hochschule gemeinsam organisierte Fachtagung zum Thema ""Bewässerung in der Landwirtschaft"" statt. Dazu wurden deutschland-weit Experten des Fachgebiets Bewässerung eingeladen, aktuelle Einschätzungen zur Entwicklung des Bewässerungsbedarfs und der Bewässerungswürdigkeit verschiedener Kulturen an unterschiedlichen Standorten in Deutschland sowie zur Entwicklung der Bewässerungstechnik zu geben. Die Bewässerung von Kulturen im Freilandgemüsebau oder Sonderkulturbereich gehört in ganz Deutschland seit langem zur gängigen Praxis. Die Rentabilität der Bewässerung weiterer landwirtschaftlicher Feldkulturen war bisher auf einige wenige, trockene Standorte begrenzt. Im Zuge des Klimawandels werden seit einigen Jahren eine steigende Jahresdurchschnittstemperatur und veränderte Niederschlagsmuster (v. a. geringere Niederschläge zu Beginn der Vegetationsperiode im Frühjahr) in Deutschland beobachtet. Für die Zukunft sind laut der Ergebnisse von Klimamodellen eine weitere Zunahme der Temperaturen und weitere Veränderungen der Niederschlagsverteilung, z. B. eine Abnahme der Sommerniederschläge und eine Zunahme der Winterniederschläge, zu erwarten. Der Tagungsband gibt einen Überblick über neueste Erkenntnisse aus der Forschung und diskutiert mögliche alternative Quellen für die Deckung des Beregnungswasserbedarfs landwirtschaftlicher Kulturen. Dabei werden auch Aspekte des Landschaftswasserhaushalts und hydrologische Zusammenhänge in der Agrarlandschaft angesprochen und Lösungsansätze präsentiert. Einblicke in mögliche Nutzungskonflikte der Wassernutzung und praktische Erfahrungen mit der Erarbeitung von Lösungsansätzen werden begleitet von der Darstellung der rechtlichen Rahmenbedingungen der Wassernutzung. Ergänzt werden die Beiträge durch Berichte langjähriger Beregnungs-Feldversuche der Landwirtschaftskammer Niedersachsen. Einerseits ergaben die Versuche, dass die Bewässerung die Nährstoffeffizienz der Pflanzen und die Qualität der Ernteprodukte erhöhen kann. Andererseits werden der derzeitige Stand der Technik der Bewässerung erläutert und Grenzen sowie Möglichkeiten für eine Steigerung der Effizienz in der Zukunft dargelegt. Zur Steigerung der Effizienz der Bewässerung kommt der Bewässerungssteuerung eine hohe Bedeutung zu, deren aktueller Stand dargestellt und die Trends für die Zu-kunft aufgezeigt werden. Die Rentabilität der Investitionen in Bewässerungstechnik wird in zwei Beiträgen dargestellt. Hier werden sowohl die verschiedenen Techniken als auch deren Rentabilität bei verschiedenen Kulturen betriebswirtschaftlich beurteilt. Als Abrundung wird die Entwicklung des regionalen Bewässerungsbedarfs am Beispiel Nordrhein-Westfalens aufgezeigt. Der Tagungsband schließt mit einem Kapitel zur Übersicht über bisherige Projekte im Bereich des Wassermanagements und zu Fragen der Bewässerung landwirtschaftlicher Nutzflächen im Hinblick auf zukünftige Klimaveränderungen in Deutschland."
Q32|Channeling the Iron Ore Super-Cycle: The role of regional bank branch networks in emerging markets|The role of the financial system to absorb and to intermediate commodity boom induced windfall gains efficiently presents one of the most pressing issues for developing economies. Using an exogenous increase in iron ore prices in March 2005, I analyse the role of regional bank branch networks in Brazil in reallocating capital from affected to non-affected regions. For the period from March 2004 to March 2006, I find that branches directly exposed to this shock by their geographical location experience an increase in deposit growth in the post-shock period relative to non-affected branches. Given that these deposits are not reinvested locally, I further show that branches located in the non-affected region increase lending growth depending on their indirect exposure to the booming regions via their branch network. Even tough, these results provide evidence against a Dutch Disease type crowding out of the non-iron ore sector, further evidence suggests that this capital reallocation is far from being optimal.
Q32|Stochastic petropolitics: The dynamics of institutions in resource-dependent economies|We provide an analysis of institutional dynamics under uncertainty by means of a stochastic differential game of lobbying with two players (conservatives vs liberals) and three main ingredients. The first one is uncertainty inherent in the institutional process itself. The second considers resource windfalls volatility impact on economic and institutional outcomes. Last but not least, the resource windfall level matters in the relative bargaining power of the players. We compute a unique closed-loop equilibrium with linear feedbacks. We show that the legislative state converges to an invariant distribution. Even more importantly, we demonstrate that the most likely asymptotic legislative state is favorable to the liberals. However, the more volatile resource windfalls, the less liberal is the most likely asymptotic state. Finally, we assess the latter prediction on a database covering 91 countries over the period 1973-2005. We focus on financial liberalization policies. We find that as the resources revenues volatility increases, the financial liberalization index goes down. We also find that this property remains robust across different specifications and sample distinctions.
Q32|Oil price collapse and firm leverage in resource-dependent countries|This study examines the financial channel between oil price volatility and the resource curse using firm-level data. A collapse in oil prices adversely affects firm borrowing in resource-dependent countries. However, unlike in non-resource-dependent countries where just the resource sector is harmed, both resource and non-resource firms are affected in resource-dependent countries in an oil price collapse. We also find evidence of a flight to quality in lending, implying that the decline in leverage can partly be attributed to a reduction in the credit supply. Our results suggest that oil price volatility operates via the financial channel to impede economic diversification in resource-dependent countries.
Q32|Oil price volatility, financial institutions and economic growth|Theory attributes finance with the ability to both promote growth and reduce output volatility, and therefore increase energy security. But evidence is mixed, partly due to endogeneity effects. For example, financial institutions themselves might be a source of volatility, as the events of 2008 suggest. We address this endogeneity issue by using periods of extreme oil price volatility as a source of nearly exogenous volatility, to study the effect of finance. To do this, we develop a quasi-natural experiment and study the effect of the dramatic decline of oil prices in 2014, using a synthetic control methodology. Our hypothesis is that the ability of oil-rich countries to mitigate the effects of this decline rested on the quality of their financial institutions. We focus on 11 oil-rich countries between 2006Q1 and 2016Q4 that had “poor” measures of financial development (treatment group) out of 20 such countries and synthetically create counterfactuals from the remaining (control) group with “superior” financial development. We subject both to the oil price shock of 2014 and find evidence that better financial institutions do indeed reduce output volatility and mitigate its negative effect on growth in the year that showed a sustained decline in oil price. To address any remaining potential endogeneity between oil prices and finance, we use a cross-sectionally augmented autoregressive distributed lag model with data on 30 oil-producing countries over the period 1980–2016, and confirm that the effects of oil volatility on growth is mitigated with better financial institutions. Our results make a strong case for the support of the positive role of financial development in improving energy security and fostering growth.
Q32|An Investigation of the Resource Curse in Indonesia|"We investigate the effect of resource dependence on district level income in a rare within-country study for Indonesia, one of the largest resource producing countries in Asia. We follow 390 districts between 2006 and 2015, consider four alternative measures of resouce dependence, and instrument for the potential endogeneity of each using historical measures of oil, gas and coal reserve locations, and changes in the physical production of each resource. Using annual fixed effects and first differenced regressions with and without various instruments, we find no evidence of a ""resource curse"". Instead, we find robust evidence across all models that dependence as measured by mining's share of output is positively associated with district real per capita income. We find a similar positive relationship between dependence as measured by the share of district government revenues from oil and gas or mining overall, and income in our most credible specifications with instruments. For example, a standard deviation increase in change in district government dependence on oil/gas revenues increases real per capita income by 16 percent over a nine year period."
Q32|Resource Dependence and the Causes of Local Economic Growth: An Empirical Investigation|Previous research has found that in Indonesia, a resource giant in South East Asia, resource dependence is positively associated with economic growth, contrary to a 'resource curse' hypothesis. We test four potential causal mechanisms for this positive effect: spill overs to manufacturing, higher education provision, improvements in institutional quality, and investment in public capital. We follow 390 districts within Indonesia from 2006 to 2015, using four alternative measures of resource dependence, and instrumenting for their potential endogeneity. We first confirm a positive overall effect of resource dependence on real per capita Gross Regional Domestic Product. We then test the extent to which resource dependence positively affects manufacturing, education, public investment, and district institutional quality. We finally test the extent to which these factors contribute to growth. We find that resource dependence aids growth in part by raising measures of district institutional quality. Resource dependence also raises net high school enrolment rates, though we do not find that this in turn raises growth. Conversely, while higher capital spending by districts raises growth, we find no evidence that this share is affected by resource dependence. In auxiliary analysis, we find little support for the hypothesis that resource dependence benefits growth more (or only) for districts that begin with higher institutional quality.
Q32|Mise en place d’un Dispositif de connaissance, suivi et évaluation socio-économique et environnemental de la Nouvelle Aire Protégée (NAP) du Makay, Madagascar|D’une superficie d’environ 4 000 km2, la Nouvelle Aire Protégée du Makay, Madagascar, officialisée en 2017, est emblématique de la richesse de la biodiversité, avec un taux d’endémisme exceptionnel, et du patrimoine naturel et culturel malgache. Le présent document expose les enjeux et les options méthodologiques pour la mise en place d’un dispositif de connaissance, suivi et évaluation socio-économique et environnemental. Le dispositif se compose de trois bras articulés, combinant sciences sociales et sciences de la nature et de la terre, aussi bien quantitatifs que qualitatifs : un dispositif quantitatif d’enquêtes socio-économiques et environnementales auprès des populations du Makay ; un dispositif de suivi écologique ; un dispositif qualitatif de type socio-anthropologique. En mettant les populations qui vivent aux pourtours du Makay au coeur du dispositif, il se propose de repousser la frontière des systèmes d’informations existants, à ce jour balbutiants dans ce domaine, malgré leur importance décisive à l’échelle mondiale, afin de mieux comprendre les liens entre conservation et développement._____________________________________________________________________ Covering an area of approximately 4,000 km2, the New Protected Area of Makay, Madagascar, formalized in 2017, is emblematic of the richness of biodiversity, with an exceptional rate of endemism, and the natural and cultural heritage of Madagascar. This document presents the challenges and the methodological options for setting up a socio-economic and environmental knowledge, monitoring and evaluation system. The device consists of three articulated arms, combining social sciences and natural and earth sciences, both quantitative and qualitative: a quantitative arm of socio-economic and environmental surveys among the populations of Makay; an ecological monitoring arm; and a qualitative socio-anthropological arm. By putting the people who live on the edge of the Makay at the heart of the device, it proposes to push the frontier of existing information systems, still underdeveloped in this field, despite their decisive importance on a global scale, in order to better understand the links between conservation and development.
Q32|Oil windfalls might not be the problem in oil-producing countries: evidence from the impact of oil shocks on export diversification|This paper examines the factors behind export diversification in oil countries. Specifically, by investigating the impact of oil booms on export diversification through a difference-in-difference framework, this paper finds that the economy’s export structure before oil boom determines whether oil windfalls might affect the diversification process. Thus, an oil boom negatively affects export diversification only if countries initially exhibit low levels of diversification. In countries with a high level of diversification before the boom, an oil boom has no impact on diversification. These results are based on a large sample of 134 countries, and are robust to various sensitivity analyses. They are corroborated with data from the manufacturing sector, which show that oil booms only reduce diversification in countries with a small manufacturing sector prior to the boom. The results suggest that the initial constraints, which hampered the emergence of entrepreneurs’ class prior the boom, are key elements of the failure of a diversification process in resource rich countries.
Q32|A dynamic model of recycling with endogenous technological breakthrough|We present a general equilibrium growth model in which the use of a non renewable resource yields waste. Recycling waste produces materials of poor quality. These materials can be reused for production only once a dedicated R&D activity has made their quality reach a certain minimum threshold. The economy then switches to a fully recycling regime. We refer to this switch as the technological breakthrough. We analyze the optimal trajectories of the economy and interpret the Ramsey-Keynes and Hotelling conditions in this specific context. We characterize the determinants of the date of the breakthrough, which is endogenous, as well as the discontinuity in the variables' paths that is induced by this breakthrough. We show, in particular, that the availability of a recycling technology leads to an over-exploitation of the resource and possibly to lower levels of consumption before the breakthrough. We also find that the breakthrough can have a negative impact on utility over a finite period.
Q32|The Changing Role of Natural Gas in Nigeria|Nigeria is richly endowed with energy resources, and the Government has been making large profits from their export. However, windfall revenues have also been affecting the Government’s responsiveness and accountability towards the people and they have brought it into collusive relationship with international oil and gas companies operating in the country. A skewed distribution of petroleum resources costs and benefits, as well as the dependence on exports exposing the public finances to volatility in the international markets have represented further major issues. As a result, energy access and power generation still represent urgent issues for action in the country. Solid biomass accounts for 74% of the primary energy consumption, while the electrification rate stands at 34% in rural areas. Active power plants are mainly gas-fired, but they face capacity, maintenance, and financial constraints. While historically natural gas has been disregarded or flared into the atmosphere because it was considered a by-product of oil due to lacking market conditions and processing capacity, today the development of a domestic market for natural gas is seen as a key priority to guarantee energy security and boost industrial development in Nigeria. A more efficient and equitable governance of the sector and management of export revenues can play a major role in this sense. In this context, this paper highlights the main current issues and underpins key policy conditions for this transition to take place in Nigeria.
Q32|Effects of State Taxation on Investment: Evidence from the Oil Industry|We provide theoretical and empirical evidence that firms do not in general respond equally to changes in prices and taxes in the setting of oil well drilling in the United States. Our key theoretical contribution is that in a multi-state model, a change in output price changes both the benefit and opportunity cost of drilling, whereas a change in a state tax rate only changes the benefit of drilling in that state. Thus, a firm responds more to a change in tax than a change in price. Our econometric results support this theoretical prediction. We find that a one dollar per barrel increase in price leads to a 1 percent increase in wells drilled, but a one dollar per barrel increase in tax leads to at least an 8 percent decrease in wells drilled. These estimates correspond to elasticities of about 0.5 and -0.3, respectively. These results are robust to interstate spillovers, other state regulations, and econometric specification. They imply that using state tax rate decreases to incentivize investment may lead to losses of government revenue.
Q32|Resource Curse or Blessing? Sovereign Risk in Resource-Rich Emerging Economies|In this paper we document the stylized facts about the relationship between international oil price swings, sovereign risk and macroeconomic performance of oil-exporting economies. We show that even though being a bigger oil producer decreases sovereign risk–because it increases a country’s ability to repay–having more oil reserves increases sovereign risk by making autarky more attractive. We develop a small open economy model of sovereign risk with incomplete international financial markets, in which optimal oil extraction and sovereign default interact. We use the model to understand the mechanisms behind the empirical facts, and show that it supports them.
Q32|Introducing Environmental Ethics into Economic Analysis: Some insights from Hans Jonas’ Responsibility Principle|This paper addresses how environmental ethics could be incorporated in economic analysis and more particularly how the Responsibility Principle of H. Jonas can provide useful insights into the analysis of sustainability issues. The challenges of environmental and social sustainability in terms of intergenerational fairness are analysed and involve a moral duty applicable to economic governance. The paper also explores to what extent responsibility, as an alternative to utilitarianism and as a principle facilitating the coordination of the agents involved, can be a first step towards the long-term and sustainable conservation of Nature.
Q32|The role of natural resources in production: Georgescu-Roegen/Daly versus Solow/Stiglitz|This paper proposes a historical and epistemological account of one of the key controversy between natural resources economics and ecological economics, lasting from early 1970s to the end of 1990s. It shows that the theoretical disagreement on the scope of the economy's dependence to natural resources, such as energy and minerals, has deep methodological roots. On one hand, Solow's and Stiglitz's works are built on a “model-based methodology”, where the model precedes and supports the conceptual foundations of the theory and in particular the assumption of “unbounded resources productivity”. On the other hand, Georgescu-Roegen's counter-assumption of “thermodynamic limits to production”, later revived by Daly, rest on a methodology of “interdisciplinary consistency” which considers thermodynamics as a relevant scientific referent for economic theory. While antagonistic, these two methodologies face similar issues regarding the conceptual foundations that arise from them, which is a source of confusion and of the difficult dialogue between paradigms
Q32|Coordination and information sharing about pest resistance|We develop a dynamic oligopolistic Cournot model of a pesticide market where resistance to pesticides can develop. We first study firms' incentives for resistance management through pricing and we distinguish two cases of demand for pesticides; one where users are able to coordinate their pesticide use and one where they are not. We show that users benefit from coordination, but that this gain is at the expense of firms facing a lower demand. When firms are allowed to obtain scientific information on the likelihood of pest resistance and, possibly, to share this information among themselves, we find that they have an incentive to acquire information and to share it with competitors. They also benefit from transmitting this information to users if the latter are coordinated. In the case of uncoordinated users, transmission of information to users is not necessarily profitable for firms if it favors their coordination. Finally, we discuss the policy implications for existing information sharing committees in the pesticide industry.
Q32|Oil windfalls and export diversification in oil-producing countries: Evidence from oil booms|This paper examines the factors behind export diversification in oil countries. Specifically, we investigate the impact of oil booms on export diversification through an empirical framework. The paper finds that economy's export structure before the oil boom determines whether oil windfalls might affect the diversification process. Thus, an oil boom negatively affects export diversification only if countries initially exhibit low levels of diversification. In countries with a high level of diversification before the boom, an oil boom has no impact on diversification. These results are based on a large sample of 134 countries, and are robust to various sensitivity analyses. They are corroborated with data from the manufacturing sector which show that oil booms only reduce diversification in countries with a small manufacturing sector prior to the boom.
Q32|Stochastic Petropolitics: The Dynamics of Institutions in Resource-Dependent Economies|We provide an analysis of institutional dynamics under uncertainty by means of a stochastic differential game of lobbying with two players (conservatives vs liberals) and three main ingredients. The first one is uncertainty inherent in the institutional process itself. The second considers resource windfalls volatility impact on economic and institutional outcomes. Last but not least, the resource windfall level matters in the relative bargaining power of the players. We compute a unique closed-loop equilibrium with linear feedbacks. We show that the legislative state converges to an invariant distribution. Even more importantly, we demonstrate that the most likely asymptotic legislative state is favorable to the liberals. However, the more volatile resource windfalls, the less liberal is the most likely asymptotic state. Finally, we assess the latter prediction on a database covering 91 countries over the period 1973-2005. We focus on financial liberalization policies. We find that as the resources revenues volatility increases, the financial liberalization index goes down. We also find that this property remains robust across different specifications and sample distinctions.
Q32|The energy transition in the Swedish iron and steel sector, 1800-1939|This article analyses the particular energy transition of the Swedish iron and steel sector (1800- 1939), a relevant actor in the European context during the nineteenth and twenteenth century. The Swedish iron and steel sector is an interesting case to analyse in the perspective of energy transition and the composition and change of the capital stock (classified by energy technology). An in-depth study of the change of the capital stock in the sector will enable us to study the dynamics of energy transition; moreover, the Swedish iron and steel sector, with particular emphasis in technology adoption, lock-in carbon infrastructure and energy transitions is a powerful tool to understand current difficulties to change our infrastructure towards cleaner energy sources.
Q32|The Economic and Ecological Impact of Natural Resource Extraction: The Case of the Camisea Gas Project in Peru|This paper presents the first rigorous empirical evidence of the impact of a large hydrocarbon project in both its economic and environmental dimension. Concentrating on Peru’s largest hydrocarbon project, the Camisea Gas Project, which began operating in the dense Amazonian jungle under strict environmental safeguards in 2004, we assess whether natural resource extraction can have beneficial economic effects without causing negative environmental externalities. The analysis relies on the synthetic control method to systematically choose comparison units (departments), which allows for precise quantitative inference in small-sample studies. Our results indicate that in six of the eight years since the Camisea gas fields began operating, local economic effects, as measured by nighttime lights data, are robustly positive. An examination of remotely-sensed vegetation data suggests that the Camisea Gas Project did not have a significant effect on deforestation, suggesting that the implementation of stringent safeguards can help mitigate environmental risks.
Q32|The role of natural resources in production: Georgescu-Roegen/ Daly versus Solow/ Stiglitz|"This paper proposes a historical and epistemological account of one of the key controversy between natural resources economics and ecological economics, lasting from early 1970s to the end of 1990s. It shows that the theoretical disagreement on the scope of the economy's dependence to natural resources, such as energy and minerals, has deep methodological roots. On one hand, Solow's and Stiglitz's works are built on a ""model-based methodology"", where the model precedes and supports the conceptual foundations of the theory and in particular the assumption of ""unbounded resources productivity"". On the other hand, Georgescu-Roegen's counter-assumption of ""thermodynamic limits to production"", later revived by Daly, rest on a methodology of ""interdisciplinary consistency"" which considers thermodynamics as a relevant scientific referent for economic theory. While antagonistic, these two methodologies face similar issues regarding the conceptual foundations that arise from them, which is a source of confusion and of the difficult dialogue between paradigms."
Q32|Property Rights to Frontier Land and Minerals: US Exceptionalism|Property rights are the most fundamental institution in any society. They determine who has decision-making authority over assets and who bears the costs and benefits of those decisions. They assign ownership, wealth, political influence, and social standing. They make markets possible; define timelines; and provide incentives for investment, innovation, and trade. They mitigate the losses of open access and provide the basis for long-term economic growth. Economists and economic historians have long recognized the importance of secure property rights for economic outcomes. Other political economy, philosophy, historical, and legal literatures emphasize different, but critical attributes based on how property rights are allocated and to whom. The linkages among the social, political, and economic effects are examined here with respect to US and Latin American frontier land and minerals. Property rights were sharply different across the two frontiers with apparent long-term consequences for economic growth, innovation, wealth distribution, private investment in public goods, as well as social and political stability. The distinct assignment of property rights to land and minerals is likely a basis for long-term US exceptionalism in economic performance, individualism, mobility, and optimism. The mechanisms through which property rights to land in a frontier society affect outcomes in a contemporary, highly urban one are complex. Because property rights to land were broadly distributed, Americans could participate in capital markets using land as collateral. This ability shaped opinions regarding markets, capitalism, and individual opportunity. In the 21st century, these critical attributes may be eroding, inviting more analysis from economists and economic historians.
Q32|Douglass C. North: Transaction Costs, Property Rights, and Economic Outcomes|Douglass North asked why some societies historically and contemporarily have rising per-capita incomes and individual welfare, whereas others do not? He argued that successful economies had property rights that encouraged markets, trade, and investment in new production and organizational methods. In other economies, transaction costs, especially those due to the political process, blocked more efficient property rights. Property rights grant decision making over valuable resources and are the basis for investment, and market exchange. They mold the economy and the distribution of wealth and political power. Politicians and coalitions of privileged elites with stakes in the status quo join to preserve it. Inefficiencies create their own constituencies. There is no clear remedy for general citizens in North’s cases. Despite the power of North’s argument, transaction costs are not clear in aggregate studies of economies. They are more apparent in US common-pool resource problems with large, continuing losses in resource rents. This evidence runs counter to the facile arguments in the welfare and environmental economics literatures for addressing externalities that are reminiscent of the simplistic recommendations in the growth and economic history literatures that North challenged. If the observed costly political response to open access losses is characteristic of regulation in general, then welfare losses permeate developed economies as well and are more pervasive than the dramatic examples of development failure examined by North and others. Mitigation requires competitive interest groups that benefit from more secure property rights and greater resource rents to offset powerful elites that align with politicians and capture bureaucratic agencies to achieve particularistic benefits that undermine general welfare.
Q32|Integrating renewables in mining: Review of business models and policy implications|Mining activities are energy-intensive and rely largely on fossil fuels to meet their energy demands. This exposes the mining sector to potential policy and regulatory risks, stemming from government efforts to shift the global economy to a low-emission development pathway, as envisaged by the Paris Agreement. At the same time, renewables have become an increasingly cost-competitive source of power generation. This has resulted in a business case for the adoption of solar and wind energy solutions in the mining sector, to reduce costs as well as carbon footprint of operations. The sector’s energy transition also presents an opportunity for resource-rich countries, including developing economies, to foster the synergistic development of higher value added domestic activities in the renewable energy sector. The shift of the mining industry to low-carbon energy has the potential to contribute to advancing the climate and sustainable development agenda, while also pursuing economic diversification objectives. However, the integration of new technologies into conventional power systems comes with risks and challenges. This paper aims to enhance the understanding of the key drivers for, and obstacles to, renewable energy integration in mining operations, based on a review of over 30 existing projects worldwide. The analysis identifies a need for an enabling policy environment, encompassing among others a competitive energy market structure and adequate energy infrastructure, to overcome current challenges and support the synergies between the development of the mining and renewable energy sectors.
Q32|Resource curse in oil exporting countries|This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of the “resource curse” phenomenon, i.e. the negative impact of oil abundance on long-term economic growth, for a set of oil exporting countries. It distinguishes between two potential drivers of resource courses: oil dependence and oil price volatility, and it investigates whether the resource curse depends on a country’s institutional and macroeconomic environment. The empirical analysis relies on a panel of 24 oil exporters between 1982 and 2012 and an error correction model. The paper provides robust evidence in favour of the resource curse hypothesis, and there is no evidence that higher quality institutions could mitigate the curse. Oil price shocks appear to have an asymmetric impact in the short run: the growth effect is positive when oil prices rise, while no statistically significant effect is observed when they fall. There is also indirect evidence that the impact of an oil price shock is partly offset by fiscal policies, particularly in countries with high oil dependence. In the long run, oil price volatility does not appear to have a statistically significant impact on GDP. Finally, exchange rate regimes seem to play a role: countries allowing their currencies to float seem to gain from positive oil price shocks in the short run, but in the long run a fixed exchange rate regime is associated with higher GDP, probably owing to active stabilisation by sovereign wealth funds.
Q32|Exploiting a natural resource in a poor country: The good, the bad and the ugly sides of the Kyrgyz Republic’s gold mine|What is required for a poor country to turn a valuable resource endowment into a driver of development? The resource curse literature highlighted the importance of institutions and the nature of the resource, neither of which is a useful policy guide. A more recent literature views resource exploitation as a series of hurdles that must be negotiated: ensuring production, dividing revenues, and using the added public finance. The Kyrgyz Republic’s Kumtor gold mine is a useful case study in that the country cleared the first hurdle but over almost a quarter century was embroiled in negotiating the second hurdle. The paper assesses the extent to which such problems are inevitable for a small poor country, and the consequences of an extended conflictual process.
Q32|Resource Windfalls and Publics Debt: The Role of Political Myopia|We identify an adverse consequence of natural resource windfalls, which is particularly detrimental in advanced democracies. We construct a political economy model with endogenous public debt under exogenous resource windfall shocks, in which political myopia results from reelection prospects. Reelection-seeking politicians, while more accountable toward their electorate, are also more myopic. The latter effect gives rise to a budget defficit bias, with the ensuing debt build up that is exacerbated by resource windfalls. We find that the positive effect of resource windfalls on debt increases as the restrictions on reelection get laxer. We test the model's predictions using a panel of U.S. states over the period 1963-2007. Our identification strategy rests on constitutionally-entrenched differences in gubernatorial term limits that provide plausibly exogenous cross-sectional and time variation in political time horizon, and geographically-based cross-stated differences in natural endowments interacted with the international prices of oil and gas. The empirical findings corroborate the model's predictions. In particular, our baseline estimates indicate that a resource windfall of $1 induces an increase of approximately g14:7 in the public debt of states with no gubernatorial term limits.
Q32|The welfare effects of third-degree price discrimination|The welfare effects of third-degree price discrimination are known to be negative when demand functions are linear, marginal cost is constant and all markets are served. This paper shows that discrimination lowers welfare for a more general class of demand functions. Demand varies across markets with additive and multiplicative shift factors. Total welfare (defined as consumer surplus plus profits) with discrimination is lower than with uniform pricing when the density function of consumer valuations satisfies a weak version of concavity that encompasses logconcavity. Most standard demand functions including linear, quadratic, probit, logit, exponential and iso-elastic ones, satisfy this assumption, which is also a weak sufficient condition for existence.
Q32|Forecasting Base Metal Prices with Commodity Currencies|In this paper we show that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict the returns of the London Metal Exchange Index and of the six primary non-ferrous metals that are part of the index: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. The economic relationship hinges on the present-value theory for exchange rates, a floating exchange rate regime and the fact that copper represents about a half of Chilean exports and nearly 45% of Foreign Direct Investment. Consequently, the Chilean peso is heavily affected by fluctuations in the copper price. As all six base metal prices show an important comovement, we test whether the relationship between copper prices and Chilean exchange rates also holds true when it comes to the six primary non-ferrous metals. We find interesting evidence of predictability both in-sample and out-of-sample. Our paper is part of a growing literature that in the recent years has evaluated and called into question the ability of commodity currencies to forecast commodity prices.
Q32|The impact of oil prices on CO2 emissions in China: A Wavelet coherence approach|This paper observes the possible co-movements of oil price and CO2 emissions in China by following wavelet coherence and wavelet partial coherence analyses to be able to depict short-run and long-run co-movements at both low and high frequencies. To this end, this research might provide the current literature with the output of potential short run and long run, structural, changes in CO2 emissions upon a shock (a change) in oil prices in China together with the control variables of World oil prices, fossil energy consumption, and renewables consumption, and, urban population in China. Therefore, this research aims at determining wavelet coherencies between the variables and phase differences to exhibit the leading variable in potential co-movements. By following the time domain and frequency domain analyses of this research, one may claim that the oil prices in China has considerable negative impact on CO2 emissions at high frequencies for the periods 1960-2014 and 1971-2014 in China. Besides, one may underline as well other important output of the research exploring that the urban population and CO2 emissions have positive associations, move together for the period 1960-2014 in China. Eventually, this paper might suggest that authorities follow demand side management policies considering energy demand behavior at both shorter cycles and longer cycles to diminish the CO2 emissions in China.
Q32|Investor relations - are natural resources companies better? Evidence from South Africa|This paper aims to determine whether natural resources companies have better investor relations practices than companies in other industries, and secondly, whether classification as a natural resources company is a significant predictor of the quality of companies? investor relations practices. The companies under investigation are listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) of South Africa. Output from natural resources companies is a significant contributor of GDP in South Africa, an emerging and developing economy. In order to attract foreign investors, improve stock pricing and trading liquidity, South African companies need to signal to the capital market at the level that they are used to from companies in developed economies. Communications with the capital market is proxied by investor relations activities on the companies? websites. I find that on average, natural resources companies have significantly better IR practices than companies in other industries. However, in the multivariate model, being a natural resource company is a weak and insignificant predictor of online investor relations quality. Results indicate that larger companies that were listed more recently, had a Big 4 Auditor and were listed on multiple exchanges had significantly better online investor relations practices. From a policy point of view, investor relations officers at natural resources companies can still do more to improve their capital market communication practices to reap the full benefits from increased transparency, especially in the face of political uncertainty and declining or stagnant commodity prices. This study contributes to the theories on signalling and legitimacy by testing its application to natural resource companies in a sub-Saharan country.
Q32|Can the US shale revolution be duplicated in continental Europe? An economic analysis of European shale gas resources|Over the past decade, the rapid increase in shale gas and shale oil production in the United States has profoundly changed energy markets in North America, and has led to a significant decrease in American natural gas prices. The possible existence of large shale deposits in continental Europe, mainly in France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany, has fostered speculation on whether the U.S. shale revolution could be duplicated in Europe. However, a number of uncertainties, notably geological, technological, regulatory, and relating to public acceptance make this possibility unclear. We present a techno-economic model of shale gas production amenable to direct estimation on historical production data to analyze the main determinants of the profitability of shale wells and plays. We contribute an in-depth analysis of an extensive production dataset covering 40,000 wells and accounting for nearly 90% of shale gas production in the six main plays of the continental United States from 2004 to 2014. We combine this analysis with a discussion of the main differences between the American and European contexts to calibrate our model and conduct Monte-Carlo simulations. This enables us to estimate the distribution of breakeven prices for shale gas extraction in continental Europe. We find a median gross breakeven price before taxes and royalties of $10.1 per MMBtu. This would make extraction unprofitable in Europe in the current natural gas price environment, with
Q32|Competing Land Uses and Fossil Fuel, Optimal Energy Conversion Rates During the Transition Toward a Green Economy Under a Pollution Stock Constraint|We study the transition to a carbon-free economy in a model with a polluting non-renewable resource and a clean renewable resource. Transforming primary energy into ready-to-use energy services is costly and more efficient energy transformation rates are more costly to achieve. Renewable energy competes with food production for land and the food productivity of land can be improved at some cost. To avoid catastrophic climate damages, the pollution stock is mandated to stay below a given cap. When the economy is not constrained by the cap, the efficiency of energy transformation increases steadily until the transition toward the ultimate green economy; when renewable energy is exploited, its land use rises at the expense of food production; food productivity increases together with the land rent but food production drops; the food and energy prices increase and renewables substitute for non-renewable energy. During the constrained phase, the economy follows a constant path of prices, quantities, efficiency rates, food productivity and land rent, a phenomenon we call the ’ceiling efficiency paradox'.
Q32|Alternative Methods for Interpolating PPPs|The paper draws on a previous paper by Diewert and Fox which addressed two problems: (i) how to measure aggregate real output and inflation for a group of countries and (ii) how to construct measures of real GDP for a group of countries where the country measures of real GDP are comparable across time and space. In order to address both problems, it is necessary that the group of countries construct Purchasing Power Parities (PPPs). The present paper looks at the related problem of interpolating PPPs between benchmark years when PPPs have been constructed. The paper shows that the method of interpolation that was suggested by Diewert and Fox is equivalent to a variant of the method used by the Penn World Tables to interpolate PPPs between benchmarks. The interpolation methods are compared to actual OECD PPPs for the years 2001-2017.
Q32|Resource based industrialisation: evidence from the Iron-Ore project in Brazil|This paper aims to engage in the contemporary debate around the opportunity to diversify and upgrade a country?s economic system through the contribution of natural resource sectors.Adopting a revisitation of Hirschman?s linkage theory, the analysis looks at mining arguing that the outsourcing process changed the dynamics of the sector, which is now characterised by the promotion of high-level technology and innovation. By focusing on the Brazilian mining sector, the development of consumption and backward linkages is examined in relation to the S11D iron ore project. The specificity of the case presents an in-depth analysis, permitting a caseby-case, one size-does-not-fit-?all evaluation approach, which is crucial in formulating appropriate policy solutions to problems facing developing economies. It is argued that, overall, mining had a positive impact on the region where it operates, with strong consumption linkages. Nonetheless, due to an absent formal public policy, while backward linkages related to innovation and knowledge services are well--??developed and very often at the technological frontier, the ones related to capital goods are weak and in the hands of foreigner subsidiaries
Q32|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to Russian oil and gas sector, regional budgets, agricultural sector, and Russia’s industrial output
Q32|Piecewise closed-loop equilibria in differential games with regime switching strategies|We propose a new methodology exploring piecewise closed-loop equilibrium strategies in differential games with regime switching actions. We develop a general game with two players. Players choose an action that influences the evolution of a state variable, and decide on the switching time from one regime to another. Compared to the optimal control problem with regime switching, necessary optimality conditions are modified for the first player to switch. When choosing her optimal switching strategy, this player considers the impact of her choice on the other player’s actions and consequently on her own payoffs. In order to determine the equilibrium timing of regime changes, we derive conditions that help eliminate candidate equilibrium strategies that do not survive deviations in switching strategies. We then apply this new methodology to an exhaustible resource extraction game.
Q32|Regulating transgenic soybean production in Argentina|"This article investigates how to regulate transgenic soybean production in Argentina. Taking into account the broad range of negative externalities associated with transgenic soybean production, we explore the effects of two different policy instruments, namely a subsidy for non-transgenic soybean and production quotas for transgenic soybean. Taking into account the political and economic context in Argentina, we demonstrate that auctioned production quotas are the best way to achieve the regulation of transgenic soybean production. However, the organization of the agricultural sector in Argentina is such that ""raising rivals’ costs"" behavior could occur on the quota market although the output price is set exogenously. We show that auctioned quotas limit this anti-competitive behavior. Finally, we demonstrate that introducing a shadow cost of public funds leads to an increase in the optimal production level of transgenic soybean."
Q32|Economic development and material use. Evidence from international panel data|Between 1990 and 2008, many industrializing countries have experienced tremendous economic growth, which coincided with a substantial increase in the use of materials. That poses the question how a continued economic convergence of developing nations will affect the use of biomass, fossil fuels, and minerals. Building on the Environmental Kuznets Curve hypothesis, this study investigates whether material use reaches a maximum at a certain level of economic development and declines in income thereafter. Two indicators operationalize material use. Domestic Material Consumption (DMC) measures the apparent use of materials in a country. The Material Footprint (MF) quantifies all materials extracted to produce a country's final demand, including materials embodied in imports. Employing a panel consisting of 144 countries, initial estimations results suggest an S-shaped (cubic) relationship between GDP per capita and material use, but the relationship is monotonically positive over most of the income range. The coefficients of the cubic model tend to become nonsignificant once endogeneity and non-stationarity are accounted for. A linear specification yields a significant (positive) coefficient irrespective of the estimation method and can thus be considered a satisfactory approximation to the income-material use relationship. The linear models that account for endogeneity and non-stationarity suggest a greater income-materials elasticity for MF than for DMC. The long-run income elasticity is estimated to be 0.562 for DMC and 0.752 for MF. The income elasticity of MF is rather uniform across country groups. While being below average for biomass, it is greater than unity for fossil fuels.
Q32|Resource Extraction and Uncertain Tipping Points|A global planning problem is analyzed for extracting an exhaustible resource like oil when resource extraction – the only source for current consumption – also generates additions to the stock of GHGs that influence the likelihood of hitting a threshold representing climate change. We derive conditions for optimal extraction when we take into account joint emissions that accumulate to a stock that is governing the planner’s beliefs of facing a climate change that will involve a loss in the production capacity of the global economy. Except for “annuity of the continuation payoff”, which is the stationary rate of welfare after a climate change, the optimality conditions are very similar to the results found in Loury (1978) - where optimal extraction of a non-renewable resource of unknown size was analyzed. Not surprisingly we find that extraction has a cost (“environmental cost”) beyond the standard opportunity cost (“resource rent”), implying a lower rate of extraction as long as no threshold has been hit, compared to the risk-free case. Such saving has an expected rate of return along an optimal strategy should be balanced against the standard required rate of return - the Keynes- Ramsey-Cass-Koopmans-condition.
Q32|Oil Price Shocks and Economic Growth in the Us|We apply both conventional and spatial techniques to panel data for US states to examine the effects of plausibly exogenous oil price shocks on economic growth. Contrary to the oil curse claims, we find that oil price shocks have numerically moderate but highly statistically significant positive direct effects on growth while the indirect effects are insignificant. We also find that positive impact of oil occurs only in states with a high value of the economic freedom index. In a technical contribution to the spatial econometrics literature we propose a procedure for estimating marginal effects of oil price shocks in a model with interaction terms. In addition, we show that the cumulative direct oil price effects on economic growth are persistent over time.
Q32|The value of redistribution: natural resources and the formation of human capital under weak institutions|Los autores aprovechan la variación espacial y temporal generada por el boom de las materias primas para medir el efecto de los recursos naturales sobre la formación de capital humano en el Perú, un país con bajos indicadores de gobernanza. Al combinar las puntuaciones de las pruebas de más de dos millones de estudiantes y los datos administrativos a nivel de distrito sobre la producción minera y la redistribución de los impuestos mineros a los gobiernos locales, no se encontró ningún efecto de la producción. Sin embargo, la redistribución de los impuestos mineros aumenta los resultados de las pruebas de matemáticas en 0.23 desviaciones estándar. Los autores identifican las mejoras en la calidad de los docentes y en la infraestructura de la escuela, junto con el aumento en el empleo de los adultos y en los resultados de salud de adultos y niños, como mecanismos clave de la redistribución. Finalmente, en el documento se discuten las implicaciones de política para evitar la maldición de los recursos naturales.
Q32|Natural resource rents, autocracy and the composition of government spending|This paper empirically analyzes the influence of rents from natural resources on the composition of government spending and investigates whether the relationship differs between democracies and autocracies. Both panel data and instrumental variable regressions suggest that there is a negative joint effect of autocracy and natural resource dependency on education spending. Moreover, there is slight evidence in the results of a positive joint effect on spending for social protection, while other components of government spending do not seem to be influenced. In particular, the results do not suggest that autocratic regimes in resource-dependent countries spend relatively more on military.
Q32|Agglomeration effects, institutions, and natural resources in the changing economic geography of Russia|The article presents the results of the study that assesses the place of Russia in the global financial market. The current ratings of the global competitiveness of national financial markets and financial centers are based on objective and subjective assessment of the competitive factors. Our approach is based on objective indicators, characterizing the results of the competition, including the proportion of countries in the global financial market, P/E, and others. The article presents the results of calculations of Russia’s place in the global financial market, based on which the conclusions about the causes of the loss of positions, weak links of the Russian financial market, competitors success factors are made.
Q32|Local content policies in mineral-exporting countries|Resource abundance does not always bring sustained economic growth and development. Moreover, the mining sector generally provides little direct employment in the regions where extraction occurs. In an attempt to derive greater benefits from their resource endowments, and increase linkages with other parts of the economy, some minerals-rich countries have instituted local content and procurement policies (LCPs). The benefits sought include employment generation, supply chain development and technological and knowledge transfers. Measures that aim to increase local content and procurement in the extractive industries are common, including in many OECD countries.This study examines local content policies in 10 minerals-rich countries and provides some observations about their efficacy and the desirability of their use. A wide range of measures are examined, from industry-wide, mandatory quantitative targets to voluntary initiatives undertaken at the firm level, encompassing diverse policy objectives and implementation strategies. The range of countries covered is broad including OECD countries, developing countries and least developed countries. The study does not recommend a “one size fits all” policy mix but guards against the distortions created by overly prescriptive, mandatory local content requirements.
Q32|Economic Development and Material Use|Between 1990 and 2008, many industrializing countries have experienced tremendous economic growth, which coincided with a substantial increase in the use of materials. That poses the question how a continued economic convergence of developing nations will affect the use of biomass, fossil fuels, and minerals. Building on the Environmental Kuznets Curve hypothesis, this study investigates whether material use reaches a maximum at a certain level of economic development and declines in income thereafter. Two indicators operationalize material use. Domestic Material Consumption (DMC) measures the apparent use of materials in a country. The Material Footprint (MFP) quantifies all materials extracted to produce a country's final demand, including materials embodied in imports. Employing a panel consisting of 144 countries, initial estimations results suggest an S-shaped (cubic) relationship between GDP per capita and material use, but the relationship is monotonically positive over most of the income range. The coefficients of the cubic model tend to become nonsignificant once endogeneity and non-stationarity are accounted for. A linear specification yields a significant (positive) coefficient irrespective of the estimation method and can thus be considered a satisfactory approximation to the income-material use relationship. The linear models that account for endogeneity and non-stationarity suggest a greater income-materials elasticity for MFP than for DMC. The long-run income elasticity is estimated to be 0.562 for DMC and 0.752 for MFP.
Q32|Natural Resource Extraction in a Federation|We analyze a natural resource extraction problem in a two-region economy with mobile labour. One region produces manufacturing goods while the other produces agriculture and extracts a non-renewable resource. Manufacturing production exhibits increasing returns-to-scale if the production level is sufficiently high. There are multiple long-run equilibrium labour allocations towards which the economy may converge. Under decentralized resource management, a tendency to over-extract the resource relative to the federal optimum makes convergence to a low-income equilibrium more likely. Optimal extraction from the federation's perspective satisfies a modified Hotelling's rule that takes into account the impact of resource extraction on manufacturing production.
Q32|Federal Tax Policies, Congressional Voting, and the Fiscal Advantage of Natural Resources|What determines legislatorsvoting behavior over federal tax policies? Conventional wisdom points primarily at party a¢ liation. This paper presents a novel mechanism of voting patterns across state-levels of scal advantage. We construct a political economy model of scal federalism with state scal asymmetries that originate in heterogeneity in natural resource abundance, representing a non-mobile source of income that provides a scal advantage in the inter-state scal competition. The model shows that representatives of natural resource rich states are more willing to vote in favor of federal tax increases, despite the lower net scal bene ts their states receive. This occurs because these states can reduce their tax rates as a response to an increase in the federal tax rate, and hence attract capital from the rest of the nation to the extent of increasing their pre-shock tax base. Data on roll-call votes in the U.S. Congress over major changes in federal tax bills in the post WW-II period support the predicted voting patterns. Speci cally, we nd that elected o¢ cials of resource rich states are more (less) supportive of capital-related federal tax increases (decreases), controlling for their party a¢ liation, ideology, federal transfers, and economic conditions. Our results indicate that the scal advantage channel is as dominant as party a¢ liation in driving legislatorsvoting decisions over federal tax policies.
Q32|What drives vertical fiscal interactions? Evidence from the 1980 Crude Oil Windfall Act|In economies with multi-level governments, why would a change in the fiscal rule of a government in one level lead to a fiscal response by a government in a different level? The literature focused primarily on the standard common-pool problem, while giving little attention to the potential role of complementarity or substitutability (CS) between the public goods supplied by the two governments. This paper fills this gap by focusing on the latter channel. First, we illustrate its potential key role in determining the sign of the vertical reaction through a generic model of vertical fiscal interactions. Second, we propose a novel strategy for identifying it, by considering an empirical design that confines the common-pool channel to specific locations. We implement this design through a quasi-natural experiment: the 1980 U.S. Crude Oil Windfall Act, which increased federal tax collections from sale of crude oil, thereby affecting the tax base of oil rich states specifically. This latter feature enables attributing the vertical fiscal reactions of the remaining states to the CS channel. Following this strategy, via a difference-in-differences approach, we decompose the sources of the vertical fiscal reactions arising from this federal tax change and find that those attributed to the CS channel: (i) account for approximately 38% of the overall vertical fiscal response; (ii) point at complementarity between state and federal public goods, most notably in transportation and welfare expenditures; (iii) are manifested primarily via changes in states' sales and income taxation.
Q32|Fiscal Options for Absorbing a Windfall of Natural Resource Revenues – A CGE Model of Oil Discovery in Uganda|The current debate about the optimal management of foreign exchange windfalls is highly relevant to low income countries such as Uganda, having recently discovered vast hydrocarbon reserves. Using a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model for Uganda this paper analyses three broad policy options for the use of oil revenues, increasing i) private consumption, ii) private investment, and iii) public infrastructure investment. The model allows for learning-by-doing in tradables, increasing returns to public infrastructure and the use of an Oil Fund held abroad. The fund allows government to smooth expenditure programs over the medium-term. When public infrastructure is biased towards tradables, a smooth expenditure profile yields higher economic growth than high expenditure skewed to the present. The government’s discount rate plays a key role in determining the optimal use and management of oil revenues. More impatient governments will be inclined to increase current expenditure at the cost of future generations’ welfare and negative distributional implications for poor households. Lower discount rates align the political incentives with respect to inter-temporal welfare and the long-run growth path of the economy.
Q32|Follow the money: Does the Financial Sector Intermediate Natural Resource Windfalls?|The need to absorb windfalls gains and manage them appropriately has been discussed extensively by academics and policy makers alike. We explore the role of the financial sector in intermediating these windfalls. Controlling for the level of financial development, inflation, GDP growth and country fixed-effects, we find a relative decline in financial sector deposits in countries that experience an unexpected natural resource windfall as measured by shocks to exogenous world prices. Moreover, we find a similar relative decline in lending, which is mostly due to the decrease in deposits. The smaller role for the financial sector in intermediating resource booms is accompanied by a stronger role of governments in channeling resources into the economy, mostly through higher government consumption.
Q32|Intensive and extensive margins of mining and development: Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|What are the economic consequences of mining in Sub-Saharan Africa? Using a panel of 3,635 districts from 42 Sub-Saharan African countries for the period 1992 to 2012 we investigate the effects of mining on living standards (measured by night-lights and household/cohort characteristics from Demographic and Health Surveys) and public service provisions (from Afrobarometer). Night-lights increase in mining districts when mineral production expands (intensive margin), but large effects are mainly associated with new discoveries and new production (extensive margin). We identify the effect by carefully choosing feasible but not yet mined districts as a control group. In addition, we exploit first, single-first, giant and major discoveries as exogenous news shocks. Mines in Africa exhibit enclave characteristics as we find little evidence of significant spillovers to other districts.
Q32|Dutch Disease Resistance: Evidence from Indonesian Firms|Oil and gas extraction may lead to the Dutch disease, i.e. the crowding ot of the manufacturing sector due to rising wages when labor is drawn to the expanding extraction and services sectors. In this paper we exploit the fact that oil and gas discoveries contain an element of chance as well as oil price fluctuations to capture random variation in oil and gas windfalls across Indonesia and identify their effects on manufacturing firms. We find that oil and gas windfalls cause wage growth but that the firm exit rate is unaffected. Firms’ output and labor productivity increase along with wages suggesting where firms are able to respond to booming local demand, and raise productivity in response to upward wage pressures, they can overcome the crowding-out effects from resource windfalls.
Q32|Resource discoveries and FDI bonanzas; An illustration from Mozambique|This paper examines the effect of giant oil and gas discoveries on foreign direct investment in developing economies. Across countries, we document a 58% increase in non-resource extraction FDI in the 2 years following a giant discovery, an event which is unpredictable due to the uncertainty of exploration. This effect is driven by a 30% increase in the number of projects and a 16% increase in targeted sectors. Mozambique's recent FDI boom provides a telling confirmation of this mechanism. Using project-level FDI data combined with multiple waves of household surveys and rm censuses we estimate that each FDI job results in 6.2 additional local jobs, linking the gas-driven FDI bonanza in Mozambique to widespread job creation.
Q32|Dematerialization, Decoupling, and Productivity Change|The prospects for long-term sustainability depend on whether, and how much, we can absolutely decouple economic output from total energy and material throughput. While relative decoupling has occurred – that is, resource use has grown less quickly than the economy – absolute decoupling has not, raising the question whether it is possible. This paper proposes a novel explanation for why decoupling has not happened historically, drawing on a recent theory of cost-share induced productivity change and an extension of post-Keynesian pricing theory to natural resources. Cost-share induced productivity change and pricing behavior set up two halves of a dynamic, which we explore from a post-Keynesian perspective. In this dynamic, resource costs as a share of GDP move toward a stable level, at which the growth rate of resource productivity is typically less than the growth rate of GDP. This provides a parsimonious explanation of the prevalence of relative over absolute decoupling. The paper then presents some illustrative applications of the theory.
Q32|When Foreign Interventions in Domestic Economy Leads to Exploitation: A Case Study of Oil Production in Nigeria’s Niger Delta|This paper examines the logic of environmental racism (and its ethnic variant) and places it against some of the main issues in the Niger Delta resistance. Relying on primary ethnographic data obtained in the Niger Delta in 2003 as well as on a close examination of the framework for oil exploitation in Nigeria, and some (recent) actions of the Nigerian government, the paper argues that while environmental ‘recklessness’, poor social remediation, and other ‘excesses’ have been undeniable concomitants of oil production in the Niger Delta, environmental racism provides only a tangential explanation for these problems, if at all. Environmental racism arguments neglect the underlying issue of a dysfunctional state-dictated framework for oil operations, whose devastating impact is felt not just in the Niger Delta, but across the broader Nigerian social fabric, as well as by the state and the multinational oil companies. The paper revisits John Rawls’ concept of ‘background institutions’ in explaining the environmental and social consequences of oil exploration and the Niger Delta crisis.
Q32|Identifikasi Modal Sosial Masyarakat Terhadap Restorasi Lahan Pasca Tambang: (Studi Masyarakat Desa Bukit Kijang, Kecamatan Namang, Kabupaten Bangka Tengah)<BR>[Identification of Community Social Capital to Post-Mining Land Restoration: (Study of the Bukit Kijang Village, Namang District, Bangka Tengah Regency)]|Social capital is an important instrument that has an influence on people's lives socially and economically. This decade's economic development is an interesting concern for all people, especially the government, in realizing public welfare. This reality relates to the focus of this research study on post-mining land restoration programs that are taking place in the Bukit Kijang Village. This study uses qualitative research methods with a case study approach. Meanwhile this study uses the theory of the character James Coleman regarding the concept of social capital. The purpose of this study is to identify social capital in the lives of the people of Bukit Kijang Village towards the ongoing post-mining land restoration program in the village. The results showed that the low social capital in the Bukit Kijang Village community. Some indicators of social capital that can be elaborated such as the low level of community participation in post-mining land restoration programs, low information flows such as ineffective communication in the Bukit Kijang Village community. In addition, the low social relations that exist in the community, such as the lack of community participation in the implementation of programs pioneered by the Bangka Regency Government and the Ministry of Environment and the private sector involved in the program.
Q32|Exploring the nexus of electricity supply and economic growth in South Africa|This paper investigates the causal relationship between electricity supply and economic growth in South Africa using annual data covering the period between 1985 and 2014. This paper used a multivariate framework which included trade openness, electricity price, capital and employment as intermittent variables. The ARDL bound testing was employed to establish the long run relationship between these variables. The Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) was estimated to carry out the test of causality. The results support the existence of co-integration among the variables. The VECM established a bidirectional causality flowing between electricity supply and economic growth. This shows that the policy makers should prioritise building capacity additions and infrastructure development of the South African electricity supply industry, as this will stimulate economic growth and increase electricity in the country. The findings further show that electricity prices, trade openness, employment and capital Granger-cause economic growth and electricity supply. This result means that increased economic growth and electricity supply is dependent on the degree of trade openness, employment levels in the country and the amount of investment.
Q32|Can the US shale revolution be duplicated in continental Europe?: An economic analysis of European shale gas resources|Over the past decade, the rapid increase in shale gas and shale oil production in the United States has profoundly changed energy markets in North America, and has led to a significant decrease in American natural gas prices. The possible existence of large shale deposits in continental Europe, mainly in France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany, has fostered speculation on whether the U.S. shale revolution could be duplicated in Europe. However, a number of uncertainties, notably geological, technological, regulatory, and relating to public acceptance make this possibility unclear. We present a techno-economic model of shale gas production amenable to direct estimation on historical production data to analyze the main determinants of the profitability of shale wells and plays. We contribute an in-depth analysis of an extensive production dataset covering 40,000 wells and accounting for nearly 90% of shale gas production in the six main plays of the continental United States from 2004 to 2014. We combine this analysis with a discussion of the main differences between the American and European contexts to calibrate our model and conduct Monte-Carlo simulations. This enables us to estimate the distribution of breakeven prices for shale gas extraction in continental Europe. We find a median gross breakeven price before taxes and royalties of $10.1 per MMBtu. This would make extraction unprofitable in Europe in the current natural gas price environment, with
Q32|Optimal Growth with Resource Exhaustibility and Pollution Externality|This paper investigates a problem of optimal growth with resource exhaustibility and pollution externality, based on a unified framework that explicitly considers augmentable man-made capital, exhaustible resource reserves, and accumulative environmental pollutants as three stock variables for optimal control analysis. Characterizations of the social optimum show that for any given man-made capital and resource reserves, resource extraction flows generated in optimal growth with both resource exhaustibility and pollution externality are smaller than those with only resource exhaustibility, and taking account of pollution externality resulting from resource extraction reduces the growth rate of consumption if man-made capital and natural resources are complements in final goods production. Existence, uniqueness and comparative statics of the steady state are analyzed. Conditions for transitional dynamics stability of optimal growth with resource exhaustibility and pollution externality are established. Expositions are made on whether allocations in a market equilibrium are consistent with the social optimum outcomes.
Q32|Follow the Money: Does the Financial Sector Intermediate Natural Resource Windfalls?|The need to absorb windfalls gains and manage them appropriately has been discussed extensively by academics and policy makers alike. We explore the role of the financial sector in intermediating these windfalls. Controlling for the level of financial development, inflation, GDP growth and country fixed-effects, we find a relative decline in financial sector deposits in countries that experience an unexpected natural resource windfall as measured by shocks to exogenous world prices. Moreover, we find a similar relative decline in lending, which is mostly due to the decrease in deposits. The smaller role for the financial sector in intermediating resource booms is accompanied by a stronger role of governments in channeling resources into the economy, mostly through higher government consumption.
Q32|Has Algeria suffered from the dutch disease?: Evidence from 1960–2013 data|Algeria is strongly dependent on oil exports revenues to fuel its economy and following the 1986 oil counter-shock this country has experienced a persistent decline of its manufacturing sector. Although it has benefited from high oil prices over the last decades and implemented a myriad of economic reforms, Algeria has failed to develop its manufacturing sector and diversify its economy. One of the main mechanisms through which fluctuations in oil prices can constitute an impediment to the development of the manufacturing sector, and hence to long-term growth, in an economy that heavily relies on a natural resource exports is referred to in the literature as the Dutch disease. This paper aims to test whether or not Algeria’s economy has suffered from the main symptoms of this syndrome by analyzing data covering more than half-a-century. More specifically, we use annual data from 1960 to 2016 and investigate two important implications of this phenomenon that occur following an oil boom, namely, the spending effect and the resource movement effect. We perform some simple tests of these signs of the Dutch disease using a set of regressions while controlling for some other factors that could have led to similar economic symptoms. The results do not allow us to unambiguously claim that the Algerian economy has suffered from the Dutch disease over the period under study.
Q32|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
Q32|The long- and short-run impact of oil price changes on major global economies|In the context of the recent slump in global oil prices, the paper investigates the effect of oil price shocks on the economic performance of 51 individual OECD and OPEC economies. We propose an error correction model which allows us to differentiate between short- and longrun price effects. For robustness, structural breaks and potential asymmetries are incorporated. Our approach is particularly interesting, since economic performance is not only measured by GDP, but also by equity indices from the MSCI family. The equity indices provide valuable insights into financial transmission mechanisms, in addition to macroeconomic channels, at much higher frequency than conventional GDP data. We are able to present robust estimates for the severity of oil price shocks for individual economies and thereby identify winners and losers under the current oil price regime.
Q32|More oil, less quality of education? New empirical evidence|The resource curse hypothesis suggests that resource-rich countries show lower economic growth rates compared to resource-poor countries. We add to this literature by providing empirical evidence on a new transmission channel of the resource curse, namely, the negative effect of rents on the quality of education. The cross-country analysis for more than 70 countries shows a significantly positive effect of oil rents on the quantity of education measured by government spending on primary and secondary education. Hence, the underspending hypothesis championed by Gylfason (2001) no longer holds with newer data. However, we find a robust and negative effect of oil rents dependency on the current objective and subjective indicators of quality of education, controlling for a set of other drivers of education quality and regional dummies. Despite pending significant shares of GDP on education, oil-rich countries still suffer from an insuficient quality of primary and secondary education,which may hamper their growth potentials. The significant negative effect of oil rents dependency on education quality can be explained by both the demand (e.g., skill acquisition) and supply (e.g., teacher quality) side channels.
Q32|Digitale Strategien für mehr Materialeffizienz in der Industrie: Ergebnisse aus dem IW-Zukunftspanel|Diese Studie liefert auf Basis von Befragungsergebnissen aus dem IW-Zukunftspanel erstmalig Erkenntnisse zur Relevanz der Digitalisierung bei Maßnahmen zur Steigerung der Materialeffizienz. Bisher dominieren im Verarbeitenden Gewerbe eher klassische effizienzsteigernde Maßnahmen, die die Herstellungsprozesse optimieren, aber auch neue Techniken und Materialien kommen zum Einsatz. Grundlegende Weichenstellungen für eine moderne Kreislaufwirtschaft sind in vielen Unternehmen noch nicht vorhanden, da es noch nicht so verbreitet ist, Materialien im großen Stil bereits beim Produktdesign, über eine Kreislaufführung oder neue Geschäftsmodelle, einzusparen. Die Materialeinsparpotenziale sind in der Industrie noch nicht erschöpft und bei optimalen Einsatz der verfügbaren technischen Möglichkeiten, könnten nach Auffassung der Unternehmen noch weitere 3 bis 4 Prozent eingespart werden. Bezogen auf den Wert der in Deutschland aus dem In- und Ausland bezogenen Menge an mineralischen Rohstoffen liegt das realisierbare Einsparpotenzial somit bei knapp 2 Milliarden Euro. Maßnahmen für mehr Materialeffizienz sind bislang nur selten hochgradig digitalisiert und wenn dann - vor allem bei großen Unternehmen - am ehesten bei der Prozessoptimierung. Rund zwei Fünftel der Unternehmen sind bei den wichtigsten industriellen Effizienzmaßnahmen - Prozessoptimierung und der Verwendung neuer Techniken zumindest im mittleren Maße digitalisiert, aber mehr als ein Drittel auch noch gar nicht. Am häufigsten sind Unternehmen bei der betriebsübergreifenden Kreislaufführung überhaupt digitalisiert, eine Maßnahme, die jedoch nur von zwei Fünftel der Industrieunternehmen angewandt wird. Es besteht noch Potenzial für mehr Digitalisierung bei Produktdesign, Kreislaufführung und neuen Geschäftsmodellen. Obwohl mindestens jedes zweite verarbeitende Unternehmen über eine interne Kreislaufführung Rest- und Abfallstoffe wiederverwertet, spielen digitale Netze bei zwei Fünfteln dieser Unternehmen bisher keine und bei weiteren zwei Fünfteln nur eine kleine Rolle. Nur etwa jedes zehnte Unternehmen ist stark digital vernetzt. Mehr als jedes zweite Industrieunternehmen nutzt Maßnahmen, die beim Produktdesign ansetzen, um Ressourcen zu schonen. Bisher ist fast die Hälfte dieser Unternehmen nicht digital vernetzt - und wenn doch eher nur geringfügig. Ein Drittel der Industrieunternehmen sieht bisher in neuen Geschäftsmodellen einen effizienzsteigernden Weg. Davon sind drei von zehn dieser Unternehmen bisher nicht digitalisiert, weitere zwei Fünftel nur geringfügig. Unternehmen, die Digitalisierung bereits strategisch verankert haben, sind Vorreiter auf dem Weg zu mehr Materialeffizienz, da sie öfter materialeffizienzsteigernde Maßnahmen intensiv nutzen, eher weitere Einsparpotenziale erkennen und dann auch deutlich häufiger im hohen Maße digitalisiert sind.
Q32|Bolivia’s Green National Accounts through a Commodity Super Cycle|This paper explains the concept of integrated environmental-economic accounts, also called Green National Accounts. It then presents updated results for key indicators from Bolivia’s Green National Accounts during the period 1990-2015, which covers an entire Commodity Super Cycle. The first half of this period includes the Great Commodities Depression while the second half is characterized by an unprecedented commodities boom. Results show that the contribution of ecosystem goods and services to the Bolivian economy remain relatively stable over the cycle, while the contribution of non-renewable resources increases by a factor of four between the bottom of the cycle (1993) and the top of the cycle (2011). Similarly, the differences between conventional Net Capital Formation and Environmentally-adjusted Net Capital formation is small at the bottom of the Commodity Super Cycle (2.3% of GDP) but much larger at the top of the cycle (7.7% of GDP). These results were calculated following the United Nation’s SEEA 2003 framework.
Q32|The (Uneven) Spatial Distribution of the Bakken Oil Boom|Resulting from a booming shale-energy sector, from 2007 to 2014, income per capita in North Dakota increased 40%. Does this reflect the experience of a few oil-rich counties, or were the gains more evenly distributed across the region? We find the shale boom generated significant economic gains for counties above and near the Bakken Shale Formation, but not for those farther away. We also document significant state-border effects, which are not easily explained. Conditional on distance to the Bakken region, the shale boom generated limited outward migration from South Dakota, and as a result, the economic gains that accrued there were muted.
Q32|Beyond Water Stress: Structural Adjustment and Macroeconomic Consequences of the Emerging Water Scarcity|This work analyzes some system-wide macroeconomic consequences of lower (sustainable) water availability, when global economic growth is postulated according to the Shared Socio-Economic Pathway 1 (SSP1), for the reference year 2050. After finding that the rather optimistic forecasts of economic development cannot be met in most water scarce macro-regions, we assess what consequences for the structure of the economy, welfare and the terms of trade, the insufficiency of water resources would imply. The analysis is undertaken by means of numerical simulations with a global computable general equilibrium model, under a set of alternative hypotheses. In particular, we consider whether (or not) the regional economic systems have a differentiated capability of adaptation (by means of innovation and modification of economic processes), and whether (or not) the scarce water resources can be allocated among industries, such that more water is assigned where its economic value is greater.
Q32|Regulating transgenic soybean production in Argentina|"This article investigates how to regulate transgenic soybean production in Argentina. Taking into account the broad range of negative externalities associated with transgenic soybean production, we explore the effects of two different policy instruments, namely a subsidy for non-transgenic soybean and production quotas for transgenic soybean. Taking into account the political and economic context in Argentina, we demonstrate that auctioned production quotas are the best way to achieve the regulation of transgenic soybean production. However, the organization of the agricultural sector in Argentina is such that ""raising rivals' costs"" behavior could occur on the quota market although the output price is set exogenously. We show that auctioned quotas limit this anti-competitive behavior. Finally, we demonstrate that introducing a shadow cost of public funds leads to an increase in the optimal production level of transgenic soybean."
Q32|The Geography of Natural Resources, Ethnic Inequality and Development|We study whether the spatial distribution of natural resources across different ethnic groups within countries impede spatial inequality, national economic performance, and the incidence of armed conflict. By providing a theoretical rent-seeking model and analysing a set of geocoded data for mines, night-time light emissions, local populations and ethnic homelands, we show that the distribution of resources is a major driving factor of ethnic income inequality and, thus, induces rent-seeking behaviour. Consequently, we extend the perspective of the resource curse to explain cross-country differences in economic performance and the onset of civil conflicts. We show that the inequality in the spatial distribution of resource endowments within countries drives the curse of natural resources, not the resources per se.
Q32|Sustainability with endogenous discounting|We construct a dynamic competitive model with a stock of man-made capital and several stocks of natural resources and ask under what conditions consumption will be constant if in nitesimal households with heterogeneous preferences and endowments discount their utility ows at an endogenous rate that depends some macroeconomic variables. We show that for consumption to be constant, this function must be the marginal product ofcapital function. We demonstrate that Hartwicks Rule (that along the constant consumption path, resource rents must be invested in man-made capital) holds in a modi ed form that takes account of natural growth of resource stocks.
Q32|Endogenous growth with a limited fossil fuel extraction capacity|Campbell (1980) and following authors have discussed a limited resource extraction capacity as an augmentation of the well-known Hotelling model. We integrate a limited extraction capacity and related investments in the endogenous growth model of Tsur and Zemel (2005) to study its effect on economic development. The capacity constraint gives rise to three effects. On the one hand, higher energy costs and the reallocation of production towards capacity investments decrease production available for consumption, research and/or capital investments (energy costs and reallocation effect). On the other hand, research investments may increase, which boosts available production (research effect). Depending on the capital endowment and the strength of the effects, long-run consumption may be boosted or depressed. In particular, the capacity constraint may render everlasting consumption growth non-optimal in a resource-rich economy. Furthermore, we find that capacity investments may be postponed to later points in time if the capital endowment is high.
Q32|Mismo recurso, diferentes conflictos: Un análisis de la relación entre oro, conflicto y criminalidad en seis departamentos colombianos|La adopción de una nueva política minera en 2001 junto con el drástico incremento de los precios internacionales de oro desde ese mismo año ha motivado la expansión de la minería aurífera (formal e informal) en Colombia. Desde entonces, tanto en regiones mineras tradicionales como nuevas regiones auríferas, diversidad de actores estatales y no estatales (operadores mineros de distintas escalas, nacionalidades y grados de formalidad, comunidades y autoridades locales y regionales, organizaciones ambientales, representantes del sector agrícola) han estado envueltos en tensiones y conflictos en torno al manejo del recurso aurífero (cómo extraerlo, captar sus rentas y evitar y manejar sus externalidades). Además, actores armados no estatales han encontrado en la minería de oro una fuente rentable de ingresos para complementar o incluso sustituir fuentes tradicionales de ingresos (secuestro y producción y tráfico de narcóticos). Bajo este panorama nacional en el que la minería de oro se entrelaza con el conflicto (violento y no violento), una mirada al nivel sub-nacional expone dinámicas particulares en las cuales la producción de oro se puede encontrar tanto aislada como vinculada al conflicto a través de diferentes canales o mecanismos. Es pues el propósito de este capítulo estudiar esas dinámicas sub-nacionales. Para ello se comparan las trayectorias de seis regiones auríferas en Colombia teniendo en cuenta tanto las características particulares del proceso de producción y comercialización como las características del contexto institucional (reglas en uso), político (dinámicas sub-nacionales del conflicto armado), sociocultural (características de los actores involucrados) y biofísico (las características físicas del recurso minero). Esta comparación permite identificar un conjunto de posibles factores que configuran patrones sub-nacionales de la relación entre minería de oro y conflicto. A partir de este análisis, el capítulo ofrece pistas para orientar el diseño e implementación de políticas y estrategias orientadas tanto desvincular el oro del conflicto, así como a integrarlo en arreglos institucionales que promuevan decisiones responsables y cooperativas en su manejo.
Q32|Optimal Extraction Paths with Electric Power Generation|"It would seem that Hotelling's rule and its related models of resource extraction and electricity production as largest consumer of scarce resources are closely related. However, although fixed costs and a non-storable product are essential in characterizing electricity markets, they can hardly be found in respective literature. We show optimal extraction paths when coal, gas and a renewable with differing fixed and variable costs as well as carbon intensities are considered. The technology with lowest fixed costs will then ""â€“"" though relying on a scarce resource ""â€“"" always be used in perpetuity. The high fixed-cost fossil technology may be exploited at a definite point of time if it is relatively scarce or also used ad infinitum."
Q32|Modeling the Value of Flexible Heat Pumps|Demand side management has been proposed as one means to improve integration of high shares of nondispatchable renewables-based electricity generation. Among other technologies, residential heat pumps are seen as suitable application for demand side management. Thus, we present a model of an air-water heat pump combined with a thermal energy storage. This heating system supplies heat to a floor-heated building. All subsystem dynamics (thermal energy storage, heating zone, water circuit of the floor heating, heated floor) are modeled in detail. That is dynamics are described by differential equations which are based on thermodynamic first principles. In terms of heat pump operation, we derive several model-predictive control strategies following different objectives. These strategies aim at the minimzation of electricity consumption, procurement prices or operational costs. The difference in operational costs of the flexible operation and of the non-optimized operation represents the value of this flexibility option. The model is designed to assess manifold technical set-ups and economic conditions and, thereby, lays the foundation for further detailed analyses.
Q32|Transaction Costs and Prospects for Public-private Partnership in the Russian Mineral Resourse Sector|An analysis is presented for the current development level of the institution of public-private partnership (PPP) in the mineral resources complex of Russia. The main focus is on the two PPP models that are most widely used in Russia. The first model is production sharing agreement (PSA). An analysis is conducted of the PSA concept. The Sakhalin 2 project is used as an example to show how an inadequate preparation of PSA terms and high transaction costs (TC) can lead to a breach of contract. The second model is applied in production infrastructure development projects financed by the Investment Fund of Russia. This is a Russia-specific model; thus, authors use a special toolkit for its assessment in the paper. Analysis shows that important factor of the project efficiency is an institutional environment. Weakness of institutions and lack of low cost instruments of conflict resolution might be the cause of high TC and environmental damage. The technique applied in the efficiency analysis of concrete partnership arrangements is presented using the examples of the PPP models practiced in Krasnoyarsk Krai and Transbaikal region in Siberia. It can be applied in designing a raw-material base development program involving PPP arrangements. The problem solution generates a cost-sharing arrangement between the state and the private investor, making it possible to optimize the majority of Russian PPP models.
Q32|The Contribution of Agricultural Sector on Economic Growth of Nigeria|Agriculture is a panacea for economic growth (Myrdal, 1897). The battle for long-run economic growth is either won or lost in the agricultural sector. However, how this path births economic prosperity has been the subject of debates among economist and development scholars. This study empirically examines the impact of agricultural sector on the economic growth of Nigeria, using time series data from 1981 to 2013. Findings revealed that real gross domestic product, agricultural output and oil rents have a long-run equilibrium relationship. Vector error correction model result shows that, the speed of adjustment of the variables towards their long run equilibrium path was low, though agricultural output had a positive impact on economic growth. It was recommended that, the government and policy makers should embark on diversification and enhance more allocation in terms of budgeting to the agricultural sector.
Q32|On the optimal accumulation of renewable energy generation capacity|As fossil fuels are finite and responsible for environmental problems, renewables have been promoted in recent decades. To study the optimal accumulation of a generation capacity for renewable energy (backstop) and the trade-off between capital investments, backstop capacity investments and consumption, we develop a capital-energy economy with exhaustible fossil fuels. It turns out that optimal economic evolution and, therefore, the steady-state levels of capital, backstop capacity, and consumption depend on the capital endowment and the time preference rate. If the latter is low and the former is high, an intertemporal consumption trade-off renders the accumulation of an excess capacity optimal. In contrast, given a low capital endowment and a high time preference rate, the trade-off is not beneficial, so that capacity investments are nil for all points of time.
Q32|Employment impacts of upstream oil and gas investment in the United States|We use dynamic panel methods at the state level to understand how the increase in exploration and production of oil and natural gas since the mid-2000s has impacted employment. We find robust statistical support for the hypothesis that changes in drilling do, in fact, have an economically meaningful and positive impact on employment. The strongest impact is contemporaneous, though months later in the year also experience statistically and economically meaningful growth. Once dynamic effects are accounted for, we estimate that an additional rig count results in the creation of 31 jobs immediately and 315 jobs in the long run. Robustness checks suggest that these multipliers could be even bigger. Our results imply that the national impact of upstream investment remains small, perhaps due to the sector's small size and inter-state migration.
Q32|Is shale development drilling holes in the human capital pipeline?|Using the Synthetic Control Method (SCM) and a novel method for measuring changes in educational attainment we examine the link between educational attainment and shale oil and gas extraction for the states of Montana, North Dakota, and West Virginia. The three states examined are economically-small, relatively more rural, and have high levels of shale oil and gas reserves. They also are varied in that West Virginia is intensive in shale gas extraction, while the other two are intensive in shale oil extraction. We find significant reductions in high school and college attainment among all three states' initial residents because of the shale booms.
Q32|Sustainability of platinum production in South Africa and the dynamics of commodity pricing|Against the backdrop of potential reliable and sustainable future production of platinum for export in South Africa, this article sheds some light on the dynamics of commodity pricing, specifically with respect to the recent low platinum price. In this regard, a structural vector autoregression (VAR) was applied to observe the sensitivity of the platinum price and future pricing due to changes in macroeconomic variables, but also to review changes in macroeconomic variables due to changes in the platinum (commodity) price. The variables used for decomposition were the platinum price, the oil price, the real effective exchange rate of the United States (US), the US Federal funds rate, and total combined gross domestic product (GDP) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. Impulse response functions, with shocks to each system were investigated, and the forecast error variance decomposition was examined. The main results were that a shock to OECD GDP results in a platinum price increase, that is, a positive correlation between output and the platinum price. A shock to the oil price causes the platinum price to spike in the short term, then decrease over the medium term, then move sideways in the long term. A shock to the US Federal funds rate makes the platinum price spike in the short term, then decrease over the medium term and move sideways over the long term. Finally, a shock to the real effective exchange rate of the United States causes the platinum price move sideways. The dynamics of commodity pricing is important to ensure platinum sustainability in the future, fostering capital investment within a corrective policy environment. The present research could serve as a guide for possible early and therefore less dramatic interventions. At best, in normal circumstances, with a fully functioning labour force, the research could help achieve expected planned reliable production going forward, and at worst, it provides the necessary stimulus for future research and a review of predictions made.
Q32|The evolution of the natural resource curse thesis: A critical literature survey|This paper surveys the natural resource curse. We review the mechanisms through which resource wealth might slow economic growth, and the empirical studies that test for an effect overall, or on factors associated with growth. We include more recent studies suggesting the resource curse reflects only empirical misspecification. After reflecting on this conflicting evidence, and the findings of other recent surveys, we argue the evidence that resource dependence negatively affects growth remains convincing, particularly working through factors closely associated with growth in developing countries. Recent contrarian studies demonstrate that future research should better address endogeneity of dependence measures, and expand the years of study and range of empirical methodologies used.
Q32|Economic sustainability of the gold mining industry in Burkina Faso|This study analyzes the economic sustainability of the gold mining industry in Burkina Faso. For this purpose, the green gold GDP is used. First, the depreciation of gold stock was estimated using the concept of Hotelling rent and second, the environmental damage from gold mining companies was estimated. The human capital and the “double difference” approaches are used to estimate the environmental damage related to water and air quality deterioration. The results show that approximately 40% of the mining added value represents natural capital depreciation. The depreciation of natural capital is more important than mining revenues invested by the government. This study provides evidence that a sort of resource curse may exist, and as a result, a part of the resource rent is spent inefficiently.
Q32|Oil, Volatility and Institutions:Cross-Country Evidence from Major Oil Producers|This paper examines the long-run effects of oil revenue and its volatility on economic growth as well as the role of institutions in this relationship. We collect annual and monthly data on a sample of 17 major oil producers over the period 1961. 2013, and use the standard panel autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach as well as its cross-sectionally augmented version (CS-ARDL) for estimation. Therefore, in contrast to the earlier literature on the resource curse, we take into account all three key features of the panel: dynamics, heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence. Our results suggest that (i) there is a significant negative effect of oil revenue volatility on output growth, (ii) higher growth rate of oil revenue significantly raises economic growth, and (iii) better fiscal policy (institutions) can offset some of the negative effects of oil revenue volatility. We therefore argue that volatility in oil revenues combined with poor governmental responses to this volatility drives the resource curse paradox, not the abundance of oil revenues as such.
Q32|Optimum Growth and Carbon Policies with Lags in the Climate System|Abstract We study the optimal carbon tax in an economy in which climate change, stemming from polluting non-renewable resource, affects the economy’s growth potential. Our main contribution is to introduce and explore the natural time lag of the climate system between emissions and damages to capital accumulation in an endogenous growth setting. This allows us to investigate how optimal climate policy, and its interplay with climate dynamics, affect long-run growth and the transition of the economy towards it. Without pollution decay, a higher speed of emissions diffusion steepens the growth profile of the economy. With pollution decay, this leads to lower short-run but higher long-run economic growth during transition. Poor understanding of the emissions diffusion process leads to suboptimal carbon taxes, resource extraction and growth.
Q32|The impact of renewable versus non-renewable natural capital on economic growth|This paper examines whether natural capital is a robust determinant of economic growth, distinguishing the contribution of direct and indirect effects in renewable and non-renewable natural capital. Our hypothesis is that renewable natural capital may have a rather indirect but more important impact on economic growth than non-renewable natural capital, particularly through human well-being. In contrast, non-renewable natural capital can be a source of immediate financial wealth, but can have adverse social and environmental effects. To test this hypothesis we use a data set on 83 countries for the period 1960-2009 to compare the relevance of proximate and fundamental theories to explain economic growth. We find some evidence of an indirect negative impact of renewable natural capital in wealth on economic growth through through human well-being and, more precisely, population growth rates and fertility. This is particularly the case for countries with higher levels of human development. In contrast, the share of non-renewable natural capital in wealth has a direct positive impact on economic growth in countries with lower income inequality and higher institutional quality. This finding reflects the effect of capital accumulation in the domestic economy, as capacity constrainst are relaxed. Finally, countries with higher income per capita, higher human development and higher institutional quality have a higher share of higher renewable natural capital per capita, although they also have a lower share of lower renewable natural capital in wealth. Such result emphasises that renewable natural capital is very necessary for people (per capita), hence isa primary concern for empowered countries, although such capital contributes less to wealth, and economic growth, in these countries . Our results question the way â€˜wealthâ€™ and economic growth are defined in economics when the effect of natural capital is examined.
Q32|Oil, Volatility and Institutions: Cross-Country Evidence from Major Oil Producers|This paper examines the long-run effects of oil revenue and its volatility on economic growth as well as the role of institutions in this relationship. We collect annual and monthly data on a sample of 17 major oil producers over the period 1961—2013, and use the standard panel autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach as well as its cross-sectionally augmented version (CS-ARDL) for estimation. Therefore, in contrast to the earlier literature on the resource curse, we take into account all three key features of the panel: dynamics, heterogeneity and cross-sectional dependence. Our results suggest that (i) there is a significant negative effect of oil revenue volatility on output growth, (ii) higher growth rate of oil revenue significantly raises economic growth, and (iii) better fiscal policy (institutions) can offset some of the negative effects of oil revenue volatility. We therefore argue that volatility in oil revenues combined with poor governmental responses to this volatility drives the resource curse paradox, not the abundance of oil revenues as such.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q32|Response of Consumer Debt to Income Shocks: The Case of Energy Booms and Busts|This paper investigates how consumers respond to local income shocks as a result of booms and busts in oil and gas development. Oil and gas development generates potentially large streams of income via wages and salaries to workers and royalty income to mineral rights owners. Changes in development may lead consumers to increase their spending depending on their exposure to income shocks. Using quarterly information on consumer debt and oil and gas activity, I ﬁnd that consumer debt increased at a peak of $840 per capita in counties with shale endowment and increased drilling. Each well drilled was associated with $6,750 in consumer debt for an implied total of $2.7 billion or 0.5 percent of consumer debt in areas where drilling occurred from 2007 to 2015. {{p}} Consumers in previously developed areas tend to view new increases in activity as transitory relative to areas with little previous development that experience a shock.
Q32|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to the balance of payments, banking sector, wage arrears, and industrial development
Q32|Y - Yacimientos|Resumen de la situación de gas natural en Bolivia, 1990 - 2014
Q32|Using Natural Resources for Development: Why Has It Proven So Difficult?|Developing economies have found it hard to use natural resource wealth to improve their economic performance. Utilizing resource endowments is a multistage economic and political problem that requires private investment to discover and extract the resource, fiscal regimes to capture revenue, judicious spending and investment decisions, and policies to manage volatility and mitigate adverse impacts on the rest of the economy. Experience is mixed, with some successes (such as Botswana and Malaysia) and more failures. This paper reviews the challenges that are faced in successfully managing resource wealth, the evidence on country performance, and the reasons for disappointing results.
Q32|Theme Overview: Herbicide Resistance Management|No abstract is available for this item.
Q32|Are Community-Based Approaches to Manage Herbicide Resistance Wisdom or Folly?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q32|A Systemic Approach to the Development of a Policy Mix for Material Resource Efficiency| Increasing material use efficiency is important to mitigate future supply risks and minimize environmental impacts associated with the production of the materials. The policy mix presented in this paper aims to reduce the use of virgin metals in the EU by 80% by 2050. We used a heuristic framework and a systems perspective for designing the policy mix that combines primary instruments (aimed to achieve the 80% reduction target – e.g. a materials tax, technical regulations and removal of environmentally harmful subsidies) and supportive instruments (aimed to reduce barriers to implementing the primary instruments and to contribute towards the policy objectives – e.g. research & development support, and advanced recycling centers). Furthermore, instruments were designed so as to increase political feasibility: e.g. taxes were gradually increased as part of a green fiscal reform, and border-tax adjustments were introduced to reduce impacts on competitiveness. However, even in such a policy mix design ongoing ex-ante assessments indicate that the policy mix will be politically difficult to implement – and also fall short of achieving the 80% reduction target. Nonetheless, we suggest combining primary and supportive instruments into coherent and dynamic policy mixes as a promising step towards system reconfigurations for sustainability.
Q32|Saúde Respiratória e Mecanização da Colheita da Cana-de-Açúcar nos Municípios Paulistas: a importância do Protocolo Agroambiental| The signature of Protocolo Agroambiental in 2007 deeply affected the adoption of mechanical harvesting of sugarcane in São Paulo State, Brazil. Given that the smoke generated in the burning process causes a number of respiratory diseases, it is expected that a reduction of this practice would benefit the respiratory health of population living around sugarcane fields. The main goal of this paper was to estimate if the increase in mechanical harvesting is effectively improving the respiratory health of this population. In order to reach this objective, we made estimations using data of the area using mechanized harvesting in São Paulo State municipalities from 2006 to 2011, as well as data about the hospitalization related to respiratory problems in this period. Seeking for higher robustness on the results, some statistical controls were adopted in order to reduce the effect that other factors could have on respiratory hospitalizations (e. g. meteorological, geographical and socioeconomic variables). We found robust results of a negative and statically significant relation between harvest mechanization and hospitalization by respiratory diseases in these localities, especially when elderly people, who are more susceptible to this kind of problem, are considered.
Q32|An Economic Analysis to Determine the Feasibility of Groundwater Supplementation from the Dockum Aquifer| As water resources from the Ogallala Aquifer continue to decline, alternative sources of water resources should be considered to extend the life of irrigated agriculture in the Southern High Plains. The Dockum is a minor aquifer located beneath the Ogallala at depths of up to 2,000 feet. The Dockum Aquifer may be a suitable water source for irrigation supplementation; however, the cost to pump from the Dockum may not be economically profitable due to deep pumping depths, poor water quality, and low well yields. Results show that in some areas of the Dockum, it may complement irrigation water from the Ogallala for water thirsty crops.
Q32|Input Shortages and the Lack of Sustainability of Bronze Production by the Únĕtice| After a long period of prosperity, the Únĕtice (2300-1600 BC) – a central European Early Bronze Age culture –collapsed without obvious reason. Thus, the academic literature has favored multiple explanations but without providing much evidence of the latter. Our aim is to provide an empirically grounded explanation consistent with the features of this culture. We claim that the 1600 BC collapse could be the result of simultaneous shortages of two main inputs of the bronze production process, namely tin and fuel. Periodical tin shortages are possible because Únĕtician were using tin alluvial deposits. Moreover, the production of bronze requires huge quantities of wood and charcoal used as fuel, leading to deforestation. Evidence of deforestation around 1600 BC is provided.
Q32|The costs of resource-led development. An analysis of the economic impact of the oil extraction boom in Colombia|Oil-rich countries often face negative consequences of natural resources-led development on their overall economic performance. One of the reasons is that a country’s rising extraction rates frequently lead to various changes in its public policy and revenue management. Colombia has spectacularly increased its oil production by almost 500,000 barrels per day (bpd) in ten years, which was the effect principally of the implementation of strongly market-oriented petroleum policies in 2003. It is now the fourth largest crude producer in Latin America, registering nearly ten times more export sales than at the end of the 20th century. The economic effects of the oil-boom are already visible, which has created many new challenges the government must face in order to ensure sustainable development in the country, and to be able to mitigate the impact of the recently dropping world oil prices. The purpose of the article is to present the latest findings on the impact of the oil sector development on the Colombian economy in the 21st century, focusing especially on the current situation.
Q32|On The Role Of Eco-Innovation For A Green Economic Growth|In this paper we resume our research on the theoretical-conceptual issues as well as on the mechanisms and policies for increasing resource-efficiency and resource-productivity in the European Union and in Romania, as important issues of implementing the green economy. First we shall make a conceptual analysis of he eco-innovation as a superior from of technological innovation dedicated to the environmental protection. Then there are emphasized some of the main features\r\n and challenges on eco innovation in Romania. This time we also address the importance and the role of eco-innovation in sustainable economic development and the transition to a green economy. In this respect, we shall point again the positive direct correlation between eco-innovation and resource productivity revealed by recent national and international surveys as well as by own research. Conclusions and recommendations support eco-innovation as a way to promote green economic growth in Romania.
Q32|Permanent and Temporary Oil Price Shocks, Macroeconomic Policy, and Tradable Non-oil Sector: Case of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia|This paper examines the economic effects of permanent and temporary oil price shocks in three oil exporting countries (Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Russia) using the five variable (real short-term interest rate, real effective exchange rate, real budget expenditure, real imports, and real tradable non-oil production) VARX model with two exogenous variables which represent the corresponding shocks. The impulse response analysis conducted over the quarterly data from 2003:I to 2015:IV shows that in Azerbaijan, a permanent oil price shock produces a significantly positive effect on all variables but interest rate, while a temporary oil price shock has a significant and positive effect only on imports and exchange rate. For Kazakhstan, the impulse response functions show that a permanent oil price shock significantly and positively affects interest rate, imports, and budget expenditure; a temporary oil price shock has a significantly positive influence on all variables except budget expenditure. In Russia, a permanent oil price shock produces a significantly positive effect on all variables; a temporary oil price shock exerts a significantly positive effect on all variables but interest rate. Contrary to the permanent income hypothesis, the budget expenditure in Russia responds both to the permanent and temporary oil price shocks. Such divergence from the hypothesis can be explained by the specifics of the policy on the oil revenue spending. As regards the presence of the symptoms of the Dutch disease, the results indicate only on one symptom. Thus oil price shocks ultimately lead to appreciation of national currencies but not to a decline in tradable non-oil production.
Q32|Simulating the Macroeconomic Impact of Future Water Scarcity: an Assessment of Alternative Scenarios|In this paper we consider some of the economic implications of climate change scenarios as described in the Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). By comparing potential water demand with estimates of (sustainable) water availability in different regions, we identify regions that are likely to be constrained in their future economic growth potential by the scarcity of water resources. We assess the macroeconomic impact of water scarcity under alternative allocation rules finding that, by assigning more water to sectors in which it has a higher value, shifting production to less water intensive sectors, and importing more water intensive goods, constrained regions can effectively neutralize these water related climate risks and adapt to a changing water environment. However, this adaptation effort is likely to imply some radical changes in water management policies.
Q32|The financial systems in Russia and Turkey: recent developments and challenges|Following the severe financial crises of the 1990s and early 2000s, substantial efforts have been undertaken in Russia and Turkey to diversify and deepen the financial systems. However, despite unquestionable improvements, financial deepening in Russia and Turkey has taken place at a slower pace than in other major emerging economies. Our paper highlights that this is in part a consequence of a highly volatile economic environment and deep-seated institutional and structural bottlenecks. Though authorities in both countries have committed to sounder economic policies and have implemented important structural reforms to improve the institutional environment and overcome structural weaknesses, over time reform fatigue has gradually taken hold. As a consequence significant gaps and weaknesses in the institutional and business environments still characterize, to a different degree, Russia and Turkey. These factors have not only slowed the development of the financial system as a whole, but have also contributed to the build-up of key vulnerabilities, which have come to the fore more recently in the context of a less supportive external environment.
Q32|Natural resources and capital structure|​This paper examines the effect of natural resources on capital structure of the firm. Using an extensive dataset of listed firms in 70 countries, we show that firms operating in resource extraction industries have less debt and that that debt tends to have a longer maturity than that of other non-financial firms. Moreover, non-resource firms in resource-dependent countries are found to be less indebted than their counterparts in other countries. The results suggest that the very fact of a firm’s location in a resource-dependent country may be an overlooked country-specific de-terminant of firm capital structure and that financial institutions in resource-dependent countries may play a role in exacerbating a nation’s resource curse.
Q32|Politiques de R&D, taxe carbone et paradoxe vert| We study an economy in which a final good is produced by two sectors. One uses a non-renewable and polluting resource, the other a renewable and clean resource. A specific type of research is associated with each sector. The public authorities levy a carbon tax and simultaneously subsidise both research sectors. We study the impact of such a policy scheme on the rate of resource extraction and emissions. In the clean sector, the research subsidy and the carbon tax have opposite effects. If the tax creates a green paradox, the subsidy moderates it; if the tax slows resource extraction, then the subsidy generates a green paradox.
Q32|Des modes de capture du carbone et de la compétitivité relative des énergies primaires| We characterise the optimal exploitation paths of two primary energies (coal and solar) that supply the energy needs of two sectors. Sector?1?can reduce its carbon emissions at a reasonable cost thanks to a CCS device. Sector?2?has access only to air capture technology, but at a significantly higher cost. We assume that the atmospheric carbon stock cannot exceed a given ceiling. We show that the optimal approach consists in, first, fully capturing sector-1?emissions before the ceiling is reached and, second, deploying air capture to partially abate sector-2?emissions. The optimal carbon tax should increase in the pre-ceiling phase then decline in stages to zero.
Q32|Les économies de l’arc andin face à la faiblesse des cours des matières premières|Since 2012, the economies of the ?Andean arc? (Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia) seem to experience a paradigm shift in their economic growth model. Indeed, as a result of the upward momentum in commodity prices in the 2000s, these economies have enjoyed a remarkable cycle of economic growth and, at the same time, a primarization of their external sector. The downward trend in mineral commodity prices starting in 2012, reflecting the onset of the downturn in China, followed by the decline in oil prices since 2014, deteriorated the terms of trade of these economies and thus, affected their economic growth path. However, the resilience of these economies to this shock depends on their intrinsic characteristics. Peru and Colombia appear more resilient, while activity in Bolivia and in particular in Ecuador contracts. These economies are gradually using a policy to change their growth patterns to reduce their dependence on the primary sector. Beyond the voluntariness of the various national authorities, the process of diversification of the growth model remains attached to the comparative advantages of each country and, secondly, to the potential productivity gains. Classification JEL: F14, O54, Q32, Q33.
Q32|Venezuela : l’insoutenabilité du modèle de croissance, source de tous les risques|While Venezuela is facing a major balance of payments crisis following the fall in oil prices, it is essential to understand the origins of this situation. This paper first examines the distortions and economic imbalances underlying this economy, including hyperinflation, and then assesses the country?s capacity to face the risk of default. To this end, we build two scenarios of financing needs and resources, highly dependent on oil prices and support from China. We thus show that in the absence of a major rebound in oil prices, the default appears inevitable. Finally, we analyze the growing social and political tensions that accompany this difficult economic climate. Classification JEL: E31, F31, H63, O54, Q32.
Q32|L’Amérique latine et la Chine : « Je t’aime… moi non plus »|New comer in Latin America, China has become a trading partner as important as EU. China?s appetite for natural resource has been the engine of Latin American growth in the 2000, while Chinese slowing down has contributed to the recent crisis of several Latin American countries. This article begins by an assessment of Chinese economic footprint on Latin American economies: while it is strong in the case of trade and it is rapidly increasing in the case of direct investment as well as in the case of credit with the exception of Venezuela and Ecuador. A second part analyses more thoroughly the impact of the Chinese economy on Brazil. While the surge of exports to China lifted the external constraint on Brazil, the country was unable to make use this lever to transform the production structure. Thus the financial boon provided by Chinese exports was at the root of the crisis Brazilian governments were unable or unwilling to fight. In its conclusion the article explores short and medium term perspectives and discusses the future of economic complementarities between China and Latin America. Classification JEL: F14, O54, Q32, Q33.
Q32|Economia minerária e seu impacto urbano: desafios e contribuições na região metropolitana de Belo Horizonte|The purpose of this paper is to discuss, from a theoretical and empirical point of view, the regional and local impacts of mining activities. First, by taking the metropolitan region of Belo Horizonte as the object of study, the economic effects of mining are analyzed, in particular during the 2000's commodity boom on exports and tax revenues. In a second moment, the local impacts of mining activity are verified, especially the conflicts with water resources and transport routes. Thus, it is expected that the study could evaluate the main dimensions of the impacts of the mining activity. From such a analysis, one can concluded that, because of its extensive effects, the management of mining territories must go beyond the local level in order to include the metropolitan dimension of the activity.
Q32|Criminals and the Price System: Evidence from Czech Metal Thieves|People steal copper and other nonferrous metals to sell them to scrap yard. Simultaneously, prices at scrap yards are set by the world market. We argue that shocks in metal prices represent a quasi-experimental variation in gains from crime. This allows us to estimate the behavioral parameters of supply of offenses and test the economic theory of criminal behavior. Our estimates suggest that the long-term elasticity of supply of metal thefts with respect to the re-sale value of stolen metal is between unity and 1.5. Moreover, the system tends to equilibriate quickly—between 30 and 60 percent of a disequilibrium is corrected the following month and the monthly price elasticity estimates are around unity.
Q32|Dynamic Resource Management under Weak Property Rights: A Tale of Thieves and Trespassers|Using a dynamic framework with strategic interactions, we study the management of a non-renewable natural resource when property rights are generally weak. Under generally weak property rights both the resource stock and the revenues from exploiting it are imperfectly protected, due to trespassing and theft respectively. Trespassing and theft affect the legitimate owner’s extraction decision: extracting the resource today protects the stock against trespassing but exposes the revenues to theft. Moreover, in an evolving institutional setting, the anticipation of a change in the strength of property rights further distorts the extraction decision: e.g., if the owner anticipates stronger property rights in the future, extraction is delayed. Our results indicate that the depletion of the resource is decreasing in the intensity of theft. In addition, when the owner and the trespassers are affected by theft, the depletion of the resource is below (above) the social optimal level if the intensity of theft is high (low).
Q32|Saving Alberta's resource revenues: Role of intergenerational and liquidity funds|We use a welfare-based intertemporal stochastic optimization model and historical data to estimate the size of the optimal intergenerational and liquidity funds and the corresponding resource dividend available to the government of the Canadian province Alberta. To first-order of approximation, this dividend should be a constant fraction of total above- and below-ground wealth, complemented by additional precautionary savings at initial times to build up a small liquidity fund to cope with oil price volatility. The ongoing dividend equals approximately 30 per cent of government revenue and requires building assets of approximately 40 per cent of GDP in 2030, 100 per cent of GDP in 2050 and 165 per cent in 2100. Finally, the effect of the recent plunge in oil prices on our estimates is examined. Our recommendations are in stark contrast with historical and current government policy.
Q32|Diffusion von Politikinnovationen im Mehrebenensystem der Energiewende – Erkenntnisse aus drei kommunalen Fallstudien|Im Rahmen der deutschen Energiewende gibt es auf lokaler und regionaler Ebene verschiedene Ansätze neue Formen der Energieversorgung zu etablieren und Energieeffizienz und Energieeinsparung zu fördern. Unklar ist, inwiefern diese Ansätze Ähnlichkeiten aufweisen und ggf. für die Erreichung energie- und klimapolitischer Ziele übergeordneter föderaler Ebenen nutzbar gemacht werden können. Zentral für diese Studie ist daher die Frage, inwiefern und (wenn ja) aus welchen Gründen und auf welche Weise sich innovative Politikmaßnahmen und –konzepte oder bestimmte Teile davon im Energiebereich unter den Kommunen und ihren Stadtwerken ausbreiten (Diffusion). In Form von Fallstudien werden dazu explizit München, Regensburg und Schönau im Schwarzwald untersucht. Die Fallstudien zeigen, dass die Energie- und Klimapolitik beträchtlich zwischen den Kommunen variiert und die Diffusion innovativer Politiken institutionell und faktisch relativ stark beschränkt ist. Dennoch geben alle drei Fallstudien verschiedene Anhaltspunkte, dass Politikinnovationen diffundieren. Dies erfolgt zum Teil über Städtenetzwerke und Verbände/ Bündnisse, vielfach aber auch ad-hoc, in einem informellen Rahmen und über persönliche Verbindungen auf administrativer oder politischer Ebene zwischen den Kommunen.
Q32|Preservación ambiental de la Amazonia colombiana: retos para la política fiscal|Este artículo explora los retos encarados por la política fiscal en la preservación de la Amazonia colombiana. Se discuten algunos sesgos en contra del gasto público ambiental y se examinan las modalidades de financiación de la función estatal de protección del ambiente en la región. Los autores arguyen que muchas de las herramientas fiscales empleadas en Colombia para el efecto generan incentivos contrarios a los objetivos de conservación. Además de que las externalidades ambientales rebasan allí las jurisdicciones de las entidades territoriales, la eficacia potencial de los gobiernos subnacionales de la Amazonia en el ámbito de la política ambiental es constreñida por su relativamente baja capacidad fiscal. La intervención del nivel nacional de gobierno, acompañada de la acción internacional, es vista como necesaria en el caso de la Amazonia. ***** This paper explores the challenges faced by fiscal policy in the preservation of the Colombian Amazon. Some biases against public environmental expenditure are discussed; the financing arrangements for the state function of environmental protection in the region are examined. The authors argue that many of the fiscal tools used to that effect in Colombia generate perverse incentives for conservation purposes. In addition to the fact that environmental externalities go beyond the jurisdictions of local and departmental authorities, the potential effectiveness of Amazonian subnational governments in the realm of environmental policy is constrained by their relatively low fiscal capacity. The intervention of the national level government, accompanied by international action, is viewed as particularly necessary in the case of the Amazon.
Q32|Incentivos en la liquidación de las regalías para el yacimiento no convencional, Shale gas|El presente trabajo aborda una comparación, entre Colombia y Argentina, en lo concerniente a los incentivos para reducir las regalías del yacimiento no convencional Shale gas. La comparación se hace sobre la regulación de los hidrocarburos y en especial las regalías para el Shale Gas en Argentina, provincia de Neuquén. Este estudio es pertinente en tanto Argentina es el país con mayor potencial de reservas de shale gas en América Latina y expidió una ley de hidrocarburos, ley 27007 de 2014 en la que se otorga un marco legal novedoso para la exploración de hidrocarburos no convencionales y para recursos en off shore; efectuando modificaciones al tratamiento de las regalías en las provincias, promoviendo estímulos a la generación de gas, por lo cual, la hemos tomado como referente de comparación. Un objetivo adicional de este trabajo es buscar otros incentivos para promover la exploración de los proyectos gasíferos en Colombia. Nuestro país no está exento de una amenaza de desabastecimiento de gas.
Q32|Incentivos en la liquidación de las regalías para el yacimiento no convencional, Shale gas|El presente trabajo aborda una comparación, entre Colombia y Argentina, en lo concerniente a los incentivos para reducir las regalías del yacimiento no convencional Shale gas. La comparación se hace sobre la regulación de los hidrocarburos y en especial las regalías para el Shale Gas en Argentina, provincia de Neuquén. Este estudio es pertinente en tanto Argentina es el país con mayor potencial de reservas de shale gas en América Latina y expidió una ley de hidrocarburos, ley 27007 de 2014 en la que se otorga un marco legal novedoso para la exploración de hidrocarburos no convencionales y para recursos en off shore; efectuando modificaciones al tratamiento de las regalías en las provincias, promoviendo estímulos a la generación de gas, por lo cual, la hemos tomado como referente de comparación. Un objetivo adicional de este trabajo es buscar otros incentivos para promover la exploración de los proyectos gasíferos en Colombia. Nuestro país no está exento de una amenaza de desabastecimiento de gas.
Q32|Maldición de los recursos naturales y crecimiento económico en el África Subsahariana. Breve ensayo sobre una larga polémica|La maldición de los recursos naturales conforma el marco explicativo básico a partir del cual entender los problemas de crecimiento económico de muchos de los países del África Subsahariana. Teniendo en cuenta las conclusiones que este marco explicativo ofrece, es posible reflexionar sobre los determinantes microeconómicos fundamentales del mismo hasta esbozar uno basado en el carácter cíclico de los precios de los minerales en los mercados internacionales y las características propias del sector minero en el África Subsahariana. Este esquema teórico, de carácter hipotético, permite aportar una dimensión micro a una larga polémica, caracterizada por su enfoque macro, así como especular acerca del futuro del fenómeno en la región.
Q32|Carbon-sensitive productivity, climate and institutions|Climate and institutions might be crucial in lowering the vagaries of climate change impacts in terms of productivity. This study measures the relationships of productivity measures adjusted for the regulation of carbon emission and institutions together with climate change throughout the world. This paper finds there is higher potential for reduction of CO2 emissions in developing countries at lower cost. However, the cost to reduce emissions lowers their growth potential in terms of lost productivity growth. Better institutions help to lower the negative impacts of climate change by improving the process of technological adoption in developing countries. Climate change reduces the productivity growth in developing countries by lowering the process of technological adoption, and better institutions result in higher productivity.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q32|Energy Scientific Production In The Context Of The Green Development Models|The energy sector plays a vital role in addressing the global challenges of achieving sustainability by using the renewable energy sources and by increasing the energy efficiency and conservation, while obtaining energy security and safety. The aim of this paper is to quantitatively observe the evolution and status of the main publications on “green” energy. The study uses the Scopus database and the VOSviewer software to determine the progress of research and the main sub-themes discussed in the field of energy in the context of green economy and sustainable development. The findings suggest slightly different approaches of the scientific production on sustainable-related energy, green- related energy and renewable related-energy. This paper provides insights on the main internationally debated research areas in the energy field.
Q32|Resource Saving Innovative Forms of the Industrial Enterprises|The relevance of the study is reasoned by the current economic trends which suggest that the reliability of production is possible to be provided, while preserving and enhancing of natural ecological environment, by finding of quality new, revolutionary opportunities associated with the use of resourcesaving and energy-saving technologies and alternative reproducible sources of production activities, creation of favorable ecological, economic and social conditions for the accumulation and implementation of human capital. The purpose of this paper is to explore innovative forms of resource saving of the industrial enterprises, aimed at improving of the competitiveness of products, using innovative energy and resource saving technologies, minimizing the generation of waste. The leading method to the study of this problem is the modeling method that allows considering of this problem as a purposeful and organized process to improve the management of industrial enterprises. In paper gives the estimation of modern condition of mineral raw material base of hydrocarbons; scientifically substantiates recommendations on the appropriateness of innovative forms’ choice of resource-saving at industrial enterprises. The practical value is in the fact that the results of the study allow better and more targeted adjusting of innovative activity of industrial enterprises through the application of innovative forms of resource saving and can be used in the framework of sector programs that are of interest for the state statistics bodies, ministries and agencies who are responsible for strategic analysis and planning
Q32|Economic Problems of Exploring Hydrocarbons in Russian Northern Provinces in the Context of International Interests|The goal of the article is to analyze the present state and perspectives of exploring gas and oil resources of the Russian North in the context of economic interests of a number of foreign countries, to reveal both common things in interests of the both parties, and inconsistencies that must be aligned. The methodology of the research is based on the system approach to estimating the state of gas and oil resources of the Russian North and comprehensive analysis of aligning economic interests of Russia and a number of foreign countries. A complex of general scientific and special methods of research was used, including abstract-logical, balance, statistical analysis and others. The article shows that the Russian North is extremely rich in gas and oil resources that are both currently exploited and promising for reclaiming especially on the shelf of Arctic seas. It analyzes reasons of the decrease in the gas and oil production in the country that has occurred over recent years. It is caused by the fall of the demand for hydrocarbons in the world, sectoral sanctions, and the decrease in the production of the mineral resources base. Gas and oil resources of Russia fall within the interests of a number of foreign countries, mainly West European countries for which stable provision of the economy with raw hydrocarbons becomes one of the most important strategic tasks. Long-term economic interests of Russia coincide with the interests of the European Union (EU), however, not fully. The authors come to the conclusion that in case of supplying hydrocarbons economic interests of Russia and EU countries must be aligned not only in terms of searching for mutually profitable forms of cooperation but also solving basic inconsistencies that lie in the basis of opinions discrepancies.
Q32|Uncertainty of Oil Proved Reserves and Economic Growth in Iran|The relationship between the oil and the level of economic activity is a fundamental empirical issue in macroeconomics. Also, a part of major debates between the pessimists and the optimists approaches about economic growth is how uncertainty of proved reserves of non-renewable energy resources as a one of main inputs, effects on the economic growth; in other words, on the base of some optimistic new economic growth models, the uncertainty through positive shocks positively effects on the economic growth. So, to find some evidences about it, in this research we try to find experimentally direct effects of uncertainty of oil proved reserves on macroeconomics of Iran by using annually data from 1980 to 2013 by using Multivariate generalized auto-regressive conditional heteroskedasticity in-mean vector auto-regression (VAR) model. We find that uncertainty in oil proved reserves has not had statistically significant effect on aggregate output and the responses to positive and negative shocks are symmetric.
Q32|Assessment of the Required Changes of Russian Ecological Taxes|Russia is one of the most polluting countries in the world and environmental problem is very important in this country. The forecast of atmospheric emissions was conducted according to various economic development scenarios in Russia using dynamic input-output model. The optimistic scenario is realized under hypothesis about oil prices increase and real ruble exchange rate strengthening beginning of the end of 2015, the revival of investment processes, the successful policy of import substitution, and the competent using of instruments of monetary and fiscal policy. The pessimistic scenario is implemented under assumption of negative economic tendency prolongation of the 2014. Future increase of environmental pressure will be expected in optimistic scenario. The improvement of pollution taxes mechanism as a way of government ecological policy is discussed in the article.
Q32|From agriculture to mining: The changing economic base of a rural economy and implications for development|This paper uses economic-base theory and input–output modelling to examine the structure of a regional rural economy in New South Wales, Australia, drawing important policy implications for economic planners. The most salient trend has been a shift in the area’s dependence from agriculture to mining over the recent decade. However, the level of diversity of the region’s industrial composition has altered very little. Mining is also contributing to significant net leakage of employment income from the region. Mining should therefore not necessarily be considered as the key future opportunity for economic development. Instead, a number of industry sectors, particularly those that foster innovation and technology, can be harnessed to drive future regional growth. In addition, a tourism marketing strategy promoting the region’s food, wine and other distinctive attributes should play an integral role in future development planning. These prescriptions are highly transferable to similar rural economies experiencing a shift to mining.
Q32|Oil price, overleveraging and shakeout in the shale energy sector — Game changers in the oil industry|In recent years, we have observed significant growth in unconventional energy, shale energy, in particular in the United States. There was a boom, followed by a bust. The plunge in oil price triggered a prolonged bust in the energy sector. Which firms will benefit, and which will be squeezed out due to this persistent oil price decline? A new equilibrium is about to evolve under these conditions. In this paper, we develop a theoretical model that accounts for recent features in the energy sector. In particular, we focus on the shale energy companies and illustrate a trend toward a boom in external borrowing, overleveraging, and, now, a high risk of insolvency. With the use of a new method, called nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC), we show dynamic paths toward two equilibria: either a tight oligopoly or extensive competition, with the shakeout of some firms. This is also tracked by studying leveraging and overleveraging by groups of firms. We further undertake an empirical analysis using a vector error correction model (VECM), which helps identify the short- and long-term effects of those new challenges on the stock performance of the energy companies. The main finding is that large-cap companies are less dependent on the fluctuation in oil price than are mid- and small-cap firms and are more likely to survive the shakeout.
Q32|Analyzing the efficiency performance of major Australian mining companies using bootstrap data envelopment analysis|We identify the balance of efficiency gains and losses for 33 Australian mining firms over the period 2008–2014 using bootstrap data envelopment analysis (DEA). We ascertain which companies climbed the efficiency ladder and which companies slipped back in efficiency over time. We find that mining companies involved in metal processing or mining services have been more efficient than those involved in exploration and extraction activities. Assuming variable returns to scale (VRS), on average, we find that mining firms could improve their performance between a minimum of 17% in 2010 and a maximum of 34% in 2008, relative to the best practice performers. We find that, overall, most mining companies became more efficient over time, with the top performers generally maintaining a ranking in the top third of companies in terms of efficiency throughout the period.
Q32|The Elephant In The Ground: Managing Oil And Sovereign Wealth|One of the most important developments in international finance and resource economics in the past twenty years is the rapid and widespread emergence of the $6 trillion sovereign wealth fund industry. Oil exporters typically ignore below-ground assets when allocating these funds, and ignore above-ground assets when extracting oil. We present a unified stylized framework for considering both. Subsoil oil should alter a fund’s portfolio through additional leverage and hedging. First-best spending should be a share of total wealth, and any unhedgeable volatility must be managed by precautionary savings. If oil prices are pro-cyclical, oil should be extracted faster than the Hotelling rule to generate a risk premium on oil wealth. Finally, we discuss how our analysis could improve the management of Norway’s fund in practice.
Q32|Optimal extraction policy when the environmental and social costs of the opencast coal mining activity are internalized: Mining District of the Department of El Cesar (Colombia) case study|Several articles have confirmed the social and environmental consequences of opencast coal mining. The main purpose of this study is to simulate the optimal extraction policy of coal mining with and without the internalization of the environmental and social monetary costs that occur in the Mining District (located in the central part of the Department of El Cesar) using discrete dynamic programming (backward recursion, discrete state Markov decision model and Bellman equation). Results indicate that the private optimal of the overproduction policy for the terminal phase of the resource extraction program can be reduced once the negative externalities produced by mining practices are internalized into the cost function of the mining investment companies in Colombia. This means that if there is an increase in the total cost of extraction to offset the environmental and social impacts generated, the negative externalities would be less than or equal to the current level. Likewise, profits would continue being positive for the mining firms at the Mining District.
Q32|Decoupling CO2 emissions and industrial growth in China over 1993–2013: The role of investment|Since industrial sector is a leading energy consumer and CO2 emitter in China, the degree of the decoupling of CO2 emissions and industrial growth plays a critical role in realizing the energy-conservation and emission-reduction goals of China. This is the first study to present a specific investigation on the decoupling of CO2 emissions and industrial growth in China from 1993 to 2013. Using an extended logarithmic mean Divisia index (LMDI) model focusing on both energy-related and process-related CO2 emissions and introducing three novel investment factors, i.e., investment scale, investment share, and investment efficiency, we highlight and explore the remarkable role of investment in the mitigation and decoupling of CO2 emissions with industrial growth. The results show that China's industrial sector experienced the weak decoupling during 1993–2013. The investment scale is the most important factor responsible for the increase in CO2 emissions and the inhibition of the decoupling. The investment efficiency effect has a volatile trend and overall, it plays the most significant role in reducing CO2 emissions, followed by the energy intensity effect and process carbon intensity effect, whereas the energy mix, carbon coefficient, and investment share have marginal effects. Among 36 industrial sub-sectors, the seven factors of RCMCP (raw chemical materials and chemical products), NMP (nonmetal mineral products), and SPFM (smelting and pressing of ferrous metals) have significant effects on the decoupling. Thus, the three sub-sectors should be among the top concerns for abating CO2 emissions. Finally, we provide policy recommendations considering both conventional and investment factors for China's industrial sector to realize emission reduction targets.
Q32|Exploration externalities and government subsidies: The return to government|Governments have, for a long time, invested in the direct provision of basic geological survey information to support exploration and mining activity. Recently, Australian governments have also started to provide direct drilling subsidies to exploration companies. Using data for Western Australia we investigate the return to government from the direct provision of geological survey information and the provision of drilling subsides. We find no evidence that drilling subsidies are less effective than traditional geological survey spending in generating a return to government. We suggest drilling subsidies are effective because there is a dishonesty externality in the market for exploration equity capital that gives rise to a market for lemons problem, and that government programs to award drilling subsidies to exploration companies work as a third party certification system that addresses this problem. We conclude by showing that, with real discount rates of 5%, 7%, and 9%, and a narrow definition of benefits, the expected benefit–cost ratios for State government support for exploration are 9.0, 6.7, and 5.2.
Q32|Natural resources: Funds and economic performance of resource-rich countries|Resource funds have been widely defended in the theoretical literature as a solution to the resource curse. In this work, empirical analyses of a sample of 28 resource-rich countries over the period 1985–2010 do not support this argument. Rather, the results indicate that resource funds have a negative and significant effect on growth and that this finding is robust under alternative estimation techniques. Moreover, the results do not validate the hypothesis of the resource curse due to the positive effect of resource dependence on growth. Finally, the study provides evidence that the negative component of the curse is captured by the resource funds. The implications in terms of natural resources funds management are discussed.
Q32|Did China's coal mine regulation positively affect economic growth?|In response to high mortality rates and low productivity in coal mining, China began regulating coal mines in the 1990s, reshaping its coal economy. We investigate the relationship between coal mine regulation and economic growth. Using the difference-in-difference approach to compare the pre- and post-regulation periods as well as regions heavily and lightly affected by regulation, we find that regulation positively affects a regional economy. Results are illustrated by estimations that use mortality rates in coal mining as a proxy for measuring regulation quality. Regulation effects are not limited to the intra-coal industry but also apply to spillover by relieving the crowding-out effects of coal abundance.
Q32|Local economic impact of boom and bust in mineral resource extraction in the United States: A spatial econometrics analysis|This paper examines how shocks in the U.S. mineral resource extraction (MRE) industry impact MRE-dependent counties using county level data between 1970- and 2012. A difference-in-difference fixed effects model and a spatial modeling to incorporate spatial heterogeneity and dependence among U.S. local areas that are in close geographical proximity are employed in this study. The results show that MRE industry employment grew faster during boom periods and slower during the bust period in MRE dependent counties. MRE earnings and earnings per worker grew slower during boom periods and faster during the bust period. The findings give evidence of negative spatial indirect spillover effects between neighboring counties’ MRE sector labor markets. An analysis of the effect of shocks in the MRE sector on the non-MRE sectors shows that in MRE dependent counties non-MRE sector employment grew slower during boom periods and faster during the bust period. Positive shocks in the MRE sector had no effect on the manufacturing sector labor market; however, negative shocks had a positively effect. Booms in the MRE sector positively impacted the construction sector, while negatively affecting the service and retail trade sectors’ labor markets in MRE dependent counties. Finally, this study finds that male population grew faster, while female population grew slower in the MRE dependent counties.
Q32|The fossil episode|Agriculture sector output (biocarbon) is a good substitute for oil in energy production but oil cannot be used as food. This one-way substitutability is analyzed in a dynamic general equilibrium model. It features three endogenous phases: a pure fossil, a mixed fossil and biocarbon and an absorbing biocarbon fuel only phase. In the latter two, the demand for biocarbon as fuel leads to increasing food prices. Depending on how easily capital and labor can reallocate, food prices increase by between 40% and 240%. The model is also used to analyze climate consequences of biocarbon fuel polices and of the shale revolution.
Q32|No blessing, no curse? On the benefits of being a resource-rich southern region of Italy|The aim of this research is to examine the aggregate economic effects of large-scale oil extraction in Basilicata, a southern region of Italy. This paper is the first empirical attempt to test for a regional resource curse by constructing a comparison unit using synthetic control techniques. The comparison unit captures how Basilicata׳s economic activities would have evolved in the absence of the oil extraction industry. The negligible differences between economic parameters in Basilicata and in its comparison unit suggest that a large amount of oil extraction has had no detectable effect on Basilicata׳s economy. A set of tentative political economy explanations of the result of missing effects is also provided, based on control rights structure, the royalty tax rate and organized crime.
Q32|Measuring resilience in energy systems: Insights from a range of disciplines|Economic stability is dependent on the effective functioning and resilience of energy systems. Resilience is a term used across all research disciplines and in everyday discourse. As a concept it purports to serve as a useful indicator of sustainability and robustness, but it has proved difficult to measure. Ecological resilience, psychological resilience, risk management and energy security are all fields of research in which measures of the ability to respond to the unexpected are sought. The goal is to build adaptive capacity but quite different methods have been developed to achieve this end. Research on energy security, in particular, has focused on the security of oil supplies, not resilience or the adaptive capacity of the energy system or the role that renewable energy plays in building such capacity. This paper discusses how different disciplines seek to measure and build resilience and explores its connection with the state or quality of a system’s adaptive capacity. When the parameters of redundancy and diversity are present, resilience is enhanced. For this reason, in energy systems we must understand the size and scope of the key parameters required to facilitate the development of adaptive capacity and to build resilience that can enhance economic stability.
Q32|Capturing rents from natural resource abundance: Private royalties from U.S. onshore oil & gas production|We study how much private mineral owners capture geologically-driven advantages in well productivity through a higher royalty rate. Using proprietary data from nearly 1.8 million leases, we estimate that the six major shale plays generated $39 billion in private royalties in 2014. There is limited pass-through of resource abundance into royalty rates. A doubling of the ultimate recovery of the average well in a county increases the average royalty rate by 1–2 percentage points (a 6–11 percent increase). Thus, mineral owners benefit from resource abundance primarily through a quantity effect, not through negotiating better lease terms from extraction firms. The low pass-through likely reflects a combination of firms exercising market power in private leasing markets and uncertainty over the value of resource endowments.
Q32|Natural resources and the spread of HIV/AIDS: Curse or blessing?|This paper answers two questions: “What impact have natural resources had on the spread of the HIV epidemic so far?” and “What role can natural resource rents play in order to finance the long-run response to HIV/AIDS?” Using a panel dataset covering 137 countries from 1990 until 2008, de Soysa and Gizelis (2013) provided evidence in Social Science & Medicine that oil-rich countries are more deeply affected by the HIV and TB epidemics. They concluded that government of resource-rich countries failed to implement effective public policies for dealing with the epidemics. In this paper, I show that their results are (1) not robust, (2) based on an inappropriate choice of dependent variable and (3) spurious because series are non-stationary. After correcting for these issues, I find no robust relationship between resource rents and the spread of HIV and TB. The paper concludes by emphasizing the potential of natural resources rents for financing the long-term liability brought about by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa.
Q32|Accounting Price of an Exhaustible Resource: Response and Extensions|Abstract Wei (Environ Resour Econ 60:579–581, 2015) presents a novel derivation of the accounting price for an exhaustible resource in a non-optimal economy subject to an allocation mechanism. We show that Wei (2015) and Hamilton and Ruta (Environ Resour Econ 42:53–64, 2009) are in fact employing different and mutually exclusive allocation mechanisms for the economy, and this explains the differences between the respective accounting prices. Because accounting prices must be defined subject to the allocation mechanism for the economy, the prices derived in the two papers are equally valid within their respective allocation domains. Further analysis shows that if there is declining marginal product of factors, a ‘Hartwick investment rule’ for the model economy (set investment just equal to depletion, valued at the accounting price) will lead to declining consumption for the Wei (2015) accounting price, and increasing consumption for the Hamilton and Ruta (2009) accounting price. This result is extended to consider the accounting standards recommended in the UN SEEA (System of environmental-economic accounting 2012: central framework. United Nations, European Commission, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, International Monetary Fund, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, World Bank, 2012), as well as accounting for environmental externalities from resource use.
Q32|Liberalism and Economic Growth: A Theoretical Exploration|This article explores how the liberal tradition of political thought has dealt with the prospect of limits to economic growth and how it should approach this issue in the future. Using Andrew Moravcsik's explanatory liberal theory, it finds that the commitment of governments to growth stems primarily from the aggregation of societal preferences for the social goods that growth produces. The arguments of liberal thinkers who have grappled with the issue of growth are then examined to gain a deeper theoretical understanding of the relationship between liberal democracy and growth. These include John Stuart Mill, for whom a non-growing economy was essential for overcoming the tension between liberty and equality; Ronald Dworkin, who argues that growth is a derivative means to further more fundamental ends; and Marcel Wissenburg, who suggests that it is legitimate for liberal democracies to limit the preference for growth if it risks undermining liberal norms and institutions. Using these theoretical insights, it is argued that environmental degradation, which is partly driven by growth, now threatens the fundamental liberal commitments of many liberals, including some forms of state neutralism, utilitarianism, inalienable individual rights and above all human autonomy. Therefore, liberal democratic states not only can, but must move towards a post-growth economy to secure these objectives into the future.
Q32|Economic growth and property rights on natural resources|Abstract We consider two models of economic growth with exhaustible natural resources and agents heterogeneous in their time preferences. In the first model, we assume private ownership of natural resources and show that every competitive equilibrium converges to a balanced-growth equilibrium with the long-run rate of growth being determined by the discount factor of the most patient agents. In the second model, natural resources are public property and the resource extraction rate is determined by majority voting. For this model, we define an intertemporal voting equilibrium and prove that it also converges to a balanced-growth equilibrium. In this scenario, the long-run rate of growth is determined by the median discount factor. Our results suggest that if the most patient agents do not constitute a majority of the population, private ownership of natural resources results in a higher rate of growth than public ownership. At the same time, private ownership leads to higher inequality than public ownership, and if inequality impedes growth, then the public property regime is likely to result in a higher long-run rate of growth. However, an appropriate redistributive policy can eliminate the negative impact of inequality on growth.
Q32|From Primary Resources to Useful Energy: The Pollution Ceiling Efficiency Paradox|We study an economy producing energy services from a polluting fossil fuel and a carbon free renewable resource under a constraint on the admissible atmospheric carbon concentration, equivalently under a constraint on the admissible temperature. The transformation rates of natural primary resources energy into useful energy are costly endogenous variables. Choosing higher efficiency rates requires to bring into operation more sophisticated ones, that is more costly ones. We show that, independently of technical progress, along a perfect foresight equilibrium path which is Pareto optimal, the transformation rate of any exploited resource should increase though out time, excepted within the period during which the carbon constraint is binding, what we call the 'ceiling paradox'.
Q32|A Systemic Approach to the Development of a Policy Mix for Material Resource Efficiency|Increasing material use efficiency is important to mitigate future supply risks and minimize environmental impacts associated with the production of the materials. The policy mix presented in this paper aims to reduce the use of virgin metals in the EU by 80% by 2050. We used a heuristic framework and a systems perspective for designing the policy mix that combines primary instruments (aimed to achieve the 80% reduction target – e.g. a materials tax, technical regulations and removal of environmentally harmful subsidies) and supportive instruments (aimed to reduce barriers to implementing the primary instruments and to contribute towards the policy objectives – e.g. research & development support, and advanced recycling centers). Furthermore, instruments were designed so as to increase political feasibility: e.g. taxes were gradually increased as part of a green fiscal reform, and border-tax adjustments were introduced to reduce impacts on competitiveness. However, even in such a policy mix design ongoing ex-ante assessments indicate that the policy mix will be politically difficult to implement – and also fall short of achieving the 80% reduction target. Nonetheless, we suggest combining primary and supportive instruments into coherent and dynamic policy mixes as a promising step towards system reconfigurations for sustainability.
Q32|Policies for a More Dematerialized EU Economy. Theoretical Underpinnings, Political Context and Expected Feasibility|Economic systems are connected to the natural environment through a continuous flow of energy and materials. The production of economic wealth implies the use of natural resources and their transformation into goods (bound to become, at least partially, waste in the future), current waste (pollution) and low-valued energy (entropy). The scarcity of natural resources and the negative externalities arising from their use throughout the entire value chain are quite natural motivations for the current policy push towards a more dematerialized and a more circular economy. In this perspective, the EU seems to be approaching a new frontier in environmental policy. The main contribution of this paper is a qualitative assessment of a coordinated set of dematerialization policies, which aim at fostering the socially efficient use (and re-use) of virgin materials at firm level. The policy mix we propose envisages a green tax reform (GTR) with a material tax, which aims at shifting relative input prices in favour of labour and capital, and a policy of funding research and development activities in the area of resource efficiency. In order to support firms in their transition to higher material efficiency, we foresee targeted skill enhancement programmes. Finally, to prevent firms to shift towards less material-intensive production, potentially leading to lower output quality, we complete the policy mix with specific command-and-control measures, aiming at setting minimum quality standards for selected product categories. The qualitative assessment of this mix of policies relies on the four basic criteria of the economic policy analysis (effectiveness, efficiency, equity and feasibility). Since the EU is deeply integrated in the world economy, and it is a net importer of virgin resources, our policy evaluation necessarily takes an open-economy perspective. In this vein, the paper reviews the state of affairs of the major world countries (USA, Japan and China in particular) on this issue, and contextualizes the EU action in a global perspective.
Q32|Asset Ownership, Windfalls, and Income: Evidence from Oil and Gas Royalties|How does local versus absentee ownership of natural resources—and their associated income—shape the relationship between extraction and local income? Theory and empirics on natural resources and the broader economy have focused heavily on labor markets, largely ignoring the economic implications of payments to resource owners. We study how local ownership of oil and gas rights shapes the local income effects of extraction. For the average U.S. county that experienced an increase in oil and gas production from 2000 to 2013, increased royalty income and its associated economic stimulus accounted for more than two-thirds of the total income effect from extraction in 2013. Looking at gross royalty income in particular, which we derive from more than 2.2 million leases across the continental United States, we estimate that each dollar in royalty income led to $0.52 in non-royalty income, largely reflecting greater wage income in the service sector. {{p}} Overall, a U.S. county with complete local ownership of the subsurface captured 29 cents more of each dollar in production than a county with absentee ownership. For a county with the median shale production in 2013, this would translate to an extra $1,098 per capita, or 5.3 percent of total income.
Q32|The Genuine Saving Indicator: Estimates at the Subnational Level in Italy|In this paper we estimate the Genuine Saving (GS) of Italian regions in the period 1996-2005. The GS is a macroeconomic indicator of sustainability able to shed light on the future implications of current welfare levels, jointly considering the management of economic and natural assets. Despite the good performance of Italy as a whole during the considered period, our results show an uneven regional distribution of sustainability burdens, with the Basilicata region on an unsustainable development path, showing decreasing and negative value of GS. This results are mainly due to mismanagement of un-renewable natural resources (oil and gas). Failing this test of â€œweakâ€ sustainability, the Basilicata region is likely to incur a decline of welfare levels in the future.
Q32|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to oil and gas sector, monetary policy, regional budgets, oil product output
Q32|Monitoring of Russia's Economic Outlook|This paper deals with the issues related to oil and gas sector, monetary policy, regional budgets, oil product output
Q32|Fiscal rule scenarios for Bolivia: assignment of fiscal revenues to public spending and fiscal stance. Escenarios de reglas fiscales para Bolivia: asignación de ingresos al gasto público y posición fiscal|In this paper related fiscal rules scenarios to developing countries dependent on natural resources were evaluated; a probabilistic approach was applied for the fiscal stance of Bolivia, a country that dependent on natural gas. The results suggested certain levels of natural resource revenues channeled to capital spending, limiting the current spending and accumulating budget surpluses in order to improve the prospect of public debt for the short and medium term. The introduction of fiscal rule reduced the volatility of public debt by comparing with a baseline scenario (without fiscal rule).
Q32|Long‐Run Impact of Biofuels on Food Prices|About 40 percent of US corn is now used to produce biofuels, which are used as substitutes for gasoline in transportation. In this paper, we use a Ricardian model with differential land quality to show that world food prices could rise by about 32 percent by 2022. About half of this increase is from the biofuel mandate and the rest is a result of demand‐side effects in the form of population growth and income‐induced changes in dietary preferences, from cereals to meat and dairy products. However, aggregate world carbon emissions would increase, because of significant land conversion to farming and leakage from lower oil prices.
Q32|Spatial Equilibrium Approach to the Analysis of Income Differentials Across Russian Cities|This paper discusses a mechanism underlying the input allocations and income distributions across Russian cities of different ages. The empirical strategy is based on using the extended version of the Glaeser-Gottlieb model to guide the interpretation of regression estimates. The results are in line with previous evidence. Newer cities tend to pay higher real wages, but this is offset by the poor consumption amenities. Their opportunities to pay more are related to their productivity advantages resulting from their higher shares of skilled workforce, and more available natural resources. At the same time, these advantages and disadvantages tend to disappear with time, which gives rise to the income convergence.
Q32|Input vs. Output Taxation—A DSGE Approach to Modelling Resource Decoupling|Environmental taxes constitute a crucial instrument aimed at reducing resource use through lower production losses, resource-leaner products, and more resource-efficient production processes. In this paper we focus on material use and apply a multi-sector dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model to study two types of taxation: tax on material inputs used by industry, energy, construction, and transport sectors, and tax on output of these sectors. We allow for endogenous adoption of resource-saving technologies. We calibrate the model for the EU27 area using an IO matrix. We consider taxation introduced from 2021 and simulate its impact until 2050. We compare the taxes along their ability to induce reduction in material use and raise revenue. We also consider the effect of spending this revenue on reduction of labour taxation. We find that input and output taxation create contrasting incentives and have opposite effects on resource efficiency. The material input tax induces investment in efficiency-improving technology which, in the long term, results in GDP and employment by 15%–20% higher than in the case of a comparable output tax. We also find that using revenues to reduce taxes on labour has stronger beneficial effects for the input tax.
Q32|Evidence from a Natural Experiment on the Development Impact of Windfall Gains: The Camisea Fund in Peru|This document studies the economic effect of windfall gains by examining a Peruvian natural experiment. The Camisea Fund for Socioeconomic Development (FOCAM) is an inter-governmental fiscal transfer scheme that allocates natural gas royalties generated by the Camisea Gas Project to eligible subnational governments. We exploit the rules governing FOCAM allocation to identify the effect of the transfers on municipal accounts, local infrastructure, and economic development. Using a newly constructed district- level dataset for the years 2005 and 2012, we find evidence of positive impacts on municipal capital expenditures and local infrastructure. However, we also find evidence of a negative impact on municipal current expenditures. More specifically, we find that municipalities with low absorptive capacity coped with the increased administrative burden of FOCAM transfers by reallocating administrative effort toward (away from) executing capital (current) expenditures.
Q32|Towards a Circular Economy in the European Union - A Solution For the Economic Recovery|In order to achieve the resource efficiency agenda set by the Europe 2020 Strategy, the European Union is on its way of transition from the linear economy to a circular economy model. A first step was achieved in 2014 by the European Commission Communication â€œTowards a circular economy: a zero waste programme for Europeâ€ , recently followed by the Circular economy package, which includes an Action Plan for the Circular economy and a time-bound implementation of the initiatives. In this research paper, we analyze the reasons for the paradigm shift from the linear model to the circular economy model, and the European Union Strategy for the circular economy, with the benefits and risks involved. As the European Union Member States and regions have a direct participation in the achievement of the circular economy, our work summarizes the concrete programme of action, with measures covering the whole cycle: from production and consumption to waste management and the market for secondary raw materials.
Q32|The Right Fit for the Wrong Reasons: Real Business Cycle in an Oil-dependent Economy|Venezuela has an oil-dependent economy subject to large exogenous shocks and a rigid labor market. These features go straight to the heart of two weaknesses of real business cycle (RBC) theory widely reported in the literature: neither shocks are volatile enough nor real salaries sufficiently flexible as required by the RBC framework to replicate the behavior of the economy. We calibrate a basic RBC model and compare a set of relevant statistics from RBC-simulated time series with actual data for Venezuela and the benchmark case of the United States (1950-2008). Despite Venezuela being a heavily regulated economy, RBC-simulated series provide a good t, in particular with regard to labor markets.
Q32|Measuring Sustainability in the UN System of Environmental-Economic Accounting|Abstract The adoption of the System of Environmental-Economic Accounting 2012: Central Framework as a UN statistical standard is a landmark in environmental accounting. The SEEA has the same authority and weight as the System of National Accounts in the pantheon of official statistics. The SEEA defines the unit value of depletion of an exhaustible resource to equal the average unit value of the asset (the total asset value divided by the physical stock of resource). By applying this definition to a non-optimal Dasgupta–Heal–Solow model of an extractive economy, we show that ‘depletion-adjusted net saving’ as defined in the SEEA supports a generalized version of the Hartwick Rule. This measure of saving can guide policies for sustainable development in extractive economies, in particular fiscal policies concerning consumption and investment expenditures funded by resource rents. The conditions required to support this finding are (i) that extraction declines over time at a constant rate, and (ii) that the marginal cost of resource extraction is constant. A less general result holds in the case of increasing marginal extraction costs.
Q32|Peter Murphy, Universities and Innovation Economies: The Creative Wasteland of Post-Industrial Society|This is a brilliant, indeed an indispensable book. It provides a compelling diagnosis of the decline and failure of the contemporary bureaucratic and managerially governed university, the post-industrial-bureaucratic driven economy, and the social-liberal-democratic-bureaucratic state. It deals with matters that those of us who work in universities, particularly in Australia and the United Kingdom (US universities are still far less centralized), and who know from the inside that so much of what has happened over the last thirty years or so has pretty well destroyed the university as a place for reading, reflection, discussion, dispute, deliberation, and inventive imaginative responses to what are thrown up by the spirits of the times. But what makes the book truly remarkable is the thoroughness of the diagnosis and the mountains of evidence that the book marshals to make its case. Moreover, both the diagnosis and the evidence that is summoned to confirm the diagnosis could only have been made by someone who effortlessly moves between the disciplinary compartmentalisations, which, when kept separate, only serve to dilute any diagnosis of the nature of the problems and the forces and interests that conspire not only to create the problems but, sadly, to make then insoluble. Murphy is, to use one of those buzz-words that usually smacks of ‘bureaucratise’, ‘multi-skilled’ - precisely because he exemplifies that combination that is, sadly, all too rarely to be found, let alone nurtured in universities today: he is a real scholar, a prodigious researcher, and an inventive thinker.
Q32|Changes in Institutional Design, Expropriation Risk and Extraction Path|The impact of expropriation risk on the extraction path of non-renewable resources has been shown as theoretically ambiguous. It depends on capital intensity of the extraction process and the size of resource stocks. By employing producing field-level data in the South East Asia region, we observe the impact of a change in institutional design of oil governance in Indonesia on expropriation risk and extraction path. From the empirical results, we make an inference that a change in oil governance reduces expropriation risk, and the impact of the reduction on the extraction path is different for different sizes of resource stock. The results confirm the theory that for small resource stocks, reduction in expropriation risk leads to a slower extraction path. This reiterates the importance of strengthening ownership rights such that expropriation risk can be reduced, over-extraction can be avoided and more sustainable economic welfare can be achieved.
Q32|Environmental Macroeconomics: Economic Growth, Fiscal Spending and Environmental Quality|In the existing literature much attention has been given to the toolbox of regulatory policy instruments for addressing environmental concerns. Microeconomic treatment of environmental policy considers the optimal allocation of a given scale of resource flow within the economy, but neglects the scale and composition of economic activity relative to the ecosystem that supports it. An ecological approach to macroeconomics requires the appreciation of physical constraints to economic growth. This paper presents the theoretical underpinnings and the empirical findings of the literature on the link between economic growth and environmental quality, as well as of the relationship between fiscal spending and environmental degradation, by reviewing the relevant literature. The empirical findings on both relationships are not robust and therefore remain inconclusive. This paper provides conclusions and directions for future research which may assist to solve this ambiguity on the examined relationships.
Q32|Oklahoma Oil and Gas Severance Taxes: A Comparative Analysis|Oklahoma assesses a production tax of seven percent on the extraction of oil, natural gas, and other minerals. However, since July 2002, it has taxed production from horizontal wells at only one percent for the first 48 months of production. This is a significant tax incentive relative to its neighboring states, Texas and Kansas, particularly considering the limited evidence as to the effectiveness of severance tax incentives for increasing in-state development of immobile resources. This paper empirically examines whether the severance tax incentive has encouraged horizontal development in Oklahoma relative to Texas and Kansas. Our findings indicate that the Oklahoma tax exemption has not had a significant influence on horizontal drilling.
Q32|Resource Discoveries and FDI Bonanzas|This paper examines the effect of giant oil and gas discoveries on foreign direct investment in developing economies using a new project-level dataset. We document a large increase in non-extraction FDI in the 2 years following a giant discovery, an event which is unpredictable due to the uncertain nature of exploration. We find that FDI in ows increase by 73% and that this wave is driven by a 37% increase in the number of FDI projects as well as a 22% increases in source countries and a 17% increase in target sectors. We interpret this FDI response as evidence for the news-driven business-cycle hypothesis within a developing country setting and highlight FDI bonanzas as an important development channel for resource rich economies.
Q32|Unilateral Supply Side Policies and the Green Paradox|This paper deals with possible foreign reactions to unilateral carbon supply reducing policies. It differentiates between demand and supply side reactions as well as between intra- and intertemporal shifts of greenhouse gas emissions. Ritter & Schopf (2014) integrate stock-dependent marginal physical extraction costs into Eichner & Pethig’s (2011) general equilibrium carbon leakage model. Using this model, we change the policy instrument from an emissions trading scheme to a deposit preserving system. The results are as follows: Under similar conditions than those derived by Ritter & Schopf (2014), the weak green paradox and the strong green paradox arise. In case of acting today, these conditions are tightened due to the energy market channel of carbon leakage. In case of acting tomorrow, the change in the physical user cost of extraction additionally influences the effectiveness of the carbon supply reducing policies. In both cases, it can be more effective to preserve the deposits with the lowest marginal physical extraction costs first.
Q32|Broadening Benefits from Natural Resource Extraction: Housing Values and Taxation of Natural Gas Wells as Property| We study the effects of the property tax base shock caused by natural gas drilling in the Barnett Shale in Texas—a state that taxes oil and gas wells as property. Over the boom and bust in drilling, housing appreciation closely followed the oil and gas property tax base, which expanded the total tax base by 23 percent at its height. The expansion led to a decline in property tax rates while maintaining or increasing revenues to schools. Overall, each $1 per student increase in the oil and gas property tax base increased the value of the typical home by $0.15. Some evidence suggests that the cumulative density of wells nearby may lower housing values, indicating that drilling could reduce local welfare without policies to increase local public revenues.
Q32|The 'Common Goood' in Pope Francis's Social Welfare Hypothesis|In conventional welfare economics Pareto optimality requires competitive markets in which rational sellers use pure private resources to produce pure private goods and services for rational consumers. Although such theory acknowledges that market failures prevent Pareto optimality, it continues to advocate efficiency alone as the first best policy for society. Pope Francis has argued recently that the current economics of indifference to the common good is responsible for the enormous environmental damage to Earth (‘our common home’). He calls for an integral approach to consumption and production, one that takes the common good as the source and object of well-being. In that way consumption and production depend on the common good, and so too do associated time-discounted social satisfaction and surplus. This means that a socially desirable program is one that optimizes integral satisfaction and surplus, so that consumption and production functions are a system of endogenous (dynamical) simultaneous equations in which the utility of the integral person is a function of the social utility. I use insights from the economic models of resources (both exhaustible and renewable) to describe what the Pope means. The description is rather loose, but the implications of the exercise are wide and far-reaching. For example, I find that the socially efficient price is not Pareto efficient; it is one that allows for the marginal social utility, marginal social surplus, and marginal social royalty to the common good. In other words, under conventional welfare economics the marginal cost of generating the present value of the social surplus that eats up the present value of the rent to the common good guarantees the disutility of the integral person even as it meets the utility of the rational person. One policy implication of such a result recommends consideration of the common good as a key variable in both production and consumption. Precisely how that can be done is the direction in which future research must go. The question this result raises is about how to quantify the common good. For Pope Francis the level of analysis is integral subsidiarity, where the environment would be a good proxy for the common input to production and the common outputs are reduce poverty, inclusion (reduced inequality), and the protection of the common input.
Q32|The impact of real oil revenues fluctuations on economic growth in Algeria: evidence from 1960-2015 data|This paper investigates the impact of real oil revenues fluctuations on economic growth in Algeria using data from 1960 to 2015. To shed some new light on this question, we use a measure of real oil revenues recently developed by Gasmi and Laourari (2015) that is endogenous to Algeria’s international trade structure. We apply the Johansen multivariate cointegration approach to analyze the short-run and the long-run dynamic relationship between real oil revenues and economic growth proxied by two variables, namely, real GDP and industrial sector growth. The cointegration analysis suggests that a long-run relationship exists between real oil revenues, real GDP, and industrial growth in Algeria. The impulse response function and the variance decomposition analysis suggest that the impact of unexpected shifts in real oil revenues on the country's economic and industrial growth is negative.
Q32|Mapping social conflicts in natural resources. A text-mining study in mining activities|Applying text-mining techniques we have developed a methodology that measures the number of social conflicts related to the exploitation of nonrenewable natural resources. We focused on conflicts in four mining countries (Australia, Canada, Chile, and Peru) from 2003 to 2016 considering more than 20,000 articles from the major newspaper of each country. From our data we detected cross-country and cross-regional differences and changes in time patterns. We found a statically significant correlation between our main index and mineral rents in % in GDP. However, our results should be interpreted with caution since we have not taken into account endogeneity issues and our indexes could be biased by different level of lobby powers among our country sample. Our main contribution is the generation of novel database with different indexes of soft conflicts related to the exploitation of non-renewables natural resources and its media coverage in Australia, Canada, Chile and Peru.
Q32|Economics for the Curious. Inside the Minds of 12 Nobel Laureates<BR>[Экономика Для Любознательных. О Чем Размышляют Нобелевские Лауреаты]|Alfred Marshall, the founder of modern economics, once described economics as ‘the study of mankind in the ordinary business of earning a living’. In Economics for the Curious, 12 Nobel Laureates show that ‘the ordinary business of earning a living’ covers a wide range of activities, as they take readers on an engaging tour of some of the everyday issues that can be explored using basic economic principles. Written in the plainest possible language, Nobel Laureates including Paul Krugman, Robert Solow and Vernon Smith confront some of the key issues challenging society today — challenges that claim attention in any phase of the business cycle. The range of topics includes how economic tools can be used to rebuild nations in the aftermath of a war; financing retirement as longevity increases; the sustainable use of natural resources and what governments should really be doing to boost the economy. Economics for the Curious is an accessible but informative display of the kinds of questions economics can illuminate. It will appeal to anyone who has an interest in economics and the world around them, and we hope it will encourage further interest and study in the topic from readers everywhere.
Q32|Research and Development Costs in Retail Trade|Research and development expenses are crucial business performance factors for all enterprises, including trading companies. The size and structure of these expenses depend largely on the nature of a company’s activities. Due to such importance and specificity, the research focus of this article is on R&D expenses in trading companies with particular emphasis on retail companies. Their share in the sales revenue of trading companies is increasingly important and determined by many factors, such as innovation, size, location, product categories, and others. Due to varying intensity of influence of these and other factors, research and development expenses in commercial companies differ among countries, trade types (wholesale, retail, wholesale and retail), retail formats (store types) and product categories. Understanding the factors of these differences is important for efficient management of research and development costs in trade, particularly retail companies. They are the focus of research in this work.
Q32|Analysis Of Energy Costs In Retail Trade|Energy costs are significant determinant of the performance of total economy, all sectors, including trade and individual enterprises. Due to that, they are lately more analyzed in the context of sustainable development and the impact on the performance of the economy, sectors and enterprises. The use of renewable energy is an important factor in energy costs reducing and increasing of profitability. Under the influence of specific factors it varies in individual economies (countries), sectors and companies. Having this as a starting point, our article specially investigates the problem of energy efficiency in trade sector. This is due to considerable economic impact of trade on total energy consumption in economy and especially service sector (share in gross domestic product and the number of employees). The research on many global retail companies find, and also confirmed in this study, that the increase of energy efficiency can significantly improve the profitability of the trade sector. This is particularly achieved with as increased use of renewable energy in total final energy consumption in the trade sector. JEL classification: Q40, Q44, Q32, Q57
Q32|Comment on: “Optimal dynamic production from a large oil field in Saudi Arabia”|Abstract This paper extends the study by Gao et al. (Empir Econ 37:153–184, 2009), which models the profit-maximizing dynamic oil production from a large oil field in Saudi Arabia by using an engineering model of oil extraction. Although it gives an important insight about the dynamics of oil production by examining and comparing different scenarios for exogenous variables, it assumes perfect knowledge and foresight about the future. However, the production decision might not be based on different scenarios, but rather on different expectations about the future. Therefore, we propose to extend the model by incorporating uncertainty arising from a random arrival date of a new backstop technology that will enable the production of a perfect substitute for oil. We find that the optimal production path has a different dynamic under this new specification that may explain the less aggressive extraction behavior of the producer before 2000, which was concluded to be economically irrational by Gao et al. (2009).
Q32|Cross-County Poverty Comparisons In Chad: The Impact Of The Oil Revenues Redistribution Policy|This paper analyses the determinants of cross-county poverty disparities in Chad within the context of oil exploitation. Data is provided from the last Chad Household Consumption and Informal Sector Survey (ECOSIT 3) and from the College for Control and Monitoring of Oil Revenues (CCSRP). The incidence of poverty is separately estimated for two groups of counties, according to the amount of oil revenues received with respect to their demographic weights. The difference between the poverty estimates is decomposed into characteristics and coefficients effects following the generalization of Oaxaca-type decomposition for poverty analysis. Results highlight the existence of a highly significant poverty disparity between the two groups of counties. The county-group with a relatively low share of oil revenues has a higher poverty rate than the other group. The effect of county characteristics explains 78.3% of this difference in poverty, while 21.7% is explained by the return effect due to the differential impact of the characteristics over counties. It is expected that to better promote economic inclusion in Chad, the oil revenues redistribution policy should fit the specific local development needs.
Q32|Converting Primary Resources into Useful Energy: The Pollution Ceiling Efficiency Paradox|We study an economy producing energy services from a polluting fossil fuel and a carbon free renewable resource under a constraint on the admissible atmospheric carbon concentration, equivalently under a constraint on the admissible temperature. The transformation rates of natural primary resources energy into useful energy are costly endogenous variables. Choosing higher efficiency rates requires to bring into operation more sophisticated energy transformation devices, that is more costly ones. We show that, independently of technical progress, along an optimal path, the transformation rate of any exploited resource should increase throughout time, excepted within the period during which the carbon constraint is binding, a phenomenon we call the â€˜ceiling paradoxâ€™. The effects of technical progress in the fossil fuel and the renewable energy sectors are strongly contrasted. JEL Codes: Q00, Q32, Q43, Q54. Keywords: Energy Efficiency, Carbon Pollution, Non-Renewable Resources, Renewable Resources.
Q32|Bioeconomic Analysis of Habitat-Fishery Connections: Fishing on Cold Water Coral Reefs|We develop a bioeconomic model to study habitat-fishery connections such as cold water coral habitats, which are negatively affected by bottom trawling but remain unaffected by stationary gear harvest. Using dynamic optimization, we derive optimum optimorum values for both fish and cold water coral stocks. We find that when coral is a preferred habitat, the fish and coral stocks become substitutes in terms of unit cost savings of harvest, while an essential habitat implies competing cost and growth effects. Data are from the North East Arctic cod fishery, and the results are robust and in line with our theoretical prediction.
Q32|Simulating the Macroeconomic Impact of Future Water Scarcity: an Assessment of Alternative Scenarios|In this paper we consider some of the economic implications of climate change scenarios as described in the Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs). By comparing potential water demand with estimates of (sustainable) water availability in different regions, we identify regions that are likely to be constrained in their future economic growth potential by the scarcity of water resources. We assess the macroeconomic impact of water scarcity under alternative allocation rules finding that, by assigning more water to sectors in which it has a higher value, shifting production to less water intensive sectors, and importing more water intensive goods, constrained regions can effectively neutralize these water related climate risks and adapt to a changing water environment. However, this adaptation effort is likely to imply some radical changes in water management policies.
Q32|Substitutability and the social cost of carbon in a solvable growth model with irreversible climate change|We develop an overlapping generations endogenous growth model with stocks of produced capital, human capital, a non-renewable resource, and irreversibly accumulated greenhouse gases in deterministic and stochastic versions. The model allows for analyzing different elasticities of substitution. We present a full analytical solution and characterization of the transition dynamics. We show that, as a rule of thumb, the social cost of carbon grow at a rate equal to the economy's growth rate divided by the elasticity of substitution. We analytically study sensitivity of the social cost of carbon with respect to key parameters: the intergenerational discount rate, the elasticity of substitution, and climate uncertainty. We show that the social cost of carbon explode at a finite level of log-normally distributed climate uncertainty. We illustrate results in a calibrated version of the model.
Q32|Green accounting, institutional quality and investment decisions: Macroeconomic implications from an analysis of the oil and mining sector|This paper investigates the effect of institutional quality on sustainable development.Institutional quality is assumed to determine the (perceived) risk in the face of which oil and mining firms determine their level of investment in physical and natural capital. Since these two types of capital are used jointly in the industry's production process, the firms face a dual investment decision, whereby they have to decide on the investment into both types of capital simultaneously. It is shown that this production structure implies that better institutional quality can increase as well as decrease the speed of resource extraction. However, due to the structure of national accounting data, this fact has so far not been adequately accounted for in preceding studies. By integrating the dual investment model into the green accounting approach it is then shown that the form of capital aggregation in national accounting can lead to an underestimation of the effect of institutional quality on sustainable development and potentially on economic growth. The results imply that it could be useful to investigate the macroeconomic effects of institutional quality on the oil and mining sector separately from those on the rest of the economy.
Q32|That's my turf: An experimental analysis of territorial use rights for fisheries in Indonesia|We conduct a framed field experiment in Indonesian fishing communities with an eye towards evaluating the potential of Territorial Use Rights for Fisheries (TURFs) for preserving coral reef fisheries. Conducted in three culturally distinctive sites, the study assembles groups of five fishers who participate in a common-pool resource game. We implement the game with randomly assigned treatments in all sites to explore whether the extraction decision varies according to three recommended non-binding extraction levels originating from (1) a democratic process, (2) a group leader or (3) an external source that recommends a socially optimal extraction level. In one of the sites - that having the highest levels of ethnic and religious diversity - we find that democratic decision-making as well as information originating from outside the community promotes the cooperative behavior that underpins TURFs, a result that is robust to regressions controlling for individual and community attributes. The absence of treatment effects in the remaining two sites highlights that a set of formal rules may have different consequences in different communities, depending on underlying values and norms.
Q32|That's my turf: An experimental analysis of territorial use rights for fisheries in Indonesia|We conduct a framed field experiment in Indonesian fishing communities, with an eye towards evaluating the potential of Territorial Use Rights for Fisheries (TURFs) to preserve coral reef fisheries. Conducted in three culturally distinctive sites, the study assembles groups of five fishers who participate in a common-pool resource game. We implement the game with randomly assigned treatments in all sites to explore whether the extraction decision varies according to three recommended non-binding extraction levels originating from (1) a democratic process, (2) a group leader or (3) an external source that recommends a socially optimal extraction level. In one of the sites - that having the highest levels of ethnic and religious diversity - we find that democratic decision-making as well as information originating from outside the community promotes the cooperative behavior that underpins TURFs, a result that is robust to regressions controlling for individual and community attributes.
Q32|Auf dem Weg zur weltanschaulichen Bekenntnisschule: Das wirtschaftspolitische Leitbild der Hochschule Pforzheim|Dieses Diskussionspapier beleuchtet die PRME-Verpflichtung der Hochschule Pforzheim und die daraus resultierenden Probleme (Abschnitt 2) aus vier Perspektiven: der erkenntnistheoretischen (Abschnitt 3), der erfahrungswissenschaftlichen (Abschnitt 4), der juristischen (Abschnitt 5) und einer sozial-psychologischen (Abschnitt 6). Es kommt zu dem Ergebnis, dass dieses Projekt nicht nur verfassungsrechtlichen Grundsätzen, wie dem Prinzip der Gewaltenteilung (Art. 1 (3) GG) wi-derspricht, sondern auch den Erfordernissen einer modernen Forschung und Lehre nicht gerecht wird.
Q32|Formación para el trabajo en Bolivia: La paradoja de un país extractivo|¿Ayuda la existencia de recursos extractivos a la formación de recursos humanos, concretamente a la formación técnica? La evidencia empírica es poco concluyente. Para el caso de Bolivia se muestra que la actividad extractiva sin agregación de valor, no genera demanda por personas calificadas y por tanto no emite señales claras hacia el sistema educativo para formar este tipo de profesionales, aunque existan los recursos para ello. Por otra parte, la conformación del sistema educativo en medio de pugnas de grupos de poder en educación primaria y secundaria, donde el Estado históricamente no pudo asumir el rol de Principal en la formulación y manejo de la política educativa, desembocaron en la situación de descuido de la formación para el trabajo. La desconexión histórica de la política de desarrollo de la política educativa parece ser la principal explicación para la situación actual de la educación técnica en Bolivia.
Q32|Immunity from the resource curse? The long run impact of commodity price volatility: evidence from Canada, 1900–2005|This paper documents the channels through which commodity price volatility can affect resource intensive industries’ investment decisions, production levels and profitability. Over the very long run, the Canadian forestry sector was not immune from the negative effects of commodity price volatility. However, the long run averages mask dynamic and asymmetric patterns in the sector’s responses to price volatility. The supply of investment funds from formal-external sources was suppressed during episodes of high and rising commodity price volatility, but insensitive to low and falling volatility. These effects weakened as the economy matured. The accumulation of reproducible and natural capital was affected by commodity price volatility through an investment supply channel that was also asymmetric, but in this case, the effect was strongest during low and falling volatility. These results show how a maturing economy with diversified investment opportunities can become increasingly immune from the negative effects of commodity price volatility.
Q32|What Can We Learn about Shale Gas Development from Land Values? Opportunities, Challenges, and Evidence from Texas and Pennsylvania| We study farm real estate values in the Barnett shale (Texas) and the northeastern part of the Marcellus shale (Pennsylvania and New York). We find that shale gas development caused appreciation in real estate values in both areas but the effect was much larger for the Marcellus, suggesting broader ownership of oil and gas rights by surface owners. In both regions, the greatest appreciation occurred when land was leased for drilling, not when drilling and production boomed. We find evidence that effects vary by farm type, which may reflect correlation between farm type and ownership of oil and gas rights.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q32|What Can We Learn about Shale Gas Development from Land Values? Opportunities, Challenges, and Evidence from Texas and Pennsylvania| We study farm real estate values in the Barnett shale (Texas) and the northeastern part of the Marcellus shale (Pennsylvania and New York). We find that shale gas development caused appreciation in real estate values in both areas but the effect was much larger for the Marcellus, suggesting broader ownership of oil and gas rights by surface owners. In both regions, the greatest appreciation occurred when land was leased for drilling, not when drilling and production boomed. We find evidence that effects vary by farm type, which may reflect correlation between farm type and ownership of oil and gas rights.
