Q33|Geography, Geology, and Regional Economic Development|We examine long-run development effects of regional productivity shocks in the United States. We exploit the timing and location of large resource discoveries to measure exogenous variation in labor demand and consider heterogeneous effects based on environmental amenity and geographic isolation, developing novel measures of both. Using a dynamic event-study analysis we find that productivity shocks increase population both in the short and long-run, but this largely refl ects the experience of low amenity, geographically isolated places that may otherwise struggle to develop. Moreover, this study offers several insights into the observed spatial pattern of development in the United States.
Q33|Illegal Mining and Human Capital Accumulation: Evidence from the Colombian Gold Rush|This paper assesses the local effects of gold mining on human capital accumulation in contexts where illegal mining is prevalent. Evidence is based on high-resolution geographic information of gold mining and schools, and rich administrative data from Colombia. I exploit a boom in international gold prices and the exogenous geographic distribution of gold deposits to assess the causal effects of mining. Results indicate that mining increases enrollment in primary school and reduces dropout rates throughout the school cycle. However, mining also reduces standardized test scores and college enrollment, particularly in academic degrees and STEM fields. The estimated effects are considerably larger when both legal and illegal mining are accounted for. I then assess some of the potential mechanisms through which the commodity price shock can affect human capital. While child labor is overall unaffected, young adults between 19 and 25 are more likely to work in the mining sector. Evidence also indicates that mining increases royalties and public investment, with mixed results in terms of school inputs. Mining also intensifies conflict and violence, with potential large negative effects on human capital accumulation. **** RESUMEN: Este trabajo estudia el efecto local de la minería de oro sobre la acumulación de capital humano en contextos en los cuales predomina la minería ilegal. La evidencia está basada en información geográfica de alta resolución de minería y registros administrativos detallados del sistema educativo de Colombia. Para estimar los efectos causales de la minería se explota la variación exógena en los precios internacionales del oro y la distribución geográfica de los depósitos de mineral. Los resultados indican que la minería incrementa la matrícula escolar en primaria y reduce la deserción a lo largo del ciclo escolar. Sin embargo, la minería también tiene efectos negativos sobre el aprendizaje y reduce las probabilidades de acceder al sistema de educación superior, particularmente en carreras STEM. Los efectos estimados son considerablemente más grandes cuando se tiene en cuenta tanto la minería legal como la ilegal. En la última sección se prueban distintos mecanismos a través de los cuales el boom minero puede afectar la acumulación de capital humano. Mientras que no hay evidencia de mayor trabajo infantil, los adultos jóvenes entre 19 y 25 años tienen mayores probabilidades de trabajar en el sector minero. La evidencia también muestra que las regalías y la inversión pública aumentaron en los municipios mineros, con resultados mixtos para la provisión de educación escolar. Finalmente, el boom de precios intensifica el conflicto y la violencia en estas regiones, con efectos negativos potencialmente importantes sobre la acumulación de capital humano.
Q33|Cohesive Institutions and Political Violence|Can institutionalized transfers of resource rents be a source of civil conflict? Are cohesive institutions better in managing distributive conflicts? We study these questions exploiting exogenous variation in revenue disbursements to local governments together with new data on local democratic institutions in Nigeria. We make three contributions. First, we document the existence of a strong link between rents and conflict far away from the location of the actual resource. Second, we show that distributive conflict is highly organized involving political militias and concentrated in the extent to which local governments are non-cohesive. Third, we show that democratic practice in form having elected local governments significantly weakens the causal link between rents and political violence. We document that elections (vis-a-vis appointments), by producing more cohesive institutions, vastly limit the extent to which distributional conflict between groups breaks out following shocks to the available rents. Throughout, we confirm these findings using individual level survey data.
Q33|Illegal Mining and Human Capital Accumulation: Evidence from the Colombian Gold Rush|This paper assesses the local effects of gold mining on human capital accumulation in contexts where illegal mining is prevalent. Evidence is based on high-resolution geographic information of gold mining and schools, and rich administrative data from Colombia. I exploit a boom in international gold prices and the exogenous geographic distribution of gold deposits to assess the causal effects of mining. Results indicate that mining increases enrollment in primary school and reduces dropout rates throughout the school cycle. However, mining also reduces standardized test scores and college enrollment, particularly in academic degrees and STEM fields. The estimated effects are considerably larger when both legal and illegal mining are accounted for. I then assess some of the potential mechanisms through which the commodity price shock can affect human capital. While child labor is overall unaffected, young adults between 19 and 25 are more likely to work in the mining sector. Evidence also indicates that mining increases royalties and public investment, with mixed results in terms of school inputs. Mining also intensifies conflict and violence, with potential large negative effects on human capital accumulation. **** RESUMEN: Este trabajo estudia el efecto local de la minería de oro sobre la acumulación de capital humano en contextos en los cuales predomina la minería ilegal. La evidencia está basada en información geográfica de alta resolución de minería y registros administrativos detallados del sistema educativo de Colombia. Para estimar los efectos causales de la minería se explota la variación exógena en los precios internacionales del oro y la distribución geográfica de los depósitos de mineral. Los resultados indican que la minería incrementa la matrícula escolar en primaria y reduce la deserción a lo largo del ciclo escolar. Sin embargo, la minería también tiene efectos negativos sobre el aprendizaje y reduce las probabilidades de accederal sistema de educación superior, particularmente en carreras STEM. Los efectos estimados son considerablemente más grandes cuando se tiene en cuenta tanto la minería legal como la ilegal. En la última sección se prueban distintos mecanismos a través de los cuales el boom minero puede afectar la acumulación de capital humano. Mientras que no hay evidencia de mayor trabajo infantil, los adultos jóvenes entre 19 y 25 años tienen mayores probabilidades de trabajar en el sector minero. La evidencia también muestra que las regalías y la inversion pública aumentaron en los municipios mineros, con resultados mixtos para la provisión de educación escolar. Finalmente, el boom de precios intensifica el conflicto y la violencia en estas regiones, con efectos negativos potencialmente importantes sobre la acumulación de capital humano.
Q33|Impacto de la implementación del canal de atención a clientes mineros de la ANM sobre la inversión minera en Colombia|El presente estudio busca medir el impacto de la implementación del Canal de Atención a Clientes Mineros del Grupo de Promoción de la Agencia Nacional de Minería (ANM) sobre la inversión en el sector minero colombiano. Teniendo en cuenta que el uso del canal es voluntario y libre, se optó por aplicar la metodología de emparejamiento PSM, con el fin de corregir el posible sesgo de autoselección causado por la diferencia de las empresas participantes y no participantes. Se encuentra que el canal de atención tiene impacto sobre las inversiones en el sector minero colombiano, toda vez que las empresas con presencia en el país que lo usan invierten en promedio $1.3 millones de pesos más que aquellas empresas que no se benefician de estos canales de atención. Como parte de las recomendaciones derivadas de este ejercicio, se considera que, si la ANM está interesada en determinar la eficacia de otras estrategias de promoción, se debe contar con el listado de las empresas beneficiadas por otro tipo de intervenciones.
Q33|Much ado about nothing? The shale oil revolution and the global supply curve|We focus on the implications of the shale oil boom for the global supply of oil. We begin with a stylized model with two producers, one facing low production costs and one higher production costs but potentially lower adjustment costs, competing à la Stackelberg. We find that the supply function is flatter for the high cost producer, and that the supply function for shale oil producers becomes more responsive to demand shocks when adjustment costs decline. On the empirical side, we apply an instrumental variable approach using estimates of demand-driven oil price changes derived from a standard structural VAR of the oil market. A main finding is that global oil supply is rather vertical, practically all the time. Moreover, for the global oil market as a whole, we do not find evidence of a major shift to a more price elastic supply as a result of the shale oil boom. JEL Classification: Q33, Q41, Q43, C32
Q33|Dutch Disease Dynamics Reconsidered|In this paper we develop the first model to incorporate the dynamic productivity consequences of both the spending e ect and the resource movement e ect of oil abundance. We show that doing so dramatically alters the conclusions drawn from earlier models of learning by doing (LBD) and the Dutch disease. In particular, the resource movement e ect suggests that the growth e ects of natural resources are likely to be positive, turning previous growth results in the literature relying on the spending e ect on their head. We motivate the relevance of our approach by the example of a major oil producer, Norway, where it seems clear that the predictions based on existing theory do not apply. Although the e ects of an increase in the price of oil may resemble results found in the earlier Dutch disease literature, the effects of increased oil activity do not. Therefore, models that only focus on windfall gains due to increased spending potential from higher oil prices, would conclude - incorrectly based on our analysis - that the resource sector cannot be an engine of growth.
Q33|The Propagation of Regional Shocks in Housing Markets: Evidence from Oil Price Shocks in Canada|Shocks to the demand for housing that originate in one region may seem important only for that regional housing market. We provide evidence that such shocks can also affect housing markets in other regions. Our analysis focuses on the response of Canadian housing markets to oil price shocks. Oil price shocks constitute an important source of exogenous regional variation in income in Canada because oil production is highly geographically concentrated. We document that, at the national level, real oil price shocks account for 11% of the variability in real house price growth over time. At the regional level, we find that unexpected increases in the real price of oil raise housing demand and real house prices not only in oil-producing regions, but also in other regions. We develop a theoretical model of the propagation of real oil price shocks across regions that helps understand this finding. The model differentiates between oil-producing and non-oil-producing regions and incorporates multiple sectors, trade between provinces, government redistribution, and consumer spending on fuel. We empirically confirm the model prediction that oil price shocks are propagated to housing markets in non-oil-producing regions by the government redistribution of oil revenue and by increased interprovincial trade.
Q33|Who Benefits from Local Oil and Gas Employment? Labor Market Composition in the Oil and Gas Industry in Texas|This paper examines local labor market outcomes from an oil and gas boom. We examine two main outcomes across gender, race, and ethnicity: the probability of employment in the oil and gas industry and the log wages of workers employed outside the oil and gas industry. We find that men and women both gain employment in the oil and gas industry during booms, but such gains are much larger for men and are largest for black and Hispanic men. We also find positive income spillovers for workers in other industries that are similar in magnitude across demographic groups.
Q33|Impact of Fiscal Consolidation on the Mongolian Economy|The Government of Mongolia began implementing an IMF program under the Extended Fund Facility agreement (EFF) in May 2017. Under the program, the government has decreased expenditures and increased taxes to achieve debt sustainability via fiscal consolidation and stable growth. At the same time, the government has faced challenges because of its commitment of fiscal consolidation to the IMF: the rising price of fuel and its own fuel-subsidy policies. We used the PEP standard static CGE model to examine the impact of fiscal consolidation on the Mongolian economy under various conditions. Moreover, we used a poverty (microsimulation) model to analyze those impacts at a household level. Our analysis of the impact of fiscal consolidation under pessimistic and optimistic mineral-commodity-price scenarios showed that Mongoliaâ€™s economy was closely tied to international commodity prices. Our examination of the governmentâ€™s alternative policies on fuel subsidies in an environment of fiscal consolidation demonstrated that the effect of increased fuel prices on the economy depended upon government fuel-subsidy policy.
Q33|The Economic and Environmental Impact of Foreign Direct Investment on the Mongolian Coal-Export Sector|This paper examines the impact of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) intended to increase the exporting capacity of the coal sector on the Mongolian economy and environment by using a recursive dynamic Computable General Equilibrium model. FDI was used to expand the coal-export sector as well as to construct a railway line connecting the Mongolian main coal reserve and the Chinese border. FDI had a positive impact on macroeconomic variables such as GDP, employment, investment, and household consumption but produced a Dutch disease effect in some sectors. The new railway reduced the environmental impact of transporting coal.
Q33|Natural Resources and Income Inequality in Developed Countries: Synthetic Control Method Evidence|We examine the causal effect of natural resource discoveries on income inequality using the synthetic control method on data from 1947 to 2009. We focus on the natural discoveries in Denmark, Netherlands and Norway in the 1960–1970s and use top 1% and top 10% income share as the measure of income inequality. Many previous studies have been concerned that natural resources may increase income inequality. To the contrary, our results suggest that natural resources decrease income inequality or have no effect. We attribute this effect to the high institutional quality of countries we examine.
Q33|Natural resources volatility and economic growth: evidence from the resource-rich region|This research paper investigates the impact of natural resources’ volatility on economic growth. The paper focused on three resources rich economies namely; UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Oman. Using data from 1970 to 2016 and employing the autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) cointegration approach developed by Pesaran, Shin, and Smith (2001), we found that both natural resources and their volatility matters from the growth perspective. The study found strong evidence in favor of a positive and statistically significant relationship between the natural resource and economic growth for the economy of UAE and Saudi Arabia. Similarly, for the economy of Oman, a positive but insignificant relationship is observed between natural resources and economic growth. However, we found that the volatility of natural resources has a statistically significant negative impact on the economic growth of all three economies. This study contradicts the traditional concept of resources curse and provides evidence of resources curse in the form of a negative impact of volatility on economic growth.
Q33|How Local Economic Conditions Affect School Finances, Teacher Quality, and Student Achievement: Evidence from the Texas Shale Boom|Whether improved local economic conditions lead to better student outcomes is theoretically ambiguous and will depend on how schools use additional revenues and how students and teachers respond to rising private sector wages. The Texas boom in shale oil and gas drilling, with its large and localized effects on wages and the tax base, provides a unique opportunity to address this question that spans the areas of education, labor markets, and public finance. An empirical approach using variation in shale geology across school districts shows that the boom reduced test scores and student attendance, despite tripling the local tax base and creating a revenue windfall. Schools spent additional revenue on capital projects and debt service, but not on teachers. As the gap between teacher wages and private sector wages grew, so did teacher turnover and the percentage of inexperienced teachers, which helps explain the decline in student achievement. Changes in student composition did not account for the achievement decline but instead helped to moderate it. The findings illustrate the potential value of using revenue growth to retain teachers in times of rising private sector wages.
Q33|Wasted windfalls: Inefficiencies in health care spending in oil rich countries|This paper uses Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA) to determine whether oil rents drive inefficiency in the healthcare sector. SFA simultaneously estimates a production function for health outputs and the determinants of inefficiency in production. Using a sample of 119 countries covering the period 2000 to 2015, unexpectedly high oil revenues are shown to increase inefficiency. Oil rents hinder countries in reaching their potential life expectancy. Exploiting exogenous variation in the international oil price reveals that causality runs from oil rents to inefficiency. The effect varies with institutions, sex and age. The effect is more pronounced in democracies, and women and children are affected more. Transparency and inequality are potential mechanisms.
Q33|Threshold Regressions for the Resource Curse|This paper analyzes the behavior of cross-country growth rates with respect to resource abundance and dependence. We reject the linear model that is commonly-used in growth regressions in favor of a multiple-regime alternative. Using a formal sample-splitting method, we find that countries exhibit different behaviors with respect to natural resources depending on their initial level of development. In high-income countries, natural resources play only a minor role in explaining the differences in national growth rates. On the contrary, in low-income countries abundance seems to be a blessing but dependence restricts growth.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q33|The Geographic Dispersion of Economic Shocks: Evidence from the Fracking Revolution: Comment|In the mid 2000s, shale-energy-rich U.S. counties experienced a sudden and significant economic shock resulting from energy extraction. While the resulting localized economic effects are relatively well understood, less is known about the geographic dispersion of the effects. We build upon an existing literature, most notably Feyrer, Mansur, and Sacerdote (2017), by examining the conditional economic effects of nearby energy production. Because energy-producing counties tend to be located near each other, producing counties experience inward economic spillovers from other nearby producing counties and this inflates the estimated effect of own-county production. Accounting for this, we identify smaller income effects of hydrocarbon production than Feyrer, Mansur, and Sacerdote (2017), limited to counties within 60-80 miles of the source of production. The proposed estimation strategy can be applied more generally to estimate the dispersion of multiple, simultaneously occurring economic shocks.
Q33|The Non-Monotonic Political Effects of Resource Booms|This study uses variation in natural resource rents and mineral production among Peruvian municipalities to analyze the impact of resource booms on local politicians' behavior and citizens' well-being. Although this topic has recently attracted scholarly interest, existing empirical evidence remains inconclusive regarding whether resource booms are beneficial or detrimental to citizens via their effects on public good provision and living standards. Despite many existing theoretical models allowing for the possibility of non-monotonic responses, empirical literature has largely approached this phenomena using linear models, thus misunderstanding the complex nature of resource booms. By examining recent extraordinary mineral price increases along with particular rules for natural resource rent distribution in Peru, I show that the effects of resource booms on reelection outcomes, political competition, public goods provision, clientelism, and well-being are conditional to the size of the rents in a non-monotonic fashion. These results are robust to endogenous production responses and are consistent with recent theoretical scholarship for resource rich economies.
Q33|The propagation of regional shocks in housing markets: Evidence from oil price shocks in Canada|Shocks to the demand for housing that originate in one region may seem important only for that regional housing market. We provide evidence that such shocks can also affect housing markets in other regions. Our analysis focuses on the response of Canadian housing markets to oil price shocks. Oil price shocks constitute an important source of exogenous regional variation in income in Canada because oil production is highly geographically concentrated. We document that, at the national level, real oil price shocks account for 11% of the variability in real house price growth over time. At the regional level, we find that unexpected increases in the real price of oil raise housing demand and real house prices not only in oil-producing regions, but also in other regions. We develop a theoretical model of the propagation of real oil price shocks across regions that helps understand this finding. The model differentiates between oil-producing and non-oil-producing regions and incorporates multiple sectors, trade between provinces, government redistribution, and consumer spending on fuel. We empirically confirm the model prediction that oil price shocks are propagated to housing markets in non-oil-producing regions by the government redistribution of oil revenue and by increased interprovincial trade.
Q33|¿Cuál es la dimensión y en que se gastó la reciente bonanza en Colombia?|En las primeras décadas del siglo XXI, Colombia experimentó una de las bonanzas más importantes de su historia. Este artículo identifica y cuantifica las más recientes del país, y los sectores en los que aumentó el gasto público en el período 2008-2016. Además, contrasta los resultados con un grupo de países suramericanos. Surgen cuatro mensajes: (i) en comparación con sus países vecinos, Colombia ha experimentado menos bonanzas, con una duración promedio similar a la mediana regional; (ii) mientras los otros países tienden a tener un sector económico que origina siempre la bonanza, Colombia tuvo un cambio sectorial al pasar de alimentos (café) a combustibles (hidrocarburos); (iii) el tamaño de la bonanza de hidrocarburos fue cerca de cinco veces la del café, lo que tuvo un impacto significativo en el presupuesto público; y (iv) al comparar el periodo anterior y posterior a la bonanza, se encuentra un cambio de tendencia simultáneo en la inversión pública con aumentos en rubros que, desde un perspectiva teórica, podrían haber tenido un impacto positivo en el desarrollo económico. **** ABSTRACT: Colombia experienced one of the major economic booms in its history during the first two decades of the 21st century. This paper characterizes and quantifies them and identifies the sectors where public expenditures increased over the period 2008-2016. Additionally, it compares these results with a group of South American countries. Four conclusions arise: (i) Colombia experienced fewer booms than its neighbors, although the average duration is similar to the regional median; (ii) while other countries maintain a historic leading sector, in Colombia a sectoral change occurred from food (coffee) to fuels (oil); (iii) income windfall of the oil boom in Colombia was around five times larger than the coffee boom, which significantly increased public budget and spending; and (iv) trend changes in public investment occurred during the recent oil boom in a way that, could have had a positive impact in economic development.
Q33|Dutch disease dynamics reconsidered|In this paper we develop the first model to incorporate the dynamic productivity consequences of both the spending effect and the resource movement effect of oil abundance. We show that doing so dramatically alters the conclusions drawn from earlier models of learning by doing (LBD) and the Dutch disease. In particular, the resource movement effect suggests that the growth effects of natural resources are likely to be positive, turning previous growth results in the literature relying on the spending effect on their head. We motivate the relevance of our approach by the example of a major oil producer, Norway, where it seems clear that the predictions based on existing theory do not apply. Although the effects of an increase in the price of oil may resemble results found in the earlier Dutch disease literature, the effects of increased oil activity do not. Therefore, models that only focus on windfall gains due to increased spending potential from higher oil prices, would conclude - incorrectly based on our analysis - that the resource sector cannot be an engine of growth.
Q33|An Investigation of the Resource Curse in Indonesia|"We investigate the effect of resource dependence on district level income in a rare within-country study for Indonesia, one of the largest resource producing countries in Asia. We follow 390 districts between 2006 and 2015, consider four alternative measures of resouce dependence, and instrument for the potential endogeneity of each using historical measures of oil, gas and coal reserve locations, and changes in the physical production of each resource. Using annual fixed effects and first differenced regressions with and without various instruments, we find no evidence of a ""resource curse"". Instead, we find robust evidence across all models that dependence as measured by mining's share of output is positively associated with district real per capita income. We find a similar positive relationship between dependence as measured by the share of district government revenues from oil and gas or mining overall, and income in our most credible specifications with instruments. For example, a standard deviation increase in change in district government dependence on oil/gas revenues increases real per capita income by 16 percent over a nine year period."
Q33|Resource Dependence and the Causes of Local Economic Growth: An Empirical Investigation|Previous research has found that in Indonesia, a resource giant in South East Asia, resource dependence is positively associated with economic growth, contrary to a 'resource curse' hypothesis. We test four potential causal mechanisms for this positive effect: spill overs to manufacturing, higher education provision, improvements in institutional quality, and investment in public capital. We follow 390 districts within Indonesia from 2006 to 2015, using four alternative measures of resource dependence, and instrumenting for their potential endogeneity. We first confirm a positive overall effect of resource dependence on real per capita Gross Regional Domestic Product. We then test the extent to which resource dependence positively affects manufacturing, education, public investment, and district institutional quality. We finally test the extent to which these factors contribute to growth. We find that resource dependence aids growth in part by raising measures of district institutional quality. Resource dependence also raises net high school enrolment rates, though we do not find that this in turn raises growth. Conversely, while higher capital spending by districts raises growth, we find no evidence that this share is affected by resource dependence. In auxiliary analysis, we find little support for the hypothesis that resource dependence benefits growth more (or only) for districts that begin with higher institutional quality.
Q33|Oil Rents Shocks and Inequality in Iran|We study the short and long run responses of income inequality to positive per capita oil and gas rent shocks in Iran. Using historical data from 1973 to 2012 and vector autoregression (VAR)-based impulse response functions, we find a positive and statistically significant response of income inequality to oil rent booms within 4 years of the shock. In addition, the Autoregressive-Distributed Lag (ARDL) results show that in the long run, a 10-percent increase in oil and gas rents per capita leads to an approximately 1.4-percent increase in income inequality. The results are robust to controlling for different channels potentially affecting the income distribution in Iran. Our analysis can help policymakers evaluate and accommodate the possible positive or negative effects on inequality in Iran resulting from the 2016 lifting of the embargo against the country.
Q33|Acción colectiva para abordar conflictos socio-ambientales. El caso de Santurbán|El presente capítulo describe y analiza un proceso participativo llevado a cabo con el propósito de apoyar la construcción de acuerdos colectivos y un sistema de monitoreo ciudadano para el manejo sostenible de las cuencas de los ríos Suratá, en Santander, y Zulia y Pamplonita en Norte de Santander, asociadas al Complejo de Páramos Jurisdicciones Santurbán Berlín (CPJSB). Luego de presentar brevemente el contexto de la intervención, el capítulo presenta el Marco conceptual para el análisis institucional y desarrollo (IAD, por sus siglas en inglés) (Ostrom, 2005), el cual ha guiado tanto el diseño del proceso y enmarca la presentación, descripción y análisis del mismo en este documento. En seguida se presentan de manera sucinta tanto las actividades realizadas como los resultados alcanzados a febrero de 2016. Por último, a modo de conclusión, se ofrecen una serie de reflexiones finales sobre los retos que Colombia enfrenta para el manejo del agua, sus cuencas hidrográficas y ecosistemas de páramo. Se presentan y discuten brevemente también los aprendizajes que, para encarar tales retos, se pueden derivar de procesos participativos como el aquí documentado. La presentación de las limitaciones y alcances del proceso expuesto ayudan también a generar pistas sobre cómo organizar y llevar a cabo este tipo de intervenciones encaminadas a fortalecer la acción colectiva para abordar las tensiones y discrepancias en torno al manejo de ecosistemas estratégicos como los páramos y sus recursos naturales.
Q33|¿Cuál es la dimensión y en que se gastó la reciente bonanza en Colombia?|En las primeras décadas del siglo XXI, Colombia experimentó una de las bonanzas más importantes de su historia. Este artículo identifica y cuantifica las más recientes del país, y los sectores en los que aumentó el gasto público en el período 2008-2016. Además, contrasta los resultados con un grupo de países suramericanos. Surgen cuatro mensajes: (i) en comparación con sus países vecinos, Colombia ha experimentado menos bonanzas, con una duración promedio similar a la mediana regional; (ii) mientras los otros países tienden a tener un sector económico que origina siempre la bonanza, Colombia tuvo un cambio sectorial al pasar de alimentos (café) a combustibles (hidrocarburos); (iii) el tamaño de la bonanza de hidrocarburos fue cerca de cinco veces la del café, lo que tuvo un impacto significativo en el presupuesto público; y (iv) al comparar el periodo anterior y posterior a la bonanza, se encuentra un cambio de tendencia simultáneo en la inversión pública con aumentos en rubros que, desde un perspectiva teórica, podrían haber tenido un impacto positivo en el desarrollo económico. **** ABSTRACT: Colombia experienced one of the major economic booms in its history during the first two decades of the 21st century. This paper characterizes and quantifies them and identifies the sectors where public expenditures increased over the period 2008-2016. Additionally, it compares these results with a group of South American countries. Four conclusions arise: (i) Colombia experienced fewer booms than its neighbors, although the average duration is similar to the regional median; (ii) while other countries maintain a historic leading sector, in Colombia a sectoral change occurred from food (coffee) to fuels (oil); (iii) income windfall of the oil boom in Colombia was around five times larger than the coffee boom, which significantly increased public budget and spending; and (iv) trend changes in public investment occurred during the recent oil boom in a way that, could have had a positive impact in economic development.
Q33|Threshold Regressions for the Resource Curse|This paper analyzes the behavior of cross-country growth rates with respect to resource abundance and dependence. We reject the linear model that is commonly-used in growth regressions in favor of a multiple-regime alternative. Using a formal sample-splitting method, we find that countries exhibit different behaviors with respect to natural resources depending on their initial level of development. In high-income countries, natural resources play only a minor role in explaining the differences in national growth rates. On the contrary, in low-income countries abundance seems to be a blessing but dependence restricts growth.
Q33|The Public Finance Challenges of Fracking for Local Governments in the United States|Fracking has revolutionized international oil and gas markets practically overnight, but its impact on local public finance and governance have largely been overlooked. While operating under federal and state constraints, the key ongoing policy question is whether and to what extent local governments can â€“ and should â€“ have the power to manage the industryâ€™s effects on their communities. This IMFG Paper explores the fiscal health risks associated with the industry, its local revenue generation implications, and what local governments can do to address the spatial and temporal mismatches between the two. As the industry expands internationally, including to Canada, lessons from the United States can inform future regulatory response in other places.
Q33|"""Weak"" trends for inference and forecasting in finite samples"|This paper studies the small sample properties of processes which exhibit both a stochastic and a deterministic trend. Whereas for estimation, inference and forecasting purposes the latter asymptotically dominates the former, it is not so when only a finite number of observations is available and large non-linearities in the parameters of the process result. To analyze this dependence, we resort to local-asymptotics and present the concept of a `weak` trend whose coefficient is of order O(T-1/2), so that the deterministic trend is O(T1/2) and the process Op(T1/2). In this framework, parameter estimates, unit-root test statistics and forecast errors are functions of `drifting` Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes. We derive a comparison of direct and iterated multi-step estimation and forecasting of a - potentially misspecified - random walk with drift, and show that we explain well the non-linearities exhibited in finite samples. Another main benefit of direct multi-step estimation stems from some different behaviors of the `multi-step` unit-root and slope tests under the weak and strong (constant coefficient) trend frameworks which could lead to testing which framework is more relevant. A Monte Carlo analysis validates the local-asymptotics approximation to the distributions of finite sample biases and test statistics.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q33| Variegated dependence: The geographically differentiated economic outcomes of resource-based development in Peru, 2001-2015| The economic impacts of resource-based development are distributed unevenly across national space, and not even mining regions experience economic development in the same way. We build on the methodology of Rehner et. al. (2014) to typify resource-based economic development in Peru in the period 2001- 2015 and compare it with the case of mineral-abundant Chile. What we find is a nuanced version of the same dependency-related resource curse phenomenon. With the commodity cycle: (i) export specialization is not the same in all places; (ii) regional growth volatility is much higher in Peru than in Chile; (iii) the Dutch disease does not clearly manifest itself; and therefore (iv) economic dependence within Peru is variegated. At the national level, gold-and-copper-dependent Peru is not as vulnerable as copper-dependent Chile to external shocks. At the subnational level, outside Lima in particular, dependence-related volatility can be very high for clusters of regions. The results of the quantitative analysis are attuned to a theoretical framework of variegated dependence, which, while acknowledging the centrality of the center-and-periphery supranational structure for economic development, attributes variation in resource curse phenomena to subnational differences across space and over time in economic- geography configurations and institutional regimes. JEL Classification-JEL: F43 , O11 , O18 , Q33 , Q34 , Q37 , R58
Q33|What Goes Up Must Come Down? A Case Study of the Recent Oil and Gas Employment Cycle in Louisiana, North Dakota and Oklahoma|The recent boom and bust in the oil and natural gas sector provide a unique opportunity to assess whether the employment impacts of energy development are symmetric across the differing phases of the energy cycle. This study uses the synthetic control method to examine the boom and bust effects for three key oil and natural gas producing states: Louisiana, North Dakota, and Oklahoma. The three states are chosen as case studies because of their relative intensity in oil production in addition to their production of natural gas. Because of Hurricane Katrina, we examine Louisiana sans New Orleans. The three states also most closely match each other in cyclic movements relative to other energy producing states. The results reveal differing employment impacts across the three states in both the short and long run, with the differences at least in part suggested to be connected to state and local government education expenditure responses to the boom and bust, particularly in terms of their effects on public school teacher salaries.
Q33|Economic Impacts of the Marcellus Shale Energy and Environment Laboratory (MSEEL)|This report summarizes the economic impacts of the MSEEL project for both the state of West Virginia and the Morgantown metropolitan area. It uses two types of data; the first is project data provided by NNE and processed using a Cost Estimation Tool developed by the authors, and second is worker survey data collected during the drilling phase.
Q33|Governance and Land Reform in the Palm Oil Value Chain in the Philippines|The chain literature (Global Commodity Chains/Value Chains/Production Networks) have remained surprisingly silent about the role of land as a factor of production. I use fieldwork experience from the palm oil industry in Agusan del Sur, Philippines to illustrate the way in which the buyer-driven nature of the chain interacts with a major institutional change, namely the redistributive land reform, Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). I argue that the CARP has not resulted in the desired redistribution of power from the landed to the landless, but reinforces the unequal distribution of power between plantation/milling companies and beneficiaries, producing economic and social downgrading trajectories for reform beneficiaries and farmworkers.
Q33|Can the US shale revolution be duplicated in continental Europe? An economic analysis of European shale gas resources|Over the past decade, the rapid increase in shale gas and shale oil production in the United States has profoundly changed energy markets in North America, and has led to a significant decrease in American natural gas prices. The possible existence of large shale deposits in continental Europe, mainly in France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany, has fostered speculation on whether the U.S. shale revolution could be duplicated in Europe. However, a number of uncertainties, notably geological, technological, regulatory, and relating to public acceptance make this possibility unclear. We present a techno-economic model of shale gas production amenable to direct estimation on historical production data to analyze the main determinants of the profitability of shale wells and plays. We contribute an in-depth analysis of an extensive production dataset covering 40,000 wells and accounting for nearly 90% of shale gas production in the six main plays of the continental United States from 2004 to 2014. We combine this analysis with a discussion of the main differences between the American and European contexts to calibrate our model and conduct Monte-Carlo simulations. This enables us to estimate the distribution of breakeven prices for shale gas extraction in continental Europe. We find a median gross breakeven price before taxes and royalties of $10.1 per MMBtu. This would make extraction unprofitable in Europe in the current natural gas price environment, with
Q33|Cohesive Institutions and Political Violence|Can institutionalized transfers of resource rents be a source of civil conflict? Are cohesive institutions better at managing conflicts over distribution? We exploit exogenous variation in revenue disbursements to local governments and use new data on local democratic institutions in Nigeria to answer these questions. There is a strong link between rents and conflict far away from the location of the resource. Conflict over distribution is highly organized, involving political militias, and concentrated in the extent to which local governments are non-cohesive. Democratically elected local governments significantly weaken the causal link between rents and political violence. Elections produce more cohesive institutions, and vastly limit the extent to which distributional conflict between groups breaks out following shocks to the rents. Throughout, we confirm these findings using individual level survey data.
Q33|The Propagation of Regional Shocks in Housing Markets: Evidence from Oil Price Shocks in Canada|Shocks to the demand for housing that originate in one region may seem important only for that regional housing market. We provide evidence that such shocks can also affect housing markets in other regions. Our analysis focuses on the response of Canadian housing markets to oil price shocks. We document that, at the national level, real oil price shocks account for 11% of the variability in real house price growth over time. At the regional level, we find that unexpected increases in the real price of oil raise real house prices not only in oil-producing regions, but also in other regions. We develop a theoretical model of the propagation of real oil price shocks across regions that helps understand this finding. The model differentiates between oil-producing and non-oil-producing regions and incorporates multiple sectors, trade between provinces, government redistribution, and consumer spending on fuel. We empirically confirm the model prediction that oil price shocks are transmitted to housing markets in nonoil-producing regions by the government redistribution of oil revenue and by increased interprovincial trade.
Q33|Channeling the Iron Ore Super-Cycle: The role of regional bank branch networks in emerging markets|The role of the financial system to absorb and to intermediate commodity boom induced windfall gains efficiently presents one of the most pressing issues for developing economies. Using an exogenous increase in iron ore prices in March 2005, I analyse the role of regional bank branch networks in Brazil in reallocating capital from affected to non-affected regions. For the period from March 2004 to March 2006, I find that branches directly exposed to this shock by their geographical location experience an increase in deposit growth in the post-shock period relative to non-affected branches. Given that these deposits are not reinvested locally, I further show that branches located in the non-affected region increase lending growth depending on their indirect exposure to the booming regions via their branch network. Even tough, these results provide evidence against a Dutch Disease type crowding out of the non-iron ore sector, further evidence suggests that this capital reallocation is far from being optimal.
Q33|The (Uneven) Spatial Distribution of the Bakken Oil Boom|Resulting from a booming shale-energy sector, from 2007 to 2014, income per capita in North Dakota increased 40%. Does this reflect the experience of a few oil-rich counties, or were the gains more evenly distributed across the region? We find the shale boom generated significant economic gains for counties above and near the Bakken Shale Formation, but not for those farther away. We also document significant state-border effects, which are not easily explained. Conditional on distance to the Bakken region, the shale boom generated limited outward migration from South Dakota, and as a result, the economic gains that accrued there were muted.
Q33|Macro policy responses to natural resource windfalls and the crash in commodity prices|Policy prescriptions for managing natural resource windfalls are based on the permanent income hypothesis: none of the windfall is invested at home and saving in an intergenerational SWF is dictated by smoothing consumption across different generations. Furthermore, with Dutch disease effects the optimal response is to intertemporally smooth the real exchange rate, smooth public and private consumption, and limit sharp fluctuations in the intersectoral allocation of production factors. We show that these prescriptions need to be modified for the following reasons. First, to cope with volatile commodity prices precautionary buffers should be put in a stabilisation fund. Second, with imperfect access to capital markets the windfall must be used to curb capital scarcity, invest domestically and bring consumption forward. Third, with real wage rigidity consumption must also be brought forward to mitigate transient unemployment. Fourth, the real exchange rate has to temporarily appreciate to signal the need to invest in the domestic economy to gradually improve the ability to absorb the extra spending from the windfall. Fifth, with finite lives the timing of handing back the windfall to the private sector matters and consumption and the real exchange rate will be volatile. Finally, with nominal wage rigidity we show that a Taylor rule is a better short-run response to a crash in commodity prices than a nominal exchange rate peg.
Q33|Assessing fiscal policy through the lens of the financial and the commodity price cycles|We assess the link between fiscal policy and credit and commodity price booms and busts. We do so by investigating the impact of financial and commodity price cycles on the identification of episodes of fiscal consolidation and stimulus and the size of the fiscal impulse. We find that controlling for the credit cycle has an impact on the magnitude of the change in the cyclically-adjusted budget balance. The impact is lower in the case of the commodity price cycle. In addition, we show that credit booms and busts influence the cyclicality of fiscal policy, but not to the extent of significantly altering the systematic response of fiscal policy to the dynamics of real economic activity. Again, the impact of the commodity price cycle is smaller and limited to some specific cases.
Q33|Follow the money: Does the Financial Sector Intermediate Natural Resource Windfalls?|The need to absorb windfalls gains and manage them appropriately has been discussed extensively by academics and policy makers alike. We explore the role of the financial sector in intermediating these windfalls. Controlling for the level of financial development, inflation, GDP growth and country fixed-effects, we find a relative decline in financial sector deposits in countries that experience an unexpected natural resource windfall as measured by shocks to exogenous world prices. Moreover, we find a similar relative decline in lending, which is mostly due to the decrease in deposits. The smaller role for the financial sector in intermediating resource booms is accompanied by a stronger role of governments in channeling resources into the economy, mostly through higher government consumption.
Q33|How the Tight Oil Boom Has Changed Oil and Gasoline Markets|Starting in late 2008, the U.S. production of tight oil surged, causing a renaissance in the U.S. oil sector that few industry analysts had anticipated. This tight oil boom reduced the dependence of the United States on petroleum imports and allowed it to become a major exporter of gasoline and diesel fuel. Since mid-2014 the global real price of crude oil has experienced a large and sustained decline. This review article addresses several questions of general interest. First, to what extent was the recent oil price decline caused by the tight oil boom? Second, how did the tight oil boom affect the price of gasoline in global markets and in the United States? Third, what determines the investment response of the oil sector to oil price fluctuations? Fourth, how has the tight oil boom affected the transmission of oil price shocks to the U.S. economy? Finally, what are the implications of the U.S. tight oil boom for European oil importing economies?
Q33|Resource-Richness and Economic Growth in Contemporary U.S|Between 1997 and 2014, US corn, soybean and cotton production almost fully converted to genetically modified crops. Starting around 2007, improved tight oil and shale gas technologies turned the declining US fossil fuel production into a booming industry. We study the effects of these two resource technology revolutions on US state income. We find that the shale revolution increased income in states abundant in oil and gas resources. States dependent on agricultural production also saw an increase in income, which we, however, attribute not to the GM innovation, but to a demand increase brought by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. We also document the resource boom indirect effects on other growth-enhancing activities, particularly, on private and public education expenditures, and distortionary taxation.
Q33|Social Capital and the Status Externality| This paper investigates how the presence of social capital affects the externality arising from status-seeking preference as a parable for inefficient antagonistic behavior. It is assumed that the stock of social capital is accumulating through joint social interaction between rational individuals who are forward looking. Using a differential game, we show that although the presence of social capital mitigates the tendency of overconsumption over time, social capital ends up declining to zero. It is also shown that the benefits from social capital enhance the motivation of individuals to accumulate social capital thereby leading to deter overaccumulation and thus possibly improving social welfare.
Q33|Choques de precios y elecciones: el café y la democracia en Colombia|Este trabajo evalúa el efecto de cambios en los precios del café sobre la competencia política y desempeño de los diferentes partidos en Colombia. En el período 2002-2015, se encuentra que, ante incrementos en los precios del café, la competencia política en las elecciones disminuye de forma diferencial en los sitios más cafeteros. Una interpretación posible puntualiza que los cafeteros incidieron a través de inversiones en un mercado político, en un período de pérdida de poder político y económico (bajo poder de jure). En contraste, entre 1930-1946 se encuentra que los incrementos de los precios del café implicaron un aumento en la competencia política en los municipios más cafeteros. Una lectura de los resultados en este período, indica que los cafeteros contaban con instituciones favorables (alto pode de jure) y, por lo tanto, la mayor competencia se debe a que los partidos políticos disputaban por el acceso a los recursos del sector cafetero.
Q33|Output gaps and stabilisation policies in Latin America: The effect of commodity and capital flow cycles|We provide a measure of the output gap that filters out the impact of the commodity and net capital inflows booms for Latin American countries. These two factors temporarily boost output and so are likely to push up estimates of potential growth in the region to unrealistic levels, thereby resulting in an underestimation of the output gaps during the upswing of the commodity cycle. We also shed light on the interaction between the two components. The results show that commodity prices have been the dominant factor explaining deviation of activity from sustainable levels. A timely consideration of these factors could prevent a procyclical fiscal policy bias in the region.
Q33|Output gaps and stabilisation policies in Latin America: The effect of commodity and capital flow cycles|We provide a measure of the output gap that filters out the impact of the commodity and net capital inflows booms for Latin American countries. These two factors temporarily boost output and so are likely to push up estimates of potential growth in the region to unrealistic levels, thereby resulting in an underestimation of the output gaps during the upswing of the commodity cycle. We also shed light on the interaction between the two components. The results show that commodity prices have been the dominant factor explaining deviation of activity from sustainable levels. A timely consideration of these factors could prevent a procyclical fiscal policy bias in the region. ****** Se proporciona una medida de la brecha de producción que filtra el impacto del auge de materias primas y flujos de capitales en los países latinoamericanos. Estos dos factores potencian temporalmente la producción y por tanto tienden a inflar las estimaciones de crecimiento potencial hasta niveles excesivos, lo que resulta en una subestimación de las brechas de producción durante la fase ascendente del ciclo de las materias primas. También se arroja luz acerca de la interacción entre ambos componentes. Los resultados muestran que los precios de las materias primas constituyen el factor dominante para explicar la desviación de la actividad económica con respecto a niveles sostenibles. La consideración de estos factores podría evitar un sesgo fiscal procíclico en la región.
Q33|How the Tight Oil Boom Has Changed Oil and Gasoline Markets|Starting in late 2008, the U.S. production of tight oil surged, causing a renaissance in the U.S. oil sector that few industry analysts had anticipated. This tight oil boom reduced the dependence of the United States on petroleum imports and allowed it to become a major exporter of gasoline and diesel fuel. Since mid-2014 the global real price of crude oil has experienced a large and sustained decline. This review article addresses several questions of general interest. First, to what extent was the recent oil price decline caused by the tight oil boom? Second, how did the tight oil boom affect the price of gasoline in global markets and in the United States? Third, what determines the investment response of the oil sector to oil price fluctuations? Fourth, how has the tight oil boom affected the transmission of oil price shocks to the U.S. economy? Finally, what are the implications of the U.S. tight oil boom for European oil importing economies?
Q33|The Contribution of Agricultural Sector on Economic Growth of Nigeria|Agriculture is a panacea for economic growth (Myrdal, 1897). The battle for long-run economic growth is either won or lost in the agricultural sector. However, how this path births economic prosperity has been the subject of debates among economist and development scholars. This study empirically examines the impact of agricultural sector on the economic growth of Nigeria, using time series data from 1981 to 2013. Findings revealed that real gross domestic product, agricultural output and oil rents have a long-run equilibrium relationship. Vector error correction model result shows that, the speed of adjustment of the variables towards their long run equilibrium path was low, though agricultural output had a positive impact on economic growth. It was recommended that, the government and policy makers should embark on diversification and enhance more allocation in terms of budgeting to the agricultural sector.
Q33|Discovery of natural resources: A class of general equilibrium models|When is the discovery of natural resources a curse for a country's industrialization and when is it a blessing? A large literature on economic development has collected evidence on both directions. This paper discusses a class of general equilibrium models that deals with natural resource discoveries and evaluates its potential to accommodate both successful and unsuccessful resource-based industrialization experiences, under different model settings. Particularly, it analyzes the importance of disentangling price and quantity effects. It illustrates that in closed model economies (or large open economies), with vertical integration between manufacturing and energy sectors, the long-run effect on the production of manufacturing goods will depend mainly on the equilibrium price of the natural resource good. Moreover, the strength of the vertical integration, even for small open economies, determines the limits to accommodate blessing or curse type of theories.
Q33|I can hear my neighbors' fracking: The effect of natural gas production on housing values in Tarrant County, TX|In this study we estimate the effect of hydraulically fractured natural gas wells on residential real estate prices. We exploit variation in distance to nearby gas wells in home sale prices to estimate this effect. In contrast to previous studies, we focus on a relatively densely populated area, a section of the Dallas–Ft. Worth–Arlington urban area. Using a dataset of 127,556 observations from Tarrant County, Texas over the period 2005–2011, we find robust evidence that increased proximity to a well leads to reduced home sale prices. Existence of wells within 3500ft of a property reduces property values by approximately 1.5–3%. We demonstrate that the reduction seems to be driven by unconventional rather than conventional wells, and that well construction causes an added 1–2% reduction in home value.
Q33|Employment impacts of upstream oil and gas investment in the United States|We use dynamic panel methods at the state level to understand how the increase in exploration and production of oil and natural gas since the mid-2000s has impacted employment. We find robust statistical support for the hypothesis that changes in drilling do, in fact, have an economically meaningful and positive impact on employment. The strongest impact is contemporaneous, though months later in the year also experience statistically and economically meaningful growth. Once dynamic effects are accounted for, we estimate that an additional rig count results in the creation of 31 jobs immediately and 315 jobs in the long run. Robustness checks suggest that these multipliers could be even bigger. Our results imply that the national impact of upstream investment remains small, perhaps due to the sector's small size and inter-state migration.
Q33|Is shale development drilling holes in the human capital pipeline?|Using the Synthetic Control Method (SCM) and a novel method for measuring changes in educational attainment we examine the link between educational attainment and shale oil and gas extraction for the states of Montana, North Dakota, and West Virginia. The three states examined are economically-small, relatively more rural, and have high levels of shale oil and gas reserves. They also are varied in that West Virginia is intensive in shale gas extraction, while the other two are intensive in shale oil extraction. We find significant reductions in high school and college attainment among all three states' initial residents because of the shale booms.
Q33|Consequences of lower oil prices and stranded assets for Russia's sustainable fiscal stance|Despite substantial oil and gas revenue Russia's fiscal stance is unsustainable. Under our benchmark assumptions the permanent-income rule requires a permanent tightening of the fiscal stance by 4.6%-points of GDP. Delaying it by a decade implies that the fiscal stance needs to be tightened by a further 0.9%-point. This benchmark optimal policy ensures that depletion of oil and gas wealth is matched by an equal increase in above-ground financial wealth. Its merits are highlighted by comparing it with the tougher alternative of the bird-in-hand rule and with projecting the current fiscal stance. If oil and gas revenue rises by a half due to higher prices or more discoveries, the fiscal stance needs to be tightened by only 3.2%-points of GDP. However, if a large chunk of oil and gas has to be kept in the soil to meet international agreements to keep global warming below 2°C, the permanent transfer drops to 2.0% of GDP and the fiscal stance needs to be tightened by 5.5%-points of GDP.
Q33|The evolution of the natural resource curse thesis: A critical literature survey|This paper surveys the natural resource curse. We review the mechanisms through which resource wealth might slow economic growth, and the empirical studies that test for an effect overall, or on factors associated with growth. We include more recent studies suggesting the resource curse reflects only empirical misspecification. After reflecting on this conflicting evidence, and the findings of other recent surveys, we argue the evidence that resource dependence negatively affects growth remains convincing, particularly working through factors closely associated with growth in developing countries. Recent contrarian studies demonstrate that future research should better address endogeneity of dependence measures, and expand the years of study and range of empirical methodologies used.
Q33|Human capital and natural resource dependence|This paper offers an evaluation of the contribution of natural resource dependence to human capital. Two aspects of human capital are examined: education and health. Using a panel time series approach and a large cross-country dataset, it finds that natural resource dependence improves education but worsens health. It is also found that agricultural exports lower education and health whereas non-agricultural primary exports promote both. Finally, large differences in the relationships are detected across countries, depending upon a country’s economic and sociopolitical institutions.
Q33|On the comparative advantage of U.S. manufacturing: Evidence from the shale gas revolution|This paper provides novel empirical evidence of the effects of a plausibly exogenous change in relative factor prices on U.S. manufacturing production and trade. The shale gas revolution has led to (very) large and persistent differences in the price of natural gas between the U.S. and the rest of the world reflecting differences in endowment of difficult-to-trade natural gas. Guided by economic theory, empirical tests on output, factor reallocation and international trade are conducted. Results show that U.S. manufacturing exports have grown by about 10% on account of their energy intensity since the onset of the shale revolution. We also document that the U.S. shale revolution is operating both at the intensive and extensive margins.
Q33|The Impact of the Fracking Boom on Arab Oil Producers|This article makes four contributions. First, it investigates the extent to which the U.S. fracking boom has caused Arab oil exports to decline since late 2008. Second, the article quantifies for the first time by how much the U.S. fracking boom has lowered the global price of oil. Using a novel econometric methodology, it is shown that in mid-2014, for example, the Brent price of crude oil was lower by $10 than it would have been in the absence of the fracking boom. Third, the article provides evidence that the decline in Saudi net foreign assets between mid2014 and August 2015 would have been reduced by 27% in the absence of the fracking boom. Finally, the article discusses the policy choices faced by Saudi Arabia and other Arab oil producers.
Q33|Response of Consumer Debt to Income Shocks: The Case of Energy Booms and Busts|This paper investigates how consumers respond to local income shocks as a result of booms and busts in oil and gas development. Oil and gas development generates potentially large streams of income via wages and salaries to workers and royalty income to mineral rights owners. Changes in development may lead consumers to increase their spending depending on their exposure to income shocks. Using quarterly information on consumer debt and oil and gas activity, I ﬁnd that consumer debt increased at a peak of $840 per capita in counties with shale endowment and increased drilling. Each well drilled was associated with $6,750 in consumer debt for an implied total of $2.7 billion or 0.5 percent of consumer debt in areas where drilling occurred from 2007 to 2015. {{p}} Consumers in previously developed areas tend to view new increases in activity as transitory relative to areas with little previous development that experience a shock.
Q33|Social Capital and the Status Externality|This paper investigates how the presence of social capital affects the externality arising from status-seeking preference as a parable for inefficient antagonistic behavior. It is assumed that the stock of social capital is accumulating through joint social interaction between rational individuals who are forward looking. Using a differential game, we show that although the presence of social capital mitigates the tendency of overconsumption over time, social capital ends up declining to zero. It is also shown that the benefits from social capital enhance the motivation of individuals to accumulate social capital thereby leading to deter overaccumulation and thus possibly improving social welfare.
Q33|Technological progress and (un)employment development|"""One of the key issues in economics is the explanation of unemployment and its variation across different economies. Modern mainstream macroeconomics refers to the effects of financial crises and to institutional structures and their variation across countries. However, unemployment within the European states varies nearly as much as between these countries. In the interior of a country, however, there are only minor differences in institutions. To solve this puzzle, we explain this variation of unemployment building on the regional industry composition and technological progress. It is shown formally that under general and standard preconditions the price elasticity of demand on product markets is decisive: Technological progress leads to an expansion of employment if product demand is elastic. It is accompanied, however, by shrinkage of employment if product demand is inelastic. A transition from the elastic into the inelastic range of the demand function for the most important product(s) can already suffice to plunge a region into crisis. In our empirical analysis we use industry level time series data on output, prices, employment and national income for Germany provided by the Federal Statistical Office. We estimate Marshallian type demand functions using an instrumental variables estimator to derive the price elasticities for different industries and link this information to the regional labour market performance of the respective industries and regions."" (Author's abstract, IAB-Doku) ((en))"
Q33|How do oil producers respond to giant oil field discoveries?|The classical Hotelling model predicts that the optimal extraction level rises immediately after an unexpected resource discovery, whereas, in reality, there are substantial adjustment costs in petroleum production and an average lag of several years between a discovery and the start of production. Using a large panel of country-level production data and a difference-in-differences identification approach, I show that domestic production levels respond before a newly found oil field comes on line and that this increase is driven by non-OPEC producers, consistent with different responses of OPEC and non-OPEC drilling activity. Offshore fields and exceptionally large “super-” or “mega-giant” fields are also more likely to raise country-level production. Given that domestic petroleum consumption rises by less in response to a discovery, at least part of the increase in production seems to go into (net) oil exports.
Q33|Gold exploitation and socioeconomic outcomes: The case of Burkina Faso|Based on the 2013 Serbian Survey of Income and Living Conditions (SILC) and on the Serbian version of the EUROMOD platform, we evaluate the poverty and distributive effects on children of various reform (benefit and employment) strategies concerning the two major social benefit programs in Serbia: child allowance and social monetary assistance. Both the first and second-order effects of the proposed reforms are considered. For the second-round impacts, a structural labour supply model on parents has been estimated. Our results show that a benefit strategy (which also combats fiscal evasion) is preferred to an employment strategy which aims at raising the work incentives by parents
Q33|The response of income inequality to positive oil rents shocks in Iran: Implications for the post-sanction period|We study the short and long run responses of income inequality to the positive oil and gas rents per capita shocks in Iran from 1973 to 2012. Using vector autoregression (VAR)-based impulse response functions, we find a positive and statistically significant response of income inequality to oil rents booms within 4 years after the shock. The Autoregressive-Distributed Lag (ARDL) results show that a 10 percent increase in oil and gas rents per capita leads to 1.1 percent increase in income inequality in the long run. The results are robust after controlling for income-distribution channels in Iran. Our analysis can help policy makers to evaluate and accommodate the possible positive or negative effects of lifting sanctions on inequalities in Iran.
Q33|Getting Incentives Right: Human Capital Investment and Natural Resource Booms|The accumulation of human capital is usually considered an important corner stone in a country’s economic development. While the use of resource rents to improve an educational system and, thus, increase the level of human capital appears to be an attractive option, resource rich economies frequently struggle with an efficient management of resource revenues. In this paper, we ask whether private individuals can at least partly compensate for government’s failures by analysing the consequences of a resource boom on private demand for education. To do this we use the Household Budget Survey of Kazakhstan covering the period of 2001–2005. The oil boom provides us with the necessary exogenous variation to establish causality. We show that, in resource-rich districts of Kazakhstan, the resource boom increases the probability of employment in the formal sector for the educated labour force and the likelihood that households pay tuition fees for tertiary education. We are able to refute the conjecture that our effect is driven merely by the growing income of the households, by the growing supply of educational opportunities or by the immigration of educated households.
Q33|Natural Resource Extraction in a Federation|We analyze a natural resource extraction problem in a two-region economy with mobile labour. One region produces manufacturing goods while the other produces agriculture and extracts a non-renewable resource. Manufacturing production exhibits increasing returns-to-scale if the production level is sufficiently high. There are multiple long-run equilibrium labour allocations towards which the economy may converge. Under decentralized resource management, a tendency to over-extract the resource relative to the federal optimum makes convergence to a low-income equilibrium more likely. Optimal extraction from the federation's perspective satisfies a modified Hotelling's rule that takes into account the impact of resource extraction on manufacturing production.
Q33|Evidence for a presource curse ? oil discoveries, elevated expectations, and growth disappointments|Oil discoveries can constitute a major positive and exogenous shock to economic activity, but the resource curse hypothesis would suggest they might also be detrimental to growth over the long run. This paper utilizes a new methodology for estimating growth underperformance to examine the extent to which discoveries depress the growth path of a country following a discovery and prior to production starting. The study finds causal evidence of a significant negative effect on short-run growth and growth relative to counterfactual forecast growth in countries with weak institutions, creating growth disappointments prior to private and public resource windfalls. This effect is termed the presource curse. For a giant oil or gas discovery in 1988-2010, the study estimates an average growth disappointment effect of 0.83 percentage points, measured as the average annual gap between forecast and actual growth over the five years following a discovery. Further, the estimated effect varies by the size of the discovery, increasing to a 1.77 percentage points gap in the case of super giant discoveries. The estimated effect is inversely related to the quality of political institutions, and driven by countries with lower institutional quality at the time of the discovery, consistent with the similar long-run results documented in the resource curse literature. For countries with below-threshold institutional quality, the growth disappointment effect is larger, measured as 1.35 percentage points in annual terms. There is no measured growth disappointment effect for countries with strong institutions. Using the synthetic control method, we confirm our findings for a selection of countries above and below the institutional quality threshold. The findings suggest that studies of the resource curse that focus only on the effects of resource exploitation or examine only long-run growth effects may overlook important short-run growth disappointments following discoveries, and the way countries respond to news shocks.
Q33|Resource discoveries and FDI bonanzas; An illustration from Mozambique|This paper examines the effect of giant oil and gas discoveries on foreign direct investment in developing economies. Across countries, we document a 58% increase in non-resource extraction FDI in the 2 years following a giant discovery, an event which is unpredictable due to the uncertainty of exploration. This effect is driven by a 30% increase in the number of projects and a 16% increase in targeted sectors. Mozambique's recent FDI boom provides a telling confirmation of this mechanism. Using project-level FDI data combined with multiple waves of household surveys and rm censuses we estimate that each FDI job results in 6.2 additional local jobs, linking the gas-driven FDI bonanza in Mozambique to widespread job creation.
Q33|The Local Effects of the Texas Shale Boom on Schools, Students, and Teachers|This study explores how the Texas shale boom affected schools, students, and teachers. Using variation in geology across school districts and oil prices over time, the evidence shows that test scores and attendance in the average shale district declined despite the boom tripling the tax base and creating a revenue windfall. Greater spending went to capital projects and servicing debt, not to teachers. Although higher wages may not have affected completion rates, a growing gap in wages between the private and education sectors contributed to greater teacher turnover and more inexperienced teachers, which help explain the declines in student achievement.
Q33|Resource curse: Case study of Nigeria|The aim of the article is to verify the validity of resource curse in the case of Nigeria at the beginning of the new millennium. The theoretical part defines the role of natural resources as a form of capital, the symptoms of the alleged curse and transmission channels of resource curse. The practical part verifies several hypotheses established by comparing research papers on impacts of natural resources. The validity of the Prebisch-Singer hypothesis, Dutch disease symptoms and a negative impact on political institutions (inclination toward authoritarianism, high level of corruption, high government spending and low efficiency of economic and political decision-making) are verified. Results confirm most of the manifestations of the resource curse.
Q33|Can the US shale revolution be duplicated in continental Europe?: An economic analysis of European shale gas resources|Over the past decade, the rapid increase in shale gas and shale oil production in the United States has profoundly changed energy markets in North America, and has led to a significant decrease in American natural gas prices. The possible existence of large shale deposits in continental Europe, mainly in France, Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany, has fostered speculation on whether the U.S. shale revolution could be duplicated in Europe. However, a number of uncertainties, notably geological, technological, regulatory, and relating to public acceptance make this possibility unclear. We present a techno-economic model of shale gas production amenable to direct estimation on historical production data to analyze the main determinants of the profitability of shale wells and plays. We contribute an in-depth analysis of an extensive production dataset covering 40,000 wells and accounting for nearly 90% of shale gas production in the six main plays of the continental United States from 2004 to 2014. We combine this analysis with a discussion of the main differences between the American and European contexts to calibrate our model and conduct Monte-Carlo simulations. This enables us to estimate the distribution of breakeven prices for shale gas extraction in continental Europe. We find a median gross breakeven price before taxes and royalties of $10.1 per MMBtu. This would make extraction unprofitable in Europe in the current natural gas price environment, with
Q33|Immigration and the Dutch disease. A counterfactual analysis of the Norwegian resource boom 2004-2013|The EU-enlargement in 2004 increased labour migration and affected the Norwegian labour market in particular. We study how this modified the Dutch disease effects during the resource boom 2004- 2013. In the Norwegian case the resource movement effect of the petroleum industry has historically dominated the spending effect. One reason is the introduction of the fiscal policy rule in 2001 that limited spending. We find that economic growth in Norway was roughly doubled during this period due to the resource boom while total population increased by 2 percent. Moreover, both the resource movement and spending effects on Mainland GDP were roughly unaffected by immigration while employment increased, real wages fell and so did productivity.
Q33|Follow the Money: Does the Financial Sector Intermediate Natural Resource Windfalls?|The need to absorb windfalls gains and manage them appropriately has been discussed extensively by academics and policy makers alike. We explore the role of the financial sector in intermediating these windfalls. Controlling for the level of financial development, inflation, GDP growth and country fixed-effects, we find a relative decline in financial sector deposits in countries that experience an unexpected natural resource windfall as measured by shocks to exogenous world prices. Moreover, we find a similar relative decline in lending, which is mostly due to the decrease in deposits. The smaller role for the financial sector in intermediating resource booms is accompanied by a stronger role of governments in channeling resources into the economy, mostly through higher government consumption.
Q33|Evidence for a Presource Curse? Oil discoveries, Elevated Expectations, and Growth Disappointments|Oil discoveries can constitute a major positive and exogenous shock to economic activity, but the resource curse hypothesis would suggest they might also be detrimental to growth over the long run. This paper utilizes a new methodology for estimating growth underperformance to examine the extent to which discoveries depress the growth path of a country following a discovery and prior to production starting. The study finds causal evidence of a significant negative effect on short-run growth and growth relative to counter-factual forecast growth in countries with weak institutions;creating growth disappointments prior to private and public resource windfalls. This effect is termed the presource curse. For a giant oil or gas discovery, between 1988 to 2010, the study estimates an average growth disappointment effect of 0.83 percentage points, measured as the average annual gap between forecast and actual growth over the five years following a discovery. Further,the estimate defect varies by the size of the discovery, increasing to a 1.77 percentage points gap in the case of super giant discoveries. The estimated effect is inversely related to the quality of political institutions, and driven by countries with lower institutional quality at the time of the discovery, consistent with the similar long-run results documented in the resource curse literature. For countries with below-threshold institutional quality, the growth disappointment effect is larger, measured as 1.35 percentage points in annual terms. There is no measured growth disappointment effect for countries with strong institutions. Using the synthetic control method we confirm our findings for a selection of countries above and below the institutional quality threshold. The findings suggest that studies of the resource curse that focus only on the effects of resource exploitation or examine only long-run growth effects may overlook important short-run growth disappointments following discoveries, and the way countries respond to news shocks.
Q33|The response of income inequality to positive oil rents shocks in Iran: Implications for the post-sanction period|We study the short and long run responses of income inequality to the positive oil and gas rents per capita shocks in Iran from 1973 to 2012. Using vector autoregression (VAR)-based impulse response functions, we find a positive and statistically significant response of income inequality to oil rents booms within 4 years after the shock. The Autoregressive-Distributed Lag (ARDL) results show that a 10 percent increase in oil and gas rents per capita leads to 1.1 percent increase in income inequality in the long run. The results are robust after controlling for income-distribution channels in Iran. Our analysis can help policy makers to evaluate and accommodate the possible positive or negative effects of lifting sanctions on inequalities in Iran.
Q33|Y - Yacimientos|Resumen de la situación de gas natural en Bolivia, 1990 - 2014
Q33|Using Natural Resources for Development: Why Has It Proven So Difficult?|Developing economies have found it hard to use natural resource wealth to improve their economic performance. Utilizing resource endowments is a multistage economic and political problem that requires private investment to discover and extract the resource, fiscal regimes to capture revenue, judicious spending and investment decisions, and policies to manage volatility and mitigate adverse impacts on the rest of the economy. Experience is mixed, with some successes (such as Botswana and Malaysia) and more failures. This paper reviews the challenges that are faced in successfully managing resource wealth, the evidence on country performance, and the reasons for disappointing results.
Q33|The costs of resource-led development. An analysis of the economic impact of the oil extraction boom in Colombia|Oil-rich countries often face negative consequences of natural resources-led development on their overall economic performance. One of the reasons is that a country’s rising extraction rates frequently lead to various changes in its public policy and revenue management. Colombia has spectacularly increased its oil production by almost 500,000 barrels per day (bpd) in ten years, which was the effect principally of the implementation of strongly market-oriented petroleum policies in 2003. It is now the fourth largest crude producer in Latin America, registering nearly ten times more export sales than at the end of the 20th century. The economic effects of the oil-boom are already visible, which has created many new challenges the government must face in order to ensure sustainable development in the country, and to be able to mitigate the impact of the recently dropping world oil prices. The purpose of the article is to present the latest findings on the impact of the oil sector development on the Colombian economy in the 21st century, focusing especially on the current situation.
Q33|Les économies de l’arc andin face à la faiblesse des cours des matières premières|Since 2012, the economies of the ?Andean arc? (Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia) seem to experience a paradigm shift in their economic growth model. Indeed, as a result of the upward momentum in commodity prices in the 2000s, these economies have enjoyed a remarkable cycle of economic growth and, at the same time, a primarization of their external sector. The downward trend in mineral commodity prices starting in 2012, reflecting the onset of the downturn in China, followed by the decline in oil prices since 2014, deteriorated the terms of trade of these economies and thus, affected their economic growth path. However, the resilience of these economies to this shock depends on their intrinsic characteristics. Peru and Colombia appear more resilient, while activity in Bolivia and in particular in Ecuador contracts. These economies are gradually using a policy to change their growth patterns to reduce their dependence on the primary sector. Beyond the voluntariness of the various national authorities, the process of diversification of the growth model remains attached to the comparative advantages of each country and, secondly, to the potential productivity gains. Classification JEL: F14, O54, Q32, Q33.
Q33|L’Amérique latine et la Chine : « Je t’aime… moi non plus »|New comer in Latin America, China has become a trading partner as important as EU. China?s appetite for natural resource has been the engine of Latin American growth in the 2000, while Chinese slowing down has contributed to the recent crisis of several Latin American countries. This article begins by an assessment of Chinese economic footprint on Latin American economies: while it is strong in the case of trade and it is rapidly increasing in the case of direct investment as well as in the case of credit with the exception of Venezuela and Ecuador. A second part analyses more thoroughly the impact of the Chinese economy on Brazil. While the surge of exports to China lifted the external constraint on Brazil, the country was unable to make use this lever to transform the production structure. Thus the financial boon provided by Chinese exports was at the root of the crisis Brazilian governments were unable or unwilling to fight. In its conclusion the article explores short and medium term perspectives and discusses the future of economic complementarities between China and Latin America. Classification JEL: F14, O54, Q32, Q33.
Q33|Fracking: the boost to US manufacturing|Research by Rabah Arezki, Thiemo Fetzer and Frank Pisch shows that the surge in shale gas production - 'fracking' - since the early 2000s has not only made the United States the world's largest producer of natural gas. It has also given a big boost to output, employment, and exports in US manufacturing, particularly in energy-intensive industries. Their study finds that energy prices for US manufacturing firms have plummeted due to fracking, especially relative to Europe. Lower input costs for energy-intensive US industries have made them more globally competitive. What's more, the shale gas boom helped the US economy to recover faster after the financial crisis.
Q33|Monetary Policy Rule, Exchange Rate Regime, and Fiscal Policy Cyclicality in a Developing Oil Economy|This paper constructs a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of joint monetary and fiscal policy for a developing oil economy to find an appropriate monetary rule combined with pro-/countercyclical and neutral fiscal stance based on a loss measure. The model captures a set of structural specifics: two monetary instruments–interest rate and foreign exchange interventions, two fiscal instruments–public consumption and public investment, two production sectors–oil and non-oil, and the two types of households–optimizers and rule-of-thumb households. It further includes a Sovereign Wealth Fund, the foreign debt of private sector via collateral constraint, and a world oil price shock. The loss measure is chosen as an equal summation of variances in in ation, output, and real exchange rate to be minimized by Taylor rule’s parameters in a small open economy. The foreign exchange interventions distinguish between managed and exible exchange rate regime. Fiscal policy cyclicality is referred to the oil output response of public consumption and public investment. Impulse response functions to the negative world oil price shock are analyzed at exible and rigid prices.
Q33|One more resource curse: Dutch disease and export concentration|Economists have long discussed the negative effect of Dutch disease episodes on the non-resource tradable sector as a whole, but little has been said on its impact on the composition of the non-resource export sector. This paper fills this gap by exploring to what extent concentration of a country's non-resource export basket is determined by their exports of natural resources. We present a theoretical framework that shows how upward pressure in wages caused by a resource windfall results in higher export concentration. We then document two robust empirical findings consistent with the theory. First, using data on discovery of oil and gas fields and of commodity prices as sources of exogenous variation, we find that countries with larger shares of natural resources in exports have more concentrated non-resource export baskets. Second, we find capital-intensive exports tend to dominate the export basket of countries prone to Dutch disease episodes.
Q33|The evolution of Colombian industry in the context of the energy-mining boom: Symptoms of the dutch disease?|This paper seeks to evaluate and demonstrate the hypothesis of deindustrialization and Dutch Disease (DD) for the case of the Colombian economy by using a Beta regression model. The results of the research indicate that it is not possible to reject the suggestion that the mining and energy boom have potential adverse effects on the manufacturing sector. ***** Este artículo busca evaluar y demostrar la hipótesis de la desindustrialización y la enfermedad holandesa (EH) para el caso de la economía colombiana a través de un modelo de regresión beta. Los resultados de la investigación indican que no es posible rechazar la hipótesis de que los auges mineros y energéticos tienen potenciales efectos adversos en el sector manufacturero.
Q33|Maldición de los recursos naturales y crecimiento económico en el África Subsahariana. Breve ensayo sobre una larga polémica|La maldición de los recursos naturales conforma el marco explicativo básico a partir del cual entender los problemas de crecimiento económico de muchos de los países del África Subsahariana. Teniendo en cuenta las conclusiones que este marco explicativo ofrece, es posible reflexionar sobre los determinantes microeconómicos fundamentales del mismo hasta esbozar uno basado en el carácter cíclico de los precios de los minerales en los mercados internacionales y las características propias del sector minero en el África Subsahariana. Este esquema teórico, de carácter hipotético, permite aportar una dimensión micro a una larga polémica, caracterizada por su enfoque macro, así como especular acerca del futuro del fenómeno en la región.
Q33|Monetary Policy Rule, Exchange Rate Regime, and Fiscal Policy Cyclicality in a Developing Oil Economy|According to Frankel and Catao (2011), a commodity exporting developing economy is advised to target the output price index rather than consumer price index, as the former monetary policy is automatically countercyclical against the volatile terms of trade shock. This paper constructs a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of joint monetary and fiscal policies for a developing oil economy, to find an appropriate monetary rule combined with a pro/counter/acyclical fiscal stance based on a loss measure. The foreign exchange interventions distinguish between a managed and flexible exchange rate regime, while fiscal policy cyclicality depends on the oil output response of public consumption and public investment. The study reveals that the best policy combination is a countercyclical fiscal stance and CPI inflation monetary targeting under a flexible exchange rate regime to stabilize equally the domestic price inflation, aggregate output, and real exchange rate in a small open economy. This result is conditional on weights for those three variables used in the loss measure.
Q33|Petro populism|We aim to explain petro populism — the excessive use of oil revenues to buy political support. To reap the full gains of natural resource income, politicians need to remain in office over time. Hence, even a rent-seeking incumbent who prioritizes his own welfare above that of citizens, will want to provide voters with goods and services if it promotes his probability of remaining in office. While this incentive benefits citizens under the rule of rent-seekers, it adversely motivates benevolent policymakers to short-term overprovision of goods and services. In equilibrium, politicians of all types indulge in excessive resource extraction, while voters reward policies they realize cannot be sustained over time. Moreover, overextraction might even be reinforced as voters become better informed.
Q33|Natural resources, decentralization, and risk sharing: Can resource booms unify nations?|Previous studies imply that a positive regional fiscal shock, such as a resource boom, strengthens the desire for separation. In this paper we present a new and opposite perspective. We construct a model of endogenous fiscal decentralization that builds on two key notions: a trade-off between risk sharing and heterogeneity, and a positive association between resource booms and risk. The model shows that a resource windfall causes the nation to centralize as a mechanism to either share risk and/or prevent local capture, depending on the relative bargaining power of the central and regional governments. We provide cross country empirical evidence for the main hypotheses, finding that resource booms: (i) decrease the level of fiscal decentralization with no U-shaped patterns, (ii) cause the former due to risk sharing incentives primarily when regional governments are relatively strong, and (iii) have no effect on political decentralization.
Q33|Analyzing the efficiency performance of major Australian mining companies using bootstrap data envelopment analysis|We identify the balance of efficiency gains and losses for 33 Australian mining firms over the period 2008–2014 using bootstrap data envelopment analysis (DEA). We ascertain which companies climbed the efficiency ladder and which companies slipped back in efficiency over time. We find that mining companies involved in metal processing or mining services have been more efficient than those involved in exploration and extraction activities. Assuming variable returns to scale (VRS), on average, we find that mining firms could improve their performance between a minimum of 17% in 2010 and a maximum of 34% in 2008, relative to the best practice performers. We find that, overall, most mining companies became more efficient over time, with the top performers generally maintaining a ranking in the top third of companies in terms of efficiency throughout the period.
Q33|The institutional basis of efficiency in resource-rich countries|The “resource curse” is a familiar and recurring theme in development economics. But does resource abundance also lead to resource inefficiency? And if so, what can contribute to better usage of a country’s resources for development? This paper examines 130 countries from 1970 to 2011, both resource-abundant and resource-scarce, and concludes that, on average, resource-abundant countries utilize resources less efficiently. Examining the institutional factors that may explain this disparity in usage, we find that several key institutions are necessary for increasing resource use efficiency, with private property showing the largest economic and statistical significance. By improving basic institutions, resource-rich countries can thus see more environmentally sustainable growth.
Q33|The Elephant In The Ground: Managing Oil And Sovereign Wealth|One of the most important developments in international finance and resource economics in the past twenty years is the rapid and widespread emergence of the $6 trillion sovereign wealth fund industry. Oil exporters typically ignore below-ground assets when allocating these funds, and ignore above-ground assets when extracting oil. We present a unified stylized framework for considering both. Subsoil oil should alter a fund’s portfolio through additional leverage and hedging. First-best spending should be a share of total wealth, and any unhedgeable volatility must be managed by precautionary savings. If oil prices are pro-cyclical, oil should be extracted faster than the Hotelling rule to generate a risk premium on oil wealth. Finally, we discuss how our analysis could improve the management of Norway’s fund in practice.
Q33|Introducing MOZLEAP: An integrated long-run scenario model of the emerging energy sector of Mozambique|Since recently Mozambique is actively developing its large reserves of coal, natural gas and hydropower. Against this background, we present the first integrated long-run scenario model of the Mozambican energy sector. Our model, which we name MOZLEAP, is calibrated on the basis of recently developed local energy statistics, demographic and urbanization trends as well as cross-country based GDP elasticities for biomass consumption, sector structure, vehicle ownership and energy intensity. We develop four scenarios to evaluate the impact of the anticipated surge in natural resources exploration on aggregate trends in energy supply and demand, the energy infrastructure and economic growth in Mozambique. Our analysis shows that until 2030, primary energy production is likely to increase at least six-fold, and probably much more. This is roughly 10 times the expected increase in energy demand; most of the increase in energy production is destined for export. As a result, Mozambique may well become one of the leading global producers of natural gas and coal. We discuss the opportunities and challenges that this resource wealth poses for the country.
Q33|Economics of modern energy boomtowns: Do oil and gas shocks differ from shocks in the rest of the economy?|The US shale boom has intensified interest in how the expanding oil and gas sector affects local economic performance. Research has produced mixed results and has not compared how energy shocks differ from equal-sized shocks elsewhere in the economy. What emerges is that the estimated impacts of energy development vary by region, empirical methodology, as well as the time horizon that is considered. This paper captures these dimensions to present a more complete picture of energy boomtowns. Utilizing US county data, we estimate the effects of changes in oil and gas extraction employment on total employment growth as well as growth by sector. We compare this to the effects of equal-sized shocks in the rest of the economy to assess whether energy booms are inherently different. The analysis is performed separately for nonmetropolitan and metropolitan counties using instrumental variables. We difference over 1-, 3-, 6-, and 10-year time periods to account for county-fixed effects and to assess responses across different time horizons. The results show that in nonmetro counties, energy sector multiplier effects on total county employment first increase up to 6-year horizons and then decline for 10-year horizons. We also observe positive spillovers to the non-traded goods sector, while spillovers are small or negative for traded goods. In metro counties, there are no significant effects on total employment, although positive spillovers are present in some sectors. Yet, equal-sized shocks in the rest of the economy produce more jobs on average than oil and gas shocks, suggesting that policymakers should seek more diversified development.
Q33|Local economic impact of boom and bust in mineral resource extraction in the United States: A spatial econometrics analysis|This paper examines how shocks in the U.S. mineral resource extraction (MRE) industry impact MRE-dependent counties using county level data between 1970- and 2012. A difference-in-difference fixed effects model and a spatial modeling to incorporate spatial heterogeneity and dependence among U.S. local areas that are in close geographical proximity are employed in this study. The results show that MRE industry employment grew faster during boom periods and slower during the bust period in MRE dependent counties. MRE earnings and earnings per worker grew slower during boom periods and faster during the bust period. The findings give evidence of negative spatial indirect spillover effects between neighboring counties’ MRE sector labor markets. An analysis of the effect of shocks in the MRE sector on the non-MRE sectors shows that in MRE dependent counties non-MRE sector employment grew slower during boom periods and faster during the bust period. Positive shocks in the MRE sector had no effect on the manufacturing sector labor market; however, negative shocks had a positively effect. Booms in the MRE sector positively impacted the construction sector, while negatively affecting the service and retail trade sectors’ labor markets in MRE dependent counties. Finally, this study finds that male population grew faster, while female population grew slower in the MRE dependent counties.
Q33|Commodity prices and fiscal policy design: Procyclical despite a rule|Recent studies offer evidence of reduced fiscal procyclicality to commodity price changes in resource‐rich countries—a feature commonly attributed to the adoption of fiscal policy rules. We revisit this issue and find that, by controlling for global activity shocks while allowing for time‐varying changes in both fiscal policy and the volatility of shocks, this finding does not hold. To show this we develop a time‐varying dynamic factor model, allowing for a multiple of shocks, stochastic volatility and time‐varying parameters, and estimate it on data for Norway, whose handling of resource wealth is often cited as exemplary.
Q33|Mining booms and growth in Laos – empirical result from CGE model|Purpose - This study aims to lay out a framework to quantify the impacts of mining booms on the macro-economy in Laos. Design/methodology/approach - A computable general equilibrium (CGE) model is used to investigate the impact of the mining sector on the Laos’ economy by examining this sector’s increase in both stock and the productivity of capital. Findings - It was found that higher capital stock and productivity lead to increased value added, production, exports and investment in the mining sector. These increases result in higher real gross domestic product, exports and investment. Unfortunately, the effects from the associated Dutch disease negatively impact real production and value added in the agriculture and industry. Suitable macroeconomic management and prudent administration of the windfall income from mining are therefore important. Practical implications - The finding is important for policymakers to implement policy to deal with the negative impact of mining booms. Originality/value - It is the first study to attempt to investigate the impact of the mining sector on the Lao economy using the CGE model. Second, we also provide recommendation to cope with the negative impact from mining booms which provide important implications for other developing countries that face the negative impact from mining booms.
Q33|What drives commodity price booms and busts?|What drives commodity price booms and busts? We provide evidence on the dynamic effects of commodity demand shocks, commodity supply shocks, and inventory demand shocks on real commodity prices. In particular, we analyze a new data set of price and production levels for 12 agricultural, metal, and soft commodities from 1870 to 2013. We identify differences in the type of shock driving prices of the various types of commodities and relate these differences to commodity types which reflect differences in long-run elasticities of supply and demand. Our results show that demand shocks strongly dominate supply shocks.
Q33|Asset Ownership, Windfalls, and Income: Evidence from Oil and Gas Royalties|How does local versus absentee ownership of natural resources—and their associated income—shape the relationship between extraction and local income? Theory and empirics on natural resources and the broader economy have focused heavily on labor markets, largely ignoring the economic implications of payments to resource owners. We study how local ownership of oil and gas rights shapes the local income effects of extraction. For the average U.S. county that experienced an increase in oil and gas production from 2000 to 2013, increased royalty income and its associated economic stimulus accounted for more than two-thirds of the total income effect from extraction in 2013. Looking at gross royalty income in particular, which we derive from more than 2.2 million leases across the continental United States, we estimate that each dollar in royalty income led to $0.52 in non-royalty income, largely reflecting greater wage income in the service sector. {{p}} Overall, a U.S. county with complete local ownership of the subsurface captured 29 cents more of each dollar in production than a county with absentee ownership. For a county with the median shale production in 2013, this would translate to an extra $1,098 per capita, or 5.3 percent of total income.
Q33|Alternative Sources of Dutch Disease: A Survey of the Literature|This work reviews the literature on the alternative sources of Dutch Disease. We discuss the so-called Core Model of Dutch Disease, its limitations, extensions and the main contributions to the most recent theoretical and empirical methodologies of the Dutch Disease Economics applied to alternative capital inflows. By analyzing the effects associated with foreign aid, remittances, foreign direct investment and tourism on the real exchange rate and on the manufacturing sector, we set the stage both on the theoretical ground and on empirical evidence for a wider application of Dutch Disease classical approach. While the core model of Dutch Disease makes unambiguously predictions regarding the negative effects of a resource boom on the manufacturing sector, the empirical literature on the alternative sources of the disease that has followed has not clearly identified such effects.
Q33|The Norwegian Oil Bonanza and the Scandinavian Model in Comparative Perspective|Abstract This paper aims at highlighting the effects of large natural resource endowments on the institutions of the so-called Scandinavian or Nordic model, through a comparative quantitative case study. Focusing on two key features of the Scandinavian model, namely (a) low income inequality and (b) high welfare spending, this study presents evidence on the shocks to these features for Norway after the country became one of the world’s largest oil exporters. A synthetic control unit constructed by weighting Nordic countries provides the most reliable comparison unit to estimate the comparative effects constituting the paper’s twofold contribution. First, the resource windfall did not contribute to significantly higher top income shares. Second, resource revenues contributed to finance the steadily increasing gap between Norway and other Nordic countries in the degree of welfare generosity.
Q33|An Econometric Analysis Of Energy Revenue And Government Expenditure Shocks On Economic Growth In Trinidad And Tobago|Energy revenues represent roughly 45 percent of Trinidad and Tobago’s GDP and are highly volatile since it is correlated with the price of oil and gas. Hence, sharp changes in energy prices, whether temporary or sustained, can have important consequences for economic growth and overall macroeconomic performance. After the 2014 crash in oil prices, a key challenge that emerged for policymakers in hydrocarbon exporting countries is how to manage fiscal retrenchment in an environment of subdued growth. Using structural vector autoregression, this article examines three questions related to this challenge by focusing on Trinidad and Tobago: (1) what is the asymmetric effect of energy revenue shocks on macroeconomic performance, (2) what is the asymmetric effect of energy revenue shocks on government expenditure (disaggregated by categories), and (3) what is the effect of government expenditure shocks (disaggregated by categories) on economic growth. The results suggest that although positive energy revenue shock increases growth almost immediately, it is not sustained. A negative energy revenue shock is found to have a greater adverse effect on primary expenditure than a positive shock and this largely occurs through a reduction in capital expenditure. Transfers and subsidies, and goods and services are the most sensitive components of current expenditure to positive energy shocks. With respect to the effect of expenditure on growth, transfers and subsidies significantly reduce growth in the short run, whereas other categories of expenditure are found to have a largely positive effect on growth. From a policy perspective, three important implications are identified. The first is for a detailed assessment of the various components of primary expenditure with the objective of reducing and or reorienting expenditure, particularly the “unproductive” parts such as transfers and subsidies, towards growth-enhancing areas. The extent to which such adjustments adversely affect the household welfare should be part of policy considerations. The second is the need for clear fiscal rules, and for the authorities to balance more effectively the role of fiscal policy as a growth stimulus. Thirdly, the country’s stabilization fund, which was designed to manage windfall energy revenues, should be revisited to make withdrawal and deposit rules more explicit and effective during periods of commodity booms.
Q33|A static CGE model of the Mongolian economy|The Mongolian economy has experienced unprecedented growth rates driven by the booming mining sector. At the same time, it has become increasingly dependent on the mining sector to the extent that movements in the international price of mining commodities could have disturbing effects on the economy. In this research, we examine the short-run effects of the developments occurring in the mining sector on the economy by calibrating a PEP standard static CGE model to a 2010 Mongolian social accounting matrix. In particular, we consider two scenarios: an increase in the stock of capital and land possessed by the coal sector and a drop in the world price of metal ores. In the former scenario, we find that the shock leads to increased value added, production, employment and exports in the coal sector, resulting in higher real GDP, exports and investment. Moreover, we do not find the associated Dutch disease effects on the other sectors. In the second scenario, we find that the effects on the productions, value added, employment, real GDP and investment are all negative while real exports and government expenditure increase slightly.
Q33|Natural Resources and FDI in GCC Countries|Natural resources are a blessing for some countries to attract FDI but cursed for others. Existing literature argues the suggestion that resource-rich countries attract less FDI because of resource (oil) price volatility. This study examines that natural resources discourage FDI in GCC countries (the FDI-Natural resources curse hypothesis), using panel data analysis for six oil dependent countries during 1980-2013 and applying several econometrics techniques. The main findings of this paper is that natural resources measured by oil rents have a negative association with FDI inflows; this negative impact is robust even when other FDI determinates of FDI are included. FDI inflows decreased between 0.15 and 0.92% when oil rents increased by 1%. In addition, the empirical results show that trade openness and labour force are the main factors that encourage FDI, while political instability and corruption deter FDI inflows into GCC countries.
Q33|Resource Funds: Stabilising, Parking, and Inter-generational Transfer|The paper explores strategies for managing revenue from natural resources, focusing on the balance between domestic and foreign asset accumulation. It suggests that domestic asset accumulation is the priority in developing countries, while there are three motives for accumulating foreign assets; inter-generational transfer, temporary ‘parking’ of funds, and stabilisation. The paper argues that the first of these is inappropriate for low income countries. The second is required if it is difficult to absorb extra spending in the domestic economy and takes time to build up domestic investment. The third is important, and depends on the extent to which the economy has other ways of adjusting to shocks.
Q33|The political economy of migration policies in oil-rich Gulf countries|We study the political economy of migration policies in the oil-rich and non-democratic Gulf countries where different economic groups have divergent preferences over the migration policy choices. We consider two policy dimensions: a) the number of migrants allowed into the country and b) whether to discourage remittances by migrants. The inflow of migrant workers leads to a wage decline that harms citizen workers, while capitalists and oil rent earners benefit. When foreign exchange is remitted out of the economy, the real exchange rate depreciates. The remittance outflow benefits oil rent earners, while capitalists and workers lose. The autocratic ruler chooses a migration policy mix and an oil-rent redistribution scheme to maintain critical political support to avoid public rage. Our results explain differences in migration policies and redistribution schemes across Gulf countries. The model also offers predictions regarding the development of migration policies if these countries were to become more democratic.
Q33|The Impact of the Shale Oil Revolution on U.S. Oil and Gasoline Prices|This article examines how the shale oil revolution has shaped the evolution of U.S. crude oil and gasoline prices. It puts the increased production of shale oil into historical perspective, highlights uncertainties about future shale oil production, and cautions against the view that the United States will become the next Saudi Arabia. It then reviews how the ban on U.S. crude oil exports, capacity constraints in refining and transporting crude oil, and the regional fragmentation of the global market for crude oil after 2010 have affected U.S. oil and gasoline prices. In particular, the article discusses the reasons for the persistent wedge between U.S. and global crude oil prices in recent years, explains why domestic oil trading at a discount has not lowered U.S. gasoline prices, and discusses the role of shale oil in causing the 2014 oil price decline. Finally, the article explores the implications of the shale oil revolution for the U.S. economy and explains why increased shale oil production is unlikely to create a boom in oil-intensive U.S. manufacturing industries.
Q33|Resource Discoveries and FDI Bonanzas|This paper examines the effect of giant oil and gas discoveries on foreign direct investment in developing economies using a new project-level dataset. We document a large increase in non-extraction FDI in the 2 years following a giant discovery, an event which is unpredictable due to the uncertain nature of exploration. We find that FDI in ows increase by 73% and that this wave is driven by a 37% increase in the number of FDI projects as well as a 22% increases in source countries and a 17% increase in target sectors. We interpret this FDI response as evidence for the news-driven business-cycle hypothesis within a developing country setting and highlight FDI bonanzas as an important development channel for resource rich economies.
Q33|The Implications of Natural Resource Exports for Nonresource Trade|Foreign exchange windfalls such as those from natural resource revenues change nonresource exports, imports, and the capital account. The paper studies the balance between these responses and shows that the response to &dollar;1 of resource revenue is, for our preferred estimates, to decrease nonresource exports by 74 cents and increase imports by 23 cents, implying a negligible effect on foreign savings. The negative per &dollar;1 impact on exports is larger for manufactures than for other sectors, and particularly large for internationally mobile manufacturing sectors. Although standard Dutch disease analysis points to contraction of the tradable sector as a whole, division into nonresource exports and imports is important if, as suggested by much development literature, a higher share of exports to GDP is associated with faster growth. The large negative impact of resources on these exports points to the difficulty resource-rich economies face in diversifying their exports.
Q33|Broadening Benefits from Natural Resource Extraction: Housing Values and Taxation of Natural Gas Wells as Property| We study the effects of the property tax base shock caused by natural gas drilling in the Barnett Shale in Texas—a state that taxes oil and gas wells as property. Over the boom and bust in drilling, housing appreciation closely followed the oil and gas property tax base, which expanded the total tax base by 23 percent at its height. The expansion led to a decline in property tax rates while maintaining or increasing revenues to schools. Overall, each $1 per student increase in the oil and gas property tax base increased the value of the typical home by $0.15. Some evidence suggests that the cumulative density of wells nearby may lower housing values, indicating that drilling could reduce local welfare without policies to increase local public revenues.
Q33|Thinking about Minimum Wage Increases in Alberta: Theoretically, Empirically, and Regionally|In 2015, Alberta became the first province in Canada to commit to a $15 minimum wage, and will be the first state or province in North America to reach it, rising from an initial rate of $10.20 in 2014 to $15.00 by 2018 through four annual increases. This Commentary offers ways to more broadly think about the effects of these minimum wage increases, with an emphasis on potential changes to employment in the particular case of Alberta. Alberta shares its recent $15 minimum wage goal with the province of Ontario, as well as with the states of California and New York, which also began at similar minimum wage levels. However, Alberta’s time horizon of 2018 is much shorter than that of 2022 for California and New York. Its policy also does not contain the unique policy parameters of those states, and Alberta did not implement the tax credit that it was initially paired with. According to theory, an employment loss is expected from imposing a higher minimum wage in a competitive labor market, although no change or even an employment gain could happen if employers are few. Although, empirically, there is evidence to support both models, it favors a slightly negative effect. That said, the existing Canadian evidence highlights a larger negative effect on employment compared to that of the US. Proper measurement of the effects from Alberta’s policy can take place only after the policy has been fully implemented. In the meantime, several rough calculations for Alberta indicate a potential loss of roughly 25,000 jobs, assuming competitive markets in the industries employing workers at the minimum wage. A similar number of affected workers have already lost their jobs since the policy was first implemented. The boom and bust nature of Alberta’s energy resource economy could potentially mitigate or exacerbate the employment effects of such a large minimum wage increase. While the influence of energy prices on labor demand is largest in energy extraction, these effects have been shown to spill over into other local industries as well. The largest spillovers happen to take place in the industry employing the most low-wage workers. Given the boom and bust nature of the regional economy, Alberta should have timed its minimum wage increases with upward movements in energy prices, and/or followed through with its initial job creation tax credit or some other instrument allowing for greater economic flexibility. Instead, by ignoring economic conditions, the province mistakenly prioritized higher wages during a time when employment was a problem.
Q33|Local Labor Markets And Natural Resources: A Synthesis Of The Literature|A primary way that natural resources affect a locality is through the demand for labor, with greater extraction requiring more workers. Shifts in labor demand can be measured through changes in employment and earnings, the main labor market outcomes, or through changes in the population and income, more generally. These changes may spillover into the nonresource economy, leading to greater overall effects or possibly crowd out; be spread unequally across the population, thereby altering the distribution of income and the poverty rate; or influence educational attainment, as people choose between additional schooling and work. In this review, the literature linking natural resources to local labor markets is synthesized by organizing existing studies according to their resource measurement and the outcomes that they consider. This synthesis provides an accessible guide to a literature that has boomed in recent years. It also identifies promising avenues for future research and lays a foundation to further generalize the evidence through an eventual metaâ€ analysis.
Q33|Crude oil dependence, deindustrialization and economic growth in Nigeria|Crude oil is a commodity of very great value. Its utility in almost all the sectors of 21st century economies is not substitutable as of yet. That is why its demand is relatively inelastic. Crude oil as a natural resource is supposed to stir economic growth and propagate overall development for countries that are lucky enough to be endowed with this commodity. However recent and past empirical research in this area has shown that resource rich countries develop slower than resource poor countries and that resource dependence has a negative relationship with economic growth. One of the mechanism of transmission is through the crowding out of the manufacturing and agricultural sectors through the process of direct and indirect de-industralization. In light of these developments this research primarily aims to capture the relationship between oil dependence the manufacturing sector and economic growth in Nigeria. Utilizing the Autoregressive distributed lag bounds testing cointegration techniques a model was constructed, oil dependence was proxied as the ratio of oil rents to GDP and it was discovered that oil dependence had a significant negative relationship with GDP which is robust to the 2 specified models . Also the manufacturing sector had no significant relationship with GDP in the long run but had a positive significant relationship with GDP in the short run. This gives ample evidence to the existence of the dutch disease in Nigeria. The study recommended the sterilization of oil revenues abroad and the development of Foreign Direct Investment through the fostering of Incentives to multinationals in order to reduce the negative impacts of crude oil instigated capital inflow and oil price shocks in the Nigerian economy.
Q33|Returns to fertiliser use: Does it pay enough? Some new evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa|The low level of modern inputs adoption by African farmers is considered to be a major impediment to food security and poverty reduction in Sub-Saharan Africa. The government of Burkina Faso, following the example of a number of other countries in the region, launched a subsidy programme in 2008 to encourage farmers’ uptake of chemical fertilisers and foster cereal production. This article explores the importance of fertiliser profitability in explaining the relative, apparent low use of chemical fertilisers by farmers in Burkina Faso. Using large-scale plot data, we estimate maize yield response to nitrogen to be 19 kg/ha on average and to vary with soil characteristics. Profitability, which we measure through the calculation of a marginal value cost ratio, is estimated at 1.4 on those plots which received fertilisers, with significant variations across regions. For those plots on which fertilisers were not applied, we predict that fertilisers should have been profitable in most cases under the current level of subsidised fertiliser prices. These findings suggest that the low uptake of chemical fertilisers might have been driven by factors other than profitability, including insufficient supply of subsidised fertilisers to farmers in need. Our results also call for increasing the availability of credit to farmers in order to encourage adoption of chemical fertilisers. Finally, our results also show that not taking into account the endogeneity of nitrogen use in the yield equation may produce biased estimates of the maize yield response to nitrogen.
Q33|Le gaz de schiste peut-il participer à la réduction des émissions de C02 chinoises ?|To reduce CO2 emissions, Chinese government sets a target on the share of gas in its energy consumption. Shale gas can supply around 10% of energy consumption if its cost declines by one third, but it drives up domestic C02 emissions by 5%. A policy aiming at stabilizing coal consumption leads to large development of shale gas as well as a decrease in CO2 emissions of 41%. However, a tax on C02 emissions slows down shale gas development in favor of renewable energy.
Q33|Who Wins In An Energy Boom? Evidence From Wage Rates And Housing|This article presents evidence on the distributional effects of energy extraction by examining the effect of the recent U.S. energy boom on wage rates and housing. The boom increased local wage rates in almost every major occupational category. The increase occurred regardless of whether the occupation experienced a corresponding change in employment, suggesting a tighter labor market that benefited local workers. Wage rates also increased substantially across the entire wage rate distribution, although the percentage increase was slightly higher at the bottom of the distribution than at the top. Local housing values and rental prices both increased, thereby benefiting landowners. For renters, the increase in prices was completely offset by a contemporaneous increase in income. The results suggest that bans on drilling have negative monetary consequences for a large share of local residents. (JEL J23, Q33, R31)
Q33|A természeti erőforrások fenntarthatósága: mi van, ha nincs?| A talaj – mint feltételesen megújuló multifunkcionális természeti erőforrás – képes a fenntarthatóság (fenntartható fejlődés) érdekében elvárt funkcióit hosszú távon is teljesíteni, ha rezilienciájának (természetes megújuló képességének) feltételeit biztosítják. Ezek közül legfontosabbak a következők: • Ésszerű földhasználat: A termőhelyi adottságok és a termeszteni kívánt növények termőhelyi igényeinek eddiginél sokkal jobb összehangolása (racionális művelési ág, vetésszerkezet és agrotechnika). • Talajdegradációs folyamatok megelőzése, mérséklése. • A felhasználásra nem kerülő biomassza minél teljesebb körű visszacsatolása a természetes anyagforgalom körfolyamatába (recycling). • A talaj felszínére jutó víz talajba szivárgásának és talajban történő hasznos tározásának elősegítése, ezáltal a szélsőséges vízháztartási helyzetek (árvíz, belvíz, túlnedvesedés, aszály) kialakulásának megelőzése, kivédése, mérséklése. • Ésszerű növényi tápanyag-ellátási rendszer. • Talajszennyez(őd)és megelőzése, kezelése, „hatástalanítása”. A természeti erőforrásokkal történő fenntartható gazdálkodás alapvető célja a „geológiai alapkőzet–víz–talaj–bióta–növényzet–felszín közeli atmoszféra” kontinu umban végbemenő anyag- és energiaforgalmi folyamatok szabályozása. Ennek elmaradása (meghiúsulása, elhanyagolása, csorbítása, „lealkudása”) esetén azonban a talaj „elfogyása”, multifunkcionalitásának zavarai, termékenységének/termőké¬pességének csökkenése következhetnek be. Ilyenkor derül ki igazán, hogy mi van, ha nincs! Ezért kell biztosítani a fenntarthatóság feltételeit minden szférában, minden döntési szinten, minden szakterületen, minden erővel. Mégpedig prioritást érdemlő össztársadalmi célkitűzésként! ------------------- Soil is a conditionally renewable, multifunctional natural resource. It has a unique property, resilience: if the conditions of its renewal are assured then soil can satisfy – to a certain extent – its functions for a long period. In such situations soil does not disappear and does not lose irreversibly its multifunctionality, including fertility. Consequently, soil does not represent an unavoidable limit for sustainability (sustainable development). The most important conditions of this renewal and the tasks of sustainable agricultural development are as follows: • Rational land use: coordination of the land-site characteristics and the ecological requirements of plants (adequate land use, cropping pattern and agrotechnics). • Control (prevention, reduction and moderation) of various soil degradation processes. • Recycling of non-polluting production wastes. • Helping infiltration and useful (available to pla ts) storage of water into and within the soil, decreasing water losses (surface run-off, evaporation and deep filtration) and simultaneously reducing the risk of extreme hydrological events (fl ood, waterlogging and over-moistening vs. drought). • Rational plant nutrient management (according to the natural conditions and nutrient requirement of crops). • Prevention and control of soil pollution; remediation of polluted sites. The fundamental objective of these activities is the proper (effective and efficient) control of the energy and substance regimes of the “geological strata – water – soil – plant – near surface atmosphere” continuum. This is the main goal of sustainable land/ soil management. In cases of missing, neglecting, under-estimated or not properly executed control measures, soil may “disappear” or be irreversibly damaged, or it can lose, totally or partly, its multifunctionality, fertility or productivity. In such cases we can see: “What happens if they are missing?”! To avoid such painful experiences, all efforts have to be taken to use soil resilience (this unique renewal ability) and ensure the conditions of agricultural sustainability (land use and soil management) at each decision-making level. It must be the priority of the whole of society!
Q33|The Collapse of Some Ancient Societies Due to Unsustainable Mining Development (A Draft)| The literature explaining social collapse mainly focuses on factors such as wars, climate change or disease, as exemplified by numerous examples of collapses which have occurred during the Late Bronze Age in the Near East and in the South-eastern Mediterranean region. This paper aims at demonstrating that collapse can also have economic reasons. Indeed, collapse may be the outcome of an economic growth process which is inherently unsustainable. More precisely, we claim that several ancient societies collapsed because the form of economic development which they relied on eventually proved to be unable to sustain their standard of living. It is believed that the Únĕtice societies – central European Early Bronze Age - were among those that collapsed for that reason. A simple model is presented to demonstrate that, in this agricultural economy, the introduction of bronze mining and metallurgy led to unsustainable development and its subsequent collapse.
Q33|Is education really underfunded in resource-rich economies? Evidence from a panel of U.S. states|Existing development literature has argued that natural-resource endowments ``curse'' economic prosperity by reducing expenditures on education. According to this theory, public and private agents lack sufficient foresight to make optimal economic decisions and become poor as a result. Using a panel of U.S. state-level data, this paper offers evidence to the contrary. Public spending on education in resource-rich states greatly exceeds that in resource-scarce ones, and private education services are imperfectly crowded out as a result. More generally, this paper highlights the importance of exploiting both spatial and temporal variation in resource wealth when studying resource-rich economies.
Q33|Reactions to Shocks and Monetary Policy Regimes: Inflation Targeting Versus Flexible Currency Board in Sub-Saharan Africa|" type=""main""> The paper examines the monetary policy actions through which central banks in sub-Saharan Africa have tried to eliminate the negative impacts of the shocks facing their economies. We compare two different monetary policy regimes: a currency board regime (in the CFA zone) and an inflation targeting policy regime (Ghana and South Africa) when central banks respond to demand, supply, and fiscal shocks. We extend the usual forecasting and policy analysis system models to replicate the economic features of these economies during the period 2002–12 and to evaluate the impact of several policies in response to these shocks. We find that both policies are inappropriate in helping the economies escape from the effects of negative demand shocks, both are essential when negative shocks to primary balance occur, while inflation targeting dominates the currency board regime as a strategy to cope with positive shocks to inflation."
Q33|Recursos naturales y crecimiento económico: el rol moderador de la inversión|En este documento se explican dos causas aditivas al entorpecimiento de los recursos naturales sobre el crecimiento económico al considerar el rol moderador de la inversión como contribución a la literatura existente. El entorpecimiento se presenta dada la interacción individual entre: a) inversión - ahorro interno (ineficiencia de la movilidad interna de capitales), y b) inversión - gasto público, mismas que inhiben el crecimiento. De forma unidireccional, la inversión es el principal determinante sobre el crecimiento económico con evidencia para cinco países de América Latina (incluyendo Bolivia) durante 1982 a 2012 mediante paneles dinámicos (MMG). Los resultados señalan que la renta de los recursos naturales presenta efectos diferenciados sobre la inversión (impacto no significativo), el ahorro interno (efecto positivo después de alcanzar cierto nivel de renta natural a PIB) y sobre el ahorro externo (disminución del déficit en cuenta corriente).
Q33|Los inmigrantes en la capital salitrera de Chile: Un análisis de Redes Socio-Espaciales en la ciudad de Antofagasta, 1880-1930|"Durante la vigencia de la era del nitrato (salitre) principalmente en su etapa de mayor despliegue e influencia, la región de Antofagasta se convirtió en la mayor región exportadora del país y sostenedora principal de los ingresos fiscales, con una inserción completa en los mercados globales de dicha época. En el periodo bajo análisis, la zona había sido recientemente incorporada al país y en su poblamiento recibió variados flujos migratorios extra-continentales y transfronterizos. El trabajo examina la conformación de los barrios y las relaciones surgidas de los espacios de sociabilidad para centrarse en el análisis de 3 tipos específicos de fuerza migratoria: Argentinos, Británicos y Serbo-Croatas (Yugoslavos). Para ello se centra la atención en su localización en la ciudad capital de la región, Antofagasta, con el propósito de describir las propiedades topológicas de las redes socio-espaciales derivadas siguiendo un enfoque tipo FOCI en la configuración de barrios que dieron lugar a la ciudad. Las fuentes de los datos son los prontuarios migratorios individuales de las personas avecindadas en Antofagasta entre 1880-1930, a partir de estos datos individuales se elaboran redes de relaciones de vecindad. La configuración del sistema espacial y la configuración de vecindarios se realizan por medio de análisis estadístico de patrones de puntos, las redes socio-espaciales son examinadas utilizando indicadores convencionales de segregación residencial, tanto en su forma global como por vecindarios ego-centrados. Los resultados permiten caracterizar en forma inédita a los tres grupos migratorios en estudio, evidenciando las estrategias de participación en la vida urbana de la ciudad en el periodo fundacional y económicamente más relevante de la misma. El sistema socio espacial indica altos niveles de mixtura entre los grupos extranjeros en análisis, patrón compatible con la vivencia de una ciudad multi-étnica espacialmente integrada."""
Q33|Spatial Interactions in Tropical Deforestation: An application to the Brazilian Amazon|This paper investigates the mechanisms determining spatial interactions in deforestation, and its transmission channels, using data from Brazil. Our preliminary results confirm the hypothesis that deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon is characterized by complementarity, meaning that deforestation in a particular municipality tends to increase deforestation in its neighbors. We further show that cattle density, tend to be the most important factors determining the nature of spatial interactions between neighboring areas.
Q33|Probable Oil and Gas Reserves and Shareholder Returns: The Impact of Shale Gas|Oil and gas reserves are the most important assets of oil and gas companies. A source of confusion for investors in oil companies is that reserves quantities and values are uncertain estimates. Reserves are typically classified according to probabilities of recovery from underground reservoirs. All U.S. listed companies have to disclose proved reserves but not probable reserves, thus leaving out potentially important information for investors and financial analysts. This study addresses the impact on market valuation of various classifications of reserves amounts. Using a data sample of 94 companies that do disclose information on probable reserves, we compare the relation between three classifications of reserves and oil company returns. While we find that information on probable reserves do not have an impact on stock returns measured over the entire time period, this is not the case since 2009, coinciding with the onset of the shale gas revolution.
Q33|Incidencia de los precios del petróleo en el crecimiento económico y la inversión extranjera directa en Colombia durante el periodo 1990-2010|El efecto macroeconómico derivado de la variación de los precios del petróleo puede llegar a ser representativo y de marcada incidencia. Dicha afectación puede estar influenciada por aspectos propios del mercado del sector de hidrocarburos, los choques de oferta y la dinámica de su demanda denotando así particularidades en el criterio para la fijación de los precios del crudo y su correspondiente volatilidad. Este documento verifica la incidencia que han tenido los precios del petróleo en el crecimiento y en la inversión extranjera directa para Colombia en el periodo comprendido entre 1990 y 2010, a través del uso de un modelo econométrico (VAR) con un (1) rezago sobre las variables consideradas, entregando como resultado que no existe evidencia que los precios del petróleo tengan incidencia sobre el crecimiento de la economía colombiana y sobre la inversión extranjera directa.
Q33|Employment Booms and Busts Stemming from Nonrenewable Resource Extraction|A non-renewable resource extraction model is embedded within a lake model of industry-specific employment, where flows to (from) employment from (to) unemployment depend on the attachment (separation) rate. The attachment and separation rates vary with resource extraction, and the results, driven by the rate of extraction and the remaining resource stock, indicate that changes in the stationary employment level can be positive, negative, or zero. There is a range where the separation rate is decreasing (increasing) and the attachment rate is increasing (decreasing), and the change in employment is determined by the combined effect of these changes. Using data on coal production and employment in the US as a guide, simple calculations provide a range of years beyond 2013 when it is expected that peak employment will be reached in the Marcellus Shale, and the results suggest that employment gains will likely continue for at least a decade.
Q33|Income and employment effects of shale gas extraction windfalls: Evidence from the Marcellus region|New technologies combining hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling in oil and gas extraction are creating a sudden expansion of production. Residents of places where deep underground oil and gas deposits are found want to know about the broader economic, social, and environmental impacts of these activities that generate windfall income for some residents. We first review the literature on windfall spending patterns. Then, using the Marcellus region, the earliest area to be tapped using the new techniques, we estimate county-level employment and income effects. For robustness, we employ two methods. Using a propensity score matching approach we find no effect of fracking on income or employment. A panel-fixed effect regression approach suggests statistically significant employment effects in six out of seven alternative specifications, but significant income effects in only one out of seven specifications. In short, the income spillover effects in the Marcellus region appear to be minimal, meaning there's little incentive at the county level to incur current or potential future costs that may be associated with this activity. We conclude with some ideas on how localities might employ policies that would allow natural gas extraction to move forward, benefitting landowners, while establishing some financial safeguards for the broader community.
Q33|Boom or bust? Mapping out the known unknowns of global shale gas production potential|To assess the global production costs of shale gas, we combine global top-down data with detailed bottom-up information. Studies solely based on top-down approaches do not adequately account for the heterogeneity of shale gas deposits and hence, are unlikely to appropriately capture the extraction costs of shale gas. We design and provide an expedient bottom-up method based on publicly available US data to compute the levelized costs of shale gas extraction. Our results indicate the existence of economically attractive areas but also reveal a dramatic cost increase as lower-quality reservoirs are exploited. At the global level, our best estimate suggests that, at a cost of 6US$/GJ, only 39% of the technically recoverable resources reported in top-down studies should be considered economically recoverable. This estimate increases to about 77% when considering an optimistic recovery of resources but could be lower than 12% when considering pessimistic ones. The current lack of information on the heterogeneity of shale gas deposits as well as on the development of future production technologies leads to significant uncertainties regarding recovery rates and production costs. Much of this uncertainty may be inherent, but for energy-system planning purposes, with or without climate change mitigation policies, it is crucial to recognize the full ranges of recoverable quantities and costs.
Q33|Coal mining, economic development, and the natural resources curse|Coal mining has a long legacy of providing needed jobs in isolated communities but it is also associated with places that suffer from high poverty and weaker long-term economic growth. Yet, the industry has greatly changed in recent decades. Regulations, first on air quality, have altered the geography of coal mining, pushing it west from Appalachia. Likewise, technological change has reduced labor demand and has led to relatively new mining practices, such as invasive mountain-top approaches. Thus, the economic footprint of coal mining has greatly changed in an era when the industry appears to be on the decline. This study investigates whether these changes along with coal’s “boom/bust” cycles have affected economic prosperity in coal country. We separately examine the Appalachian region from the rest of the U.S. due to Appalachia’s unique history and different mining practices. Our study takes a new look at the industry by assessing the winners and losers of coal development around a range of economic indicators and addressing whether the natural resources curse applies to contemporary American coal communities. The results suggest that modern coal mining has rather nuanced effects that differ between Appalachia and the rest of the U.S. We do not find strong evidence of a resources curse, except that coal mining has a consistent inverse association with measures linked to population growth and entrepreneurship, and thereby future economic growth.
Q33|On the relationship between resource funds, governance and institutions: Evidence from quantile regression analysis|This paper uses quantile regression estimation techniques so as to investigate the relationship between resource funds, governance and institutional quality by paying special attention to the distribution of the latter. The estimation results indicate that resource funds are associated with better governance and institutions. The positive correlation is identified for the entire distribution of governance and institutional quality variables indicating that resource-rich countries can benefit from the establishment of resource funds, irrespective of whether they are found at the lower or at the upper end of the ranking of governance and institutional performance. The results offer evidence in support of the view that resource funds are valid tools of insulation against the “resource curse” as manifested through governance and institutional quality deterioration. Resource funds may support policy making and strengthen governance and institutional formations not only in countries with good governance and institutions but also in countries which lag behind in the latter.
Q33|The rise and fall of an industry: Entry in U.S. copper mining, 1835–1986|The principal forces that led to the rise and fall of the U.S. copper industry are explored: cost-lowering technical change, formation of expectations, consolidation of the industry, and depletion of investment opportunities. I find that the introduction of the steam shovel, which enabled open-pit mining, was the most important technological breakthrough. Revisions of expectations of success were statistically significant but economically less important. Contrary to the conventional wisdom, concentration of ownership encouraged entry. Finally, depletion was primarily responsible for the decline in entry in later years. However, the same forces that led to success also contributed to decline.
Q33|Revisiting the role of the resource curse in shaping institutions and growth|This paper examines the effect of natural resource dependence on growth in a cross-country setting during 1970 to 2010, first accounting for the effect of resource export dependence on institutional development. We employ several political and governance indicators, numerous econometric techniques on two separate panels, including one post-cold war. Our findings suggest there is a resource curse adversely effecting growth via institutional deterioration in the longer term (1970-2010), but recently (1995-2012) there is a reversal of this adverse effect on some institutions. Moreover, certain institutions matter more for growth, including governance and constraints on the executive relative to democracy.
Q33|Puzzling Out The First Oil Shock. History, Politics and the Macroeconomy in a Forty-Year Retrospective|The paper aims to understand if the First Oil Shock has produced long-term effects to the international economic system and its fundamentals. Herein a historical perspective will be used as an interpretative tool in order to discern the causes of the events of 1973 and its long-term consequences on the world economy during the four decades following the First Oil Shock. The circumstances and the causes that led to the shock, the events during the conflict, and the changes in the structure of the energy market, play a key role for the analysis and will be investigated according to the historical specificity. In the end, a statistical analysis is developed in order to shed light on the oil price GDP growth conundrum, to discover that for economic growth, volatility matters more than the average price of oil.
Q33|Recursos naturales y crecimiento económico: el efecto moderador de la inversión en América Latina|En este documento se explican dos causas aditivas a la maldición o entorpecimiento de los recursos naturales sobre el crecimiento económico como contribución a la literatura existente. El entorpecimiento se presenta dada la interacción individual entre: a) inversión - ahorro interno (ineficiencia de la movilidad interna de capitales) e b) inversión - gasto público, mismas que inhiben el crecimiento. De forma unidireccional, la inversión es el principal determinante sobre el crecimiento económico con evidencia para cinco países de América Latina (incluyendo Bolivia) durante 1982 a 2012 mediante paneles dinámicos. Los resultados señalan que la renta de los recursos naturales presenta efectos diferenciados en la inversión, ahorro interno y externo.
Q33|Impact de la rente pétrolière sur la demande des pays frontaliers du Cameroun|Ce papier examine l’effet des augmentations de la rente pétrolière dans les pays voisins du Cameroun, sur la demande d’exportations de produits alimentaires en provenance du Cameroun. En utilisant le modèle de gravité de commerce sur données de panel, il ressort que les ressources pétrolières des pays frontaliers au Cameroun sont à l’origine de l’intensification des exportations camerounaises en produits alimentaires vers les pays voisins pétroliers. La sensibilité des exportations aux chocs de revenus pétroliers dans les pays partenaires commerciaux apparait significative, positive et robuste aux différentes spécifications économétriques appropriées aux données bilatérales de commerce. L’avantage comparatif du Cameroun dans la production et l’exportation de produits alimentaires dans la sous-région a été examiné, sur le plan qualitatif, par plusieurs travaux récents. Les analyses récentes concluent par exemple que le Cameroun devrait tirer profit de cette demande en produits vivriers et améliorer sa productivité agricole qui est en dessous de ses potentialités (BAD, 2009 ; OCDE, 2011). En renforçant ses capacités d’offre, la pression exercée sur les prix domestiques du fait de l’excédent de demande en provenance de la sous-région devrait graduellement s’atténuer tout en renforçant les gains directs liés de l’activité commerciale transfrontalière.
Q33|Spatial Interactions in Tropical Deforestation: An application to the Brazilian Amazon|This paper investigates the mechanisms determining spatial interactions in deforestation, and its transmission channels, using data from Brazil. Our preliminary results confirm the hypothesis that deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon is characterized by complementarity, meaning that deforestation in a particular municipality tends to increase deforestation in its neighbors. We further show that cattle density, tend to be the most important factors determining the nature of spatial interactions between neighboring areas.
Q33|Resource Windfalls and Local Government Behaviour: Evidence From a Policy Reform in Indonesia|"We analyze the impact of a natural experiment in Indonesia that allocated certain district governments with a windfall revenue from natural resource production. Our identification is based on a comparison between bordering districts in provinces that received the windfall with those that did not receive it, before and after the fiscal reform in 1999. We study the impact on a range of outcome variables such as regional GDP, infrastructure quality, employment, education, and household consumption. Our results demonstrate a ""flypaper effect"" in the sense that the increased revenue led to higher spending without any lowering of local taxes. We argue that the large relative increases in spending on public services contributed to a very strong increase in local GDP levels, led by the agricultural sector. A 100-dollar windfall further increased literacy by about 2 percent and non-food consumption by 67 USD. The strong general tendency of positive effects from the reform stands in contrast to the negative effects emphasized in the resource curse literature."
Q33|Mining and Local Corruption in Africa|We investigate whether mining affects local corruption in Africa. Several cross‐country analyses report that natural resources have adverse effects on political institutions by increasing corruption, whereas other country‐level studies show no evidence of such “political resource curses.” These studies face well‐known endogeneity and other methodological issues, and employing micro‐level data would allow for drawing stronger inferences. Hence, we connect 92,762 Afrobarometer survey respondents to spatial data on 496 industrial mines. Using a difference‐in‐differences strategy, we find that mining increases bribe payments, and this result is robust to using alternative models. Mines are initially located in less corrupt areas, but mining areas turn more corrupt after mines open. When exploring mechanisms, we find that local economic activity relates differently to corruption in mining and non‐mining areas, suggesting that mining income incentivizes and enables local officials already present to require more bribes.
Q33|Resource revenue management and wealth neutrality|An important idea behind the Norwegian oil fund mechanism and the fiscal spending rule is to protect the non-oil economy from the adverse effects of excessive spending of resource revenues over the Government budget. A critical assumption in this respect is that public sector saving is not being offset by private sector dis-saving, which is at stake with the hypothesis of Ricardian equivalence. Based on a framework of co-integrating saving rates, this model provides an empirical test of the Ricardian equivalence hypothesis on Norwegian time series data. Although the model rejects the strong-form presence of Ricardian equivalence, results indicate that the Norwegian approach does not fully succeed in separating spending of resource revenues from the accrual of the same revenues.
Q33|Reserves Replacement and Oil and Gas Company Shareholder returns|This paper examines how oil and gas companies' reserves growth affects their share price returns. In particular we examine three issues affecting the relation between reserves changes and oil and gas firm returns. First, we examine if investors value reserves replacement as a result of exploration activities differently to reserves growth through acquisitions. In the second analysis we test if reserves replacement of oil reserves impacts stock returns differently than changes in gas reserves do. Third, we examine the impact of the Shale gas revolution and the subsequent oil and gas price divergence on the association between returns and replacement of oil versus gas reserves. The results suggest that investors seem to be indifferent to reserves replacement strategy (exploration or acquisition). However, we find that changes in oil reserves impact oil and gas company returns differently than changes in gas reserves does. Moreover, we find that there has been a structural shift in the relation between returns and changes in gas reserves (but not changes in oil reserves) after 2008, coinciding with the Shale gas revolution and the break in the oil-gas price link. This latter result can be relevant for understanding the impact of the recent fall in oil prices on investor valuation of oil and gas reserves
Q33|Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration Activities: A Triumph of Economics over Politics|For more than 40 years oil and gas companies have been able to choose between two competing methods for accounting for exploration activities. The literature suggests that accounting method discretion can potentially signal managements' private information with the benefit of improving the relevance of accruals for forecasting future cash flows. However, if accounting method flexibility is used for financial window-dressing, accruals can lose their value-relevance and investors will resort to cash flows measures instead. In this study we compare the value-relevance of earnings versus cash flow for oil and gas companies from 1992 to 2013. Our results suggest that earnings are not significant, independent of accounting method choice, consistent with the view that accruals have limited value in the oil and gas industry. Rather, it seems that cash flow measures of both current and future profitability are significantly associated with oil company returns. These findings suggest that the financial markets lack confidence in oil company earnings, irrespective of accounting method choice.
Q33|Who’s a major? A novel approach to peer group selection: Empirical evidence from oil and gas companies| This study presents a novel approach to selecting comparable companies in equity valuation. While valuation multiples is probably the most common valuation method in practice, discounted cash flow and residual income valuation models are advocated by academics. A key aspect in valuation by multiples is peer group selection. In this paper, we examine the usefulness of econometric techniques in peer-group selection for the largest companies in the international oil and gas sector. Using Chow tests, we are able to identify firms with similar relationships between valuation multiples and relevant value drivers. These results of our study suggest that analysts and investors should, when carrying out valuations, be careful in selecting the companies that comprise the peer groups. Comparable company selection could be carried out using econometric techniques that select companies on the basis of similarities in the relation between financial information and market valuation, instead of being based purely on analysts’ subjective judgments.
Q33|The sustainable development in the field of phytosanitary treatments|"Cultivated plants should be protected by specific measures - phytosanitary treatments - due to their reduced ability of self-defense against unfavorable biotic factors (weeds, diseases and pest). The main direction to improve the technologies for the application of phytosanitary treatments is to create clean work processes, while applying punctual sprinkling, as an integral part of the concept of ""Precision agriculture"". Intense use of chemical synthetic substances caused the progressive degradation of the environment and the autoimmunization of pest, which is why recent research focuses on the promotion of clean, selective and biodegradable substances. Precise sprinkling is a way to reduce the use of substance by commanding the nozzles, depending on whether the plant mass is in the range of equipment. Clean phytosanitary substances are of two types: herbal substances and substances derived from biomass. The use of these substances is a key component of organic farming."
Q33|Who Needs a Fracking Education? The Educational Response to Low-Skill Biased Technological Change|We explore the educational response to fracking, a recent technological breakthrough in the oil and gas industry, taking advantage of the timing of its diffusion and spatial variation in shale reserves. We show that fracking has significantly increased relative demand for less-educated male labor and high school dropout rates of male teens, both overall and relative to females. Our estimates imply that, absent fracking, the teen male dropout rate would have been 1 percentage point lower over 2011-15 in the average labor market with shale reserves, implying an elasticity of school enrollment with respect to earnings below historical estimates. Fracking increased earnings more among young men than teenage boys, suggesting that educational decisions respond to improved earnings prospects, not just opportunity costs. Other explanations for our findings, like changes in school quality, migration, or demographics, receive less empirical support.
Q33|Shale Public Finance: Local Government Revenues and Costs Associated with Oil and Gas Development|Oil and gas development associated with shale resources has increased substantially in the United States, with important implications for local governments. These governments tend to experience increased revenue from a variety of sources, such as severance taxes distributed by the state government, local property taxes and sales taxes, direct payments from oil and gas companies, and in-kind contributions from those companies. Local governments also tend to face increased demand for services such as road repairs due to heavy truck traffic and from population growth associated with the oil and gas sector. This paper describes the major oil- and gas related revenues and service demands (i.e., costs) that county and municipal governments have experienced in Arkansas, Colorado, Louisiana, Montana, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Wyoming. Based on extensive interviews with officials in the most heavily affected parts of these states, along with analysis of financial data, it appears that most county and municipal governments have experienced net financial benefits, though some in western North Dakota and eastern Montana appear to have experienced net negative fiscal impacts. Some municipalities in rural Colorado and Wyoming also struggled to manage fiscal impacts during recent oil and gas booms, though these challenges faded as drilling activity slowed.
Q33|Geographic Dispersion of Economic Shocks: Evidence from the Fracking Revolution|We track the geographic and temporal propagation of local economic shocks from new oil and gas production generated by hydrofracturing. Each million dollars of new production produces $80,000 in wage income and $132,000 in royalty and business income within a county. Within 100 miles, one million dollars of new production generates $257,000 in wages and $286,000 in royalty and business income. Roughly two-thirds of the wage income increase persists for two years. Assuming no general equilibrium effects, new extraction increased aggregate US employment by as many as 640,000, and decreased the unemployment rate by 0.43 during the Great Recession.
Q33|A Global Perspective on the Future of Natural Gas: Resources, Trade, and Climate Constraints|Natural gas plays an important role in the global energy system as an input to power generation, heating, and industry. This article identifies key drivers and uncertainties for natural gas markets in the coming decades. These include the availability of natural gas from conventional and unconventional sources, the role of international trade, and the impact of climate policies. We build on model-based research as well as an up-to-date survey of natural gas resource availability. We find that natural gas is an abundant fossil fuel and that the Asia-Pacific region will be most important in future global natural gas markets, especially under stringent international climate change mitigation. This means that an increasingly large share of future natural gas trade flows and infrastructure expansions will be directed to the Asia-Pacific region and that the role of liquefied natural gas will continue to increase globally. (JEL: C61, L71, Q33, Q37, Q54)
Q33|Seven Principles for Managing Resource Wealth|This paper studies how capital-scarce countries should manage volatile resource income. Existing literature recommends that capital-scarce countries invest domestically, but that volatile resource income should be saved in a foreign sovereign wealth fund. I reconcile these by combining a stochastic model of precautionary savings with a deterministic model of a capital-scarce resource exporter. I show that capital-scarce countries should still establish a Volatility Fund, but it should be relatively smaller than in capital-abundant countries. The fund should be built before anticipated windfalls, partially invested domestically, and used as a source of income rather than a buffer against temporary shocks. To do so I develop a parsimonious framework that nests a variety of existing results as special cases, which are presented in seven principles. The first three apply to capital-abundant countries:i) Smooth consumption using a Future Generations Fund; ii) Build a Volatility Fund quickly, then leave it alone; and iii) Invest to stabilise the real exchange rate.The remaining four apply to capital-scarce countries: iv) Finance consumption and investment with oil; v) Use a temporary Parking Fund to improve absorption, vi)Invest part of the Volatility Fund domestically; and vii) Support private investment.
Q33|The Local Economic Impacts of Natural Resource Extraction|Whether it is fair to characterize natural resource wealth as a curse is still debated. Most of the evidence derives from cross-country analyses, providing cases both for and against a potential resource curse. Scholars are increasingly turning to within-country evidence to deepen our understanding of the potential drivers, and outcomes, of resource wealth effects. Moving away from cross-country studies offers new perspectives on the resource curse debate and can help overcome concerns regarding endogeneity. Therefore, scholars are leveraging datasets that provide greater disaggregation of economic responses and exogenous identification of impacts. This article surveys the literature on these studies of local and regional effects of natural resource extraction. We discuss data availability and quality, recent advances in methodological tools, and the main findings of several research areas. These areas include the direct impact of natural resource production on local labor markets and welfare, the effects of government spending channels resulting from mining revenue, and regional spillovers. Finally, we take stock of the state of the literature and provide suggestions for future research.
Q33|The Resource Curse Hypothesis Revisited: Evidence from a Panel VAR|The objective of this paper is to revisit the resource curse hypothesis both within and between countries of different democratic footprint, based on a dynamic model that properly accounts for endogeneity issues. To achieve that, we apply a panel Vector Auto-Regressive (PVAR) approach along with panel impulse response functions to data on oil abundance variables, economic growth and several political institutional variables in 76 countries classified by different income groupings, level of development and oil importing or exporting status, over the period 1980-2012. Our results suggest that controlling for the quality of political institutions is important in rendering the resource course hypothesis significant. Doing so, the resource curse hypothesis is documented mainly for developing economies, net oil-exporters and medium-high income countries. Specifically, when economies from the aforementioned groups are characterised by weak quality of political institutions, then oil abundance is not growth-enhancing.
Q33|Directed Technical Change, Technology Adoption and the Resource Curse Hypothesis|This paper analyses the effect of asymmetry in factor endowments between resourcerich and resource-poor countries on equilibrium bias of technology development and adoption possibilities. First, we show that the bias in equilibrium technology in the resource-poor North is determined by its relative abundance of human capital and physical capital. Secondly, we show that the equilibrium bias in technology in the resource-abundant South is dependent positively (negatively) on the relative abundance (scarcity) of skilled (unskilled) labour and the relative abundance (scarcity) of physical (natural) capital in the North. This force is dampened by the relative scarcity of skilled labour and physical capital in the South. These forces drive wage inequality, high cost of capital and skill technology mismatch in the South, all of which are bad for growth. These effects cumulatively explain part of the observed differences in growth performance between resource-rich and resource-poor countries.
Q33|Unprecedented changes in the terms of trade|The development of Asia exposed commodity-exporting economies to unprecedented changes in their terms of trade. Using a small open economy model we estimate changes in the long-run level and variance of Australia's terms of trade and study the quantitative implications of these changes. An innovation of our analysis is to account in estimation for structural changes in the terms of trade. We find that long-run commodity prices increased by 35% in mid-2003 and that the volatility of shocks to commodity prices doubled soon after. The increase in the level of commodity prices is much smaller than single-equation estimates suggest. This is because our inferences rely on many observables that in general equilibrium also respond to shifts in the long-run level of the terms of trade.
Q33|The Labor Market and School Finance Effects of the Texas Shale Boom on Teacher Quality and Student Achievement|Resource booms can affect student achievement through greater labor demand, where rising wages pull students or teachers out of schools, and through an expanded tax base, where increased school spending alters teacher quality or student productivity. Using shale depth variation across Texas school districts with annual oil and gas price variation, this study finds that resource development slightly decreased student achievement despite providing schools with more money. Vocational and economically disadvantaged students were pulled into the labor market, while teacher turnover and inexperience increased. Schools responded to the tax base expansion by spending more on capital projects but not on teachers.
Q33|Ekonomiczne skutki eksploatacji gazu łupkowego|Celem artykułu jest próba systematyzacji ekonomicznych skutków eksploatacji gazu łupkowego, a także omówienie różnorodnych podejść metodycznych i narzędzi stosowanych w analizach dotyczących tego zagadnienia. Podstawą analizy jest przegląd literatury przedmiotu, dokonywany pod kątem identyfikacji mechanizmów ekonomicznych, które powinny być wzięte pod uwagę w kompleksowej ocenie wpływu wydobycia na gospodarkę. Przegląd wskazuje na dużą różnorodność ujęć tematu, m.in. pod względem metodyki, zasięgu terytorialnego (region, kraj, świat), zakresu rozważanych skutków i horyzontu czasowego. Część autorów skupia się na powiązanym z działalnością inwestycyjną i wydobywczą wzroście produkcji i zatrudnienia. Inni zwracają uwagę na konieczność bardziej wszechstronnej analizy kosztów i korzyści, odwołującej się raczej do kwestii efektywności ekonomicznej niż do wpływu na poprawę koniunktury – z tej perspektywy najważniejszym potencjalnym skutkiem wydobycia gazu łupkowego jest spadek cen energii. Istotne są także – zwłaszcza na poziomie lokalnym – efekty zewnętrzne działalności wydobywczej, związanych z jej potencjalnym negatywnym wpływem na środowisko przyrodnicze i zdrowie. Wycena kosztów zewnętrznych jest jednak w praktyce trudna i obarczona dużą niepewnością. Szacunki wpływu gazu łupkowego na gospodarkę bazują najczęściej na symulacji przy wykorzystaniu wielosektorowego modelu gospodarki, modelu systemu energetycznego lub ich hybrydy. Próby empirycznej oceny ex post skutków eksploatacji podają w wątpliwość założenia niektórych analiz symulacyjnych.
Q33|Capitalist development, innovations, business cycles and unemployment: Joseph Alois Schumpeter and Emil Hans Lederer|Emil Lederer and Joseph Schumpeter became life-long friends in their student days at the University of Vienna. The life and work of both economists took place in three states and four political cultures. After a short biographical information with emphasis on the linkages between Schumpeter and Lederer, section II addresses the influence of B¨ohm-Bawerk’s famous seminar in 1905–06 where both Schumpeter and Lederer first developed a greater interest in Marxian analysis. Next the role of the Archiv für Sozialwissenschaft und Sozialpolitik is covered, which in the years of the Weimar Republic was edited by Lederer with Schumpeter as an associate editor. Among many important papers in the Archiv we find also Kondratieff’s famous article on the long waves in economic life which had a strong impact on Schumpeter’s Business Cycles ( 1939 ). Lederer and Schumpeter both shared the view that capitalist economies normally are in dynamic disequilibrium. Business cycles are seen as an integral part of capitalist development. Emphasis in economic theory should therefore be put on the analysis of the short-run and particularly the long-run dynamics of the economy. In section IV Schumpeter’s analysis of business cycles and capitalist development is compared with Lederer’s analysis. In section V Lederer’s treatment of technological unemployment is analyzed and compared with the analysis of Schumpeter who considered technological unemployment as a special case arising from disturbance by innovations within the economic system. Finally, some reflections are made how far Schumpeter and Lederer were social economists. Copyright Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2015
Q33|Policy-Induced Environmental Technology and Inventive Efforts: Is There a Crowding Out?| Substantial policy effort is devoted to stimulate environmentally friendly technology through regulation and subsidies. Since innovation is a crucial productivity driver, a potential crowding out of inventive efforts in affected firms may increase the cost of regulation. We study the effects of regulation-induced environmental technology on innovation activities for a sample of firms in Germany. We find some evidence for a crowding out of firms' in-house R&D, especially for firms facing financing constraints. Innovation outcomes and investments in innovation-related fixed assets are not affected. Moreover, subsidy-backed environmental technology does not crowd out R&D.
Q33|Mortgage subprimes crisis and its impact on the venezuelan economy|The purpose of this paper is to analyze the impact of 2008 mortgages subprime crisis on the venezuelan economy. The study is presented in two sections: first, we characterized the triggersof the crisis through Minsky’s theory, and the second, is analyzed, using descriptive statistics, its impact on macroeconomic aggregates Venezuela. We conclude that the crisis was transmitted to the Venezuelan economy in two ways: by the commercial channel, especially its impact on energy markets and, to a lesser significant, by the financial channel, through the fall in the foreign investment.
Q33|The Effects of Global Shocks on Small Commodity-Exporting Economies: Lessons from Canada|We propose a structural dynamic factor model of a small commodity-exporting economy, using Canada as a representative case study. Combining large panel data sets of the global and do- mestic economies, sign restrictions are used to identify relevant demand and supply shocks that explain volatility in real commod- ity prices. We quantify their dynamic e ffects on a wide variety of Canadian macro variables. We are able to reproduce all the main stylized features at business-cycle frequencies documented in the literature on this type of economies. These include a Dutch disease eff ect which has proven hard to find in empirical studies.
Q33|Is the Natural Gas Revolution all its Fracked Up to Be for Local Economies?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q33|Unconventional Oil and Gas Development's Impact on State and Local Economies|No abstract is available for this item.
Q33|Technology, Employment, and the Oil-Countries Business Cycle|On the ground of the significance and potential dual-nature of oil price shocks- they may act simultaneously like pure technology and pure expenditure shocks- in the context of the oil-countries-net oil-exporters with a substantial share of oil-income on their total export an/or fiscal-income. The paper questions the validity in such context of Gal s (1999) influential methodology for evaluating- so far, negatively- the empirical merits of it aimed to restore such validity by disentangling oil-price shocks from the rest of shocks. The comparison of the results from the application of both methodologies to Norway, Mexico, Russia, Trinidad&Tobago and Venezuela, besides supporting the dual-nature hypothesis and the necessity of such disentangling, proves the latter to be instrumental to get results consistent with Gal s (1999). Additionally, the paper unveil some startling facts about the effects of oil price shocks in this context remarkably, the prevalence of their technological-nature when oil-income has a higher weight on export than on fiscal-income, and of their expenditure-nature otherwise and shed some light on the influence of institutional reform on such effects.
Q33|Co-movements in commodity prices: a note based on network analysis| This article analyses co-movements in a wide group of commodity prices during the time period 1992–2010. Our methodological approach is based on the correlation matrix and the networks inside. Through this approach we are able to summarize global interaction and interdependence, capturing the existing heterogeneity in the degrees of synchronization between commodity prices. Our results produce two main findings: (a) we do not observe a persistent increase in the degree of co-movement of the commodity prices in our time sample, however from mid-2008 to the end of 2009 co-movements almost doubled when compared with the average correlation; (b) we observe three groups of commodities which have exhibited similar price dynamics (metals, oil and grains, and oilseeds) and which have increased their degree of co-movement during the sampled period.
Q33|Boom or Gloom? Examining the Dutch Disease in Two‐speed Economies|Traditional studies of the Dutch disease do not account for productivity spillovers between the booming resource sector and other domestic sectors. We put forward a simple theory model that allows for such spillovers. We then identify and quantify these spillovers using a Bayesian Dynamic Factor Model (BDFM). The model allows for resource movements and spending effects through a large panel of variables at the sectoral level, while also identifying disturbances to the commodity price, global demand and non-resource activity. Using Australia and Norway as representative cases studies, we find that a booming resource sector has substantial productivity spillovers on non-resource sectors, effects that have not been captured in previous analysis. That withstanding, there is also evidence of two-speed economies, with non-traded industries growing at a faster pace than traded. Furthermore, com- modity prices also stimulate the economy, but primarily if an increase is caused by higher global demand. Commodity price growth unrelated to global activity is less favourable, and for Australia, there is evidence of a Dutch disease effect with crowding out of the tradable sectors. As such, our results show the importance of distinguishing between windfall gains due to volume and price changes when analysing the Dutch disease hypothesis.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q33|Monetary Policy in Oil Exporting Economies|How should monetary policy be constructed when national income depends on oil exports? I set up a general equilibrium model for an oil exporting small open economy to analyze this question. Fundamentals include an oil sector and domestic non-oil firms – some of which are linked to oil markets via supply chains. In the model, the intermediate production network implies transmission of international oil shocks to all domestic industries. The presence of wage and price rigidities at the sector level leads to non-trivial trade-offs between different stabilization tar- gets. I characterize Ramsey-optimal monetary policy in this environment, and use the framework to shed light on i) welfare implications of the supply chain channel, and ii) costs of alternative policy rules. Three results emerge: First, optimal policy puts high weight on nominal wage stability. In contrast, attempts to target impulses from the oil sector can be disastrous for welfare. Second, while oil sector activities contribute to macroeconomic fluctuations, they do not change the nature of optimal policy. Third, operational Taylor rules with high interest rate inertia can approximate the Ramsey equilibrium reasonably well.
Q33|Assessing the Income and Employment Effects of Shale Gas Extraction Windfalls: Evidence from the Marcellus Region|New technologies combining hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling in oil and gas extraction are creating a sudden expansion of production. Residents of places where deep underground oil and gas deposits are found want to know about the broader economic, social, and environmental impacts of these activities that generate windfall income for some residents. We first review the literature on windfall spending patterns. Then, using the Marcellus region, the earliest area to be tapped using the new techniques, we estimate county-level employment and income effects. For robustness, we employ two methods. Using a propensity score matching approach we find no effect of fracking on income or employment. A panel-fixed effects regression approach suggests statistically significant employment effects in six out of seven alternative specifications, but significant income effects in only one out of seven specifications. In short, the income spillover effects in the Marcellus region appear to be minimal, meaning there’s little incentive at the county level to incur current or potential future costs that may be associated with this activity. We conclude with some ideas on how localities might employ policies that would allow natural gas extraction to move forward, benefitting landowners, while establishing some financial safeguards for the broader community.
Q33|Public expenses, credit and natural capital: Substitution or complementarity?|Improving access to capital through credit and public spendings is an important step toward development and poverty alleviation. At the same time, deforestation-related activities, like agricultural expansion, can be seen as relying on natural capital, through the depletion of forest resources and the use of land in an extensive way. It is then important to better understand how a better access to capital influences the use of land as a natural capital. This paper assesses the relationship between financial development, public spendings and deforestation. Are they substitute or complement? Our econometric analysis shows that deforestation is positively correlated to access to credit and public spendings, which gives some evidence that natural capital is a complement to credit and public spendings.
Q33|School attendance and poverty in an oil boom context in Chad|Oil resources have enabled Chad to increase public financing for education and to achieve high economic growth rates. Regarding these policies to supporting the education sector, we assume that the standard of living of households does not explain the school attendance. We test empirically this hypothesis using data from the MICS conducted in 2010 and Education Statistical Yearbooks. Using a bivariate probit model, the results show that school attendance and child labor depend of households’ standard of living after controlling for other relevant characteristics. In particular, a child from a non-poor household has a lower (higher) probability to be involved in the child labor (enrolled in school) compared to a child from a poor household. Although these results are classical in the economic literature, they are rather surprising in the case of Chad regarding the priority given to education by authorities. We identify four possible explanations, (i) the low level of these investments compared to international standards; (ii) the loss of public expenditures, caused by institutional factors; (iii) the misallocation of educational infrastructures and human resources by region and (iv) an inequity sharing of spin-offs of economic growth induced by oil resources. These results raise the issue of the sustainability of the Chadian economy after oil.
Q33|Fracking growth|This paper estimates the effect of the shale oil and gas boom in the United States on local economic outcomes. The main source of exogenous variation to be explored is the location of previously unexplored shale deposits. These have become technologically recoverable through the use of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. I use this to estimate the localised effects from resource extraction. Every oil- and gas sector job creates about 2.17 other jobs. Personal incomes increase by 8% in counties with at least one unconventional oil or gas well. The resource boom translates into an overall increase in employment by between 500,000 - 600,000 jobs. A key observation is that, despite rising labour costs, there is no Dutch disease contraction in the tradable goods sector, while the non-tradable goods sector contracts. I reconcile this finding by providing evidence that the resource boom may give rise to local comparative advantage, through locally lower energy cost. This allows a clean separation of the energy price effect distinct from the local resource extraction effects.
Q33|Short Run Effects of Bleaker Prospects for Oligopolistic Producers of a Non-renewable Resource|In a non-renewable resource market with imperfect competition, both the resource rent and the current market influence large resource owners' optimal supply. New information regarding future market conditions that affect the resource rent will consequently impact current supply. Bleaker demand prospects tend to accelerate resource extraction. We show, however, that it may slow down early extraction by producers with sufficiently large reserves and thus small resource rents. The reason is that the supply from such producers is driven more by current market considerations than concern about resource scarcity. As producers with relatively smaller reserves accelerate their supply in response to bleaker demand prospects, producers with sufficiently large reserves will reduce their current supply. The surge in shale gas production will reduce residual demand facing suppliers to the European gas market. We demonstrate the effects of this in a numerical model. Most gas producers accelerate their supply while Russia reduces its supply slightly and thus loses market shares even before the additional gas enters the market.
Q33|How Should Donors Respond to Resource Windfalls in Poor countries? From Aid to Insurance- Working Paper 372|Natural resources are being discovered in more countries, both rich and poor. Many of the new and aspiring resource exporters are low-income countries that are still receiving substantial levels of foreign aid. Resource discoveries open up enormous opportunities, but also expose producing countries to huge trade and fiscal shocks from volatile commodity markets if their exports are highly concentrated. A large literature on the “resource curse” shows that these are damaging unless countries manage to cushion the effects through countercyclical policy. It also shows that the countries least likely to do so successfully are those with weaker institutions, and these are most likely to remain as clients of the aid system. This paper considers the question of how donors should respond to their clients’ potential windfalls. It discusses several ways in which the focus and nature of foreign aid programs will need to change, including the level of financial assistance. The paper develops some ideas on how a donor like the International Development Association might structure its program of financial transfers to mitigate volatility. The paper outlines ways in which the International Development Association could use hedging instruments to vary disbursements while still working within a framework of country allocations that are not contingent on oil prices. Simulations suggest that the International Development Association could be structured to provide a larger degree of insurance if it is calibrated to hedge against large declines in resource prices. These suggestions are intended to complement other mechanisms, including self-insurance using Sovereign Wealth Funds (where possible) and the facilities of the International Monetary Fund.
Q33|The Optimal Petroleum Fiscal Regime for Ghana: An Analysis of Available Alternatives|Ghana became an oil producing country in December 2010. This development renewed the expectation of the citizenry as to the revenue that will accrue to the state and its direct effect on standard of living. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the Ghanaian upstream petroleum fiscal regime, including state and investor shares, and to compare it with petroleum fiscal regimes of some six other oil producing African countries. The qualitative assessment compared the regime on general taxation and petroleum taxation in particular. The traditional Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method was used in the quantitative assessment of the regimes. Out of the seven regimes used in the quantitative analysis, the Ghanaian regime ranks sixth in terms of government take. It also ranks second with 31 months investor payback period based on post-tax discounted cash flow. Though the Ghanaian fiscal regime appears to be progressive; thin capitalisation, royaltyrate, and cost recovery limits withholding taxes on interest. Therefore tying of additional oil entitlements to profits are recommended in future reviews of the Ghanaian fiscal regime. It appears from the study that the Ghanaian regime is not optimal and the recommendation provided would help improve upon it.
Q33|Depletion of non-renewable resources imported by China|This paper presents a model of resource management for resource exporters to analyse how the persistence of resource intensive growth in China should affect the depletion of non-renewable resources imported by China. We show that the depletion rate equals the difference between the price elasticity of China's resource import demand times the world interest rate and growth in China's resource import demand. Results indicate that: the temporary increase in China's demand associated with stockpiling resources raises the level of resources extracted for export to China, but does not affect the rate at which resources are depleted over time; the growth in China's demand for resource imports and exponential rise in prices during the contemporary resources boom reduces the rate at which resources should be depleted over time; the depletion rate picks up towards the end of the boom as the growth in China's demand is set to slow. Patterns in the depletion rate of iron ore exported to China, 2001–2011 are in line with the theory.
Q33|Do giant oilfield discoveries fuel internal armed conflicts?|We use new data to examine the effects of giant oilfield discoveries around the world since 1946. On average, these discoveries increase per capita oil production and oil exports by up to 50%. But these giant oilfield discoveries also have a dark side: they increase the incidence of internal armed conflict by about 5–8 percentage points. This increased incidence of conflict due to giant oilfield discoveries is especially high for countries that had already experienced armed conflicts or coups in the decade prior to discovery.
Q33|Extending the concept of the resource curse: Natural resources and public spending on health|This paper extends the concept of the resource curse by studying whether and through which transmission channels natural resource wealth affects social spending. Even though the availability of vast natural capital reserves has commonly been linked to the neglect of human development, most of the literature has continued to focus on economic performance. This paper is the first to empirically investigate the link between natural resource wealth and public health expenditures in light of the hypothesis that resource wealth as a source of unearned state income enhances state autonomy and increases volatility, which leads to policies that fail to prioritize human development. Using a large panel dataset of world countries covering the period from 1995 to 2009, we find a robust, significant inverse relationship between natural resource dependence, and even abundance, and public health spending over time. The effect remains significant after controlling for state autonomy, volatility, and other factors. These findings have implications for national authorities as well as the extractive industry. Governments should be made accountable for natural resource wealth and correct taxation could provide additional resources, earmarked for health. The extractive industry could increase their investments in sustainable Corporate Social Responsibility operations, specifically in the health sector.
Q33|Oil demand shocks reconsidered: A cointegrated vector autoregression|We reconsider the conclusions about the importance of oil demand shocks and the unimportance of supply shocks reported by Kilian (2009). We investigate whether the proxy for worldwide real economic activity, dry bulk maritime freight costs, represents anything more than transportation costs by analyzing the relation between these costs and oil prices. The meaning of this variable is critical because transportation costs appear on both sides of the equations estimated by Kilian, directly as dry bulk maritime freight costs and as part of the measure for oil prices. We also investigate the effects of representing oil supply with an aggregate of OPEC and non-OPEC production because they likely use different criteria to chose output. Finally we investigate Kilian's use of the first difference of supply while the other variables in his model are represented as levels. The results suggest that OPEC and nonOPEC nations use different criteria to set output and that reductions (increases) in OPEC production raise (lower) oil prices. The elements of the cointegrating relations, their loadings, and impulse response functions suggest that the positive relation between dry bulk maritime freight costs and oil prices simply represents the effect of higher oil prices on transportation costs. Sensitivity analyses suggest that these differences are caused by including transportation costs in the measure of oil prices, aggregating OPEC and non-OPEC productions, and using a very long lag length to estimate the VAR. Together, these results suggest that conclusions about the importance of demand shocks and the unimportance of supply shocks are not robust to alternative specifications that are consistent with many empirical findings about the world oil market.
Q33|Clean energy industries and rare earth materials: Economic and financial issues|In the last few years, rare earth materials (REM) prices have experienced a strong increase due to geopolitical and sustainability issues. Financial markets could already have factored in concerns about shortages of REM supplies into clean energy companies’ valuations. We use a multifactor market model for the period January 2006 to September 2012 to analyze the impact of REM price trends – specifically dysprosium and neodymium – on six clean energy indices (NYSE–BNEF) tracking the world's most important companies in the clean energy sector. The results show that during period of price increase, there is a negative relationships between REM price changes and the stock market performance of some clean energy indices. The European clean energy index is also negatively affected, and this effect could be relevant to policy makers, considering that Europe is implementing some relevant policy actions to support the development of the clean energy industry.
Q33|Resource boom and inequality: Kazakhstan as a case study|Our research investigates the impact of a major resource boom on income inequality within Kazakhstan's regions using household-level data across the entire income distribution and within the top and bottom halves of the income distribution. In addition, we evaluate the inequality dynamics separately in urban and rural areas. The theoretical foundation shows that a resource boom will decrease income inequality through the labor market if the non-traded sector is relatively intensive in its use of unskilled labor. Government transfers financed by resource income can further reduce inequality. Our regression analysis indicates that resource booms lower inequality when we control for the effect of changing labor income, institutional quality, education levels, and public health care spending. In addition, quality of institutions is an important equalizing factor for the lower income households in urban areas, but not in rural areas. Public health programs decrease overall inequality in the rural areas; however, they do not affect the bottom half of the income distribution.
Q33|Not only a man's world: Women's involvement in artisanal mining in eastern DRC|Artisanal mining is a key source of livelihood in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo, an area mostly known for its chronic instability and violent conflict. Although men make up the majority of the artisanal mining population, mining is also central in the livelihoods of many girls and women. In this paper, we take issue with the fact that the current emphasis on conflict-related sexual violence to women has obscured the role of women in artisanal mining. Furthermore, we criticize the tendency to promote women's departure from the mining sector, which has been presented as the best strategy to protect them against the threats of sexual violence, exploitation and oppression. We argue that, given the lack of viable alternative livelihoods in eastern DRC, policymakers should invest more time, energy and resources in trying to understand and to strengthen women's positions in the mining sector itself.
Q33|Resource blessing, revenue curse? Domestic revenue effort in resource-rich countries|This paper uses a newly constructed revenue dataset of 35 resource-rich countries for the period 1992–2009 to analyze the impact of expanding resource revenues on different types of domestic (non resource) tax revenues. Overall, we find a statistically significant negative relationship between resource revenues and total domestic (non resource) revenues, including for the major tax components. For each additional percentage point of GDP in resource revenues, there is a reduction in domestic (non resource) revenues of about 0.3 percentage points of GDP. We find this primarily occurs through reduced effort on taxes on goods and services—in particular, the VAT—followed by a smaller negative impact on income and trade taxes.
Q33|A decade of natural gas development: The makings of a resource curse?|Many studies find that areas more dependent on natural resources grow more slowly – a relationship known as the resource curse. For counties in the south-central U.S., I find little evidence of an emerging curse from greater natural gas production in the 2000s. Each gas-related mining job created more than one nonmining job, indicating that counties did not become more dependent on mining as measured by employment. Increases in population largely mitigated a rise in earnings per job and crowding out. Furthermore, changes in the adult population by education level reveal that greater production did not lead to a less educated population.
Q33|Optimal Monetary Responses to Oil Discoveries|This paper studies how monetary policy should respond to news about an oil discovery, using a workhorse New Keynesian model. Good news about future production can create a recession today under exchange rate pegs and a simple Taylor rule, as seen in practice. This is explained by forward-looking inflation. Recession is avoided by a Taylor rule that accommodates changes in the natural level of output, which closely approximates optimal policy. Central banks have an incentive to exploit oil revenues by appreciating the terms of trade, creating “Dutch disease” and a deflationary bias which is overcome by committing to future policy.
Q33|Fracking Growth|This paper estimates the effect of the shale oil and gas boom in the United States on local economic outcomes. The main source of exogenous variation to be explored is the location of previously unexplored shale deposits. These have become technologically recoverable through the use of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. I use this to estimate the localised effects from resource extraction. Every oil- and gas sector job creates about 2.17 other jobs. Personal incomes increase by 8% in counties with at least one unconventional oil or gas well. The resource boom translates into an overall increase in employment by between 500,000 - 600,000 jobs. A key observation is that, despite rising labour costs, there is no Dutch disease contraction in the tradable goods sector, while the non-tradable goods sector contracts. I reconcile this finding by providing evidence that the resource boom may give rise to local comparative advantage, through locally lower energy cost. This allows a clean separation of the energy price effect distinct from the local resource extraction effects.
Q33|Strategies and counter-strategies: China in the Andean region of South America|By employing a comparative method that analyzes China’s increasing presence in different Latin America countries, this study explores key features and implications of Beijing’s approach towards this region. Colombia, Ecuador and Peru are used as case studies to evaluate China’s diplomatic rhetoric and the degree to which trade and investment realities live up to the goals proclaimed. Each of the countries examined seeks a more balanced relationship with external actors and recognizes China’s increased presence in the domestic political economy. Beijing seeks to distinguish itself as a soft power and “South-South” partner, and yet its ability to maintain this stance is complicated by the inevitable asymmetry that a rising China implies. The paper argues that China’s economic involvement in terms of trade, aid, loans and investment is indisputably important, but just one opportunity amongst many for these countries to achieve the political and economic goals that they have set for themselves.
Q33|The long run development of Chile and the Natural Resources curse. Linkages, policy and growth, 1850-1950|This chapter analyses the effects of Natural Resources on the Chilean economy in the long run (1850 - 1950). Specifically, the authors focus their attention on the mining cycles (nitrates and copper) and their impact on the mining activity. We also compare it with the evolution of the industry and whole economy, and how this has affected the economic growth of the country. In that sense, the industrial performance in Chile at the end of the 19th century until the Great Depression is still under debate. The optimistic view of Kirsch (1977) forehead the pessimistic view of Lagos (1966) and Palma (1979). The new data and its analyses shows a neutral effect of the Natural Resources in the industrial development.
Q33|Dutch disease and sustainability of the Russian political economy|"The paper aims at investigating the dependency of the Russian economy on natural resources, underlining the causes and the possible consequences of this growth strategy. The analysis tries to evaluate if the Russian manufacturing has contracted the ""Dutch Disease"", that is, if a boom in the oil and gas industry has led to a process of de-industrialization, directly through the resource movement effect and indirectly through the spending effect. In this investigation it will be emphasized the role played by the learning curves as a crucial factor in determining the comparative advantages of a country, and why an excessive reliance on exports of a single product may reduce the welfare of a nation in the long run. The research underlines how the structure of the Russian economy has been built to favor the energy industry instead of the manufacturing one. This strategy has strengthened the comparative advantage that Russia enjoyed in natural resources, so as to reduce the return on investment in the manufacturing sector, which has had to struggle also with the constant appreciation of the exchange rate. This, in the end, has produced the so called de-industrialization process, which has transformed Russia into a service-based economy. The problem resulting from this is that, when a shock happens, the economy is no more able to soften its effects. To absorb the shock, it is necessary a higher government’s expenditure or switching to a higher level of unemployment, producing instability and volatility in the country."
Q33|150 Years Of Boom And Bust: What Drives Mineral Commodity Prices?|My paper is the first to provide long-run evidence on the dynamic effects of supply and demand shocks on mineral commodity prices. I assemble and analyze a new data set of prices and production levels of copper, lead, tin, zinc, and crude oil from 1840 to 2010. Price fluctuations are primarily driven by demand rather than supply shocks. Demand shocks affect the price persistently for up to 15 years, whereas the effect of supply shocks persists for a maximum of 5 years. My paper shows that price surges caused by rapid industrialization are a recurrent phenomenon throughout history. Mineral commodity prices return to their declining or stable trends in the long run.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q33|Public expenses, credit and natural capital: Substitution or complementarity?|Improving access to capital through credit and public spendings is an important step toward development and poverty alleviation. At the same time, deforestation-related activities, like agricultural expansion, can be seen as relying on natural capital, through the depletion of forest resources and the use of land in an extensive way. It is then important to better understand how a better access to capital influences the use of land as a natural capital. This paper assesses the relationship between financial development, public spendings and deforestation. Are they substitute or complement? Our econometric analysis shows that deforestation is positively correlated to access to credit and public spendings, which gives some evidence that natural capital is a complement to credit and public spendings.
Q33|Ressursrikdom og Rikardiansk ekvivalens|No abstract is available for this item.
Q33|Global boom, local impacts: Mining revenues and subnational outcomes in Peru 2007-2011|The relationship between the abundance of natural resources and socio-economic performance has been a main object of study in the economic development field since Adam Smith. Dominated by the verification of the so called curse of natural resource, the mainstream literature on the topic has been mostly on the study of cross sectional data at the national level, with limited empirical use of exogenous differences in the abundance of natural resources at the subnational level. We explore the case of Peru, a mining-rich middle income country where -exploiting a unique data set constructed for this purpose- we are able to assess systematic differences in district-level welfare outcomes between mining and non-mining districts. We find evidence that the condition of being mining-abundant district have a significant impact on the pace of reduction of poverty rates and inequality levels. We also estimate a heterogeneous response to the mining-abundant condition, finding stronger responses in lower-poverty, higher-inequality districts. Finally, we find a trend suggesting incremental positive marginal effects of the level of exposure to mining transfer, as proxy for the degree of abundance of mining activities, on the reduction of poverty and inequality.
Q33|Commodity Price Booms and Breaks: Detection, Magnitude and Implications for Developing Countries|There has been much interest of late regarding the current commodity “super cycle”. However, even sizing the current boom implies knowledge of long-run trends that are notoriously difficult to estimate. This paper uses new techniques to identify breaks in commodity prices and estimate trends and cointegrating relationships and argues that the weight of evidence is against a stable declining commodity terms of trade. The results are used to characterize the current boom and, assuming no new break, how commodity prices would be expected to return to the estimated “equilibrium”. The paper also discusses implications for commodity-dependent developing countries.
Q33|Natural Resources, Institutional Quality, and Economic Growth in China|The resource curse has been mainly studied using cross-country samples. In this paper we analyze a cross-province sample from one country: China. We focus on the interplay between resource abundance, institutional quality, and economic growth, using two different measures of resource abundance (a stock: resource reserves; and a flow: resource revenues), and employing various econometric approaches including varying coefficient models. We find that resource abundance has a positive effect on economic growth at the provincial level in China between 1990 and 2008, an effect that depends nonlinearly on institutional quality (1995 confidence in courts). The ‘West China Development Drive’ policy, initiated in 2000, caused substantial changes, which we investigate through a comparative panel-data analysis. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2014
Q33|The Housing Market Impacts of Shale Gas Development|Using data from Pennsylvania and an array of empirical techniques to control for confounding factors, we recover hedonic estimates of property value impacts from nearby shale gas development that vary with water source, well productivity, and visibility. Results indicate large negative impacts on nearby groundwater-dependent homes, while piped-water-dependent homes exhibit smaller positive impacts, suggesting benefits from lease payments. Results have implications for the debate over regulation of shale gas development. (JEL L71, Q35, Q53, R31)
Q33|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis| This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
Q33|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis|This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
Q33|Crop Insurance and pesticide use in French agriculture: an empirical analysis|This paper investigates the factors affecting the demand for crop–hail insurance and explores the potential relation with pesticide use for a sample of French farmers on the period 1993-2004, for the Meuse department. An econometric model involving two simultaneous equations with mixed censored/continuous dependent variables is estimated. Estimation results show that, in the case of rapeseed, insurance demand is significantly and positively related to pesticide use, but that the magnitude of this interaction is quite small. Insurance demand is positively influenced by the coefficient of variation of yield and the loss ratio, and is negatively influenced by Common Agricultural Policy subsidies and diversification of activity at farm level. These results shed light on the determinants of French farmers’ decisions related to risk management.
Q33|Making the Best of New Energy Resources in the United States|Since around 2007, the country has been enjoying an “energy renaissance” thanks to its abundant stocks of shale oil and gas. The resurgence in oil and gas production is beginning to create discernible economic impacts and has changed the landscape for natural gas prices in the United States, boosting competitiveness. In order to reap the benefits fully, significant investment is needed. Federal and state governments capture some of the resource rents, but there are potential opportunities to increase taxation and use the revenues to support future well-being. Taxing natural resource rents with profit taxes can be less distortionary than other forms of taxation, though only one state uses this form of tax. Production of shale resources, like other forms of resource extraction, poses a number of challenges for the environment. Respecting demands on water resources requires adequate water rights are in place while state and federal regulators need to monitor the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing closely and strengthen regulations as needed. Natural gas is a potential “bridge fuel” towards a lower carbon economy, helping to reduce emissions by leading to a substitution away from coal. Flanking measures are desirable to counter natural gas hindering renewables and low prices stymieing innovation. This Working Paper relates to the 2014 OECD Economic Survey of United States (www.oecd.org/eco/surveys/United States). Capital naturel aux États-Unis Les États-Unis possèdent un riche capital naturel. Depuis 2007 environ, le pays connaît une « renaissance énergétique » grâce à ses abondantes réserves de pétrole et de gaz de schiste. Le nouvel essor de la production pétrolière et gazière commence à avoir des effets économiques perceptibles et a changé la situation des prix de l’énergie aux États-Unis, stimulant la compétitivité. Pour tirer pleinement parti de cette évolution, il faudra des investissements significatifs. Le gouvernement fédéral et les États devraient capter une partie de la rente des ressources naturelles et mettre ces recettes au service de l’amélioration du bien-être futur. Alors que la taxation des rentes de ressources via l’impôt sur les bénéfices peut être moins distorsive que d’autres formes de fiscalité, seul un État y a recours. La production de pétrole et de gaz de schiste s’accompagne d’un certain nombre de défis environnementaux. Pour respecter les demandes d’utilisation des ressources en eau, il faut veiller à l’existence de droits sur l’eau appropriés, et les autorités chargées de la réglementation au niveau fédéral et à celui des États doivent surveiller de près les répercussions environnementales de la fracturation hydraulique et renforcer la réglementation autant que nécessaire. Le gaz naturel peut être une « énergie relais » dans la transition vers une économie sobre en carbone et contribuer à réduire les émissions en entraînant le remplacement du charbon. En l’absence d’une action concertée, il y a toutefois un risque que le marché de l’énergie se reporte de nouveau sur le charbon en cas d’épuisement des réserves de gaz naturel ou de modification des prix relatifs. Des mesures d’accompagnement seraient souhaitables pour éviter que le gaz naturel freine le développement des énergies renouvelables et que la faiblesse des prix paralyse l’innovation. Ce Document de travail se rapporte à l'Étude économique de l'OCDE de États-Unis 2014 (www.oecd.org/eco/etudes/Etats Unis).
Q33|Economic Ideas and Institutional Change: The Case of the Russian Stabilisation Fund|An intense discussion is taking place in International Political Economy on the influence of economic ideas on institutional change. Case studies so far have, however, mainly focused on the Western industrialised countries and research seems to be biased towards cases in which new ideas caused lasting institutional change. The present paper addresses these two shortcomings by analysing the case of the Russian Stabilisation Fund (SF). This case is an example both of the impact of global ideas on a non-Western emerging country and of a ‘near miss’ in the sense that imported neo-liberal ideas failed to assert themselves enduringly. Paradoxically, it can be shown how the neo-liberally based idea of the SF even contributed to the return to Soviet patterns of industrial policy. The main reason for this, we argue, is that the Fund’s implementation was not preceded by economic and political debates. Accordingly, the imported institution of the SF had to be filled with ideational content after its implementation.
Q33|Optimal Monetary Responses to Oil Discoveries|This paper studies how monetary policy should respond to news about an oil discovery, using a workhorse New Keynesian model. Good news about future production can create a recession today under exchange rate pegs and a simple Taylor rule, as seen in practice. This is explained by forward-looking inflation. Recession is avoided by a Taylor rule that accommodates changes in the natural level of output, which closely approximates optimal policy. Central banks have an incentive to exploit oil revenues by appreciating the terms of trade, creating “Dutch disease” and a deflationary bias which is overcome by committing to future policy.
Q33|Spill-Overs of a Resource Boom: Evidence from Zambian Copper Mines|Do local populations bene t from resource booms? How strong are market linkages between the mining sector and the regional economy? This paper exploits exogenous variation in mine-level pro duction volumes generated by the recent copper boom in Zambia to shed light on these questions.Using a novel dataset, I nd robust evidence that an increase in local copper production improves living standards in the surroundings of the mines even for households not directly employed in the mining sector: a 10% increase in constituency-level copper output is associated with a 2% increase in real household expenditure; positive e ects on housing conditions, consumer durable ownership and child health are of similar magnitude. The positive spill-overs extend to the rural hinterland of mining cities, neighboring constituencies, and constituencies on the copper transportation route. Additionally,I identify boom-induced changes in the demand for services and agricultural products as key channels through which the urban and rural populations bene t from the mine expansions. Since the boom failed to generate scal revenues, these e ects can be interpreted as the result of the mines' backward linkages. Taken together, these ndings highlight the welfare potential of local procurement policies in resource rich developing countries.
Q33|A Note on Oil and Gas Production from Shale and Long-Run U.S. Economic Growth|The short-term economic benefits of oil and gas production from shale for the U.S. economy have been widely discussed, but the long-term effects remain unclear. These long-run impacts likely depend upon the degree to which such oil and gas production can impact growth in capital per worker or technological progress throughout the economy. Oil or gas production from shale can lead to economic growth through economy-wide increases in capital per worker directly through investment in the oil and gas extraction sector and along the supply chain. Alternatively, the availability of low cost natural gas in large quantities may lead to replacement or additions to capital stock outside of oil and gas extraction and related industries. Oil and gas production can lead to economy-wide technology gains directly through the application of technologies used in extraction and related activities in other sectors. There is much greater upside and uncertainty, however, surrounding if such production can lead to technological growth in other sectors indirectly. Are there currently important and productive technologies not being used or applied that become plausible because of lower-cost natural gas? Will there be transformative technologies developed for use with lower-cost natural gas that currently do not exist? And might each of these individually lead to other technologies that currently do not exist?
Q33|Regional economic impacts of the shale gas and tight oil boom: A synthetic control analysis|The dramatic increase in oil and gas production from shale formations has led to an intense interest in its impact on local area economies. Exploration, drilling and extraction are associated with direct increases in employment and income in the energy industry, but little is known about the impacts on other parts of local economies. Increased energy sector employment and income can have positive spillover effects through increased purchases of intermediate goods and induced local spending. Negative spillover effects can occur through rising local factor and goods prices and adverse effects on the local area quality of life. Therefore, this paper examines the net economic impacts of oil and gas production from shale formations for key shale oil and gas producing areas in Arkansas, North Dakota and Pennsylvania. The synthetic control method (Abadie and Gardeazabal, 2003; Abadie et al., 2010) is used to establish a baseline projection for the local economies in the absence of increased energy development, allowing for estimation of the net regional economic effects of increased shale oil and gas production.
