Q34|Natural Resource Exports, Foreign Aid and Terrorism|Linkages between foreign aid, terrorism and natural resource (fuel and iron ore) exports are investigated in this study. The focus is on 78 developing countries with data for the period 1984 to 2008. The generalised method of moment is employed as empirical strategy. Three main foreign aid variables are used for the analysis, namely: bilateral aid, multilateral aid and total aid. The corresponding terrorism variables employed are: domestic terrorism, transnational terrorism, unclear terrorism and total terrorism. The following findings are established. First, the criteria informing the validity of specifications corresponding to iron ore exports do not hold. Second, there is evidence of convergence in fuel exports. Third, whereas the unconditional impacts of aid dynamics are not significant, the unconditional impacts of terrorism dynamics are consistently positive on fuel exports. Fourth, the interaction between terrorism and aid dynamics consistently display negative signs, with corresponding modifying aid thresholds within respective ranges. Unexpected signs are elicited and policy implications discussed. Given the unexpected results, an extended analysis is performed in which net effects are computed. These net effects are constitutive of the unconditional effect from terrorism and the conditional impacts from the interaction between foreign aid and terrorism dynamics. Based on the extended analysis, bilateral aid and total aid modulate terrorism dynamics to induce net positive effects on fuel exports while multilateral aid moderates terrorism dynamics to engender negative net effects on fuel exports. The research improves extant knowledge on nexuses between resources, terrorism and foreign aid.
Q34|Can Workfare Programs Moderate Conflict? Evidence from India|Can public interventions persistently reduce conflict? Adverse weather shocks, through their impact on incomes, have been identified as robust drivers of conflict in many contexts. An effective social insurance system moderates the impact of adverse shocks on household incomes, and hence, could attenuate the link between these shocks and conflict. This paper shows that a public employment program in India, by providing an alternative source of income through a guarantee of 100 days of employment at minimum wages, effectively provides insurance. This has an indirect pacifying effect. By weakening the link between productivity shocks and incomes, the program uncouples productivity shocks from conflict, leading persistently lower conflict levels.
Q34|Proceso de paz con las FARC y cultivos de coca en el período 2013-2017|Las negociaciones de paz emprendidas por el Gobierno Nacional y las Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia –Ejército del Pueblo (FARC-EP), coincidieron con un repunte de las hectáreas sembradas con coca en el país. El repunte en el área cultivada puede estar explicado por la acción de grupos armados diferentes a las FARC que buscan controlar las zonas cocaleras abandonadas por las FARC o por los incentivos que generó el acuerdo de paz. El contenido del cuarto punto de los acuerdos hace referencia a la solución del problema de las drogas e incluye programas de sustitución de cultivos con beneficios para las familias que se acojan a dichos programas. Estos beneficios pueden haber operado como un incentivo perverso, estimulando la siembra de coca. A partir de un modelo de diferencias en diferencias para múltiples períodos, de 2012 a 2017, controlando por las políticas estatales de control de oferta, se encontró que en municipios donde las FARC tuvieron presencia continua durante el período de negociación, hubo un aumento de 604 hectáreas en promedio por municipio para el 2016, y 1032 para 2017. En los años 2013, 2014, 2015 no se observan diferencias significativas comparado con el año base 2012.
Q34|End-Of-Conflict Deforestation: Evidence From Colombian’s Peace Agreement|Armed conflict can endanger natural resources through several channels such as direct predation from fighting groups, but it may also help preserve ecosystems by dissuading extractive economic activities through the fear of extortion. The effect of conflict on deforestation is thus an empirical question. This paper studies the effect on forest cover of Colombia’s recent peace negotiation between the central government and the FARC insurgency. Using yearly deforestation data from satellite images and a difference-in-differences identification strategy, we show that areas controlled by FARC prior to the declaration of a permanent ceasefire that ultimately led to a peace agreement experienced a differential increase in deforestation after the start of the ceasefire. The deforestation effect of peace is attenuated in municipalities with higher state capacity, and is exacerbated by land intensive economic activities. Our results highlight the importance of complementing peacemaking milestones with state building efforts to avoid environmental damage.
Q34|Analyse économique des causes des guerres civiles : un état des lieux|Entre 1945 et 2007, 40% des pays du monde ont connu une guerre civile. De nombreux travaux quantitatifs et qualitatifs soulignent les conséquences dramatiques que ces violences génèrent sur les économies et individus concernés. Prenant acte de ces résultats, la recherche en économie s’est attelée à comprendre les déterminants des guerres civiles, dans le but d’éclairer les politiques publiques nationales et internationales susceptibles de juguler l’obstacle majeur au développement socio-économique qu’elles représentent. Cet article propose un état des lieux, non-exhaustif mais illustratif, de la littérature consacrée aux causes économiques des guerres civiles qui, quoique relativement récente, est très riche. En mobilisant des travaux à la fois théoriques et empiriques, nous discutons en particulier de l’impact du revenu individuel et de la pauvreté, du rôle du caractère appropriable des ressources nationales, et de celui de l’accès à ces ressources, déterminé entre autres par les institutions et systèmes de redistribution. Nous concluons en évoquant quelques-unes des pistes de recherche ouvertes et en rappelant l’importance des défis méthodologiques qu’elles appellent à relever._____________________________________________________Around 40% of the world’s countries have been plagued by a civil war between 1945 and 2007. A large amount of quantitative and qualitative research emphasizes the tragic consequences of such violence for the concerned economies and individuals. As civil conflicts represent a major threat to socio-economic development, the economic literature has worked on uncovering their determinants, in order to enlighten which national and international public policies are likely to be risk-mitigating. This article draws an illustrative overview of the relatively recent, but very rich, literature dedicated to the economic causes of civil wars. Relying on both theoretical and empirical works, we notably discuss the roles of individual income and poverty, resources appropriability, access to resources and institutions and redistribution systems. Finally, we underline some of the currently open research routes, and discuss the methodological challenges they raise.
Q34|My neighbourâ€™s war: Spatial dependence of conflict incidence in West Africa|Although recent empirical literature acknowledges that organized violence tends to cluster geographically, the limited use of disaggregated data and of accurate spatial estimation techniques fail in explaining the spatial structure of conflict events. In this paper we analyse conflict incidence in West Africa through the provision of an illustrative case (the Mano River Region) by: (i) performing the analysis with the smallest possible sub-national disaggregated areas; (ii) taking into account the location of valuable resources (lootable diamonds and gold); and (iii) applying the most suitable spatial econometric specifications. Our results show the existence of relevant cross-border spillover effects of conflict events; and confirm that natural valuable resources are strong predictors of organized violence location. Moreover, we demonstrate that events concerning incompatibilities on government and/or territory are more strongly related to diamonds location, whereas events between no-state armed groups are indifferently connected to the location of both valuable resources.
Q34|The Death Spiral of Coal in the USA: Will New U.S. Energy Policy Change the Tide?|The Trump administration has promised to stop the spiraling down of the U.S. coal industry that has been going on for several years. We discuss the origins of the decline of the U.S. coal industry and new policy interventions by the Trump administration. We find that a further decrease of coal consumption in the U.S. electricity sector must be expected because of the old and inefficient U.S. coal-fired generation fleet. By contrast, we adapt the EIA’s overly optimistic view and analyze three potential support schemes to assess whether under such assumptions they can turn the tide for the U.S. coal industry: i) revoking the Clean Power Plan (CPP); ii) facilitating access to the booming Asian market by developing West Coast coal export terminals; and iii) enhanced support for the Carbon Capture, Transport and Storage (CCTS) technology to provide a long-term perspective for domestic coal use while mitigating climate change. We investigate the short-term and long-term effects for U.S. coal production using a comprehensive partial equilibrium model of the world steam coal market, COALMOD-World (Holz et al. 2016). Revoking the CPP will stop the downward trend of steam coal consumption in the U.S., but will not lead to a return of U.S. coal production to the levels of the 2000s with more than 900 Mtpa. Even when assuming a continuously strong global coal demand and expanding U.S. coal export capacities, U.S. coal production will not return to its previous production highs. When global steam coal use, including U.S. consumption, is aligned with the 2°C climate target, U.S. steam coal production drops to around 100 Mtpa by 2030 and below 50 Mtpa by 2050, respectively, even if CCTS is available and exports via the U.S. West Coast are possible.
Q34|Nuclear Power, Democracy, Development, and Nuclear Warheads: Determinants for Introducing Nuclear Power|This paper analyzes the nature of democratic development in a nation on the process of introducing nuclear power over the period 1960 - 2017 for an unbalanced panel of 171 countries. Given the involved political process of introducing nuclear power and its political importance, as well as the current tendency of about 30 countries to “go nuclear”, this question is both of historic and current interest. We apply a multinomial logistic regression approach that relates the likelihood of a country to introduce nuclear power to its level of democratic quality and nuclear warhead possession. The model results suggest that countries with lower levels of democratic development are more likely to introduce nuclear power. Our results moreover indicate that countries which possess at least one nuclear warhead are more likely to continue to use nuclear power instead of not using nuclear power at all. We discuss these results in the context of the public policy debate on nuclear power, yet beyond energy and environmental issues addressing international relations, conflict, and security issues connected to nuclear energy.
Q34|Natural Resource Exports, Foreign Aid and Terrorism|Linkages between foreign aid, terrorism and natural resource (fuel and iron ore) exports are investigated in this study. The focus is on 78 developing countries with data for the period 1984 to 2008. The generalised method of moment is employed as empirical strategy. Three main foreign aid variables are used for the analysis, namely: bilateral aid, multilateral aid and total aid. The corresponding terrorism variables employed are: domestic terrorism, transnational terrorism, unclear terrorism and total terrorism. The following findings are established. First, the criteria informing the validity of specifications corresponding to iron ore exports do not hold. Second, there is evidence of convergence in fuel exports. Third, whereas the unconditional impacts of aid dynamics are not significant, the unconditional impacts of terrorism dynamics are consistently positive on fuel exports. Fourth, the interaction between terrorism and aid dynamics consistently display negative signs, with corresponding modifying aid thresholds within respective ranges. Unexpected signs are elicited and policy implications discussed. Given the unexpected results, an extended analysis is performed in which net effects are computed. These net effects are constitutive of the unconditional effect from terrorism and the conditional impacts from the interaction between foreign aid and terrorism dynamics. Based on the extended analysis, bilateral aid and total aid modulate terrorism dynamics to induce net positive effects on fuel exports while multilateral aid moderates terrorism dynamics to engender negative net effects on fuel exports. The research improves extant knowledge on nexuses between resources, terrorism and foreign aid.
Q34|Hit them in the Wallet! An Analysis of the Indian Demonetization as a Counter-Insurgency Policy|In this paper, we study empirically how a policy targeting the cash-funding system of armed groups affects criminal activities, focusing on the 2016 Indian Banknote Demonetization as a natural experiment. We take advantage of a unique dataset on daily surrenders of the Maoist insurgents in India between 2006 and 2018. In order to measure the exposure of the conflict to the policy in different districts, we use three sources of access to funding for Maoists, namely mineral resources, public works’ contractors and forest products. Our results suggest that there is a positive and significant impact of the demonetization on surrenders of Maoist extremists. We find a lower increase in surrenders where insurgents have higher abilities to raise new cash through mineral resources and public works, while we find a sharper increase in districts that rely on subsistence agriculture. This paper provides evidence that policies that curb illicit cash flows have the desired impact of deterring illegal and violent activities.
Q34|Giant Oil Discoveries and Conflicts|This study investigates the impact of oil discoveries on conflict. We argue that rents from resources are only part of the resource curse story, with discoveries of natural resources being just as prominent. Using a new measure for oil discoveries for a global panel of countries between 1960 and 2012, we find a positive correlation between oil discoveries and conflict, controlling for regional effects and other conflict determinants. Further analysis by type of conflict reveals that the discovery of oil deposits increases intrastate conflict in relation to interstate conflict, more so ethnic violence within countries. These effects are evident within a year of discovering the oil, and are persistent for over ten years after the discovery. The results also indicate that North Africa and Middle East countries are the most affected by oil discoveries in relation to other global regions. We find similar positive effects on conflict with quantity of oil discovered, as well as the expectation of oil discoveries. Interestingly, while institutions have a significant non-linear effect on conflict, they appear to have no significant mitigating effect when interacted with oil discoveries. The implication of this result may allude to countries with natural resources needing more transparent institutions to alleviate the resource curse. Overall, we believe the results from this study will provide some further understanding to the complex nature involving natural resources and incidences of conflict.
Q34|The Impact of Food Prices on Conflict Revisited|Studies that examine the impact of food prices on conflict usually assume that (all) changes in international food prices are exogenous shocks for individual countries or local areas. By isolating strictly exogenous shifts in global food commodity prices, we show that this assumption could seriously distort estimations of the impact on conflict in African regions. Specifically, we show that increases in food prices that are caused by harvest shocks outside Africa raise conflict significantly, whereas a “naive” regression of conflict on international food prices uncovers an inverse relationship. We also find that higher food prices lead to more conflict in regions with more agricultural production. Again, we document that failing to account for exogenous price changes exhibits a considerable bias in the impact. In addition, we show that the conventional approach to evaluate such effects; that is, estimations that include time fixed effects, ignores an important positive baseline effect that is common for all regions.
Q34|Can Workfare Programs Moderate Conﬂict? Evidence from India|Can public interventions persistently reduce conﬂict? Adverse weather shocks, through their impact on incomes, have been identiﬁed as robust drivers of conﬂict in many contexts. An effective social insurance system moderates the impact of adverse shocks on house hold incomes, and hence,could attenuate the link between these shocks and conﬂict. This paper shows that a public employment program in India, by providing an alternative source of income through a guarantee of 100 days of employment at minimum wages, effectively provides insurance. This has an indirect pacifying effect. By weakening the link between productivity shocks and incomes, the program uncouples productivity shocks from conﬂict, leading persistently lower conﬂict levels
Q34|Can foreign aid dampen the threat of terrorism to international trade? Evidence from 78 developing countries|The study investigates whether development assistance can be used to crowd-out the negative effect of terrorism on international trade. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 78 developing countries for the period 1984-2008 and Quantile Regressions. The following main findings are established. First, bilateral aid significantly reduces the negative effect of transnational terrorism on trade in the top quantiles of the trade distribution. Second, multilateral aid also significantly mitigates the negative effect of terrorism dynamics on trade in the top quantiles of the trade distributions. It follows that it is primarily in countries with above median levels of international trade that development assistance can be used as an effective policy tool for dampening the adverse effects of terrorism on trade. Practical implications are discussed.
Q34|Can foreign aid dampen the threat of terrorism to international trade? Evidence from 78 developing countries|The study investigates whether development assistance can be used to crowd-out the negative effect of terrorism on international trade. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 78 developing countries for the period 1984-2008 and Quantile Regressions. The following main findings are established. First, bilateral aid significantly reduces the negative effect of transnational terrorism on trade in the top quantiles of the trade distribution. Second, multilateral aid also significantly mitigates the negative effect of terrorism dynamics on trade in the top quantiles of the trade distributions. It follows that it is primarily in countries with above median levels of international trade that development assistance can be used as an effective policy tool for dampening the adverse effects of terrorism on trade. Practical implications are discussed.
Q34|Cincuenta años de la economía del Cesar: De la agroindustria del algodón a la extracción del Carbón|El Cesar es uno de los cuatro departamentos del Caribe colombiano que se constituyeron en la década de los sesenta del siglo XX. En los cincuenta años transcurridos desde su creación, su economía experimentó cambios estructurales ya que pasó de ser una región primordialmente agropecuaria a ser una economía minera. Este estudio analiza la historia económica cesarence basada en tres etapas de su desarrollo: (i) los primeros 12 años correspondieron a una bonanza económica generada por la agroindustria del algodón, donde tuvo un alto crecimiento económico y alcanzó uno de los mayores ingresos per cápita del país; (ii) luego, entró durante dos décadas en una etapa de estancamiento, por la crisis algodonera que afectó otras actividades como la ganadería y, además, fue un periodo de inseguridad en el campo por las acciones de grupos al margen de la ley; y (iii) en los últimos 17 años la minería de carbón se ha convertido en la actividad que genera el mayor porcentaje de su producto interno bruto y provee regalías que han incrementado las arcas de los presupuestos municipales y departamental. **** ABSTRACT: Cesar was one of the four departments in the Colombian Caribbean region that was constituted 1960s. During the last five decades its economy has faced important structural changes, such as going from an agricultural model to a mining dependent economy. This paper analyzes the economic history of the department based on three stages of its development. The first 12 years corresponded to the boom of the cotton agroindustry, where the main characteristic was a high economic and population growth, with one of the highest per capita income in the country. Then, the department went through a two decade stagnation period mainly caused by the cotton’s production crisis where some other primary sector activities were also affected. On top of that, it was a period of increasing violence due to the terrorist actions from illegal armed groups. The last period of analysis covers the last 17 years where coal mining strengthened and became the activity that generates the highest participation of Cesar’s gross domestic product and provides economic resources for municipal and departmental governments.
Q34|Cincuenta años de la economía del Cesar: De la agroindustria del algodón a la extracción del Carbón|El Cesar es uno de los cuatro departamentos del Caribe colombiano que se constituyeron en la década de los sesenta del siglo XX. En los cincuenta años transcurridos desde su creación, su economía experimentó cambios estructurales ya que pasó de ser una región primordialmente agropecuaria a ser una economía minera. Este estudio analiza la historia económica cesarence basada en tres etapas de su desarrollo: (i) los primeros 12 años correspondieron a una bonanza económica generada por la agroindustria del algodón, donde tuvo un alto crecimiento económico y alcanzó uno de los mayores ingresos per cápita del país; (ii) luego, entró durante dos décadas en una etapa de estancamiento, por la crisis algodonera que afectó otras actividades como la ganadería y, además, fue un periodo de inseguridad en el campo por las acciones de grupos al margen de la ley; y (iii) en los últimos 17 años la minería de carbón se ha convertido en la actividad que genera el mayor porcentaje de su producto interno bruto y provee regalías que han incrementado las arcas de los presupuestos municipales y departamental. **** ABSTRACT: Cesar was one of the four departments in the Colombian Caribbean region that was constituted 1960s. During the last five decades its economy has faced important structural changes, such as going from an agricultural model to a mining dependent economy. This paper analyzes the economic history of the department based on three stages of its development. The first 12 years corresponded to the boom of the cotton agroindustry, where the main characteristic was a high economic and population growth, with one of the highest per capita income in the country. Then, the department went through a two decade stagnation period mainly caused by the cotton’s production crisis where some other primary sector activities were also affected. On top of that, it was a period of increasing violence due to the terrorist actions from illegal armed groups. The last period of analysis covers the last 17 years where coal mining strengthened and became the activity that generates the highest participation of Cesar’s gross domestic product and provides economic resources for municipal and departmental governments. Classification-JEL: N56, Q18, Q34, R11
Q34|The Political Boundaries of Ethnic Divisions|Policymakers in diverse countries face the persistent challenge of managing ethnic divisions. We argue that redrawing subnational political boundaries can fundamentally reshape these divisions. We use a natural policy experiment in Indonesia to show that changes in the political relevance of ethnic divisions have significant effects on conflict in the short- to medium-run. While redistricting along group lines can increase social stability, these gains are undone and even reversed in newly polarized units. Electoral democracy further amplifies these effects given the large returns to initial control of newly created local governments in settings with ethnic favoritism. Overall, our findings show that the ethnic divisions underlying widely-used diversity measures are neither fixed nor exogenous and instead depend on the political boundaries within which groups are organized. These results illustrate the promise and pitfalls of redistricting policy in diverse countries where it is not feasible for each group to have its own administrative unit.
Q34|Global climate change mitigation: Strategic incentives|Central to global agreement on carbon emissions are strategic interactions amongst regions over carbon tax implementation and the benefits to be shared. These are re-examined in this paper, in which benefits from mitigation stem from a meta-analysis that links carbon concentration with region-specific measures of economic welfare. Implementation costs are then drawn from a highly disaggregated model of global economic performance. Multiplayer games are then constructed, the results from which are sensitive to embodied temperature scenarios and discount rates but robustly reveal that the US and China would be net gainers from unilateral implementation in net present value terms. The dominant strategy for all other countries is to free ride. Net gains to the three large economies are bolstered by universal adoption, which could be induced by affordable side payments. Yet the revealed downside is that net gains to all regions are negative for at least two decades, rendering commitment to abatement politically difficult.
Q34|L’analyse économétrique des conflits internes par l’approche causale : les évolutions d’une littérature en expansion|Prévenir les conflits internes nécessite une meilleure compréhension de la manière dont ils se forment et se propagent dans le temps et l’espace. Par rapport aux autres sciences sociales, l’économie n’a que très récemment investi ce champ d’étude. Comme pour rattraper son retard, nous assistons depuis une vingtaine d’années à une effervescence de la recherche économétrique sur le sujet. Quelles conclusions tirer de ces travaux ? Ce document définit le périmètre d’analyse de ce champ d’étude en insistant sur trois mécanismes profonds à l’origine des comportements de prédation : les capacités de l’Etat, la valeur du gain issu de la capture de l’Etat et le coût d’opportunité d’entrer dans un groupe armé auquel les individus font face (i.e. l’arbitrage entre des activités de production ou de prédation). Il dresse également un bilan des contraintes et avancées récentes dans l’analyse causale des conflits internes. Il montre que l’amélioration des méthodes d’inférence causale, des outils économétriques et des méthodes de collecte de données dessine des perspectives de recherche prometteuses sur des sujets tels que le rôle de la cohésion sociale et les conséquences du changement climatique sur le risque de conflit.
Q34|L’analyse économétrique des conflits internes par l’approche causale : les évolutions d’une littérature en expansion|Prévenir les conflits internes nécessite une meilleure compréhension de la manière dont ils se forment et se propagent dans le temps et l’espace. Par rapport aux autres sciences sociales, l’économie n’a que très récemment investi ce champ d’étude. Comme pour rattraper son retard, nous assistons depuis une vingtaine d’années à une effervescence de la recherche économétrique sur le sujet. Quelles conclusions tirer de ces travaux ? Ce document définit le périmètre d’analyse de ce champ d’étude en insistant sur trois mécanismes profonds à l’origine des comportements de prédation : les capacités de l’Etat, la valeur du gain issu de la capture de l’Etat et le coût d’opportunité d’entrer dans un groupe armé auquel les individus font face (i.e. l’arbitrage entre des activités de production ou de prédation). Il dresse également un bilan des contraintes et avancées récentes dans l’analyse causale des conflits internes. Il montre que l’amélioration des méthodes d’inférence causale, des outils économétriques et des méthodes de collecte de données dessine des perspectives de recherche prometteuses sur des sujets tels que le rôle de la cohésion sociale et les conséquences du changement climatique sur le risque de conflit.
Q34|Resources, Conflict, and Economic Development in Africa|Natural resources have driven both growth and conflict in modern Africa. We model the interaction of parties engaged in potential conflict over such resources. The likelihood of conflict depends on both the absolute and relative resource endowments of the parties. Resources fuel conflict by raising the gains from expropriation and by increasing fighting strength. Economic prosperity, as a result, is a function of equilibrium conflict prevalence determined not just by a region's own resources but also by the resources of its neighbors. Using high-resolution spatial data on resources, conflicts, and nighttime illumination across the whole of sub-Saharan Africa, we find evidence confirming each of the model's predictions. Structural estimates of the model reveal that conflict equilibria are more prevalent where institutional quality (measured by, e.g., risk of expropriation, property rights, voice and accountability) is worse.
Q34|Should they stay or should they go? Climate Migrants and Local Conflicts|"There is extensive evidence that higher temperature increases the probability of local conflict. There is also some evidence that emigration represents an important margin of adaptation to climatic change. In this paper we analyse whether migration influences the link between warming and conflicts by either attenuating the effects in countries of origin and/or by spreading them to countries of destination. We find that in countries where emigration propensity, as measured by past diaspora, was higher, increases in temperature had a smaller effects on conflict probability, consistent with emigration functioning as ""escape valve"" for local tensions. We find no evidence that climate-induced migration increased the probability of conflict in receiving countries."
Q34|Are Energy Executives Rewarded For Luck?|In an influential paper, Bertrand and Mullainathan (2001) show that energy executives are rewarded for high oil prices, which they term pay-for-luck. Almost twenty years later, performance-based pay as a portion of executive compensation has nearly doubled; total executive compensation has also nearly doubled; and new disclosure laws and tax rules have changed the regulatory landscape. In this paper, we examine whether their results and their interpretation continue to hold in this changing environment. We find that executive compensation at U.S. oil and gas companies is still closely tied to oil prices, indicating that executives continue to be rewarded for luck despite the increased availability of more sophisticated compensation mechanisms. This finding is robust to including time-varying controls for the firms' scale of operations, and it holds not only for total executive compensation but also for several of the separate individuals components of compensation, including bonuses. Moreover, we show there is less pay-for-luck in better-governed companies, and that pay-for-luck is asymmetric – rising with increasing oil prices more than it falls with decreasing oil prices. These patterns are more consistent with rent extraction by executives than with maximizing shareholder value.
Q34|Oil Price Shocks and Civil Conflict: Evidence from Nigeria|This paper studies the effect of international oil prices on civil conflict in Nigeria. Our analysis uses time variation in global oil prices and cross-sectional variation based on the initial distribution of oil production across Nigerian districts. According to our estimates, an increase in oil price increases the risk of civil conflicts in districts that produce oil by at least 63 percent. Using data on intergovernmental transfers, labor outcomes and firm characteristics, the study tests for popular theoretical mechanisms of the resource curse and shows that positive oil price shocks magnify conflict through rising competition for resource rents and grievance against foreign firms. No evidence is found in favor of mechanisms related to changes in the opportunity cost of engaging in conflict.
Q34| Variegated dependence: The geographically differentiated economic outcomes of resource-based development in Peru, 2001-2015| The economic impacts of resource-based development are distributed unevenly across national space, and not even mining regions experience economic development in the same way. We build on the methodology of Rehner et. al. (2014) to typify resource-based economic development in Peru in the period 2001- 2015 and compare it with the case of mineral-abundant Chile. What we find is a nuanced version of the same dependency-related resource curse phenomenon. With the commodity cycle: (i) export specialization is not the same in all places; (ii) regional growth volatility is much higher in Peru than in Chile; (iii) the Dutch disease does not clearly manifest itself; and therefore (iv) economic dependence within Peru is variegated. At the national level, gold-and-copper-dependent Peru is not as vulnerable as copper-dependent Chile to external shocks. At the subnational level, outside Lima in particular, dependence-related volatility can be very high for clusters of regions. The results of the quantitative analysis are attuned to a theoretical framework of variegated dependence, which, while acknowledging the centrality of the center-and-periphery supranational structure for economic development, attributes variation in resource curse phenomena to subnational differences across space and over time in economic- geography configurations and institutional regimes. JEL Classification-JEL: F43 , O11 , O18 , Q33 , Q34 , Q37 , R58
Q34|The cost of mismanagement of gold production in Sudan|To assess the size of gold smuggling in Sudan we estimated scale inefficiency of operating mines in the country using primary data survey covering about 18 artisanal mines in the country during the year 2016. The output variable represent gold production of each state and the inputs represent the water mills, and the number of mines (wells) in each state. The findings in the paper indicate about 34% of the artisanal gold production in the country is smuggled. The distribution of the gold smuggling among the states reveal that the states with bigger share of smuggling are those states with internal armed conflicts (South Kordofan and Darfour states) or states bordering loosely controlled borders (Northern and Red see states). This result coincides with our view that weakness in regulatory framework of natural resource management is a major driver of gold smuggling in the country. The regulatory restriction that only gold council members and jewelry traders locating in the capital city of the country are the sole buyers of gold from all miners in the country could be the main cause of smuggling. This requires lifting or easing the exclusive right given to the gold council members and a few jewelry traders in the capital city Khartoum the monopsony power of buying gold from all artisanal miners. Also required to adopt more stringent monitoring regulations on gold exports by jewelry traders.
Q34|Natural Resource Governance: Does Social Media Matter?|In this paper we study the relationship between communication and ”transparency of information” and governance by exploring the link between social media and natural resource governance. Using a cross-country analysis, we document a robust and statistically significant positive relationship between Facebook penetration (a proxy for social media) and natural resource governance. It follows that countries with higher facebook penetration levels enjoy natural resource governance of better quality than countries with low levels of facebook penetration. The positive effect of facebook is robust to controlling for other determinants of institutional quality, additional controls, outliers, inter alia.
Q34|Can foreign aid dampen the threat of terrorism to international trade? Evidence from 78 developing countries|The study investigates whether development assistance can be used to crowd-out the negative effect of terrorism on international trade. The empirical evidence is based on a panel of 78 developing countries for the period 1984-2008 and Quantile Regressions. The following main findings are established. First, bilateral aid significantly reduces the negative effect of transnational terrorism on trade in the top quantiles of the trade distribution. Second, multilateral aid also significantly mitigates the negative effect of terrorism dynamics on trade in the top quantiles of the trade distributions. It follows that it is primarily in countries with above median levels of international trade that development assistance can be used as an effective policy tool for dampening the adverse effects of terrorism on trade. Practical implications are discussed.
Q34|Political Economy of Oil Resources Management in Nigeria: Lessons from Other Countries|The study focuses on the political economy of oil resources management in Nigeria with the sole purpose of showcasing how far the country has gone in effectively managing its crude oil proceeds. It presents a brief history of the excess crude account as well as the sovereign wealth fund in Nigeria and then presents the models of excess oil resource management of some other countries. This is to enable Nigeria to draw some lessons and then take steps that guarantee the sustenance of growth and development.
Q34|A New Resource Curse: How Externalities and Governance Shape Social Conflict|Natural resource extraction is increasingly important in many developing countries, but harmful externalities threaten the viability of the sector. This paper articulates and finds evidence for a new â€˜resource curse,â€™ whereby negative side effects from resource extraction increase social conflict in nearby communities. Using micro-level data on extractive commodities, water pollution, childrenâ€™s and livestock health, local government quality and mining-related social conflict in Peru, this study shows that rising international prices increase conflict, pollution and negative health effects, but not public spending in mining areas. These effects disappear when local government is high quality, indicating that good governance can temper the effects of this new resource curse.
Q34|Economic-financial impact of peak oil on the five largest oil and gas companies|The main objective of this document is to know the impact that the peak oil phenomenon has on the financial costs of the five most important oil and gas companies in the 2011-2015 period. We will analyze the economic-financial behavior of the multinationals through the financial statements in the framework of the peak of oil. The peak of oil can affect the most important financial statements (for example, investment risk, leverage) used by investors and shareholders. The methodology consists of two steps: (1) create a knowledge base based on information from the financial statements of the five major companies and (2) investigate whether the peak of oil has an economic-financial impact on the key financial ratios. All three methods contain that they are carried out in vertical analysis, horizontal analysis and financial ratios. These three methods are part of the analysis of the financial statements. The results suggest that the drop-in oil production affects investment decisions in new oil projects, dividend payment policy and stock purchases. Additionally, we study the evolution of oil prices in relation to the parts of the financial statements of the companies studied. Although oil prices were at important levels, nevertheless, companies had a decrease in net income due to the phenomenon of peak oil production. Investments in oil projects have been profitable, managers have been influenced by the peak of oil. The phenomenon of peak oil is something that has to do with the account of the investment policies of companies. The duration of the oil peak and the fluctuation of the price of oil is verified by the recipients of future investment in oil and gas.
Q34|Water Security in Central Asia and the Caucasus – A Key to Peace and Sustainable Development|The dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the emergence of new states in Central Asia and the Caucasus created new political and security dynamics in these sub-regions. While the Caucasus was affected by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the threat of conflict over shared water resources continued to exist in Central Asia. More than twenty years later, the protracted conflict in the Caucasus over Nagorno-Karabakh remains unresolved and effectively overshadows water-related problems; yet water is both a very important factor in the conflict, as well as potentially one of the keys for its resolution. In Central Asia the pessimistic scenarios did not unfold; however, the region remains a ‘classic example’ of water-related conflicts in most literature. This paper aims at understanding the root causes of water conflict in Central Asia, and the role of water in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict in the Caucasus. It attempts to shed light at the complex nature of water security, and its importance in the states’ security and sustainable development. The paper suggests that given a cross-cutting nature of water resources, there should be a more holistic approach to understanding the drivers of water conflict in both sub-regions, and to finding the ways for its resolution. A number of recommendations have been provided that may be utilized for addressing the complexity of water conflicts and to help in establishing a mutually beneficial cooperation between states.
Q34|Fuel Exports, Aid and Terrorism|This study employs interactive quantile regressions to assess the conditional role of foreign aid in reducing the potentially negative effect of terrorism on fuel exports in 78 developing countries for the period 1984-2008. Bilateral and multilateral aid indicators are used whereas terrorism includes: domestic, transnational, unclear and total terrorism dynamics. Interactive quantile regressions are used. The following findings are established. First, the effects of terrorism are both positive and negative across quantiles and specifications, with the impact most apparent in the highest and lowest quantiles. Second, while bilateral aid consistently decreases (increases) fuel exports at the top (bottom) quantiles, multilateral aid regularly decreases fuel exports in the top quantiles. Third, for negative thresholds in the 50th quartile and 90th decile, interaction effects between bilateral aid and terrorism dynamics are overwhelmingly not significant. Conversely, for transnational terrorism, the interaction effects between multilateral aid and terrorism dynamics significantly have negative thresholds. The hypothesis of a positive threshold is only confirmed for transnational terrorism and multilateral aid at the 90th decile. Justifications for unexpected signs and implications for fuel export policy and the management of multinational companies are discussed. This study contributes to the literature on the role of external flows in reducing the negative externalities of terrorism on development outcomes.
Q34|Fuel Exports, Aid and Terrorism|This study employs interactive quantile regressions to assess the conditional role of foreign aid in reducing the potentially negative effect of terrorism on fuel exports in 78 developing countries for the period 1984-2008. Bilateral and multilateral aid indicators are used whereas terrorism includes: domestic, transnational, unclear and total terrorism dynamics. Interactive quantile regressions are used. The following findings are established. First, the effects of terrorism are both positive and negative across quantiles and specifications, with the impact most apparent in the highest and lowest quantiles. Second, while bilateral aid consistently decreases (increases) fuel exports at the top (bottom) quantiles, multilateral aid regularly decreases fuel exports in the top quantiles. Third, for negative thresholds in the 50th quartile and 90th decile, interaction effects between bilateral aid and terrorism dynamics are overwhelmingly not significant. Conversely, for transnational terrorism, the interaction effects between multilateral aid and terrorism dynamics significantly have negative thresholds. The hypothesis of a positive threshold is only confirmed for transnational terrorism and multilateral aid at the 90th decile. Justifications for unexpected signs and implications for fuel export policy and the management of multinational companies are discussed. This study contributes to the literature on the role of external flows in reducing the negative externalities of terrorism on development outcomes.
Q34|The Determinants of Social Conflicts in Mining Production Areas|This paper evaluates the determinants of social conflicts in areas with mining production in Peru, using information at the district level of each social conflict and mining company between 2008 and 2015. We find that both socio-demographic and economic factors, which have not been used in the previous literature and which are distinctive to each district and mining company, impact significantly on the probability for a socio-environmental conflict to occur. Unlike previous works, we find that an increase in the international price of major minerals extracted in each mine does not have a significant effect in the probability of occurrence of social conflict in areas with mining production.
Q34|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)|We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to finance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls increase both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q34|The Geography of Natural Resources, Ethnic Inequality and Development|We study whether the spatial distribution of natural resources across different ethnic groups within countries impede spatial inequality, national economic performance, and the incidence of armed conflict. By providing a theoretical rent-seeking model and analysing a set of geocoded data for mines, night-time light emissions, local populations and ethnic homelands, we show that the distribution of resources is a major driving factor of ethnic income inequality and, thus, induces rent-seeking behaviour. Consequently, we extend the perspective of the resource curse to explain cross-country differences in economic performance and the onset of civil conflicts. We show that the inequality in the spatial distribution of resource endowments within countries drives the curse of natural resources, not the resources per se.
Q34|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)|We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to fi-nance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls increase both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q34|The Political Economy of Opposition Groups: Peace, Terrorism, or Civil Conflict|This paper proposes a simple framework to better understand an opposition group’s choice between peace, terrorism, and open civil conflict against the government. Our model implies that terrorism emerges if constraints on the ruling executive group are intermediate and rents are sizeable, whereas conflict looms under poor executive constraints. Analyzing annual data for up to 158 countries in a panel setting provides evidence consistent with these hypotheses. The results emerge both when considering the incidence and onset of terrorism and conflict. The corresponding magnitudes are economically sizeable. Overall, these findings can help us understand and anticipate the choices of opposition groups.
Q34|War and Conflict in Economics: Theories, Applications, and Recent Trends|We review the main economic models of war and conflict. These models vary in details, but their implications are qualitatively consistent, highlighting key commonalities across a variety of conflict settings. Recent empirical literature, employing both laboratory and field data, in many cases confirms the basic implications of conflict theory. However, this literature also presents important challenges to the way economists traditionally model conflict. We finish our review by suggesting ways to address these challenges.
Q34|Mismo recurso, diferentes conflictos: Un análisis de la relación entre oro, conflicto y criminalidad en seis departamentos colombianos|La adopción de una nueva política minera en 2001 junto con el drástico incremento de los precios internacionales de oro desde ese mismo año ha motivado la expansión de la minería aurífera (formal e informal) en Colombia. Desde entonces, tanto en regiones mineras tradicionales como nuevas regiones auríferas, diversidad de actores estatales y no estatales (operadores mineros de distintas escalas, nacionalidades y grados de formalidad, comunidades y autoridades locales y regionales, organizaciones ambientales, representantes del sector agrícola) han estado envueltos en tensiones y conflictos en torno al manejo del recurso aurífero (cómo extraerlo, captar sus rentas y evitar y manejar sus externalidades). Además, actores armados no estatales han encontrado en la minería de oro una fuente rentable de ingresos para complementar o incluso sustituir fuentes tradicionales de ingresos (secuestro y producción y tráfico de narcóticos). Bajo este panorama nacional en el que la minería de oro se entrelaza con el conflicto (violento y no violento), una mirada al nivel sub-nacional expone dinámicas particulares en las cuales la producción de oro se puede encontrar tanto aislada como vinculada al conflicto a través de diferentes canales o mecanismos. Es pues el propósito de este capítulo estudiar esas dinámicas sub-nacionales. Para ello se comparan las trayectorias de seis regiones auríferas en Colombia teniendo en cuenta tanto las características particulares del proceso de producción y comercialización como las características del contexto institucional (reglas en uso), político (dinámicas sub-nacionales del conflicto armado), sociocultural (características de los actores involucrados) y biofísico (las características físicas del recurso minero). Esta comparación permite identificar un conjunto de posibles factores que configuran patrones sub-nacionales de la relación entre minería de oro y conflicto. A partir de este análisis, el capítulo ofrece pistas para orientar el diseño e implementación de políticas y estrategias orientadas tanto desvincular el oro del conflicto, así como a integrarlo en arreglos institucionales que promuevan decisiones responsables y cooperativas en su manejo.
Q34|Winter is Coming: The Long-Run Effects of Climate Change on Conflict, 1400-1900|This paper investigates the long-run effects of climate change on conflict by examining cooling from 1400-1900 CE, a period that includes most of the Little Ice Age. We construct a geo-referenced and digitized database of conflicts in Europe, North Africa, and the Near East from 1400-1900, which we merge with historical temperature data. We first show that during this time, cooling is associated with increased conflict. Then, turning to the dynamics of cooling, we allow the effects of cooling over a fifty-year period to depend on the extent of cooling during the preceding fifty-year period. We find that the effect of cooling on conflict is significantly larger if the same location experienced cooling during the preceding period. We interpret this as evidence that the adverse effect of climate change intensifies with its duration.
Q34|Fertile Ground for Conflict|We investigate how variations in soil fertility affect civil conflicts. We first present a model with heterogeneous land in which variations in input prices (fertilizers) affect appropriable rents and the opportunity costs of fighting. The theory predicts that spikes in input prices increase the likelihood of conflicts through their effect on income and inequality, and that this effect is magnified when soil fertility is naturally more heterogenous. We test these predictions using data on conflict events covering all Sub-Saharan African countries at a spatial resolution of 0.5 x 0.5 degree latitude and longitude over the 1997-2013 period. We combine information on soil characteristics and worldwide variations in fertilizer prices to identify local exogenous changes in input costs. As predicted, variations in soil productivity triggered by variations in fertilizer prices are positively associated with conflicts, especially in cells where land endowments are more heterogeneous. In addition, we find that the distribution of land fertility both within and across ethnic groups affects violence, and that the effect of between-group heterogeneity in soil quality is magnified in densely populated areas. Overall, our findings imply that inequality in access to fertile areas - an issue largely neglected in the literature dealing with the roots of Sub-Saharan African civil wars - constitutes a serious threat to peace at the local-level.
Q34|"Silver, Murder, and Institutions: Did the ""Curse of Resources"" impact on Homicide Rates? Global evidence since 1890"|Does mining increase interpersonal violence? While the impact of natural resources on civil war and interstate conflict is well examined, its link to a second form of violence -namely the everyday, interpersonal form- is less explored. We assess the effect of silver mining on homicide rates, choosing silver because it was an important mining product for many countries over a substantial time span. We use a newly collected, global sample of countries for more than 100 years from 1890 to 1990 and find that high silver production leads to heightened violence. The effect is particularly pronounced in the interaction with autocratic governance systems. To rule out endogeneity, we use silver prices and silver deposit sites per area as instrumental variables. The takeaway message is that economies majorly dependent on mining resources are not only prone to get involved in violent conflict, but are also at risk to have a higher day-to-day violence level.
Q34|The Long-run Effects of Agricultural Productivity on Conflict, 1400-1900|This paper provides evidence of the long-run effects of a permanent increase in agricultural productivity on conflict. We construct a newly digitized and geo-referenced dataset of battles in Europe, the Near East and North Africa covering the period between 1400 and 1900 CE. For variation in permanent improvements in agricultural productivity, we exploit the introduction of potatoes from the Americas to the Old World after the Columbian Exchange. We find that the introduction of potatoes permanently reduced conflict for roughly two centuries. The results are driven by a reduction in civil conflicts.
Q34|Discovery of natural resources: A class of general equilibrium models|When is the discovery of natural resources a curse for a country's industrialization and when is it a blessing? A large literature on economic development has collected evidence on both directions. This paper discusses a class of general equilibrium models that deals with natural resource discoveries and evaluates its potential to accommodate both successful and unsuccessful resource-based industrialization experiences, under different model settings. Particularly, it analyzes the importance of disentangling price and quantity effects. It illustrates that in closed model economies (or large open economies), with vertical integration between manufacturing and energy sectors, the long-run effect on the production of manufacturing goods will depend mainly on the equilibrium price of the natural resource good. Moreover, the strength of the vertical integration, even for small open economies, determines the limits to accommodate blessing or curse type of theories.
Q34|Optimization of Exclusive Economic Zone to Maintain and Protect Marine Natural Resources for the Welfare of the People of Indonesia|"""Objective – The purpose of the present study is to determine Indonesia’s efforts to maintain and protect the fishery resources. Methodology/Technique – The present study used the normative juridical research method by researching the literature available. Findings – As stipulated in UNCLOS, the coastal states have rights, jurisdiction and obligations in the exclusive economic zone. Those rights are the rights to exploration and exploitation, conservation and management of natural resources, both living and non-living, of its waters. Novelty – The present study employed the law approach by examining all laws and regulations relating to the legal issues studied. The study suggests that Indonesia can implement and provide legal certainty with regard to maintaining and protecting marine natural (fishery) resources to support the life of the world community, especially the people of Indonesia to achieve social welfare."""
Q34|This Mine Is Mine! How Minerals Fuel Conflicts in Africa|We combine georeferenced data on mining extraction of 14 minerals with information on conflict events at spatial resolution of 0.5 degree x 0.5 degree for all of Africa between 1997 and 2010. Exploiting exogenous variations in world prices, we find a positive impact of mining on conflict at the local level. Quantitatively, our estimates suggest that the historical rise in mineral prices (commodity super-cycle) might explain up to one-fourth of the average level of violence across African countries over the period. We then document how a fighting group's control of a mining area contributes to escalation from local to global violence. Finally, we analyze the impact of corporate practices and transparency initiatives in the mining industry.
Q34|Winter is Coming: The Long-Run Effects of Climate Change on Conflict, 1400-1900|We investigate the long-run effects of cooling on conflict. We construct a geo-referenced and digitized database of conflicts in Europe, North Africa, and the Near East from 1400-1900, which we merge with historical temperature data. We show that cooling is associated with increased conflict. When we allow the effects of cooling over a fifty-year period to depend on the extent of cooling during the preceding period, the effect of cooling on conflict is larger in locations that experienced earlier cooling. We interpret this as evidence that the adverse effects of climate change intensify with its duration.
Q34|The Long-run Effects of Agricultural Productivity on Conflict, 1400-1900|This paper provides evidence of the long-run effects of a permanent increase in agricultural productivity on conflict. We construct a newly digitized and geo-referenced dataset of battles in Europe, the Near East and North Africa covering the period between 1400 and 1900 CE. For variation in permanent improvements in agricultural productivity, we exploit the introduction of potatoes from the Americas to the Old World after the Columbian Exchange. We find that the introduction of potatoes permanently reduced conflict for roughly two centuries. The results are driven by a reduction in civil conflicts.
Q34|Natural Resources and Economic Development: New Panel Evidence|Abstract The question as to whether natural resources are a curse on economic growth and development is subject to considerable debates and remains controversial. Using heterogeneous panel cointegration techniques, this paper provides a fresh re-examination of the resource curse while allowing for cross-section heterogeneity and commonalities in the nexus between natural resource abundance and economic development. It finds, in a sample of developing countries, that economies endowed with abundant natural resources tend to develop more slowly than countries with scarce resources. Natural resources are, on average, a curse. However, there is considerable heterogeneity in the effects of resource abundance on economic development across countries, perhaps because of differences in the extent of government intervention, access to sound money, legal structures and the security of property rights, the degree of globalization, and/or corruption.
Q34|Fertile Ground for Conflict|We investigate how variations in soil fertility affect civil conflicts. We first present a model with heterogeneous land in which variations in input prices (fertilizers) affect appropriable rents and the opportunity costs of fighting. The theory predicts that spikes in input prices increase the likelihood of conflicts through their effect on income and inequality, and that this effect is magnified when soil fertility is naturally more heterogenous. We test these predictions using data on conflict events covering all Sub-Saharan African countries at a spatial resolution of 0.5 x 0.5 degree latitude and longitude over the 1997-2013 period. We combine information on soil characteristics and worldwide variations in fertilizer prices to identify local exogenous changes in input costs. As predicted, variations in soil productivity triggered by variations in fertilizer prices are positively associated with conflicts, especially in cells where land endowments are more heterogeneous. In addition, we find that the distribution of land fertility both within and across ethnic groups affects violence, and that the effect of between-group heterogeneity in soil quality is magnified in densely populated areas. Overall, our findings imply that inequality in access to fertile areas -- an issue largely neglected in the literature dealing with the roots of Sub-Saharan African civil wars -- constitutes a serious threat to peace at the local-level.
Q34|Großflächige Agrarinvestitionen in Entwicklungsländern: Ausmaß, Akteure und Land Governance|Nach Jahrzehnten in denen der Agrarsektor für Investoren kaum von Interesse war, ist seit 2007/08 ein erheblicher Anstieg in der weltweiten Nachfrage nach Agrarland zu beobachten. Der Mangel an sicheren und gewinnbringenden Anlageformen in Zeiten der Finanzkrise sowie der steigende Bedarf an Nahrungsmitteln und Biotreibstoff hat diesen Anstieg ausgelöst. In dieser Arbeit geben wir einen Überblick über die rasant wachsende Literatur, welche sich mit dem Thema großflächiger Landakquisitionen beschäftigt. Wir tragen dazu die verschiedenen Erkenntnisse bezüglich des Umfangs und der Akteure der Akquisitionen zusammen. Dabei legen wir einen verstärkten Fokus auf die Darstellung der Angaben der Land Matrix. Es zeigt sich, dass es sich bei den Investoren nicht, wie in den Medien zumeist dargestellt, allein um staatliche Akteure aus China und den Golfstaaten handelt. Vielmehr handelt es sich häufig um private Investoren, die ihren Sitz Europa oder in den USA haben. Des Weiteren zeigen wir die möglichen Folgen der Landakquisitionen für die Zielländer auf und diskutieren diese im Hinblick auf die politischen Implikationen.
Q34|War and Conflict in Economics: Theories, Applications, and Recent Trends|We review the main economic models of war and conflict. These models vary in details, but their implications are qualitatively consistent, highlighting key commonalities across a variety of conflict settings. Recent empirical literature, employing both laboratory and field data, in many cases confirms the basic implications of conflict theory. However, this literature also presents important challenges to the way economists traditionally model conflict. We finish our review by suggesting ways to address these challenges.
Q34|Critiques on ‘‘Mining and Local Corruption in Africa’’|"This is a research critiques on ""Mining and Local Corruption in Africa"" by Knutsen, Carl H; Kotsadam Andreas, Olsen Eivind, Wig Tore"
Q34|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)|We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to finance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls i ncrease both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q34|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)| We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to finance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls i ncrease both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q34|Determinantes de los Conflictos Sociales en Zonas de Producción Minera|El presente trabajo evalúa los determinantes de los conflictos sociales en zonas de producción minera en el Perú, utilizando información distrital de cada conflicto social y empresa minera entre los años 2008 y 2015. Encontramos que tanto factores socio-demográficos y económicos no utilizados previamente en la literatura y propios al distrito y a las empresas, impactan significativamente en la probabilidad de ocurrencia de un conflicto socio-ambiental. A diferencia de trabajos previos, un aumento de los precios internacionales de los principales metales extraídos en cada mina no tiene efectos significativos en la probabilidad de ocurrencia de un conflicto en distritos de producción minera.
Q34|Analyzing of Oil Revenues Shocks Asymmetric Effects on Misery index in Iran Using Vector Error Correction Model|Since the major part of oil revenues are control by government and it forms government’s expenditures; therefore, recognition of oil revenues growth shocks and their impacts intensity on macroeconomic variables such as inflation and unemployment is very important for economic policymakers. This study examines the asymmetric effects of oil revenues shocks on misery index in Iran’s economy by using vector error correction method. For this purpose, we use annual macroeconomic data during 1971-2014 periods. The result shows that both positive and negative shocks have a significant and negative effect on misery index and also long-term trend in oil revenues have a positive and significant relationship with misery index. On the other hand, population growth rate, government expenditure and trade openness index as well as influencing variables on misery index in the model were brought that have a positive and significant relationship with misery index. Also according to the Wald test results, the hypothesis of symmetric effects of positive and negative shocks of oil revenues is rejected.
Q34|Coercive state, resisting society, political and economic development in Iran|In my studies, I have explored the political economy of Iran and particularly the relationship between the state and socioeconomic development in this country. The importance of the oil revenue in economic development of contemporary Iran has been underlined since the early seventies and a vast literature on the rentier state and authoritarian modernization has scrutinized the specificities of the political and economic natural resource 'curse' in Iran. A new critical social history of the oil industry has recently endeavored to reconsider the spread effects of this industry on the emergence of new cities and labor activities. In this sense, the impact of oil revenue on economic development should be mitigated: it has not been only a 'curse' but also a 'blessing'. The precious results of natural resource curse or blessing notwithstanding, this approach is insufficient to explain why some predatory states reliant on natural resources could contribute to economic development while others hinder such development. Two recent examples provide a salient illustration: why did the Shah's regime which was dependent on oil revenues enhance economic development during 1962-1974, while Ahmadinjead's two terms presidency (2005-2013) imped economic growth despite the quadrupling of oil revenues? In this essay, I will first introduce my theoretical framework and distinguish two types of predatory states, i.e. inclusive and exclusive (section 1). I will then apply this framework to explain oil and economic development (section 2). Section 3 will be devoted to the Shah's regime as an inclusive predatory state, and section 4 to Ahmadinjead's presidency as an illustration of an exclusive predatory state. A short conclusion will follow.
Q34|Global Climate Change Mitigation: Strategic Interaction or Unilateral Gains?|Global agreement to reduce carbon emissions has been weakened by slowing growth and burden sharing conflicts. This paper examines strategic interaction amongst regions by simplifying the policy choice to that between carbon taxation and free riding. Benefits from climate change mitigation are constructed via a meta-analysis of existing studies that link carbon concentration with average surface temperature and measures of economic welfare. Implementation costs are then derived by modeling national and global economic performance. Multiplayer, normal form games with payoffs derived by netting costs from shared benefits are then constructed, revealing that the US economy is a net gainer in net present value terms from unilateral implementation. The comparative net benefits to Europe and China are negative but small, making their choice sensitive to the discount rate. The dominant strategy for all other countries is to free ride. Taking the three large economies as a group, there are net gains from implementing carbon taxes, which would be bolstered by universal adoption. Yet compensatory side payments that would induce universal adoption are still not affordable. Moreover, the net gains to all regions do not begin to appear for at least two decades, rendering commitment to abatement politically difficult.
Q34|At Africa's Expense? Disaggregating the Social Impact of Chinese Mining Operations|Qualitative studies and media reports suggest that the presence of Chinese oil or mining companies generates resentments among local extractive communities due to low wages, poor working conditions, environmental degradation, the employment of foreign labour, and perceived racial discrimination. At the same time, Chinese investment in the extractive sector appears to enhance local infrastructure. So far, these claims have not been empirically tested in a systematic way. Relying on novel data on the control-rights regimes of diamond, gold, and copper mines and geo-referenced information from Afrobarometer surveys, this paper examines whether Chinese-controlled mining promotes anti-Chinese sentiments among the local populations of sub-Saharan African countries. In addition, we test the effect of mining contractors' nationality on socio-economic indicators such as local employment rates and infrastructure levels. Our logistic regression analysis for the period 1997-2014 reveals that the effect of Chinese mining companies on African local development is ambiguous: while proximity to Chinese-operated mines is associated with anti-Chinese sentiments and unemployment, populations living close to Chinese mining areas enjoy better infrastructure, such as paved roads or piped water. Multilevel mixed-effects estimations using district-level data from the Demographic Health Survey for 20 sub-Saharan countries corroborate these findings.
Q34|Conditional linkages between iron ore exports, foreign aid and terrorism|Abstract We employ interactive quantile regressions to assess conditional linkages between foreign aid, iron ore exports and terrorism from a panel of 78 developing countries for the period of 1984–2008. The following main findings are established. First, it is primarily in the countries with the highest level of iron ore exports that terrorism affects exports. Second, bilateral aid has an impact on iron ore exports, while the evidence for such a relationship between multilateral aid and iron ore exports is limited. Third, there is limited support for the main hypothesis motivating this line of inquiry, notably that foreign aid can be used to mitigate a potentially negative effect of terrorism on resource exports. The results suggest that bilateral aid is more relevant at mitigating the negative effects of domestic and total terrorism on iron ore exports.
Q34|Costly Choices: Does the U.S. Retail Market Reward Coffee Origin Labeling?| The paper presents estimated single origin premiums based on retail prices for specialty coffees offered in the U.S. market from 1997 to 2014. The data include retail price, the quantity sold in a retail package and label descriptions that identify 28 different origins. Label descriptions also include information on cultural practices such as natural and organic production, market channels such as Fair Trade and whether the wholesale source was a specialty auction. In addition, data for each coffee contains a score for roast type and a cup rating determined by professional tasters. The overall data set permits and evaluation how coffee origin affects market values, as well as how different coffee supply chain segments affect value, including the coffee producer, market channel and roaster.
Q34|Optimal distribution of conservation practices in the Upper Washita River basin, Oklahoma| The Upper Washita River basin in southwestern Oklahoma has been the subject of extensive research since the 1930s and is also a participating watershed in the long-term USDA Conservation Effects Assessment Project (CEAP) effort. Much of the research has focused on developing and testing computer models and tools to simulate the impacts of agricultural management practices on soil and water resources. While a substantial portion of these research efforts have focused on the environmental impacts of management practices, economic considerations are now receiving greater attention since funding agencies are better appreciating the link between farm economics and producer adoption of the conservation practices. This paper contributes to a better understanding of how resource conservation benefits of limited available funds can be maximized by optimal distribution of the practices based on publicly available spatial distributions of the biophysical attributes of agricultural lands. We specifically determine optimal conservation practice distributions for two sub-basins of the Upper Washita River basin: the Fort Cobb Reservoir Experimental Watershed (FCREW) and the Little Washita River Experimental Watershed (LWREW).
Q34|Are Community-Based Approaches to Manage Herbicide Resistance Wisdom or Folly?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q34|Climate-induced International Migration and Conflicts|Population movements will help people cope with the impacts of climate change. However, large-scale displacements may also produce security risks for receiving areas. If climate change intensifies the process of out-migration, destination countries may face waves of migrants so large and fast that integration becomes increasingly hard. The objective of this article is to empirically estimate if the inflows of climate-induced migrants increase the risk of conflicts in receiving areas. Using data from 1960 to 2000, we show that climate-induced migrants are not an additional determinant of civil conflicts and civil wars in receiving areas.
Q34|Local Government Proliferation, Diversity, and Conflict|The creation of new local governments is a key feature of decentralization in developing countries. This process often causes substantial changes in contestable public resources and the local diversity of the electorate. We exploit the plausibly exogenous timing of new district creation in Indonesia to iden- tify the implications of these changes for violent conflict. Using new geospatial data on violence, we show that allowing for redistricting along group lines can reduce conflict. However, these reductions are undone and even reversed if the newly defined electorates are ethnically polarized, particularly in areas that receive an entirely new seat of government. We identify several mechanisms highlighting the violent contestation of political control.
Q34|Stock market reactions to conflict diamond trading restrictions and controversies|In this paper, I explore the reactions of financial market participants to news relating to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme (KPCS), a body that regulates aspects of global diamond production and trade. I use an event study approach with data on the returns for shares of leading global mining and jewelry retail companies over the period from 1999 to 2011. I show that the most influential dates related to the KPCS for diamond mining companies were associated with regulatory actions in the early 2000s taken by the United Nations and the United States. These events were associated with lower returns for diamond mining companies. After 2004, jewelry companies experienced abnormal returns coinciding with KPCS-related events, while mining firms appear rarely affected by events during this time. The majority of returns for jewelry companies were negative for events which called into question the ability of the KPCS to ensure conflict-free diamond production and trade. Expanded legal diamond production in some cases coincided with positive returns for jewelry retail companies over the time period I consider. These results are consistent with the expectation that jewelry companies, which often market directly to consumers, are more sensitive to public perception concerning the KPCS and its credibility. The results are inconsistent with the point of view that the creation of the KPCS was seen by financial market participants as “good news” overall for diamond mining companies. The results also suggest that once trade restrictions were in place, mining companies were less affected by controversies surrounding the credibility of the KPCS.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q34|Stock market reactions to conflict diamond trading restrictions and controversies|This article explores market reactions to regulations that addressed the link between armed conflict and the diamond industry. The results show that several regulatory actions taken by the United Nations and the United States in the early 2000s corresponded with lower stock returns for diamond mining companies. Such effects are inconsistent with predictions made by some critics of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. On the other hand, stock returns for jewelry companies were abnormally negative for events that hurt the reputation of conflict-free production and trade regimes. The expansion of legal diamond markets also coincided with abnormally positive returns for jewelry companies, while new restrictions on market access coincided with abnormally negative returns. The results suggest that i) diamond trade regulations affected businesses in important and measurable ways, and ii) that similar regulations may have broader applicability in related industries.
Q34|Electoral Accountability and the Natural Resource Curse: Theory and Evidence from India|The literature on the effects of natural resource abundance on economic growth is converging to the view that institutions play a central role. In this paper, we exploit the break up of three of the biggest Indian states, comprising areas with some of the largest endowments of natural resources in the country, to explore how the link between electoral accountability and natural resource abundance can explain differences in outcomes. Our theoretical framework shows that while states inheriting a larger share of natural resources after break up are potentially richer, the spatial distribution of these natural resources within these state can worsen economic outcomes by lowering electoral accountability. We employ a sharp regression discontinuity design to estimate the causal effect of secession and concentrated resources on growth and inequality at the sub-regional level, using data on satellite measurements of night-time lights. Consistent with our theoretical predictions, the economic effect of secession is generally favourable. However, states that inherit a large fraction of mineral rich constituencies experience worse outcomes. This may be accounted for by lower electoral accountability in those areas.
Q34|Competition for natural resources and the hold-up problem|We study the role of competition for the hold-up problem in foreign direct investment in resource-based industries. The host country government is not only unable to commit not to expropriate investment ex post but also unable to commit to the provision of local resources. In the case of competition for local resources, this dual commitment problem triggers higher investment levels and increases host country revenues, but hurts profits of international investors.
Q34|Social And Ethical Challenges Of Using Biomass - A Renewable Energy Source|Biomass, along with other renewable energy sources (solar, wind power, hydropower, etc.) is the alternative energy to conventional energy sources. The need of alternative energy sources is given by the increase in energy demand associated with the reduction of conventional sources. They are supplemented by society efforts for reducing the global warming. Thus the biomass use is enthusiastically received and supported by numerous development policies. Nevertheless, the use of biomass to obtain energy involves negative effects on society and also on the environment, generating concerns about the ethics of human actions. All these concerns regarding the biomass use can be prevented and ameliorated by a legislative framework that integrates among the economic and environmental, social and ethical principles. Because without a set of ethical principles aimed at fairness between individuals, social responsibility and also intrinsic value of the biosphere, challenges and problems generated by the use of renewable resources will be intensified
Q34|The evolution of Colombian industry in the context of the energy-mining boom: Symptoms of the dutch disease?|This paper seeks to evaluate and demonstrate the hypothesis of deindustrialization and Dutch Disease (DD) for the case of the Colombian economy by using a Beta regression model. The results of the research indicate that it is not possible to reject the suggestion that the mining and energy boom have potential adverse effects on the manufacturing sector. ***** Este artículo busca evaluar y demostrar la hipótesis de la desindustrialización y la enfermedad holandesa (EH) para el caso de la economía colombiana a través de un modelo de regresión beta. Los resultados de la investigación indican que no es posible rechazar la hipótesis de que los auges mineros y energéticos tienen potenciales efectos adversos en el sector manufacturero.
Q34|El impacto de las petroleras extranjeras en Colombia: El caso de Standard Oil, 1919 - 1930|Este trabajo examina el papel del Estado colombiano en las negociaciones con las compañías extranjeras para la explotación de hidrocarburos en Colombia en la década de 1920. Se toma como estudio de caso las desventajosas negociaciones del gobierno colombiano con la Standard Oil de Nueva Jersey, controlada por la familia Rockefeller, a través de dos filiales: la Tropical Oil Company, para la explotación de los primeros yacimientos petroleros colombianos, y la Andian National Corporation, para la construcción del primer oleoducto Barrancabermeja-Cartagena. El trabajo se basa en la investigación de archivo que realizó la autora en 2015, en el Rockefeller Archive Center, en Sleepy Hollow, Estado de Nueva York. La principal conclusión es que, en esa época, Colombia carecía de las instituciones financieras, los conocimientos técnicos y la legislación petrolera para poder pactar de manera justa la explotación de sus recursos mineros. El débil Estado colombiano no estaba en condiciones de asumir la explotación de sus recursos, y menos aún de imponer las condiciones de negociación a unas millonarias corporaciones petroleras con gran poder de manipulación política.
Q34|Do Natural Resources Influence Who Comes to Power, and How?|Do natural resources impair institutional outcomes? Existing work studies how natural resources influence the behavior of leaders in power. We study how they influence leaders' rise to power. Our analysis focuses on oil price shocks and local democracy in Colombia, a country mired in civil conflict. We find that when the price of oil rises, legislators affiliated with right-wing paramilitary groups win office more in oil-producing municipalities. Consistent with the use of force to gain power, positive price shocks also induce an increase in paramilitary violence, and reduce electoral competition: fewer candidates run for office, and winners are elected with a wider vote margin. Ultimately, fewer centrist legislators are elected to office, and there is diminished representation at the center. Our findings highlight how natural resources undermine democracy by distorting elections, and suggest that conflict leaves the political sector vulnerable to the resource curse.
Q34|Electoral Accountability and the Natural Resource Curse: Theory and Evidence from India|The literature on the effects of natural resource abundance on economic growth is converging to the view that institutions play a central role. In this paper, we exploit the break up of three of the biggest Indian states, comprising areas with some of the largest endowments of natural resources in the country, to explore how the link between electoral accountability and natural resource abundance can explain differences in outcomes. Our theoretical framework shows that while states inheriting a larger share of natural resources after break up are potentially richer, the spatial distribution of these natural resources within these state can worsen economic outcomes by lowering electoral accountability. We employ a sharp regression discontinuity design to estimate the causal effect of secession and concentrated resources on growth and inequality at the sub-regional level, using data on satellite measurements of night-time lights. Consistent with our theoretical predictions, the economic effect of secession is generally favourable. However, states that inherit a large fraction of mineral rich constituencies experience worse outcomes. This may be accounted for by lower electoral accountability in those areas.
Q34|Economic Problems of Exploring Hydrocarbons in Russian Northern Provinces in the Context of International Interests|The goal of the article is to analyze the present state and perspectives of exploring gas and oil resources of the Russian North in the context of economic interests of a number of foreign countries, to reveal both common things in interests of the both parties, and inconsistencies that must be aligned. The methodology of the research is based on the system approach to estimating the state of gas and oil resources of the Russian North and comprehensive analysis of aligning economic interests of Russia and a number of foreign countries. A complex of general scientific and special methods of research was used, including abstract-logical, balance, statistical analysis and others. The article shows that the Russian North is extremely rich in gas and oil resources that are both currently exploited and promising for reclaiming especially on the shelf of Arctic seas. It analyzes reasons of the decrease in the gas and oil production in the country that has occurred over recent years. It is caused by the fall of the demand for hydrocarbons in the world, sectoral sanctions, and the decrease in the production of the mineral resources base. Gas and oil resources of Russia fall within the interests of a number of foreign countries, mainly West European countries for which stable provision of the economy with raw hydrocarbons becomes one of the most important strategic tasks. Long-term economic interests of Russia coincide with the interests of the European Union (EU), however, not fully. The authors come to the conclusion that in case of supplying hydrocarbons economic interests of Russia and EU countries must be aligned not only in terms of searching for mutually profitable forms of cooperation but also solving basic inconsistencies that lie in the basis of opinions discrepancies.
Q34|Modelling mergers among polluting firms when environmental policy is endogenous|This article builds a theoretical model to study merger decisions among polluting firms. We adopt the idea of endogenous policies where governments adjust optimal policy after the occurrence of mergers. We find that the adjustment in policy provides additional incentives to merge. Given a specific model of merger process with endogenous policies, we find that the optimal merger is the one among highly polluting firms. Therefore, in the post-merger market the merged entity is dirtier compared to stand-alone firms.
Q34|On the timing of political regime changes in resource-dependent economies|We consider a resource-dependent economy initially ruled by the elite. The transition from the autocratic to a more democratic regime takes place only if the citizens decide to revolt against the elite. The occurrence of a revolution primarily depends on the autocratic regime vulnerability and the level of inequalities, both being driven by the elite׳s redistribution and repression policies. First, we show that when a political transition is inevitable, the elite choose the maximum rate of redistribution to lengthen their period in office. Second, we find that the duration of the autocratic regime is linked to resource abundance, and how it relates to the elite׳s policies. More resources lead to a shorter reign of a redistributive regime, which may not be the case of a repressive regime. Finally, we interpret the Arab spring sequence in light of our findings.
Q34|National strategies for securing a stable supply of rare earths in different world regions|The rising imbalance between increased demand for minerals and their tighter supply has resulted in growing concerns about their criticality. This has in turn stimulated both resource-rich and resource-poor countries to take an active role in implementing mineral strategies. The present paper explains why different world regions responded differently to the global problem of securing stable supply of critical minerals, in particular of rare earths. The paper is based on a comparative political economy framework and examines the extent to which distinct national policy styles, national interests, resource endowment and historical experience in tackling supply risk shaped the different policy choices. The overall findings show that despite their similar objectives, strategies undertaken by various regions tend to differ in their foci. Whereas Europe opts for a policy dialogue with resource-rich countries, Japan and the United States have a more hands-on approach in research and development initiatives. Australia's and China's policies instead, focus on development of domestic mining activities and on resource protection.
Q34|Measuring resilience in energy systems: Insights from a range of disciplines|Economic stability is dependent on the effective functioning and resilience of energy systems. Resilience is a term used across all research disciplines and in everyday discourse. As a concept it purports to serve as a useful indicator of sustainability and robustness, but it has proved difficult to measure. Ecological resilience, psychological resilience, risk management and energy security are all fields of research in which measures of the ability to respond to the unexpected are sought. The goal is to build adaptive capacity but quite different methods have been developed to achieve this end. Research on energy security, in particular, has focused on the security of oil supplies, not resilience or the adaptive capacity of the energy system or the role that renewable energy plays in building such capacity. This paper discusses how different disciplines seek to measure and build resilience and explores its connection with the state or quality of a system’s adaptive capacity. When the parameters of redundancy and diversity are present, resilience is enhanced. For this reason, in energy systems we must understand the size and scope of the key parameters required to facilitate the development of adaptive capacity and to build resilience that can enhance economic stability.
Q34|The Two Fragilities: Vulnerability to Conflict,Environmental Stress, and Their Interactions as Challenges to Ending Poverty|No abstract is available for this item.
Q34|Quantitative Assessment of Pathways to a Resource-Efficient and Low-Carbon Europe|Though the sustainability research community as well as international decision makers seem to share the conviction that, akin to the challenges of climate policy, a great transi-tion will also be needed in order to decouple human wellbeing from resource use over the next decades, there exist only scarce quantitative assessments of possible transition scenarios which do also concern this matter. Our paper is intended to advance this branch of research by a presentation of key scenario insights from the global simulation model GINFORS which take account of the complex interrelations between different environmental objectives. Whereas a multitude of publications already applied various MRIO databases for ex post assessments of resource-related national footprint indicators, there exist only scarce ex ante assessments of possible transition scenarios concerning this matter. The modelling framework of GINFORS also rests on a MRIO database. Thus, GINFORS is also able to map quantitative indicators of material extractions embedded in regional consumption activities over the global supply chain.
Q34|The Different Impacts Of Different Types Of Natural Resources On Political Institutions In Developing Countries|Rents generated by natural resources are usually thought to weaken the quality of institutions, particularly in developing countries. Our hypothesis is that this effect may differ depending on the types of natural resources characterized by their different degree of appropriability. We test this hypothesis using panel data covering 90 developing countries for the period 1970-2010. We find that total rents weaken the quality of institutions. However, while oil rents have a significant negative effect, forest and mineral rents do not, after controlling for the other relevant determinants of institutional quality, institutional persistence, neighbor effect, and endogeneity of rents.
Q34|Peace, Terrorism, or Civil Conflict? Understanding the Decision of an Opposition Group|When do opposition groups decide to mount a terrorism campaign and when do they enter an open civil conflict against the ruling government? This paper models an opposition group's choice between peace, terrorism, and open conflict. Terrorism emerges if executive constraints are intermediate and rents are sizeable. Open conflict is predicted to emerge under poor executive constraints. Analyzing country-level panel data firmly supports these hypotheses, even when relying on within-country variation only in a fixed-effects framework. In particular, both the incidence of terrorism and the likelihood of terrorism onset increase under intermediate executive constraints (following an inverted U-shape) and if large rents are available from natural resources, oil, or foreign development assistance. A one-standard-deviation increase in rents raises casualties by approximately 15 percentage points. Related to civil conflict, moving from an authoritarian regime to comprehensive executive constraints is associated with a decrease in the number of battle-related deaths by approximately 74 percentage points. These findings can help us to better understand and anticipate the underlying decision of opposition groups and their choice between peace, a terrorism campaign, and open conflict.
Q34|Wealth Effects of Rare Earth Prices and China’s Rare Earth Elements Policy|Abstract Rare earth elements (REEs) have become increasingly important because of their relative scarcity and worldwide increasing demand, as well as China’s quasi-monopoly of this market. REEs are virtually not substitutable, and they are essential for a variety of high-tech products and modern key technologies. This has raised serious concerns that China will misuse its dominant position to set export quotas in order to maximize its own profits at the expense of other rare earth user industries (wealth transfer motive). In fact, export restrictions on REEs were the catalyst for the U.S. to lodge a formal complaint against China in 2012 at the World Trade Organization (WTO). This paper analyzes possible wealth transfer effects by focusing on export quota announcements (the so-called MOFCOM announcements) by China, and the share price reactions of Chinese REE suppliers, the U.S. REE users, and the rest of the world REE refiners. Overall, we find limited support for the view of a wealth transfer in connection with MOFCOM announcements only when disentangling events prior to and post the initiation of the WTO trial, consistent with the trial triggering changes to China’s REE policy and recent announcement to abolish quotas. We do find, however, that extreme REE price movements have a first-order effect on all companies in the REE industry consistent with recent market trends to enable hedging against REE price volatility.
Q34|Oil and terrorism: an investigation of mediators|Abstract Do states with oil wealth experience more terrorism and, if so, why? Drawing from the intrastate war literature, this study considers several factors that prospectively mediate the relationship between oil wealth and terrorism: state weakness; rentier state authoritarianism; corruption of government officials; income inequality; human rights violations; foreign military intervention; and heightened separatist activity. Based on structural equation modeling on a sample of 130 non-OECD countries for the period 1970–2012, the paper produces two main empirical findings. First, while onshore oil production increases terrorist attacks in countries, on- and offshore production and oil revenues from exports do not increase such attacks. Second, the impact of oil on terrorism is mediated through increased human rights abuses. Exploitation of oil is found to be associated with a worsening of physical integrity rights abuses that, in turn, lead to popular grievances that help to fuel terrorist campaigns.
Q34|Game Theoretical Approach to Regulate the Public-Owned River Water Utilities: A case study of Cauvery River|Management of regulated water systems has become increasingly complex due to rapid socio-economic growth and environmental changes in river basins over recent decades. This paper focusses on the public-owned river water utility river basin conflicts that are increasingly marked by a heightened attention because of the political discourse surrounding it. In order to promote cooperation and resolve conflicts between states in a basin, policy makers must vigorously try to get the dialogue process on and avoid deadlocks in the process. Little theoretical and empirical research exists to understand when these negotiations are most effective and the mechanics behind these negotiations. Here we draw from diverse literature, economic and geographical, to capture and integrate the design elements associated with effective utility regulation along rivers on a national and international level. The utility sharing of waters of the river Cauvery has been the bone of contention of a serious conflict between the Indian states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Decades of negotiations have not bore fruit till date. Even if treaties have been signed, they have been rejected and till date enforcement mechanisms are not put in place so as to hasten the negotiation process so as to avoid further escalation of irregularities in the water utilization. This study aims at defining few enforcement mechanisms based on the latest agreement brought out by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal 2007 which was rejected and though appeals were filed by riparian states no amendments have been made so far. Non-Cooperative games have been used to model the regulation of the water utility and policy implications there on have been drawn out.
Q34|Assessment Of Shadow Economy In Moldova Using The Input-Output Model In 2014|The shadow economy is the bane of modern society. Paradoxically, as the community is poorer, the level of the shadow economy is higher, which in turn leads to lower allocations in the budget, and as a consequence reduces social benefits, reducing the real wages of public sector employees, and the decline in living standards. Therefore, evaluation of the shadow economy is actual for any country in the world. The purpose of research is assessment of the shadow economy in the Republic of Moldova for 2014. From the methodological point of view, the authors used input-output balance method to identify and assess non-observed economy. As a result, the authors had identified elements of non-observed economy for a product group, and had calculated the losses of the state budget.
Q34|Modeling Negotiations Over Water and Ecosystem Management: Uncertainty and Political Viability|We present a modeling approach for generating robust predictions about how changes in institutional, economic, and political considerations will influence the outcome of political negotiations over complex water-ecosystem policy debates. Evaluating the political viability of proposed policies is challenging for researchers in these complex natural and political environments; there is limited information with which to map policies to outcomes to utilities or to represent the political process adequately. Our analysis evaluates the viability of policy options using a probabilistic political viability criterion that explicitly recognizes the existence of modeling uncertainty. The approach is used to conduct a detailed case study of the future of California's Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. Several other possible applications of the approach are briefly discussed.
Q34|Dutch disease or Nigerian disease: a prima facie? New evidence from ARDL bound test analysis|It is somewhat paradoxical and counter intuitive that an increasing stock of assets in a country tend to hinder its economic growth rather than bringing about greater opportunities for economic development. This is termed “resource curse”. While many refers to it as Dutch disease, where an economy whose original exports were tradable goods, but then shift to export of booming sector, which consequently leads to a real exchange rate appreciation and the extinction of the original tradable goods exporting sector. Others refer to it as the Nigerian disease where an abundance of natural resources leads to poorer governance and conflicts, which brings about a decline in economic progress. This study, using Nigeria as a case study, employs autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) approach to co-integration proposed by Pesaran et al. (2001). It is based on a time series data over the period 1981–2014. This study extends existing literature by focusing on the institutional quality as an influential phenomenon in economic growth. The findings diagnose Nigeria to be suffering more from the Nigerian disease which is attributable to institutional quality (i.e., corruption) than Dutch disease attributable to foreign exchange. This implies that the government should strive towards long term economic development and diversification by enhancing, among others, its institutional quality and combating corruption.
Q34|An updated assessment of oil market disruption risks|The probability of the size and duration of another oil disruption is critical to estimating the value of any policies for reducing the economic damages from a sudden oil supply disruption. The Energy Modeling Forum at Stanford University developed a risk assessment framework and evaluated the likelihood of one or more foreign oil disruptions over the next ten years. Leading geopolitical, military and oil-market experts provided their expertise on the probability of different events occurring, and their corresponding link to major disruptions in key oil market regions. The study evaluated 5 primary regions of production: Saudi Arabia, Other Persian Gulf, Africa, Latin America, and Russian / Caspian States. Disruptions are defined as being net of offsets (e.g., OPEC spare capacity), with the notable exception that the SPR is not included as a source of offsets. At least once during the 10-year time frame (2016–2025), there exists approximately an 80% probability of a net (of offsets) disruption of 2 MMBD (million barrels per day) or more lasting at least 1 month.
Q34|Economic Determinants of Conflict - A proposal for North Eastern States of India|The proposal proposes a study that attempts to estimate the likelihood of armed conflict across the 8 northeast Indian states, Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Sikkim for a span of over 40 years (1972 -2014). It will also attempt to study the association between armed conflict and economic /socio-political/ policy variables and suggest relevant policy measures.
Q34|Uncertainty, learning, and local opposition to hydraulic fracturing|New extraction technologies, including hydraulic fracturing (fracking), have increased fossil fuel reserves in the United States. Despite local economic benefits, many jurisdictions have adopted bans on fracking. We develop a dynamic learning model parameterized with a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model to quantify the associated quasi-option value (QOV), and to explore if uncertainty about environmental damages with the potential to learn can rationalize such bans. The model is calibrated to a representative municipality in Colorado, the site of several fracking bans. With plausible damages, we find that the QOV increases the incentive to delay drilling within a range of energy prices. The results suggest that improving the ability to learn about fracking impacts could increase the prevalence of bans in the short run and lead to better policymaking over time. Incorporating CGE output into a dynamic learning framework permits calculation of the locality-wide QOV associated with a range of policies.
Q34|Benefit of Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) on the mineral dependent economies|The EITI is a standard for countries with oil, gas and minerals, it requires all companies extracting oil, gas and minerals to publish what they pay in taxes and royalties and the government also publish what it receives, including other key information about the sector (EITI, 2016). These mineral dependent economies generate at least 8 % of GDP and 40 % of export earnings from the mineral (Auty, 1993). The lack of accountability and efficient management of these resources has led to political unrest, poverty on a larger scale and by extension severe macroeconomic issues thereby impacting negatively on growth and development. The study assessed the wellbeing of countries before and after implementing EITI requirements. It found out that EITI did not help countries diversify their revenue base but its aid them utilize their resources efficiently, as the performance of the manufacturing sector fell with increased mineral rents.
Q34|Mapping social conflicts in natural resources. A text-mining study in mining activities|Applying text-mining techniques we have developed a methodology that measures the number of social conflicts related to the exploitation of nonrenewable natural resources. We focused on conflicts in four mining countries (Australia, Canada, Chile, and Peru) from 2003 to 2016 considering more than 20,000 articles from the major newspaper of each country. From our data we detected cross-country and cross-regional differences and changes in time patterns. We found a statically significant correlation between our main index and mineral rents in % in GDP. However, our results should be interpreted with caution since we have not taken into account endogeneity issues and our indexes could be biased by different level of lobby powers among our country sample. Our main contribution is the generation of novel database with different indexes of soft conflicts related to the exploitation of non-renewables natural resources and its media coverage in Australia, Canada, Chile and Peru.
Q34|Weapons of choice|This article investigates the effect of natural resources on whether ethno-political groups choose to pursue their goals with nonviolent as compared to violent means, distinguishing terrorism from insurgencies. It is hypothesized that whether or not the extraction of fossil fuels sparks violence depends both on the groupâ€™s characteristics and the stateâ€™s reaction. Data are taken from the Minorities at Risk Organizational Behavior (MAROB) project, covering 118 organizations in 13 countries of the Middle East and North Africa over the 1980â€“2004 period. The multinomial logit models combine group- and country-specific information and show that ethno-political groups are more likely to resort to rebellion rather than using nonviolent means or becoming terrorists when representing regions rich in oil. This effect is enhanced for groups already enjoying regional autonomy or being supported by a foreign state but can be mitigated by power-sharing arrangements. These results are thus in line with the argument that economic considerations, or â€˜greedâ€™, dominate over political considerations, or â€˜grievancesâ€™, with regard to violent conflicts. The opposite appears to hold considering terrorism, as we do not find any evidence for a resource curse here, but find an increasing effect of political discrimination and a decreasing effect of regional autonomy.
Q34|Global Arms Trade and Oil Dependence|We investigate how oil dependence affects the trade of weapons between countries. We argue that oil-dependent economies have incentives to transfer arms to oil-rich countries to reduce their risk of instability and, as a result, the chances of disruption in the oil industry. We employ gravity models of the arms trade and estimate the effect of both a local as well as a global oil dependence. Two key results emerge. First, the volume of arms transfers to a specific country is affected by the degree of dependence on its supply of oil. Second, global oil dependence motivates arms export to oil-rich countries even in absence of a direct bilateral oil-for-weapons exchange. Our results point consistently toward the conclusion that the arms trade is an effective foreign policy tool to securing and maintaining access to oil.
Q34|Policía rural y mercados de trabajo agrario en la Segunda República española: el caso de Santa Marta (Badajoz), 1931-1936|Instrumental in supporting the agricultural reforms enacted during the Second Republic, the regulations on compulsory cultivation and the Rural Police Commission exhibited both positives and negatives. This article reveals details of events related to this Commission in the town of Santa Marta, in the province of Badajoz. The full minutes of the executive meetings of this organisation have been preserved in the Municipal Archives, a rather exceptional circumstance as in most cases they have entirely disappeared. Up until now, historiography has been silent on many aspects of the Rural Police Commission, such as its constitution, its relationship with the political life of the period, the kind of agricultural plantations that its mandate covered, the effectiveness of its actions, the reactions and hopes it awakened among owners and workers, etc. We try to address these matters by cross-referencing the aforementioned local documentation with the national legal corpus on rural police institutions. The analysis is completed by comparing the evidence in this case with data from institutional economics.
Q34|El conflicto mapuche en Chile durante el proceso de reforma agraria: el ejemplo de la provincia de Cautín entre 1960 y 1973|In this article we examine the social disputes involving the Mapuche communities of Cautín province during the agricultural reform period in Chile. For this purpose we analyze journalistic documentation (mainly El Diario Austral, the most important newspaper of the region) and governmental files (essentially the Intendencia de Cautín section stored in the Archivo Regional de la Araucanía). First, we contextualize the research, offering a review of the historical precedents to the Mapuche conflict and the general background of the agrarian and indigenous question in Chile during the years spanned by our research. Then we focus on the analysis of indigenous social disputes in the Cautín province, in particular the land takeovers (tomas de fundos) that were the main Mapuche expression of protest. This supports the conclusion, first, that these were the most important indigenous disputes since the military occupation of the Araucanía region; second, that the land takeovers achieved their main aim, that is, to increase land expropriations in favour of the Mapuche communities; and, lastly, that certain sweeping generalizations on land takeovers and the participation of indigenous peoples are now refutable.
Q34|How Institutions Shape Land Deals: The Role of Corruption|Abstract Large-scale land acquisitions often take place in developing countries which are also known for their corruption-friendliness caused by weak institutional frameworks. We hypothesize that corruption indeed leads to more land deals. We argue that corrupt elites exploit poor institutional set-ups (characterized by corruption) to strike deals with domestic and international investors at the expense of local populations. Using panel data for 156 countries from 2000 to 2011, we provide evidence that large-scale land deals indeed occur more often in countries with higher levels of corruption. The estimated effects are also economically substantive and particularly relevant to economies with unsound institutions.
Q34|Externalities in Military Spending and Growth: The Role of Natural Resources as a Channel through Conflict| This investigation re-examines the potential sources of positive externalities for the relationship between military spending and economic growth using recent advances in panel estimation methods and a large data-set on military expenditure. The investigation provides a new analysis on the relationship between conflict, corruption, natural resources and military expenditure and their direct and indirect effects on economic growth. The analysis finds that the impact of military expenditure on growth is generally negative as in the literature, but that it is not significantly detrimental for countries facing higher internal threats and for countries with large natural resource wealth once corruption levels are accounted for.
Q34|Critical raw material strategies in different world regions|The rising imbalance between increased demand for minerals and their tighter supply has resulted in growing concerns about their criticality. This has in turn stimulated both resource-rich and resource-poor countries to take active role in implementing mineral policy strategies. This paper explains why different world regions responded differently to the global problem of securing stable supply of critical minerals, in particular of rare earths. The paper first provides an in-depth overview of development trajectories of critical mineral strategies through a historical case study analysis of major stakeholder regions - China, the United States, Europe, Japan and Australia. Next, it offers answers as to why they have responded the way they did: how national interest considerations, resource endowment circumstances, countries’ historical experience in tackling supply risk and their respective policy styles influenced the development of critical mineral policy choices within a comparative political economy framework. The overall findings show distinctive differences in policy strategies towards critical materials. Whereas Europe opts for a policy dialogue with resource-rich countries, Japan and the United States have a more hands-on approach in research and development initiatives. Australia and China instead, strive to promote domestic mining activities and to protect their resources through resource nationalist policies.
Q34|Foreign agents? Natural resources & the political economy of civil society|Resource-rich dictatorships are more inclined to repress civil society than others. In this paper, we identify a tradeoff between political rents from natural resources and the organizational density of civil society. This organizational density determines the extent to which citizens can threaten the dictator with a revolution. We find that, in the occurrence of a negative oil price shock, regime change becomes likely, whereas a positive oil shock increases the extractive capacity of the dictator. When a negative oil price shock occurs, the persecution of failed revolutionaries can prevent revolution if the probability of revolutionary success is already low ex-ante. Historical and contemporary illustrations are drawn from Iran, the Soviet Union/Russia and Egypt.
Q34|Shale gas - Saviour or destructive technology|The discovery of shale gas reopens the fierce struggle for energy control at regional and global level and reconfigures the geostrategic interests map of the great powers. The new technology of unconventional gas extraction, hydraulic fracturing has supporters andopponents on its size. But at the gate of scientific discoveries beats a new form of energy: the energy based on thorium. Cheaper, safer, less polluting.
Q34|Re-evaluation of Hydrocarbons origin is to be a necessary challenge|Although most of the worldwide scientific community accepted and supported the theory that oil and gas formed during remote geological eras, from organic matter under anaerobic conditions, on the bottom of the seas and oceans and that it migrated to the so-called rock collectors, exhaustible in time, in the last decades, some researchers brought forward the theory of inorganic origin (abiogene) of oil and gas formation, including the idea that it should be renewable. The detection and exploitation of the great oil and gas field White Tiger, located in the Vietnamese coasts, hosted in granite, impossible to explain using the biogenic theory, and the recent development of hydraulic fracturing technology for shale gas are at the frontier of a scientific leap which raises many other questions: is the oil era coming to an end or to a new beginning? If energy resources are renewable, how will the human society evolve? What long-term effects on the environment will be recorded by using polluting technologies?
Q34|Oil-gas technique and technology, scientific bridge in both directions between East and West|The discovery of oil and gas one hundred and fifty years ago, in Romania, United States and in further other states, has lead the way of human development towards a society based on hydrocarbons whereas the technical and technological competition between companies and states for the ultimate supremacy evolved and is still in progress. In the past century, the two world wars and the most recent conflicts we were and are contemporary with (Falkland Islands war, Iraq, Libya, Syria etc.) began with and for energy resources which resulted in a fierce battle on the front of research and streamline of this field. The technical and technology transfer in many areas, including the oil and gas one, disregarded ideological barriers imposed by the “Cold War” so that, through legal methods (imported licenses) and “reverse engineering” (intelligence), it carried through. Since the emergence of the “drilling method with rotary table”, discovered by the Romanian engineer Ioan Basgan which revolutionized the worldwide deep drilling technology and whose patent is still disputed by Romania and the United States, up to offshore drilling platforms, high pressure blowout preventers, drilling rigs for mining and transport for extreme weather conditions and to the controversial method of extracting shale gas, the transfer of science, engineering and technology knew and will know no boundaries.
Q34|El choque petrolero y sus implicaciones en la economía colombiana|La economía colombiana se ha visto impactada por la fuerte caída en la cotización internacional del petróleo, la cual se caracterizó por ser sorpresiva, acelerada y de magnitud considerable. Según los analistas, este choque podría ser persistente y extenderse por varios años. Sumado a lo anterior, el volumen de producción de hidrocarburos en el territorio nacional también podría caer, como resultado de la menor inversión en el sector ante los bajos precios del crudo. El presente documento hace un análisis descriptivo del choque petrolero reciente y de sus determinantes, así como de sus implicaciones para la economía colombiana. A la fecha, el desplome de los precios ha afectado los términos de intercambio del país y con ello el ingreso nacional, impactando las cuentas externas y la tasa de cambio, las finanzas públicas, la confianza de los mercados y el riesgo país. Lo anterior se ha traducido en una significativa desaceleración de la actividad económica. La respuesta de política económica ha sido coherente con un sólido marco institucional previamente establecido, que ha propiciado un ajuste ordenado de la economía a las nuevas circunstancias externas. Entre las características más importantes de dicho marco de política se destacan un régimen de inflación objetivo con flexibilidad cambiaria, una regla fiscal para el Gobierno Nacional y una política macro-prudencial que aboga por la estabilidad financiera. ****** The Colombian economy has been hit by the sharp fall of international oil prices, which was characterized for being unexpected, sudden and of considerable magnitude. According to analysts, this shock could be persistent and last for several years. On top of that, the volume of oil production in the country could also decrease due to a fall of investment in the sector in the context of lower oil prices. This document aims to provide a descriptive analysis of the recent oil shock, its determinants, and their implications for the Colombian economy. To date, falling oil prices have deteriorated the country's terms of trade and thus, its national income. Other key variables such as the current account, the exchange rate, the public finance, market’s confidence and the country risk premium have also been affected. As a result, a significant economic slowdown is taking place. The economic policy response has been coherent with a sound institutional framework previously established, which has encouraged an orderly adjustment to the new external circumstances. Among the key elements of such framework it is worth mentioning an inflation-targeting scheme with flexible exchange rate, a fiscal rule for the central Government, and a macro-prudential policy aiming at preserving financial stability.
Q34|Energy Security In The Asia-Pacific Region|" type=""main"" xml:id=""coep329-abs-0001""> The nations of the Asia-Pacific Region, including its three sub-regions of Northeast Asia, Southeast Asia, and South Asia, face major potential dangers in securing the energy needed for their economies. This paper focuses on these dangers and discusses the future prospects for these vulnerable nations, including their need for closer cooperation. ( JEL Q32, Q34, Q40)"
Q34|Conservation Contracts and Political Regimes|This article provides a flexible model of resource extraction, such as deforestation, and derives the optimal conservation contract. When property rights are “strong” and districts are in charge of extracting their own resources to get revenues, conservation in one district benefits the others since the reduced supply raises the sales price. A central authority would internalize this positive externality and thus conserve more. When property rights are instead weak and extraction is illegal or costly control, conservation in one district increases the price and thus the profit from illegally depleting the resource in the other districts. The externality from conservation is then negative, and centralization would lead to less conservation. We also derive the optimal conservation contract, and we explain when the principal, who values conservation, benefits from contracting with the districts directly even when contracting with a central authority would have led to more conservation, and vice versa.
Q34|El choque petrolero y sus implicaciones en la economía colombiana|La economía colombiana se ha visto impactada por la fuerte caída en la cotización internacional del petróleo, la cual se caracterizó por ser sorpresiva, acelerada y de magnitud considerable. Según los analistas, este choque podría ser persistente y extenderse por varios años. Sumado a lo anterior, el volumen de producción de hidrocarburos en el territorio nacional también podría caer, como resultado de la menor inversión en el sector ante los bajos precios del crudo. El presente documento hace un análisis descriptivo del choque petrolero reciente y de sus determinantes, así como de sus implicaciones para la economía colombiana. A la fecha, el desplome de los precios ha afectado los términos de intercambio del país y con ello el ingreso nacional, impactando las cuentas externas y la tasa de cambio, las finanzas públicas, la confianza de los mercados y el riesgo país. Lo anterior se ha traducido en una significativa desaceleración de la actividad económica. La respuesta de política económica ha sido coherente con un sólido marco institucional previamente establecido, que ha propiciado un ajuste ordenado de la economía a las nuevas circunstancias externas. Entre las características más importantes de dicho marco de política se destacan un régimen de inflación objetivo con flexibilidad cambiaria, una regla fiscal para el Gobierno Nacional y una política macro-prudencial que aboga por la estabilidad financiera.
Q34|A Computable General Equilibrium Model of International Sanctions|We detail recent international sanctions against the Iranian economy and its government. The effects of these sanctions on the Iranian economy, the Iranian government and rural and urban Iranian households disaggregated by income decile are modelled using a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model which uses endogenous taxes to simulate the effects of sanctions. Results suggest that sanctions on Iranian oil exports had a serious negative effect on the Iranian economy, with very strong negative changes on real revenue earned by the Iranian government, but much more limited effects on the well-being of Iranian rural and urban households.
Q34|Earthquakes in the Netherlands Cannot Shake the European Natural Gas Market|The rising number of earthquakes in the northeastern part of the Netherlands has been attributed to the extraction of natural gas from the Groningen field. This has led tostrong opposition to natural gas production from the Dutch population, a matter that is increasingly preoccupying not only policy-makers on the local and provincial levels,but also the central government. In response, the Dutch government has decided a drastic reduction of production from the Groningen gas field, the largest natural gas field in the country. This has an impact on several Western European countries that import natural gas from the Netherlands. Model calculations by DIW Berlin based on a substantially reduced production of natural gas in the Netherlands show that due to diversified imports effects on the European natural gas market would only be small. Even if the lower Dutch production comes in addition to the disruption of the Russian supplies to Europe, it would not result in serious supply shortages or price increases in Western Europe since gas from other regions are possible. However, these supplies of natural gas would come partly from providers whose reliability might be called into question due to an unstable political situation, as for instance in North Africa.
Q34|Liquefied Natural Gas Will Have to Play a Larger Role in the Future: Six Questions to Franziska Holz|No abstract is available for this item.
Q34|Erdbeben in den Niederlanden können den europäischen Erdgasmarkt nicht erschüttern|The rising number of earthquakes in the northeastern part of the Netherlands has been attributed to the extraction of natural gas from the Groningen field. This has led to strong opposition to natural gas production from the Dutch population, a matter that is increasingly preoccupying not only policy-makers on the local and provincial levels, but also the central government. In response, the Dutch government has decided a drastic reduction of production from the Groningen gas field, the largest natural gas field in the country. This has an impact on several Western European countries that import natural gas from the Netherlands. Model calculations by DIW Berlin based on a substantially reduced production of natural gas in the Netherlands show that due to diversified imports effects on the European natural gas market would only be small. Even if the lower Dutch production comes in addition to the disruption of the Russian supplies to Europe, it would not result in serious supply shortages or price increases in Western Europe since gas from other regions are possible. However, these supplies of natural gas would come partly from providers whose reliability might be called into question due to an unstable political situation, as for instance in North Africa. Die vermehrt auftretenden Erdbeben im Nordosten der Niederlande werden auf die Förderung von Erdgas im Groningen-Feld zurückgeführt. Dadurch entstand erheblicher Widerstand gegen die Erdgasförderung in der niederländischen Bevölkerung, der über die Lokal- und Provinzpolitik hinaus zunehmend auch die Zentralregierung beschäftigt. Inzwischen hat die niederländische Regierung einen starken Rückgang der Förderung aus dem Groningen-Gasfeld, dem größten des Landes, angeordnet. Dies ist für mehrere westeuropäische Länder von Bedeutung, die aus den Niederlanden größere Mengen Erdgas beziehen. Modellrechnungen des DIW mit einer stark reduzierten niederländischen Erdgasförderung zeigen, dass der europäische Markt aufgrund diversifizierter Importe nur geringe Auswirkungen spüren würde. Selbst wenn Russland seine Exporte nach Europa zusätzlich zu der Einschränkung der Erdgasförderung in den Niederlanden einstellen würde, käme es in Westeuropa nicht zu gravierenden Versorgungsengpässen und Preiserhöhungen, da zusätzliche Importe aus anderen Regionen möglich wären. Jedoch würden diese Erdgaslieferungen teilweise von Anbietern kommen, deren Zuverlässigkeit aufgrund instabiler politischer Verhältnisse in Frage gestellt werden kann, beispielsweise Nordafrika.
Q34|Flüssiggas wird künftig eine größere Rolle spielen: Sechs Fragen an Franziska Holz|No abstract is available for this item.
Q34|Local Consequences of Global Uncertainty: Capacity Development and LNG Trade under Shale Gas and Demand Uncertainty and Disruption Risk|Recent supply security concerns in Europe have revived interest into the natural gas market. Here, we investigate investment behavior and trade in an imperfect market structure under uncertainty in both supply and demand. We focus on three uncertain events: i) transit of Russian gas via Ukraine that may be disrupted from 2020 on; ii) natural gas intensity of electricity generation in OECD countries that may lead to higher or lower natural gas demand after 2025; and iii) availability of shale gas around the globe after 2030. We illustrate how timing of investments is affected by inter-temporal hedging behavior of market agents, such as when LNG capacity provides ex-ante flexibility (e.g., in Ukraine to hedge for a possible Russian supply disruption) or an expost fallback option if domestic or nearby pipeline supply sources are low (e.g., uncertain shale gas resources in China). Moreover, we find that investment in LNG capacities is more determined by demand side pull (due to higher needs in electric power generation) than by supply side push (higher shale gas supplies needing an outlet).
Q34|Shaking Dutch grounds won’t shatter the European gas market|The Netherlands have been a pivotal supplier in Western European natural gas markets in the last decades. Recent analyses show that the Netherlands would play an important role in replacing Russian supplies in Germany and France in case of a Russian export disruption. Lately, however, the Netherlands have suffered from a series of earthquakes that are related to the natural gas production in the major Groningen field. By consequence, natural gas production rates – that are politically mandated in the Netherlands – have been substantially reduced, by almost 45% in 2015 compared to 2013-levels. We implement this reduced production path for the next decades in the Global Gas Model and analyse the geopolitical impacts. We find that the diversification of European natural gas imports allows spreading the replacement of Dutch natural gas over many alternative sources, with diverse pipeline and LNG supplies. There will be hardly any price or demand reduction effect. Even if Russia fails to supply Europe, the additional impact of the lower Dutch production is moderate. Hence, the European consumers need not to worry about the declining Dutch natural gas production and their security of supplies.
Q34|Shaking Dutch grounds won’t shatter the European gas market|The Netherlands have been a pivotal supplier in Western European natural gas markets in the last decades. Recent analyses show that the Netherlands would play an important role in replacing Russian supplies in Germany and France in case of a Russian export disruption. Lately, however, the Netherlands have suffered from a series of earthquakes that are related to the natural gas production in the major Groningen field. By consequence, natural gas production rates – that are politically mandated in the Netherlands – have been substantially reduced, by almost 45% in 2015 compared to 2013-levels. We implement this reduced production path for the next decades in the Global Gas Model and analyse the geopolitical impacts. We find that the diversification of European natural gas imports allows spreading the replacement of Dutch natural gas over many alternative sources, with diverse pipeline and LNG supplies. There will be hardly any price or demand reduction effect. Even if Russia fails to supply Europe, the additional impact of the lower Dutch production is moderate. Hence, the European consumers need not to worry about the declining Dutch natural gas production and their security of supplies.
Q34|West Texas Intermediate and Brent Spread during Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Supply Disruptions|This paper investigates the price spread between West Texas Intermediate and Brent during periods of supply disruptions. Using a sample of 50 events of Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) - related unplanned upstream production outages, this paper documents a statistically significant tightening in the price differential. The finding is robust even after accounting for 22 OPEC - related political conflicts, 104 extreme weather conditions in the Atlantic basin, and the period of infrastructural bottlenecks in and around the Cushing, Oklahoma. The result is further confirmed when examining the spread between Light Louisiana sweet and Brent. These findings suggest the need to hedge against such risks and give rise to speculative trading which can be facilitated using the vibrant paper markets.
Q34|Resource concentration and civil wars|This paper highlights the importance of natural resource concentration and ethnic group regional concentration for ethnic conflict. The existence of multiple conflict terrains (and hence multiple threat points) is the source of bargaining failure, similar to the one determined by the presence of offensive advantages. The theory predicts war to be more likely when resource concentration and group concentration are high, and the empirical analysis, both at the country level and at the ethnic group level, confirms the essential role of geographic concentration variables for civil war.
Q34|All quiet on the eastern front? Disruption scenarios of Russian natural gas supply to Europe|The 2014 Russian–Ukrainian crisis reignited European concerns about natural gas supply security recalling the experiences of 2006 and 2009. However, the European supply situation, regulation and infrastructure have changed, with better diversified import sources, EU member states being better connected and a common regulation on the security of supply has been introduced. Nevertheless, European dependency on natural gas remained high. This paper investigates different Russian natural gas export disruptions scenarios and analyses short- and long-term reactions in Europe. We use the Global Gas Model (GGM), a large-scale mixed complementarity representation of the natural gas sector with a high level of technical granularity with respect to storage and transportation infrastructure. While we find that most of the EU member states are not severely affected by Russian disruptions, some East European countries are very vulnerable. Prioritizing the removal of infrastructure bottlenecks is critical for securing a sufficient natural gas supply to all EU member states.
Q34|Can Thinking Green and Sustainability Be an Economic Opportunity for ASEAN?|ASEAN member states (AMS) are confronted by serious environmental problems that threaten to undermine future growth and regional stability. This paper considers four major environmental challenges that policymakers across ASEAN will need to address towards 2030: water management, deforestation and land degradation, air pollution, and climate change. We argue that these challenges, each unique in its own way, exhibit the characteristics of wicked problems. As developed in the planning literature, and now applied much more broadly, wicked problems are dynamic and complex, encompass many issues and stakeholders, and evade straightforward, lasting solutions. Detailed case studies are presented to illustrate the complexity and significance of these environmental challenges, as well as their nature as wicked problems. The most important implication of this finding is that there will be no easy or universal solutions to environmental problems across ASEAN, as Environmental Performance Indicators (EPI) illustrate. This is a caution against over-optimism for formulating sector-specific solutions. It is not, however, a counsel for despair. We suggest general principles which may be useful across the board to tackle the issues and accelerate green growth. These are: a focus on cobenefits; an emphasis on stakeholder participation; a commitment to scientific and technological research; an emphasis on long-term planning; pricing reform; tackling governance issues, in addition to generally bolstering institutional capacity with regard to environmental regulation; and a strengthening of regionally coordinated approaches and international support.
Q34|Tracking Clean Energy Progress in ASEAN Member States and Analysis of Implementation Deficits|The extreme prevalence of energy poverty in several Member States of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) calls for urgent action. This paper shows how clean energy development can be made inclusive by involving low-income households as producers, employees, and business owners. From this perspective, it also analyses how ASEAN economies are stepping up clean energy ambitions and the implementation deficits. One imperative is (i) clean energy with positive externalities that are not factored in either the production or purchasing decisions of consumers. (ii) If non-clean energy companies or products generate negative externalities but no tax or disincentive is levied, then governments may either tax these firms or give incentives to clean energy producers. It concludes that ASEAN Member States need to link the clean energy paradigm and inclusive development policies as part of the Environmental Fiscal Reform to strengthen the foundations for the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community.
Q34|Trasformazioni territoriali e proteste dai cittadini: un caso studio|l’individuazione e catalogazione dei conflitti legati a trasformazioni territoriali. Il numero dei conflitti e dei comitati attivi suggerisce un interesse nei confronti delle questioni ambientali; mette in evidenza le connessioni esistenti con lo sviluppo territoriale e le dinamiche di uso e consumo intensivo del suolo; evidenzia la dimensione del fenomeno. Inoltre, comitati e movimenti vanno letti come desiderio di partecipazione attiva nei processi di trasformazione territoriale, di volontà di incidere sulle decisioni che hanno un impatto diretto sui cittadini e sulla qualità della loro vita. Infine, un uso non razionale del suolo, una gestione poco oculata del territorio ed una pianificazione debole mostrano i limiti delle scelte progettuali effettuate ai diversi livelli di governo (regionale, provinciale, comunale).
Q34|A two-period model of natural resources and inter-country conflicts: Effects of trade sanctions|We develop a two-period general equilibrium model linking natural resources to inter-country conflict, treating resource extraction and wage rate are endogenous. First, we characterize the war equilibrium and derive a number of properties of it. Second, we examine the effects of different types of trade sanctions imposed by the international community on war efforts of the two countries. We find that a temporary current sanction on both countries, or even on one of the countries, will be counter-productive, and an anticipated future sanction on both countries will unambiguously reduce war intensity. Whether an anticipated future sanction on one of countries will reduce war intensity will depend on the level of resource stock; the effect of a permanent sanction on both countries is ambiguous: war intensities will fall only if the resource stocks of the countries are sufficiently high.
Q34|"What Drives the Global ""Land Rush""?"|"We review evidence regarding the size and evolution of the ""land rush"" in the wake of the 2007–8 boom in agricultural commodity prices, and we study the determinants of foreign land acquisition for large-scale agricultural investment. The use of data on bilateral investment relationships to estimate gravity models of transnational land-intensive investments confirms the central role of agro-ecological potential as a pull factor. However, this finding contrasts the standard literature insofar as the quality of the destination country's business climate is insignificant, and weak tenure security is associated with increased interest for investors to acquire land in the country. Policy implications are discussed."
Q34|Would Climate Policy Improve The European Energy Security?|Energy security improvement is often presented as a co-benefit of climate policies. This paper evaluates this claim. It investigates whether climate policy would improve energy security, while accounting for the difficulties entailed by the many-faceted nature of the concept and the large uncertainties on the determinants of future energy systems. A multi-dimension analysis grid is used to capture the energy security concept, and a database of scenarios allows us to explore the uncertainty space. The results, focusing on Europe, reveal there is no unequivocal effect of climate policy on all the perspectives of energy security. Moreover, time significantly matters: the impact of climate policies is mixed in the short term and globally good in the medium term. In the long term, there is a risk of degradation of the energy security. Lastly, we examine the robustness of our results to uncertainties on drivers of economic growth, availability of fossil fuels and the potentials and low-carbon technologies, and find that they are sensitive mainly to fossil fuels availability, low carbon technologies in the energy sector and improvements in energy efficiency.
Q34|Local Government Proliferation, Diversity, and Conﬂict|A key feature of decentralization in developing countries has been the creation of new local governments. The implications of this process for violent conﬂict are not well understood. On the one hand, bringing representative government closer to the electorate can reduce heterogeneity in preferences, thereby mitigating conﬂict. On the other hand, creating local government institutions also leads to a large increase in rents that may be contested violently. Group cleavages can determine which of these two effects prevails. Identifying these distinct channels empirically has proven difﬁcult. This paper resolves these challenges by exploiting a natural experiment in the ethnically and religiously diverse context of post-authoritarian Indonesia where rapid decentralization was accompanied by dramatic growth in the number of new districts and a resulting decline in ethnolinguistic fractionalization. We use new microdata on conﬂict from 2000–2014 and leverage the plausibly exogenous timing of redistricting due to a government moratorium. Overall, redistricting has small and insigniﬁcant average effects on conﬂict. However, areas that experience greater ethnolinguistic and religious homogenization as a result of splitting experience a signiﬁcant reduction in conﬂict. At the same time, we ﬁnd a differential increase in violence in areas that receive a new government and are also ethnically polarized. These differential increases in violence are most pronounced around the time of the ﬁrst election and for types of violence associated with contestation of public resources and institutions. These results suggest that allowing for redistricting along group lines can reduce conﬂict, but the beneﬁts of reduced diversity may be undone if the newly governed population is highly polarized. In such cases, conﬂict may then simply shift from the original seats of government to newly created ones.
Q34|Civil conflicts in Africa: Climate, economic shocks, nighttime lights and spill-over effects|This study examines the relationship between weather conditions, economic shocks and civil conflicts in Africa. While most studies rely on country-level data sets, this study exploits a panel data set of African first-order administrative units covering 1992-2010. Since sub-national gross domestic product for Africa is either unavailable or of poor quality, nighttime light data from satellites is exploited to predict economic growth at the sub-national level. In addition to IV/GMM estimation, the Lasso estimator is employed in order to generate optimal instruments for economic growth from rainfall and temperature variables. It is demonstrated that the Lasso estimator successfully addresses the challenges arising from non-linearities, heterogeneity across climate regions and weak identification. Furthermore, spatial econometric methods account for conflict spill-overs via political, geographical and ethnic ties. Estimation results provide no evidence that economic growth shocks have a significant causal impact on violence, but prices of capital-intensive commodities seem to be associated with civil conflicts.
Q34|Political influence in commercial and financial oil trading : the evidence from US firms|"International politics affects oil trade. But do financial and commercial traders who participate in spot oil trading also respond to changes in international politics? We construct a firm-level dataset for all U.S. oil-importing companies over 1986-2008 to examine how these firms respond to increases in ""political distance"" between the U.S. and her trading partners, measured by divergence in their UN General Assembly voting patterns. Consistent with previous macro evidence, we first show that individual firms diversify their oil imports politically, even after controlling for unobserved firm heterogeneity. However, the political pattern of oil imports is not entirely driven by the concerns of hold-up risks, which exist when oil transactions via term contracts are associated with backward vertical FDI that is subject to expropriation. In particular, our results indicate that even financial and commercial traders significantly reduce their oil imports from U.S. political enemies. Interestingly, while these traders diversify their oil imports politically immediately after changes in international politics, other oil companies reduce their oil imports with a significant time lag. Our findings suggest that in designing regulations to avoid harmful repercussions on commodity and financial assets, policymakers need to understand the nature of political risk."
Q34|EU-Russia trading relations: the challenges of a new gas architecture|Gas security is a key factor in the European Union’s energy policy. Contractual relations based on long-term contracts during the 1970s and 1980s led to relative stability in energy trade between the EU and its gas suppliers. But since the mid-1990s, the process of opening up the EU’s gas industries to competition and the desire to create a single gas market has led to an in-depth reorganization of the sector. The EU now intends to redefine the way in which it manages its relations with its main suppliers, such as Russia, by attempting to impose a model based on competition, unbundling of network industries and privatization. Russia does not intend to implement this “EU model” in its gas sector, despite the big changes taking place in its domestic market. An approach based on the preferential use of state instruments conflicts with the multilateralism and principles of competition upheld by the EU. The EU’s normative power is thus in contradiction with the institutional environment of the Russian energy sector. It is therefore unlikely that energy relations between the EU and Russia will be structured solely on standards stemming from international rules and institutions. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015
Q34|Managing the Minerals Sector: Implications for Trade from Peru and Colombia|Managing and regulating the extractive industries can pose substantial challenges to minerals-rich countries. Aiming to overcome the “resource curse”, some countries attempt to generate greater gains from their natural resources by using trade policy instruments such as export restrictions. Others look to create a balanced regulatory framework to maximise gains from sustainable extraction and minimise the negative spillover effects. Colombia and Peru have aimed to do the latter. This study examines their experiences as regards some aspects of the management of their extractive industries. In particular, it examines the design of the tax system as it applies to non-renewable resources, the reform of the distribution of revenues from the sector, and strategies for tackling illegal mining. These policy areas are important to ensure that the extraction of natural resources benefits the economies and societies of the two Andean nations.
Q34|Los Conflictos Socio-Ambientales y el Valor de las Acciones de las Grandes Empresas Mineras en el Perú: Evaluando la Teoría de las Opciones Reales|El presente estudio tiene como propósito evaluar el efecto derivado de los conflictos socio-ambientales (CSA) en el Perú en el valor de las acciones de las empresas mineras que cotizan en la Bolsa de Valores de Lima, como una primera aproximación a la medición del impacto económico de los conflictos sociales que afectan al sector minero. La hipótesis central del documento que será evaluada y contrastada con evidencia del caso peruano es que la aparición de los conflictos sociales puede tener un efecto negativo en las decisiones de invertir en las acciones de las empresas mineras involucradas y, a su vez, que la aparición y fin de los conflictos generan cambios en las estrategias de inversión que se reflejan en variaciones en el valor de las acciones, en general como respuesta a la mayor (o menor) incertidumbre respecto al futuro de estas inversiones tal como predice la teoría moderna de la inversión basada en las opciones reales (Dixit y Pindyck, 1994; Trigeorgis, 1996). A pesar de que se encuentra evidencia de una correlación negativa entre la aparición de los CSA y la caída en la rentabilidad mensual de las acciones, ésta no es estadísticamente significativa al incluir errores estándar robustos a la presencia de heterocedasticidad y autocorrelación. Sin embargo, sí se encuentra evidencia de un incremento en el número de operaciones de compra-venta de las acciones cuando los conflictos culminan y un aumento de la variabilidad del precio en el mes en que el conflicto culmina y, en sentido opuesto, cuando éste se inicia. La principal conclusión del documento es que los CSA afectan al mercado bursátil a través de incrementos en la incertidumbre, en este caso, sobre la rentabilidad a futuro de los proyectos mineros que son sujetos de conflicto con las comunidades aledañas a estos proyectos, corroborando la hipótesis principal de la teoría de las opciones reales. Si bien esto no se materializa en un impacto en la rentabilidad, sí parece ser señal de que la aparición de conflictos vuelve cautelosos a los inversionistas, los cuales optan por esperar a que la incertidumbre se resuelva antes de apostar de nuevo por inversiones en acciones mineras (respaldadas por portafolios de activos reales como los proyectos mineros). En contraste, al final de los conflictos, la incertidumbre se resuelve, normalizando la situación del mercado bursátil, lo cual brinda mayor seguridad a los inversionistas para invertir en acciones mineras.
Q34|The Geography of Interstate Resource Wars|We establish a theoretical and empirical framework to assess the role of resource endowments and their geographic location in interstate conflict. The main predictions of the theory are that conflict is more likely when at least one country has natural resources, when the resources in the resource-endowed country are closer to the border, and, in the case where both countries have natural resources, when the resources are located asymmetrically vis-à-vis the border. We test these predictions on a novel data set featuring oilfield distances from bilateral borders. The empirical analysis shows that the presence and location of oil are significant and quantitatively important predictors of interstate conflicts after World War II. JEL Codes: C23, D74, F51, H56, Q34.
Q34|Pouring oil over the Balearic tourism industry|This study aims to predict the possible negative effects on the Balearic tourism economy of the exploitation of marine oil fields near its coastline. We describe the current business structure of the islands’ tourism industry and then focus on the various kinds of spills that might affect it. Our conclusion is that the exploitation of the oil fields will significantly damage the tourism industry: a series of small-scale accidents followed by a large spill could destroy the complex structure of Balearic tourism, and would have severe repercussions for the economy of the archipelago.
Q34|The Resource Curse Hypothesis Revisited: Evidence from a Panel VAR|The objective of this paper is to revisit the resource curse hypothesis both within and between countries of different democratic footprint, based on a dynamic model that properly accounts for endogeneity issues. To achieve that, we apply a panel Vector Auto-Regressive (PVAR) approach along with panel impulse response functions to data on oil abundance variables, economic growth and several political institutional variables in 76 countries classified by different income groupings, level of development and oil importing or exporting status, over the period 1980-2012. Our results suggest that controlling for the quality of political institutions is important in rendering the resource course hypothesis significant. Doing so, the resource curse hypothesis is documented mainly for developing economies, net oil-exporters and medium-high income countries. Specifically, when economies from the aforementioned groups are characterised by weak quality of political institutions, then oil abundance is not growth-enhancing.
Q34|Modeling the Geopolitics of Natural Gas: LNG Exports from the US to Eastern Europe|In the course of the crisis in the Ukraine, most leading politicians in Eastern European countries, such as Poland, the Baltic States and Ukraine itself, identified the high dependency on natural gas imports from Russia as a threat to energy security. Hopes of independence through extraction of domestic shale gas resources, which evolved after the US shale gas revolution and the substantial resource estimations for Polish shale gas (published by the EIA in 2011 and updated 2013), are more topical than ever. However, there are several factors, which dim the hope for repetition of the US “shale gas revolution” in Eastern Europe. First, international companies such as Shell, ExxonMobil or Chevron withdrew from Poland and Ukraine due to poor exploration results. Additionally, because of environmental legislation and population density, the obstacles for commercial shale gas production within Europe, compared to the US, are very high. In this paper, the Global Gas Model (GGM) (Egging, 2013) is used to simulate future patterns of the Eastern European gas supply. Shale gas scenarios show that Poland and the Baltic States would lower their dependency with an annual production of 8 bcm (Poland) and 2 bcm (Baltic States) because of their relatively low natural gas consumption. This means, conversely, that a failing production of shale gas would lead to ongoing dependence on natural gas imports. In Ukraine, however, a potential shale gas production of 5 bcm/a does not have major consequences with respect to an annual consumption of up to 60 bcm. As for LNG scenarios, US LNG exports do barely reach the Eastern European gas market in the Base Case scenario. Only in the projected period between 2035 and 2040 Poland receives 4.9 bcm of US LNG. However, the Polish natural gas market is sensitive to provided subsidies. A 30% subsidy on transportation increases the total amount of exported LNG to Poland up to 8 bcm. In contrast, the Ukrainian and Baltic natural gas market, however, barely react to subsidies from the US. A minimum of 60% is needed to export US natural gas under economically rational conditions to both regions. Modeling results show that the increasing natural gas demand in Ukraine, the Baltic States and Poland is in need of either domestic shale gas production or an increase of pipeline or LNG imports.
Q34|Energies alternatives, énergies renouvelables, énergies vertes: la biomasse et climat|Après avoir évoqué différentes pistes relatives aux énergies alternatives disponibles dans nos Sociétés, l’accent est mis sur l’attractivité de la valorisation de la biomasse et ses limites environnementales et économiques.
Q34|Resource rents, institutions, and violent civil conflicts| Natural resources have been blamed for inducing slow growth and sparking civil conflicts and violence. This paper first develops a model to account for the hazard of armed civil conflicts as a manifestation of the natural resource curse, which is mediated by the quality of both economic and political institutions. We then use recently published data on institutional quality and natural resource rents to measure the potential impact of the resource curse on violent civil conflicts using a panel of data for over 100 countries in the period 1970-2010. Our model explicitly accounts for the role of good economic and political institutions in deterring the recourse to violence as well as the extent to which they might weaken the resource rents effect.
Q34|International Carbon Trade and Domestic Climate Politics|This article theorizes about the implications for domestic climate politics of three distinct roles countries play in the global carbon supply chain: fossil fuel producer, manufacturer of carbon-intensive goods, and final consumer. Because international responsibility is assigned to territorial emissions, countries at either end of the global supply chain effectively evade environmental responsibility by shifting fossil fuel combustion to manufacturing countries. In so doing, they lessen the political challenges of reducing domestic emissions. Although exporters of carbon-intensive goods are reluctant to disadvantage local producers, importers can craft policies that both reduce territorial emissions and create local jobs. Ironically, fossil fuel exporters can emerge as leaders in reducing their own territorial emissions, a finding illustrated by case studies of British Columbia and Norway. The conclusion argues that shifting responsibility for carbon emissions to the point of either final consumption or fossil fuel extraction could facilitate an international climate agreement.
Q34|Expropriation and the Location of Farmland Investment: a theoretical investigation into the Land Rush|Accompanying a sharp rise in food prices between 2007 and 2008 were reports of land deals in the global South. The sudden rise in land acquisitions in developing countries has drawn the attention of scholars and think tanks. In particular, a set of recent papers by Deininger (2011), Deininger (2013), and Arezki et al. (2013) sought to understand the empirical determinants of the land rush. They find that investors tend to target countries that have weak land-governance institutions, understood as the degree to which local land rights are upheld. This is a puzzle, given the economic literature on investment location. By locating in a country with weak land-governance, investors may be foregoing other advantages that generate more revenue. What does such a result say about both the nature of the investment projects, and the productive characteristics of the target countries? In this paper, I attempt to answer these questions using a game-theoretic model where investors can use expropriation as a credible threat, consistent with case studies and empirical data from actual land deals. I show that the credible threat of expropriation lowers the investor’s cost of locating to a country by reducing the necessary remuneration to smallholders for access to land, resulting in adverse incorporation. Further, I show that investors will locate in countries with weak land governance whenever they anticipate similar levels of revenue among the set of countries they target, or, whenever they can guarantee a similar level of investor protections.
Q34|Valuing the benefits of improved marine environmental quality under multiple stressors|Many marine and coastal ecosystems are under increasing pressure from multiple stressors. In the Baltic Sea, these stressors include oil and chemical spills from shipping, nutrient run-off from land and invasive species. All of these pressures have been rising over the recent past. Increasing pressures lead to reductions in environmental quality, which produce negative effects on human well-being. In this paper, the choice experiment method is used to estimate the benefits to people in Estonia resulting from reductions in pressure from multiple stressors in the Baltic.
Q34|Perú: extracción de recursos naturales, desarrollo económico e inclusión social|Explica las características de la situación actual de la extracción de los recursos naturales en el Perú desde el punto de vista económico, social y legal. También, da a conocer estudios de casos: Compañía Minera Antamina S.A. , Tintaya-Xtrata, el Proyecto Minero Toromocho-Chinalco y el caso de Camisea.
Q34|Correlations and volatility spillovers across commodity and stock markets: Linking energies, food, and gold|This paper employs a VAR-GARCH model to investigate the return links and volatility transmission between the S&P 500 and commodity price indices for energy, food, gold and beverages over the turbulent period from 2000 to 2011. Understanding the price behavior of commodity prices and the volatility transmission mechanism between these markets and the stock exchanges are crucial for each participant, including governments, traders, portfolio managers, consumers, and producers. For return and volatility spillover, the results show significant transmission among the S&P 500 and commodity markets. The past shocks and volatility of the S&P 500 strongly influenced the oil and gold markets. This study finds that the highest conditional correlations are between the S&P 500 and gold index and the S&P 500 and WTI index. We also analyze the optimal weights and hedge ratios for commodities/S&P 500 portfolio holdings using the estimates for each index. Overall, our findings illustrate several important implications for portfolio hedgers for making optimal portfolio allocations, engaging in risk management and forecasting future volatility in equity and commodity markets.
Q34|Medicinal and Aromatic Plants for Enhancing Farm Income: The Case of Bihar|Medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs) provide opportunities for developing a variety of safe and cost effective, prophylactic, and curative medicines for a number of maladies. It is estimated that the primary health care of over 80 per cent of the world’s population still depends on plant based traditional medicines (WHO, 2002). Growing consciousness about health and side effects of modern medicines has again set the stage for innovation and use of herbal medicines. Evidence shows that the total domestic potential for crude drugs and oil extracts in India is worth Rs 3 billion, of which the requirements of over-the-counter products. Realizing the vast untapped potentials of medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs) and impediments in their development. Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA), Patna has followed a systematic approach while taking MAPs for pilot testing. It made assessment about the local conditions and requirements, and demand for MAPs; strengthened capacity by traing various stakeholders; played role in supporting individuals and institutions; developed relevant literature in local language; emphasized on group approach by organizing the growers; encouraged cultivation through the organized sector with linking the unorganized farmers; and evolved a pricing mechanism with buy back arrangement with partner industry under public-private partnership(PPP). The present study tries to outline some of the steps taken to promote MAPs in Bihar for better income to the farmers.
Q34|Empowering Rights-holders and Facilitating Duty-bearers to Secure Farmers’ Rights in Nepal|Nepal has ratified both the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (ITPGRFA). As such, it has accepted its role as a duty-bearer to its people, including the duty to uphold farmers’ rights to plant genetic resources for food and agriculture and their associated traditional knowledge. The chapter discuss how the simultaneous empowerment of right-holders and duty bearers is important for realization of farmers' right by smallholder farmers.
Q34|Land grabbing: hydro-political effects in the Nile river basin|and-grabbing is provoking intense debate because of its potential environmental and socio-economic impacts. This article aims to provide an analysis of the linkages between land acquisitions and water-resource exploitation, focusing on the Nile River Basin as a case study. The relative abundance of strategic natural resources for agricultural production is attracting foreign investors, leading to a proliferation of land-grabbing in several Nile-basin riparian countries. Given the new geopolitical context, popula change, the Nile waters have become a fundamental strategic resource for the hydropolitical balance of the region.
Q34|Bilateral engagement amid geopolitics: A case of India and Iran|India’s engagement with West Asia including Iran has always been a balancing act hovering between economic necessities and strategic pursuits. The paper briefly traces the evolution of Indo-Iran engagements and also analyses their respective macroeconomic parameters. It also outlines and discusses three major geopolitical and geo-economic influences including sanctions on Iran, payment mechanism, and Iran’s business environment. Moreover, the issues pertaining to access to oil, transit route through Afghanistan and other trade facilitation measures have also been discussed. The paper also uses the revealed comparative advantage index to identify some potential areas of cooperation. Also, it argues that India needs to be more cautious and pragmatic in its strategic endeavours.
Q34|Supply Disruptions and Regional Price Effects in a Spatial Oligopoly—An Application to the Global Gas Market| Supply shocks in the global gas market may affect countries differently, as the market is regionally interlinked but not perfectly integrated. Additionally, high supply-side concentration may expose countries to market power in different ways. To evaluate the strategic position of importing countries with regard to gas supplies, we disentangle the import price into different components and characterize each component as price increasing or price decreasing. Because of the complexity of the interrelations in the global gas market, we use an equilibrium model programmed as a mixed complementarity problem (MCP) and simulate the blockage of liquefied natural gas (LNG) flows through the Strait of Hormuz. This enables us to account for the oligopolistic nature and the asymmetry of the gas supply. We find that Japan faces the most severe price increases, as the Japanese gas demand completely relies on LNG supply. In contrast, European countries such as the UK benefit from good interconnection to the continental pipeline system and domestic price taking production, both of which help to mitigate an increase in physical costs of supply as well as in the exercise of market power.
Q34|Resource Extraction Contracts Under Threat of Expropriation: Theory and Evidence| We use fiscal data on 2,468 oil extraction agreements in 38 countries to study tax contracts between resource-rich countries and independent oil companies. We analyze why expropriations occur and what determines the degree of oil price exposure of host countries. With asymmetric information about a country's expropriation cost, even optimal contracts feature expropriations. Near linearity in the oil price of real-world hydrocarbon contracts also helps to explain expropriations. We show theoretically and verify empirically that oil price insurance provided by tax contracts is increasing in a country's cost of expropriation and decreasing in its production expertise. The timing of actual expropriations is consistent with our model. © 2013 The President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Q34|Natural-resource or market-seeking FDI in Russia? An empirical study of locational factors affecting the regional distribution of FDI entries|This paper conducts an empirical study of the factors that affect the spatial distribution of foreign direct investment (FDI) across regions in Russia; in particular, this paper is concerned with those regions that are endowed with natural resources and market-related benefits. Our analysis employs data on Russian firms with a foreign investor during the 2000-2009 period and linked regional statistics in the conditional logit model. The main findings are threefold. First, we conclude that one theory alone is not able to explain the geographical pattern of foreign investments in Russia. A combination of determinants is at work; market-related factors and the availability of natural resources are important factors in attracting FDI. The relative importance of natural resources seems to grow over time, despite shocks associated with events such as the Yukos trial. Second, existing agglomeration economies encourage foreign investors by means of forces generated simultaneously by sector-specific and inter-sectoral externalities. Third, the findings imply that service-oriented FDI co-locates with extraction industries in resource-endowed regions. The results are robust when Moscow is excluded and for subsamples including only Greenfield investments or both Greenfield investments and mergers and acquisitions (M&A)
Q34|Natural resource rents and internal conflicts: Can decentralization lift the curse?|We study how natural resource rents affect the risk of internal conflict within countries and how the federal structure of countries influences this relationship. Natural resource abundance may induce excessive rent-seeking and thus increase the risk of internal conflict. Fiscal and political decentralization as an institutional arrangement for rent-sharing and political codetermination of regions within a country may limit the destructive effect of natural resource rents on internal stability. Using cross-country and panel data from more than 90 countries covering the period 1984–2004, we find evidence that natural resource rents indeed increase the risk of internal conflict, but this relationship is significantly mitigated by political decentralization.
Q34|Fat-tail Climate Risks, Mechanism design, and Reputation| This paper investigates the interaction between consumers and producers in designing incentive mechanism for climate protection. Firms have material interests in building a moral reputation for those consumers who prefer buying from socially responsible firms. We examine optimal monetary transfer by addressing crowding out effect due to reputation. We find green reputation leads to overprotection and brown firms buy reputation if consumers have strong preference on green products. When consumers care less about firms’ reputation, firms do not have any incentive to buy reputation.
Q34|Valutazione tecnico-economica delle potenzialità di riutilizzo irriguo dei reflui depurati: il caso della Valpadana| Gli effetti dei cambiamenti climatici (CC), sebbene soltanto vagamente ipotizzati qualche decennio fa, hanno cominciato a manifestarsi negli ultimi anni facendo emergere la vulnerabilità soprattutto del settore agricolo. Mentre le indicazioni politiche internazionali promuovono azioni congiunte di lungo periodo volte all’adozione di misure di mitigazione dei CC (riduzione dei gas serra), non sono ancora state chiaramente definite efficaci misure di adattamento di breve periodo, soprattutto per le problematiche connesse alla scarsità idrica. Questo lavoro contribuisce al dibattito in corso sulla politica di adattamento ai CC nel settore agricolo italiano nel contesto sia della pianificazione della Politica Agricola Comune nel periodo 2014-2020 sia dell’attuazione della Direttiva Quadro delle Acque 2000/60/CE , proponendo un’analisi di fattibilità tecnico-economica del riutilizzo irriguo delle acque reflue depurate (RI) in Val Padana associato all’adeguamento dei depuratori e delle reti idriche. L’analisi tecnica è stata condotta utilizzando un sistema geografico di supporto alle decisioni di tipo multicriteriale implementato attraverso una scelta ponderata dei fattori che maggiormente influiscono sulla potenziale realizzazione della misura. Gli attributi sono stati scelti in base alla idrografia del territorio, la vulnerabilità ai nitrati, il clima previsto al 2050, il grado di urbanizzazione e le caratteristiche della rete irrigua. I vincoli definiti nel modello tengono conto della distanza dagli impianti di depurazione, il fabbisogno idrico e il sistema irriguo aziendale. I risultati suggeriscono che, sulla maggior parte dell’area, il RI è fattibile a condizione che i depuratori siano dotati di trattamento terziario e che siano in uso sistemi di microirrigazione. Nelle aree idonee, quindi, si è proceduto all’analisi costi-benefici tenendo in considerazione i costi di investimento per l’adattamento dei depuratori idonei e delle reti idriche associate e i benefici derivanti dal più alto valore d’uso alternativo della risorsa convenzionale risparmiata. L’analisi evidenzia benefici annuali nettamente superiore ai costi
Q34|Why Are the Stakes So High? Misconceptions and Misunderstandings in China’s Global Quest for Energy Security|China’s global quest for resources, in particular oil and natural gas, has received unprecedented worldwide attention and scrutiny. This is partly because of China’s own high-profile, active energy diplomacy, its national oil companies’ acquisitions in the key exporting regions of oil and natural gas and some debatable issues about the management and operation of these companies. But why the stakes are raised unnecessarily high is mainly because of the growing politicization of Chinese energy security as a result of misconceptions and misunderstandings of China’s quest for energy security both inside and outside China. This paper aims to de-politicize the debate on China’s global quest for energy resources and to put discussions on that issue into perspective. To that end, the paper first categorizes the main features of China’s energy mix and discusses why energy security in China equates to a large extent to oil security. The paper then pays special attention to misconceptions and misunderstandings regarding the hypothesized U.S.-led oil blockade against China; the Chinese policy banks and their oil and natural gas-based loans; and the role of Chinese investments in oil and gas fields overseas in discussions on China’s global quest for energy resources. Finally, the paper ends with some concluding remarks on a more constructive way forward.
Q34|Managing Wicked Problems in Agribusiness: The Role of Multi-Stakeholder Engagements in Value Creation| Environmental degradation and biodiversity loss, persisting poverty, a mounting obesity epidemic, food insecurity and the use of biotechnology are all examples of wicked problems faced by agricultural and food organizations. Yet, managers and policy-makers often do not recognize that these problems are “wicked”. Wicked problems have cause-effect relationships that are difficult or impossible to define, cannot be framed and solved without creating controversies among stakeholders and require collective action among societal groups with strongly held, conflicting beliefs and values. In contrast to past research, this Special Issue takes an organizational perspective by tackling three key managerial questions: what is the value of managing wicked problems and engaging with multiple stakeholders? What are the human and organizational resources and the strategic conditions needed to engage with multiple stakeholders effectively? How can multi-stakeholder engagements be undertaken? A world collection of empirical case studies conducted by business, NGO and university leaders tackle these questions. For managers, the Issue offers recent and thought-provoking insights on how to recognize and deal with wicked problems. For academics, it proposes an agenda for addressing the topic and promises to fuel a research and education debate for years to come.
Q34|Partnering for Change in Chains: the Capacity of Partnerships to Promote Sustainable Change in Global Agrifood Chains| Intersectoral partnerships mirror the changing nature of the relationships among state, business and civil society organizations, and are often considered innovative mechanisms to overcome single actor failure in the context of globalization. This article analyzes the capacity of partnerships to promote sustainable change in global agrifood chains from a governance and a development perspective. The global coffee, cotton, and cocoa chains serve as main fields of application. From a governance perspective, the emergence of partnerships is largely positive inasmuch as partnerships act as initiators and agents of change which, although still mostly confined to niche markets, unfolds a chain-wide governance effect. From a development perspective, partnerships can be viewed critically as their top-down and business-driven nature leads to uncertain benefits for producers and results in the marginalization of certain development concerns. These differing conclusions can be explained by the fact that partnerships largely embody the neoliberal agenda, which raises specific questions, particularly from a development perspective.
Q34|Building Capabilities for Multi-Stakeholder Interactions at Global and Local Levels: The case of Unilever| Managers of Unilever discuss the processes that led the company to develop and implement a corporate sustainability strategy working with multiple stakeholders. Major learning points include: 1) interactions with stakeholders are crucial to secure strategic resources in developing countries; 2) developing multi-stakeholder platforms must be rooted in the corporate culture and based on principles of innovation; 3) the overarching sustainability strategy, Sustainable Living Plan, launched in 2010, set broad objectives, while empowering local and regional managers—and even individual employees—to start and scale bottom-up initiatives if they find consensus within the organization. The discussions promise to fuel the debate on how organizations can effectively manage “wicked problems” through multi-stakeholder engagement.
Q34|More than Coping: Thriving in a World of Wicked Problems| This essay asks whether it is possible to find ways of thriving in a world full of wicked problems—the most significant of which may be the sustainability crisis. Ensuring a healthful and adequate food supply comprised of nature-made foods rather than processed goods, demands collaborative actions, new leadership skills and the evolution of global action networks (GANs).
Q34|Can Agribusiness Feed 3 Billion New People…and Save the Planet? A GLIMPSE into the Future| The challenge of feeding another three billion people within the next 40 years clearly meets the definition of a ‘wicked problem’. Agribusinesses have been seen as part of the problem, pursuing short-term gains at the expense of human development and the environment. We argue that private sector, market-driven solutions are an essential component to meeting this challenge. Combining a literature review with interviews from a panel of 24 agribusiness ‘experts’, we identify seven key barriers which impede our ability to feed nine billion people on earth. Collected under the acronym GLIMPSE, they help to frame the obstacles and identify the opportunities. This is an important step towards harnessing the power of the marketplace so that agribusinesses can bring together the creativity, determination, and technology similar to the ‘miracle of the cerrados’ in Brazil to bear on the challenge of feeding the three billion additional people that will join our world by 2050.
Q34|Water use efficiency and maximizing profitability of grain sorghum production in the Texas Panhandle| The reduction in the availability of irrigation water and the increase in pumping costs resulting from the decline in the Ogallala Aquifer make good management decisions more critical for the survival of the farm firm and the success of the agricultural sector in the Texas Panhandle. Response functions for irrigation and percentage potential evapotranspiration (PET) in the production of grain sorghum are estimated. The response functions are transferred into value product functions and combined with an irrigation energy cost function to determine the profit maximizing irrigation strategy. Three management decision variables; total water available, the level of irrigation and the water to meet crop ET requirements are evaluated. Grain sorghum yield, natural precipitation, irrigation, soil moisture content, potential evapotranspiration, and percent potential evapotranspiration (PET) data, collected over the period from 1998 through 2007 by commercial producers participating in the AgriPartners program are used to estimate the response functions. Results indicate that the optimum level of irrigation increases as the price of sorghum increases and decreases as the price of natural gas increases.
Q34|Les benefices et les couts economiques de l'exploitation des gaz de shale au Quebec| Ce texte presente une esquisse des elements quie devrait inclure une analyse couts-benefices de la pertinence de developper la filiere de l'extraction du gaz de shale au Quebec. This article offers a sketch of the components that should include a costs-benefits analysis of developing or not a shale gas industry in Quebec.
Q34|How much do the neighbors pay? Economic costs of international gas disputes|The paper analyzes financial performance of European companies during Ukrainian-Russian gas disputes in January 2006 and 2009. Investors' reaction to the gas disputes is estimated for companies listed on the European stock exchanges and for which natural gas is the main factor of production. Economic costs of the gas cut-offs are estimated using event study methodology. It is found that the most severe decline in value due to the gas disputes was for companies located in the CEE states that are heavily dependent on Russian gas supply. The paper also contributes to the literature on the bargaining power of states, providing an empirical investigation of how much costs bears a party with less bargaining power in the dispute.
Q34|La economía petrolera en Colombia Marco legal - contractual y sus principales efectos sobre la actividad económica del país (parte I)|El documento analiza utilizando el enfoque de la nueva economía institucional la evolución del marco legal y contractual de la economía petrolera en Colombia desde sus inicios y sus principales efectos sobre el régimen fiscal. Este último es entendido como el proceso mediante el cual el Estado colombiano se apropia de los recursos provenientes de esta actividad. También se describen las principales características de la cadena productiva del petróleo (exploración, explotación, producción y reservas), así como los aspectos más relevantes de la regulación aplicable a la inversión extranjera directa y a las operaciones cambiarias efectuadas por la industria petrolera en Colombia.
Q34|Giant oilfields and civil conflict|We use new data to examine the effects of giant oilfield discoveries around the world since 1946. On average, these discoveries increase per capita oil production and oil exports by up to 50 percent. But these giant oilfield discoveries also have a dark side: they increase the incidence of internal armed conflict by about 5-8 percentage points. This increased incidence of conflict due to giant oilfield discoveries is especially high for countries that had already experienced armed conflicts or coups in the decade prior to discovery.
Q34|Optimal Tariffs on Exhaustible Resources: The Case of a Quantity Setting Cartel|We formulate a dynamic game model of trade in an exhaustible resource with a quantity-setting cartel. We compute the feedback Nash equilibrium and two Stackelberg equilibria under two different leadership scenarios: leadership by the strategic importing country, and leadership by the exporting cartel. We numerically show that as compared to the Nash equilibrium, both players are better off if the importing country is the leader. The follower is worse off if the exporting cartel is the leader. Among the three game-theoretic outcomes, the world welfare is highest under the importing country's leadership and lowest under the exporting country’s leadership.
Q34|Renewable Resource Shocks and Conflict in India’s Maoist Belt|Is there a causal relationship between shocks to renewable natural resources, such as agricultural and forest lands, and the intensity of conflict? In this paper, we conduct a rigorous econometric analysis of a civil conflict that the Indian Prime Minister has called the single biggest internal security challenge ever faced by his country, the so-called Maoist conflict. We focus on over-time within-district variation in the intensity of conflict in the states where this conflict is primarily located. Using a novel data set of killings, we find that adverse renewable resource shocks have a robust, significant association with the intensity of conflict. A one standard deviation decrease in our measure of renewable resources increases killings by 12.5 percent contemporaneously, 9.7 percent after a year, and 42.2 percent after two years. Our instrumental variables strategy allows us to interpret these findings in a causal manner.
Q34|Direct Distribution of Oil Revenues in Venezuela: A Viable Alternative?|Venezuela is a textbook example of a resource-dependent country—between 1950 and 2008, oil generated over a trillion dollars of income for the state. Nevertheless, Venezuela currently combines an economy that is stagnant, despite high oil prices, with an increasingly authoritarian government. The authors argue that large oil rents that accrue to the state, together with a lack of formal and transparent mechanisms to facilitate citizen oversight, are a large part of the problem. They consider the nature of the fiscal contract between the Venezuelan government and its people. This has been characterized by increasing discretion of the executive; only a small share of the rents is now subject to political oversight within the framework of the budgetary system. The authors consider the case for direct distribution of rents, distinguishing it from a populist approach to transfers as effected through Venezuela’s misiones. They also report on focus group discussions of the direct- distribution approach and the political viability of direct transfers.
Q34|Optimal Tariffs On Exhaustible Resources: The Case Of Quantity-Setting|Constructing a dynamic game model of trade of an exhaustible resource, this paper compares feedback Nash and Stackelberg equilibria. We consider two different leadership scenarios: leadership by the importing country, and leadership by the exporting country. We numerically show that as compared to the Nash equilibrium, both countries are better off if the importing country is a leader, but that the follower is worse off if the exporting country is a leader. Consequently, the world welfare is highest under the importing country's leadership and lowest under the exporting country's leadership.
Q34|La economía petrolera en Colombia Marco legal - contractual y sus principales efectos sobre la actividad económica del país (parte I)|El documento analiza utilizando el enfoque de la nueva economía institucional la evolución del marco legal y contractual de la economía petrolera en Colombia desde sus inicios y sus principales efectos sobre el régimen fiscal. Este último es entendido como el proceso mediante el cual el Estado colombiano se apropia de los recursos provenientes de esta actividad. También se describen las principales características de la cadena productiva del petróleo (exploración, explotación, producción y reservas), así como los aspectos más relevantes de la regulación aplicable a la inversión extranjera directa y a las operaciones cambiarias efectuadas por la industria petrolera en Colombia.
Q34|InternationalPolitics and Import Diversification in the Second Wave of Globalization|"We provide evidence that deterioration of relations between the United States and another country, measured by divergence in their UN General Assembly voting patterns, reduces US imports from that country during the second wave of globalization. Though statistically, significant, such an effect of ""political distance"" on trade is small compared with the frictions imposed by other trade barriers. Indeed, using sector-level trade data, we show that except for petroleum and some chemical products, US imports are not affected by international politics. American firms, however, diversify their import of crude oil significantly away from the political opponents of the US, even after controlling for wars, sanctions, and tariffs. To explain the distinctive political impact on oil import diversification, we test the strategy commodity hypothesis over the hold-up risk hypothesis, because while oil is widely thought to be a strategic commodity, oil trade is also often associated with backward vertical FDI that is subject to the risks of hold-up and expropriation. Our results suggest both political and economic forces are at work. First, although the political limits on oil import are only significant when American firms import oil from dictators, the effect is even more pronounced when the exporting countries have high expropriation risk. Second, a similar import pattern is observed only for other major powers or countries with oil companies operating overseas. Finally, we show that while the US imports of a few strategic commodities, such as tin, are also discouraged by political distance, a similar political effect is also observed in the import of R&D intensive goods, in which case quasi-rents derived from backward FDI in R&D may be expropriated by a hostile government."
Q34|The dynamics of land-use in Brazilian Amazon|This paper studies the dynamics of land-use in the Brazilian Amazon using a structural vector autoregressive (SVAR) model. A fixed effect panel data specification is used to control for the heterogeneity in the data. Meanwhile, spatial autocorrelation is also diagnosed by a statistical methodology that allows us to split the model in subsamples (clusters) of more homogenous municipalities. The clustering analysis shows that there are three clusters whose land-use patterns are strongly different in an economical point of view. The first cluster identifies municipalities dedicated to logging, natural resources exploitation and slash-and-burn cultures; the second cluster shows a more diversified agriculture; while the third cluster presents very developed intensive agriculture municipalities.
Q34|War and natural resource exploitation|We build a theoretical framework that allows for endogenous conflict behaviour (i.e., fighting efforts) and for endogenous natural resource exploitation (i.e., speed, ownership, and investments). While depletion is spread in a balanced Hotelling fashion during peace, the presence of conflict creates incentives for rapacious extraction, as this lowers the stakes of future contest. This voracious extraction depresses total oil revenue, especially if world oil demand is relatively elastic and the government’s weapon advantage is weak. Some of these political distortions can be overcome by bribing rebels or by government investment in weapons. The shadow of conflict can also make less efficient nationalized oil extraction more attractive than private extraction, as insecure property rights create a holdup problem for the private firm and lead to a lower license fee. Furthermore, the government fights less intensely than the rebels under private exploitation, which leads to more government turnover. Without credible commitment to future fighting efforts, private oil depletion is only lucrative if the government’s non-oil office rents are large and weaponry powerful, which guarantees the government a stronger grip on office and makes the holdup problem less severe.
Q34|Civil unrest in North Africa—Risks for natural gas supply?|The uprising and military confrontation in Libya that began in February 2011 has led to disruptions of gas supplies to Europe. An analysis of how Europe has compensated for these missing gas volumes shows that this situation has not affected security of supply. However, this situation would change if the North African uprising were to spread to Algeria. Since Algeria is a much more important gas supplier to Europe than is Libya, more severe consequences would be likely. Applying a natural gas infrastructure model, we investigate the impact of supplier disruptions from both countries for a summer and winter period. Our analysis shows that disruptions in the low-demand summer months could be compensated for, mainly by LNG imports into several European countries. An investigation of a similar situation at the beginning of the winter shows that security of supply would be severely compromised and that disruptions to Italian consumers would be unavoidable. The analysis thereby highlights the importance of taking the political stability of supply countries into account when assessing the security of European gas imports.
Q34|Social responsibility and resource extraction: Are Chinese oil companies different?|In order to meet China’s rapidly increasing demand for oil, Chinese oil companies have been investing in oil production around the world. This article addresses one specific aspect of the more generalized fears expressed about China’s increasing demand for natural resources which is the impact that its oil companies will have on the corporate social responsibility (CSR) movement. In doing so, it limits its analysis to the three main Chinese oil companies: the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), the China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation (Sinopec) and the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) and their investments in sub-Saharan Africa.
Q34|A clash of cultures (and lawyers): Anglo Platinum and mine-affected communities in Limpopo Province, South Africa|The human rights related controversies surrounding Anglo Platinum's Mogalakwena mine in South Africa's Limpopo Province hit the world stage in 2008, attracting public scrutiny and instigating much debate in the realm of international business and human rights discussions. We provide an in-depth analysis of the controversies at Mogalakwena, and Anglo Platinum's responses. This case study contributes to ongoing debates on mining company-community relations in the context of the emerging business and human rights agenda, specifically with respect to the notion of human rights ‘due diligence’. We argue that the Mogalakwena case study illustrates the risks of companies adhering to and emphasizing the technical and logistical facets of due diligence, without sufficient attention to the relational, communicative and emergent aspects, which are closely tied to corporate culture. We highlight the complexities of company-community relationships, with particular reference to the issues of legitimate community representation and participatory decision-making, and discuss the role that organizational culture plays in exacerbating or mitigating corporate-community conflict. The case study demonstrates how legal challenges often exacerbate rather than resolve the conflicts that arise due to a clash between corporate and community cultures. We suggest the need for corporate leaders to become more conscious of this cultural dimension of effective social management, particularly when interacting with communities whose cultures are markedly different from those of business corporations.
Q34|Corporate social responsibility in the mining industry: Perspectives from stakeholder groups in Argentina|Since the liberalisation of its investment regime in the 1990s, Argentina has seen a rise in foreign direct investment into large-scale exploration and exploitation of mineral resources. However, many social groups (local communities, grassroots movement and the church) often strongly oppose new mining projects on the grounds of environmental, ethical and economic concerns. In a situation marked by widespread conflict, mining companies continue operating and develop Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives which are often promoted as a means of contributing to the sustainability and development of the nation. The paper develops a framework to highlight how the principles of stakeholder theory could be used as conceptual and practical guidance for conflict-resolution oriented CSR policies. The framework is further used to analyse two case studies of conflictive mining projects in Argentina. The paper explores how key stakeholders perceive contribution of CSR to welfare and the socio-economic development of mining communities and sustainable development of the nation. It demonstrates that institutional and social stakeholder networks often strongly oppose the idea of voluntary self-regulation implied by CSR in situations characterised by weak governance. Even though the CSR of companies could be improved in areas of corporate communication, transparency, stakeholder engagement and dialogue, it is not seen as a panacea for the social conflicts in the sector.
Q34|How can public–private partnerships contribute to security and human rights policy and practice in the extractive industries? A case study of The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)|Across sub-Saharan Africa, the presence of foreign large-scale mining companies is increasing. This is in part a result of depleting resources in countries such as Canada, United States and Australia, and in part from a more favorable national mine investment climate in several mineral-rich African countries. Their increased presence raises important questions around the potential role and function of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the sector. In post-conflict and/or fragile states, CSR has further implications for conflict and risk mitigation strategies to ensure the protection of human rights. One CSR approach increasingly being considered is the public–private partnership, whereby companies, public donors, and development agencies leverage their relationships for mutual benefit. There is merit in exploring its function in post-conflict fragile states, where socio-economic needs are high and the capacity of the state to respond to a variety of mine governance challenges is limited. Two case studies from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are presented, and their policy implications, discussed.
Q34|Natural resources and military expenditure: The case of Algeria|With world military expenditure rising rapidly since 2000, one of the possible drivers that has drawn less attention has been the role of natural resource revenues, especially oil. Countries as diverse as Angola, Azerbaijan, Chad, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, and Timor-Leste have seen huge rises in military expenditure on the back of rapidly increasing oil revenues. Natural resource extraction can generate conflict and create an imperative to protect resource infrastructure from internal or external threats. At the same time it provides a ready source of government revenue, and in particular foreign currency. The lack of transparency often associated with such revenues may facilitate off-budget spending or large, and possibly corrupt, arms purchases. Up to now, most econometric research has not considered the role of resource revenues as a determinant of military expenditure. We provide a preliminary analysis for the case of Algeria, estimating military expenditure as a function of oil revenues and other economic and security factors from 1975 to 2008. We find some evidence that oil revenues have had a statistically significant positive effect on Algerian military expenditure.
Q34|Why Are the Stakes So High? Misconceptions and Misunderstandings in China’s Global Quest for Energy Security| China’s global quest for resources, in particular oil and natural gas, has received unprecedented worldwide attention and scrutiny. This is partly because of China’s own high-profile, active energy diplomacy, its national oil companies’ acquisitions in the key exporting regions of oil and natural gas and some debatable issues about the management and operation of these companies. But why the stakes are raised unnecessarily high is mainly because of the growing politicization of Chinese energy security as a result of misconceptions and misunderstandings of China’s quest for energy security both inside and outside China. This paper aims to de-politicize the debate on China’s global quest for energy resources and to put discussions on that issue into perspective. To that end, the paper first categorizes the main features of China’s energy mix and discusses why energy security in China equates to a large extent to oil security. The paper then pays special attention to misconceptions and misunderstandings regarding the hypothesized U.S.-led oil blockade against China; the Chinese policy banks and their oil and natural gas-based loans; and the role of Chinese investments in oil and gas fields overseas in discussions on China’s global quest for energy resources. Finally, the paper ends with some concluding remarks on a more constructive way forward.
Q34|Complementarity and the resource curse|This paper discusses how the economic structure and asset ownership shape economic and political outcomes. Using a simple model of the productive sector, I provide theoretical evidence that complementarities between productive assets reduce the stakes of political competition, and therefore reduce the intensity of the conflict over political power. In particular, these results provide a theoretical explanation for the frequent conflicts associated with abundant mineral resources. They are valid in a democratic setting, where this competition is electoral, but also in any other setting, where competition may be of a more violent nature. I then extend this analysis to show that complementarity of productive assets positively influences the willingness of elite groups to invest in property rights institutions, thus providing an economic explanation for why some countries have endogenously developed a context more favorable to business than others.
Q34|Unobserved State Fragility and the Political Transfer Problem|Autocrats experiencing a windfall in unearned income may find it optimal to donate to other countries some of the windfall in order to make the state a less attractive prize to potential insurgents. We put forward a model that makes that prediction, as well as the additional predictions that the recipients of the aid may themselves become more repressive with high levels of aid and experience conflict with medium levels of aid. We call these joint phenomena the political transfer problem, and argue that the largest windfall of the 20th century, the period from 1973-85 during which oil prices were at all-time highs, produced long-run political dynamics consistent with the model. In particular, major oil exporters have been politically repressive, generous with foreign aid when oil prices are high, and free of civil war; in contrast, the recipients of petro aid were relatively repressive (and peaceful) during the period of high oil prices, but subject to civil war when oil prices fell and aid was reduced. Surprisingly, the political transfer problem did not seem to materialize when oil prices again began to creep up in the 21st century; this nonexistence of the problem can be explained by the model against the backdrop of evolving geopolitics and economics.
Q34|Implications Of Organic Farming Upon Sustainable Rural Development|In recent years, all over the world, the concern for preserving people’s health as well as a healthy environment acquired a permanent dimension, meant to ensure the meeting of present consumption needs without jeopardizing those of the future generations. In the European Union, the development of organic farming, as an alternative to conventional agriculture, of industrial type, has experienced great progress. In perspective, the organic dimension of the Common Agricultural Policy will grow, as all the EU Member States are obliged to limit the area of ecological aggressions. For Romania, the organic farming is a sector for the future developments, that has experienced an increasing trend in recent years, both in the crop production and livestock sector.
Q34|Chinese Investment in Latin American Resources: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly|"China's need for vast amounts of minerals to sustain its high economic growth rate has led Chinese investors to acquire stakes in natural resource companies, extend loans to mining and petroleum investors, and write long-term procurement contracts for oil and minerals in Africa, Latin America, Australia, Canada, and other resource-rich regions. These efforts to procure raw materials might be exacerbating the problems of strong demand; ""locking up"" natural resource supplies, gaining preferential access to available output, and extending control over the world's extractive industries. But Chinese investment need not have a zero-sum effect if Chinese procurement arrangements expand, diversify, and make more competitive the global supplier system. Previous Peterson Institute research (see Moran 2010) and new research undertaken in this paper, show that the majority of Chinese investments and procurement arrangements serve to help diversify and make more competitive the portion of the world natural resource base located in Latin America. For a more comprehensive analysis, we conduct a structured comparison of four Peruvian mines with foreign ownership: two Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development-based, and two Chinese. We examine what conditions or policy measures are most effective in inducing Chinese investors to adopt international industry standards and best-practices, and which are not. We distill from this case study some lessons for other countries in Latin America, Africa, and elsewhere that intend to use Chinese investment to develop their extractive sectors: first, that financial markets bring accountability; second, that the host country regulatory environment makes a significant difference; and third, that foreign investment is a catalyst for change."
Q34|Multilateral Environmental Agreements And The Trade Measures Contained In These Agreements|The environmental problems which the society is facing, ozone depletion, biodiversity loss, the spread of persistent organic pollutants, are a result of human activity with a worldwide impact, requiring immediate resolution. In this context, negotiation, signing and implementation of several multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs) are one of the best solutions, affordable and reliable. The aim of this study is to analyze the commercial measures, which to some extent, ensure stability, security, and expansion of MEAs. The paper discusses, also, the efficiency, necessity and the influences of trade measures in MEAs and the WTO role in signing these agreements.
Q34|Does the Acquisition of Mines Benefit Resource-Importing Countries?|Using a simple two-period model, this paper examines the effects of the acquisition of mines/resources by a final goods producer located in a resource-importing country on resource prices in both the first (the present) and second (the future) periods, profits of firms, and welfare. We find that an increase in the mines owned by a final goods producer can increase the resource price in the first period and/or, interestingly, the second period. The strategic behavior of a resource-extracting firm located in a resource-exporting country produces this result. Whether the resource price increases in either period depends on the demand structure for the final goods and the resource supply condition of the final goods producer which owns the mines in the second period. We also consider three extended situations: joint exploration, entry of speculators, and the case of a non-committed investment.
Q34|Les bénéfices et les coûts économiques de l'exploitation des gaz de shale au Québec|Ce texte présente une esquisse des éléments que devrait inclure une analyse coûts-bénéfices de la pertinence de développer la filière de l'extraction du gaz de shale au Québec.
Q34|Does the Iranian oil supply matter for the oil prices?|There is an increasing tension between the Iranian Government and the west on an increasingly likely European oil embargo and the Iranian threat to close the Strait of Hormuz. The main question is: What will happen to the international oil prices in the case of shocks in the flow of Iranian oil to the international markets? In this study, we analyze the dynamic relationship between the Iranian oil supply and international oil prices from January 1973 - September 2011, using a modified version of the Granger causality test introduced by Toda and Yamamoto (1995). Our results show that there is no Granger causality between the Iranian oil production and international oil prices. Historical data on the Iranian oil production do not provide any useful information to explain the current and future values of international oil prices. Thus, global oil prices do not follow shocks in the Iranian oil production.
Q34|Mineral resources and conflicts in DRC: a case of ecological fallacy?|We estimate the impact of geo-located mining concessions on the number of conflict events recorded in the Democratic Republic of the Congo between 1997 and 2007. Instrumenting the variable of interest with historical concessions interacted with changes in international prices of minerals, we unveil an ecological fallacy: whereas concessions have no effect on the number of conflicts at the territory level (lowest administrative unit), they do foster violence at the district level (higher administrative unit). We develop and validate empirically a theoretical model where the incentives of armed groups to exploit and protect mineral resources explain our empirical findings.
Q34|What drives the global rush?|This paper studies the determinants of foreign land acquisition for large scale agriculture. To do so, gravity models are estimates using data on bilateral investment relationships, together with newly constructed indicators of agro-ecological suitability in areas with low population density as well as land rights security. Results confirm the central role agro-ecological potential as a pull factor. In contrast to the literature on foreign investment in general, the quality of the business climate is insignificant whereas weak land governance and tenure security for current users make countries more attractive for investors. Implications for policy are discussed.
Q34|Analiza unor aspecte economice necesare pentru înţelegerea politicilor ecologice|Environmental concerns are becoming increasingly popular and nowadays find their place on the policy-makers agenda. The basic question that arises in these circumstances is whether environmental theses are consistent or not with the economic theory. Environmental issues must go through the filter of economic analysis, and policies have to be evaluated based on the generated costs and benefits.
Q34|The European Union Energy Policy Analysis|The Union has adopted over the time many documents as regards the energetic security, documents that were fulfilled in accordance to the future evolutions, and also, why not mentioning, in accordance to the political internal and external interests of it, or by the mediation of various circles of economic interests. In any of the situations, it looks like the importance of energy has been more intensively understood after the second world war, when the governments have started the nationalization of the energetic sectors. Now we carry out an analysis of the current energy security policy and we ask to face its strengths, and weaknesses to better understand the context of the new european energy challenges.
Q34|Do giant oilfield discoveries fuel internal armed conflicts?|We use new data to examine the effects of giant oilfield discoveries around the world since 1946. On average, these discoveries increase per capita oil production and oil exports by up to 50%. But these giant oilfield discoveries also have a dark side: they increase the incidence of internal armed conflict by about 5–8 percentage points. This increased incidence of conflict due to giant oilfield discoveries is especially high for countries that had already experienced armed conflicts or coups in the decade prior to discovery.
Q34|Seeds of distrust: conflict in Uganda|We study the effect of civil conflict on social capital, focusing on Uganda’s experience during the last decade. Using individual and county-level data, we document large causal effects on trust and ethnic identity of an exogenous outburst of ethnic conflicts in 2002–2005. We exploit two waves of survey data from Afrobarometer (Round 4 Afrobarometer Survey in Uganda, 2000 , 2008 ), including information on socioeconomic characteristics at the individual level, and geo-referenced measures of fighting events from ACLED. Our identification strategy exploits variations in the both the spatial and ethnic intensity of fighting. We find that more intense fighting decreases generalized trust and increases ethnic identity. The effects are quantitatively large and robust to a number of control variables, alternative measures of violence, and different statistical techniques involving ethnic and spatial fixed effects and instrumental variables. Controlling for the intensity of violence during the conflict, we also document that post-conflict economic recovery is slower in ethnically fractionalized counties. Our findings are consistent with the existence of a self-reinforcing process between conflicts and ethnic cleavages. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media New York 2013
Q34|The Economics of the Arab Spring|This article explores the economic underpinnings of the Arab spring. We locate the roots of the region’s long-term economic failure in a statist model of development that is financed through external windfalls and rests on inefficient forms of intervention and redistribution. We argue that the rising cost of repression and redistribution is calling into question the long-term sustainability of this development model. A singular failure of the Arab world is that it has been unable to develop a private sector that is independent, competitive and integrated with global markets. We argue that developing such a private sector is both a political as well as a regional challenge. In so far as the private sector generates incomes that are independent of the rent streams controlled by the state and can pose a direct political challenge, it is viewed as a threat. And, the Arab world’s economic fragmentation into isolated geographic units further undermines the prospects for private sector development. We explain this economic fragmentation as a manifestation of centralized and segmented administrative structures. Revisiting the politics and geo-politics of regional trade, we argue that overcoming regional economic barriers constitutes the single most important collective action problem that the region has faced since the fall of the Ottoman Empire.
