Q35|Measuring and Managing the Unknown: Methane Emissions from the Oil and Gas Value Chain|No abstract is available for this item.
Q35|The Risk of Policy Tipping and Stranded Carbon Assets|If global warming is to stay below 2°C, there are four risks of assets stranding. First, substantial fossil fuel reserves will be stranded at the end of the fossil era. Second, this will be true for exploration capital too. Third, unanticipated changes in present or expected future climate policy cause instantaneous discrete jumps in today’s valuation of physical and natural capital. Fourth, if timing and intensity of climate policy are uncertain, revaluation of assets occurs as uncertainty about future climate policy is resolved. E.g. abandoning climate policy plans immediately boosts scarcity rent, market capitalization, exploration investment and discoveries. To explain and quantify these four effects, we use an analytical model of investment in exploration capital with intertemporal adjustment costs, depletion of reserves and market capitalization, and calibrate it to the global oil and gas industry. Climate policy implements a carbon budget commensurate with 2°C peak warming and we allow for different instruments: immediate or delayed carbon taxes and renewable subsidies. The social welfare ranking of these instruments is inverse to that of the oil and gas industry which prefers renewable subsidy and delaying taxes for as long as possible. We also pay attention to how the legislative “risk” of tipping into policy action affects the timing of the end of the fossil era, the profitability of existing capital, and green paradox effects.
Q35|Forecasting crude oil prices with DSGE models|We run an oil prices forecasting competition among a set of structural models, includ- ing vector autoregressions and dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models. Our results highlights two principles. First, forecasts should exploit the mean reversion of the real oil price over long horizons. Second, models should not replicate the high volatility of oil prices observed in sample. Abiding by these principles, we show that a small scale DSGE model performs much better in real oil price forecasting than the random walk as well as vector autoregressions.
Q35|Relinquishing Riches: Auctions vs Informal Negotiations in Texas Oil and Gas Leasing|This paper compares outcomes from informally negotiated oil and gas leases to those awarded via centralized auction. We use data on all contractual characteristics and production outcomes for a class of state-owned mineral rights overlying newly discovered shale formations in Texas, between 2005 and 2016. On roughly three quarters of this land, the Texas Relinquishment Act of 1919 authorizes private individuals who own surface-only rights to negotiate mineral leases on behalf of the public in exchange for half of the proceeds. The remainder are allocated via centralized auctions. Using variation from this natural experiment, we find that almost a century after leasing mechanisms were assigned, auctioned leases generate 67% larger up-front payments than negotiated leases do. The two mechanisms also allocate mineral rights to different oil and gas companies, and leases allocated by auction are 44% more productive. These results are consistent with theoretical intuitions that centralized, formal mechanisms, like auctions, outperform decentralized and informal mechanisms, in both seller revenues and allocative efficiency. Our findings have important implications for the more than $3 trillion of minerals owned by private individuals in the US, the vast majority of which transact in informal and decentralized settings.
Q35|Seismic shifts from regulations: Spatial trade-offs in marine mammals and the value of information from hydrocarbon seismic surveying|Seismic surveys can increase hydrocarbon deposit information, lowering subsequent expected costs of hydrocarbon exploration. Survey noise, however, can interfere with marine mammals and fishes, reducing fitness. Ice-covered Arctic waters temporally constrain both surveying and marine mammal species; damage mitigation requires temporal and spatial planning. The survey noise externality is stronger than that for drilling (Erbe, 2012); there is additional cost to marine species’ habitat versus drilling alone. We develop a spatially explicit bio-economic and Value-of-Information (VOI) model examining these tradeoffs and illustrate it for oil exploration decisions off the Western Greenlandic coast. We use cost-effectiveness to identify implicit thresholds for sound habitat quality conservation as a function of regulatory choices that have different impacts under different assumptions about the relative spatial values of marine mammal habitat maintenance.
Q35|Effects of higher required rates of return on the tax take in an oil province|For different reasons the oil companies might apply higher required rates of return than they did some years ago, and this will have consequences for investments and tax revenue in oil provinces. By applying various required rates of return as well as various oil prices, this study derives future Norwegian tax revenue during 2018-2050 by using a partial equilibrium model for the global oil market. The model explicitly accounts for reserves, development and production. Both investment in new reserves and production are profit driven. With rising required rates of return less of the high cost reserves become profitable to develop and investments decline. Because the government in practice carries a large fraction of the investments, less investment in a period increases the tax base and the tax income. The initial effect is offset by a subsequent reduction in production which has a negative effect on future taxes. The result is that increasing required rates of return will lead to small variations in net present value of total tax revenue. With lower oil prices, tax take increases significantly when required rates of return rise.
Q35|Effective Climate Policy Doesn’t Have to be Expensive| We compare the effectiveness of different climate policies in terms of emissions abatement and costs in the British and German electricity markets. The two countries follow different climate policies, allowing us to compare the effectiveness of a relatively low EU ETS carbon price in Germany with a significantly higher carbon price due to a unilateral top-up tax (the Carbon Price Support) in the UK. We first estimate the emissions offsetting effects of carbon pricing and of subsidized wind and solar feed-in, and then derive the abatement costs of one tonne of CO2 for the different policies. We find that a reasonably high price for emissions is the most cost-effective climate policy, while subsidizing wind is preferable to subsidizing solar power. A carbon price of around EURO 35 is enough in the UK to induce vast short-run fuel switching between coal- and gas-fired power plants, leading to significant emissions abatement at low costs.
Q35|Non-Cooperative and Cooperative Climate Policies with Anticipated Breakthrough Technology|Global warming can be curbed by pricing carbon emissions and thus substituting fossil fuel with renewable energy consumption. Breakthrough technologies (e.g., fusion energy) can reduce the cost of such policies. However, the chance of such a technology coming to market depends on investment. We model breakthroughs as an irreversible tipping point in a multi-country world, with different degrees of international cooperation. We show that international spill-over effects of R&D in carbon-free technologies lead to double free-riding, strategic over-pollution and underinvestment in green R&D, thus making climate change mitigation more difficult. We also show how the demand structure determines whether carbon pricing and R&D policies are substitutes or complements.
Q35|Coal Demand, Market Forces, and US Coal Mine Closures|Economic transitions have the potential to displace workers and cause social unrest. Coal mine closures in the eastern United States due to the changing electricity system and the resulting employment losses in rural areas have become salient issues for all levels of government. Previous research has not distinguished among the potential causes of recent mine closures, such as rising production costs and decreasing coal demand from the electricity sector. This analysis utilizes unique data on coal mine and power plant operation to estimate the impact of supply and demand factors on mine closure. We model closure as a function of expected profits, which allows us to compare the effects on mine closure of specific demand and supply shocks to expected mine profits. Our results suggest that each shock substantially affected coal mine employment. Increasing costs of producing Appalachian coal have had the largest impact on closures with lower natural gas prices and lower electricity demand each accounting for a substantial number of closures additionally.
Q35|Effects of Stricter Environmental Regulations on Resource Development|As technology and our ability to alter the natural world expand, it may lead to change in the level or type of externalities that economic activity places on society. This may prompt changes in the laws and regulations governing activity to limit the new externalities. While new regulations will change the distribution of rents around, welfare is impacted if the regulations alter the pace of economic activity. This analysis seeks to understand whether changes in oil and gas regulation brought about by the shale revolution have restricted the pace of drilling and production. This hypothesis is tested using data on North Dakota and Montana both before and after North Dakota increased the level of bonding required to operate in the state as well as stricter rules on waste disposal. Using regression discontinuity and difference-in-differences methods, results generally find that the new regulations had no statistical impact on the pace of drilling and production. While the average impact of the regulations on production was statistically indistinguishable from zero, it is found that smaller operators reduced their production and larger operators increased theirs. These results are instructive for policymakers who weigh the loss of economic welfare against improved environmental quality when deciding on new regulations.
Q35|Climate Policy and Resource Extraction with Variable Markups and Imperfect Substitute|We develop a resource extraction model that features imperfect substitution and endogenous market power. We analytically characterize the effect of anticipated future demand shocks on the resource extraction path and show that endogenous market power can dampen the adverse consequences of climate policies due to intertemporal carbon leakages compared to the perfect or monopolistic competition benchmarks. Next, we show that under constant elasticity of substitution between alternative energy resources, resource owner's current market share and reserves-to-extraction ratio are sufficient statistics to calculate the degree of intertemporal leakage. Applying data on OPEC, we find a minor increase in current extraction due to an anticipated increase in the productivity of alternative energy technologies.
Q35|Costo económico de la inestabilidad y debilidad institucional de la gestión socio-ambiental de los proyectos de inversión en los sectores de minería energía e infraestructura en Colombia|Foro de un grupo de empresas que analizan el entorno de las inversiones con el propósito de hacer diagnósticos y recomendaciones para la remoción de los obstáculos al buen funcionamiento de los mercados y su regulación. Encomiendan un estudio a Fedesarrollo para determinar el impacto de la debilidad institucional y de la inestabilidad normativa en la gestión socio ambiental de los grandes proyectos de inversión de Colombia. Aquí presentamos únicamente los mineros y de hidrocarburos.
Q35|La contribución del petróleo al desarrollo de Colombia. Mirada a las regiones productoras|En los últimos 20 años, el petróleo ha contribuido al desarrollo de Colombia. La contribución de los hidrocarburos a la economía colombiana se da en varios niveles: en el macroeconómico, contribuyen a la dinámica de las exportaciones y de la inversión extranjera, así como a las finanzas públicas; en el mesoeconómico, a través de sus multiplicadores, demanda insumos de otros sectores así como contribuye en la producción de otros bienes y. en el nivel regional, genera actividad y empleo, así como regalías para financiar gasto público.
Q35|Evaluación de los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales con el actual Sistema General de Regalías|"Este estudio tiene como ""objetivo principal evaluar los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales vis a vis las regiones no productoras. Para cumplir los objetivos mencionados este informe está dividido en 6 partes incluyendo esta introducción. El siguiente capítulo presenta el funcionamiento actual del SGR. Primero se presenta las reglas de distribución entre y al interior de los fondos; posteriormente se presentan algunas estadísticas que describen la importancia de las regalías para los entes territoriales (ET); por último, se presentan los hallazgos y percepciones de los actores sobre el funcionamiento del esquema de distribución. Esto último se hace mediante el análisis cualitativo de cerca de 80 entrevistas en todas las regiones del país y sus representantes en la Federación Nacional de Departamentos y Municipios, congresistas y expertos en el tema. El capítulo 3 presenta el núcleo central de la evaluación de impacto y el análisis costo beneficio con el objeto de comparar si los costos están compensados por los beneficios estimados. El capítulo comienza presentando las percepciones que tienen las regiones sobre los impactos de los cambios experimentados a partir del nuevo esquema de distribución desde 2012; con este objetivo se entrevistaron a los secretarios de planeación de las regiones productoras y no productoras para contrastar los efectos no observados entre estas dos tipologías (sección 3.1). La evaluación de impacto cuantitativa recurre a un ejercicio de diferencias en diferencias para comparar la evolución de los municipios productores vis a vis los no productores antes y después de la reforma. Este ejercicio tiene como objeto evaluar la hipótesis de que los municipios productores son “perdedores” de las modificaciones del SGR. Teniendo en cuenta algunas de las críticas que se han hecho al nuevo SGR, en el sentido de la baja ejecución de recursos, el ejercicio se amplía a triples diferencias para conocer el impacto de la reforma sobre los municipios ejecutores de recursos; en este sentido se evalúa si la doble condición de productor y ejecutor tiene efectos positivos sobre las variables de ingresos, empleo, educación y salud de los municipios (variables de desarrollo socioeconómico). Esto último comparando los resultados con i) los productores no ejecutores, ii) no productores ejecutores (ganadores directos), iii) no productores no ejecutores (ganadores que no han aprovechado la reforma Este mismo capítulo presenta un análisis de los costos sociales y ambientales en que incurren los municipios que explotan estos recursos minero-energéticos, a través de la información de la evaluación económica de los impactos que deben presentar todos los proyectos de explotación a la ANLA para recibir las licencias ambientales (sección 3.3). Con los costos reportados a la ANLA se contrasta si las pérdidas del proyecto son mayores a las ganancias (incluidos los impactos estimados mediante el panel de datos mencionados anteriormente). El ejercicio finaliza con las estimaciones de la relación beneficio-costo y la TIR (sección 3.4). Posteriormente se presentan los escenarios de simulaciones cuyo objetivo es identificar aquellas condiciones bajo las cuales la distribución entre fondos alcanza una mayor equidad en la distribución de recursos (capítulo 4). La medición de equidad consiste en sumar a los ingresos tributarios municipales per cápita las asignaciones per cápita de regalías en cada escenario simulado (por ejemplo, al quitarle un porcentaje a un fondo y transferirlo a otro) y recalcular el coeficiente Gini de la distribución original de ingresos tributarios. Así mismo, se hacen simulaciones modificando las condiciones de NBI, población y desempleo que se utilizan al interior de los fondos (por ejemplo, que sucedería con el nuevo Gini si todos los recursos se entregaran por la condición de NBI sin tener en cuenta a la población). El capítulo 5 presenta un análisis comparativo de la compensación a las regiones productoras frente a experiencias internacionales y el capítulo 6 presenta las conclusiones más relevantes del estudio."""
Q35|Evaluación de los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales con el actual Sistema General de Regalías|Realizar una evaluación de los impactos causados en las regiones productoras de hidrocarburos y minerales con el actual Sistema General de Regalías que permita evaluar su funcionamiento, fórmulas de distribución de las regalías, e identificar los aspectos por mejorar y los cambios a incorporar en la composición y esquema de distribución actual.
Q35|Pricing Carbon Emissions In China|The review paper provides a strategy for determining carbon emissions pricing in China to guide how carbon emissions might be mitigated to reduce fossil fuel pollution. China has promoted the development of clean energy, including hydroelectric power, wind power, and solar energy generation. In order to involve companies in carbon emissions control, regional and provincial carbon markets have been established since 2013. As China’s carbon market is organized domestically, and not necessarily using market principles, there has been little research on China’s carbon price and volatility. This paper provides an introduction to China’s regional and provincial carbon markets, proposes how to establish a national market for pricing carbon emissions, discusses how and when these markets might be established, how they might perform, and the subsequent prices for China’s regional and national carbon markets. Power generation in manufacturing consumes more than other industries, with more than 40% of total coal consumption. Apart from manufacturing, the northern China heating system relies on fossil fuels, mainly coal, which causes serious pollution. In order to understand the regional markets well, it is necessary to analyze the energy structure in these regions. Coal is the primary energy source in China, so that provinces that rely heavily on coal receive a greater number of carbon emissions permits. In order to establish a national carbon market for China, a detailed analysis of eight important regional markets is presented. The four largest energy markets, namely, Guangdong, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hubei, traded around 82% of the total volume and 85% of the total value of the seven markets in 2017, as the industry structure of the western area is different from that of the east. The China National Development and Reform Commission has proposed a national carbon market, which can attract investors and companies to participate in carbon emissions trading.
Q35|Establishing national carbon emission prices for China|The purpose of the paper is to establish national carbon emissions prices for the People's Republic of China, which is one of the world's largest producers of carbon emissions. Several measures have been undertaken to address climate change in China, including the establishment of a carbon trading system. Since 2013, eight regional carbon emissions markets have been established, namely Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Shenzhen, Tianjin, Chongqing, Hubei and Fujian. The Central Government announced a national carbon emissions market, with power generation as the first industry to be considered. However, as carbon emissions prices in the eight regional markets are very different, for a variety of administrative reasons, it is essential to create a procedure for establishing a national carbon emissions price. The regional markets are pioneers, and their experience will play important roles in establishing a national carbon emissions market, with national prices based on regional prices, turnovers and volumes. The paper considers two sources of regional data for China's carbon allowances, which are based on primary and secondary data sources, and compares their relative strengths and weaknesses. The paper establishes national carbon emissions prices based on the primary and secondary regional prices, for the first time, and compares both national prices and regional prices against each other. The carbon emission prices in Hubei, Guangdong, Shenzhen and Tianjin are highly correlated with the national prices based on the primary and secondary sources. Establishing national carbon emissions prices should be very helpful for the national carbon emissions market that is under construction in China, as well as for other regions and countries worldwide.
Q35|Is Shale Gas a Good Bridge to Renewables? An Application to Europe|Abstract This paper explores whether climate policy justifies developing more shale gas and addresses the question of a potential arbitrage between shale gas development and the transition to clean energy. We construct a Hotelling-like model where electricity may be produced by three perfectly substitutable sources: an abundant dirty resource (coal), a non-renewable less polluting resource (shale gas), and an abundant clean resource (solar). The resources differ by their carbon contents and their unit costs. Shale gas extraction’s technology (fracking) generates local damages. Fixed costs must be paid to develop shale gas and to deploy the clean resource on a large scale. Climate policy takes the form of a carbon budget. We show that, at the optimum, a more stringent climate policy does not always go together with an increase of the quantity of shale gas extracted, and that banning shale gas extraction most often leads to bring forward the development of the clean resource, but not always. We calibrate the model for Europe in order to determine whether shale gas should be extracted and in which amount, and to evaluate the effects of a moratorium on shale gas use.
Q35|Convergence of European natural gas prices|Over the period 2015-2050 the consumption of natural gas of European OECD countries is expected to grow more than the consumption of any other energy source. Although these countries are interconnected and in most cases share a common currency, their wholesale national gas markets are highly heterogeneous. We study the determinants of cross-country convergence of natural gas prices for industrial consumers in fourteen European countries. Our empirical analysis is based on the notions of pairwise, relative and convergence. We show that there is evidence of pairwise price convergence and that some key characteristics of gas markets, such as the maturity of trading hubs and the degree of interconnection, are positively associated with the existence of a convergence process. This result carries over to the notion of sigma-convergence and is robust to a number of changes in the implementation of the statistical tests. The analysis of relative convergence points to the existence of price-growth convergence, while price-level convergence is not supported by the data. Lastly, we assess the the short-run implications of price convergence focusing on the speed of reversion to equilibrium after a system-wide shocks hits the cointegrating relation.
Q35|Coal Demand, Market Forces, and US Coal Mine Closures|Economic transitions have the potential to displace workers and cause social unrest. Coal mine closures in the eastern United States due to the changing electricity system and the resulting employment losses in rural areas have become salient issues for all levels of government. Previous research has not distinguished among the potential causes of recent mine closures, such as rising production costs and decreasing coal demand from the electricity sector. This analysis utilizes unique data on coal mine and power plant operation to estimate the impact of supply and demand factors on mine closure. We model closure as a function of expected profits, which allows us to compare the effects on mine closure of specific demand and supply shocks to expected mine profits. Our results suggest that each shock substantially affected coal mine employment. Increasing costs of producing Appalachian coal have had the largest impact on closures with lower natural gas prices and lower electricity demand each accounting for a substantial number of closures additionally.
Q35|Analyzing the Risk of Transporting Crude Oil by Rail|In this paper, I combine data on incidents associated with rail transportation of crude oil and detailed data on rail shipments to appraise the relation between increased use of rail to transport crude oil and the risk of safety incidents associated with those shipments. I find a positive link between the accumulation of minor incidents and the frequency of serious incidents, and a positive relation between increased rail shipments of crude oil and the occurrence of minor incidents. I also find that increased shipments are associated with a rightward shift in the distribution of economic damages associated with these shipments; the implied marginal impact of an additional 1,000 rail cars carrying oil between two states in a given month is $1,836. In addition, I find larger average effects associated with states that represent the greatest source of tight oil production.
Q35|Property Rights to Frontier Land and Minerals: US Exceptionalism|Property rights are the most fundamental institution in any society. They determine who has decision-making authority over assets and who bears the costs and benefits of those decisions. They assign ownership, wealth, political influence, and social standing. They make markets possible; define timelines; and provide incentives for investment, innovation, and trade. They mitigate the losses of open access and provide the basis for long-term economic growth. Economists and economic historians have long recognized the importance of secure property rights for economic outcomes. Other political economy, philosophy, historical, and legal literatures emphasize different, but critical attributes based on how property rights are allocated and to whom. The linkages among the social, political, and economic effects are examined here with respect to US and Latin American frontier land and minerals. Property rights were sharply different across the two frontiers with apparent long-term consequences for economic growth, innovation, wealth distribution, private investment in public goods, as well as social and political stability. The distinct assignment of property rights to land and minerals is likely a basis for long-term US exceptionalism in economic performance, individualism, mobility, and optimism. The mechanisms through which property rights to land in a frontier society affect outcomes in a contemporary, highly urban one are complex. Because property rights to land were broadly distributed, Americans could participate in capital markets using land as collateral. This ability shaped opinions regarding markets, capitalism, and individual opportunity. In the 21st century, these critical attributes may be eroding, inviting more analysis from economists and economic historians.
Q35|Learning by Viewing? Social Learning, Regulatory Disclosure, and Firm Productivity in Shale Gas|In many industries firms can learn about new technologies from other adopters; mandatory disclosure regulations represent an understudied channel for this type of social learning. We study an environmentally-focused law in the shale gas industry to examine firms’ claims that disclosure requirements expose valuable trade secrets. Our research design takes advantage of a unique regulatory history that allows us to see complete information on chemical inputs prior to disclosure, along with the timing of information availability for thousands of wells after disclosure takes effect. We find that firms’ chemical choices following disclosure converge in a manner consistent with inter-firm imitation and that this leads to more productive wells for firms that carefully choose whom to copy — but also a decline in innovation among the most productive firms, whose innovations are those most often copied by other firms. Our results suggest there is a long-run welfare trade-off between the potential benefits of information diffusion and transparency, and the potential costs of reduced innovation.
Q35|Climate Policy and Stranded Carbon Assets: a Financial Perspective|Unanticipated climate policy curbs the value of physical capital that is costly to adjust. We illustrate this by showing that climate policy to keep peak global warming below 2°C depresses the share prices of oil and gas majors and their market capitalisation, curbs exploration investment and oil and gas discoveries, boosts proven reserves left abandoned in the crust of the earth, cuts exploitation investment, and induces an earlier onset of the carbon-free era. For a given carbon budget, an immediate carbon tax is the first-best response but delaying the carbon tax or a renewable energy subsidy to meet the same temperature target are preferred by shareholders because they introduce Green Paradox effects and protect the profitability of existing capital.
Q35|The Superiority of Biased Reviewers in a Model of Simultaneous Sales|This paper considers the impact of reviewers on sales of products of quality unknown to consumers. Sales occur simultaneously after consideration by a reviewer with a known level of bias. Consumers observe the reviewer`s decision and a private signal. We find that: (a) with flexible prices and signals that are not too revealing the reviewer most biased against the product is best for profits; (b) with flexible prices and very revealing private signals the reviewer most biased in favour is optimal; (c) with fixed prices then a reviewer biased against, but close to unibased, is optimal.
Q35|Transparent for whom? Dissemination of information on Ghana’s petroleum and mining revenue management|This article examines how Ghanaians access information about national and local issues in general and, in particular, how and to what extent they receive information about national and local natural resource revenue management. It also studies how the likelihood of having heard about resource revenue governance depends on individual, household, and geographical characteristics. The article uses descriptive and multivariate analysis based on a unique survey of over 3500 participants from 2016. The study finds that less than 10% of respondents knew how natural resource revenues (NRR) are managed locally, even in areas with mining activity or petroleum production; less than one-third had heard about NRR management in Ghana. Common citizens, those in remote rural areas, and those with limited English skills were least likely to have heard about NRR management, compared to elected duty bearers, traditional authorities, and other opinion leaders. Generally, people have few reliable information sources.
Q35|Removing Fossil Fuel Subsidies to Help the Poor|Phasing out energy subsidies may increase the price of energy and adversely affect the poor. However, the households may benefit from the redistribution of the revenue from this policy in the economy. Here, we investigate the impacts of phasing out energy subsidies and direct transfer of the policy revenue to households. Employing a Computable General Equilibrium model, we measure the impacts on labor-leisure choice and on labor supply. Considering the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke index and the Food Ratio Method, we construct several poverty indices: the Gini index, the ratio of none-food expenditures to food expenditure, the ratio of income of the richest decile to the poorest decile, and the ratio of income of the two richest deciles to the two poorest deciles. We analyze the effects of an increase in energy prices and direct transfer of revenues to the households in the Iranian economy. The findings suggest a considerable improvement in income distribution and a significant improvement in food to non-food ratio. The results also show an improvement in rural-urban income distribution.
Q35|The Effects of the Real Oil Price on Regional Wage Dispersion|We find that oil supply shocks decrease average real wages, particularly skilled wages, and increase wage dispersion across regions, particularly unskilled wage dispersion. In a model with spatial energy intensity differences and nontradables, labor demand shifts, while explaining the response of average wages to oil supply shocks, have counterfactual implications for the response of wage dispersion. Only an additional response in labor supply can explain this latter fact, highlighting the importance of general equilibrium effects in a spatial context. We provide additional empirical evidence of regionally directed worker reallocation and housing prices consistent with our spatial model. Finally, we show that a calibrated version of our model can quantitatively match the estimated effects of oil supply shocks.
Q35|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)|We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to finance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls increase both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q35|Oil and Macroeconomic (In)stability|We analyze the role of oil price volatility in reducing U.S. macroeconomic instability. Using a Markov Switching Rational Expectation New-Keynesian model we revisit the timing of the Great Moderation and the sources of changes in the volatility of macroeconomic variables. We find that smaller or fewer oil price shocks did not play a major role in explaining the Great Moderation. Instead oil price shocks are recurrent sources of economic fluctuations. The most important factor reducing overall variability is a decline in the volatility of structural macroeconomic shocks. A change to a more responsive (hawkish) monetary policy regime also played a role.
Q35|Energy Price Reform: A Guide for Policymakers|This essay reviews the conceptual and quantitative literature on the efficient system of fossil fuel energy prices in different countries for reflecting supply and environmental costs, as well as the environmental, fiscal, and economic benefits from energy price reform. Drawing on recent experiences in numerous countries, the ingredients for successful reform are then discussed (e.g., the need for a comprehensive reform strategy and for compensating vulnerable groups). Low energy prices, fiscal pressures, and momentum for climate action provide an especially conducive environment for price reform and much is happening rapidly on the ground, however there is a long way to go to reap the enormous benefits at stake (e.g., at the global level, over a 20 percent reduction in carbon emissions and revenues gains of 4 percent of GDP).
Q35|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)|We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to fi-nance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls increase both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q35|Finders, keepers?|Natural resource taxation and investment often exhibit cyclical behavior, driving political turmoil and shifts in power. By way of a rational-expectations model under limited commitment, we show that cycles arise endogenously from the interaction between firms' investment decisions and government taxation. Large resource revenues induce a high tax, lowering exploration investment and thereby future findings. This later leads the government to reduce tax rates, inducing high investment and high future taxes, and so on. Cycling may occur even under a government that cares about the future, but a sufficiently patient government is also able to avoid cycles altogether. Our model can thus also account for why some countries have stable resource taxation regimes. Tax differentiation on mine vintage avoids cycles as well and, surprisingly, increases government revenues. Our findings are consistent with stylized facts: we document evidence of cyclical behavior in a large number of countries with both strong and weak institutions, and provide detailed case studies of two Latin American countries. A simple empirical analysis suggests that our investment mechanism is consistent with about half of all expropriations in the oil and gas sector, the same fraction as exogenous price shocks.
Q35|Will Assets be Stranded or Bailed Out? Expectations of Investors in the Face of Climate Policy|The goal to keep global warming below 2°C implies that many energy-sector assets are at risk of becoming stranded. This paper investigates whether and how investors price in stranded asset risk due to climate policy. We exploit the gradual development of a German climate policy proposal aimed at reducing electricity production from coal and analyze its effect on the valuation of energy utilities. We find that investors do care about stranded asset risk due to climate policy, but that they also expect a financial compensation policy for their stranded assets. We show that these results are not driven by contemporaneous confounding events.
Q35|The Importance of Oil in the Allocation of Foreign Aid: The case of the G7 donors|While it is often alleged that oil endowment might influence the destination of foreign aid, there is lack of empirical evidence of how and why such an effect may come into play, and even less so of the channels through which it works. This paper aims to bring evidence that contributes to address those points. Specifically, we investigate the role of oil in aid allocation of the G7 donors, over the 1980-2010 period. Results show that, unsurprisingly, aid allocated by these donors increases significantly with oil endowment of recipient countries. Looking more deeply, we interestingly show that their strategic interests in terms of oil security play a role in their provision of aid. More importantly, we find evidence for competition for access to oil supplies among this group of donors.
Q35|Taxing income in the oil and gas sector — Challenges of international and domestic profit shifting|This paper provides specific estimates on the scale of profit shifting among hydrocarbon MNEs. We estimate a semi-elasticity of reported Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) to sector specific income taxation of −1.68. Observed effects are larger when using Profit and Loss before Taxes, allowing for debt shifting. We find no profit-shifting among entities that are majority-owned by a national government. We also observe a higher vulnerability of non-OECD economies in our sample, which consists of 294 domestic and multinational parents and subsidiaries during the period from 2004 to 2012. To assess the importance of domestic profit-shifting channels, we take advantage of domestic tax differentials among hydrocarbon producers facing additional rent taxes and find that domestic profit shifting accounts for about one third of total income concealed.
Q35|I can hear my neighbors' fracking: The effect of natural gas production on housing values in Tarrant County, TX|In this study we estimate the effect of hydraulically fractured natural gas wells on residential real estate prices. We exploit variation in distance to nearby gas wells in home sale prices to estimate this effect. In contrast to previous studies, we focus on a relatively densely populated area, a section of the Dallas–Ft. Worth–Arlington urban area. Using a dataset of 127,556 observations from Tarrant County, Texas over the period 2005–2011, we find robust evidence that increased proximity to a well leads to reduced home sale prices. Existence of wells within 3500ft of a property reduces property values by approximately 1.5–3%. We demonstrate that the reduction seems to be driven by unconventional rather than conventional wells, and that well construction causes an added 1–2% reduction in home value.
Q35|Global energy subsidies: An analytical taxonomy|Governments around the world have pledged to eliminate or sharply reduce subsidies to energy firms in order to increase economic efficiency and reduce environmental externalities. Yet definitions of subsidies vary widely and, as a result, estimates of their global magnitude vary by orders of magnitude. I review why energy subsidies are so difficult to define and measure. I show why some non-standard measures are very poor proxies for subsidy costs and in fact may vary inversely with them. In particular, recent attempts to treat unpriced externalities as subsidies yield especially misleading results. In general, energy subsidies as conventionally understood do exist but only comprise a small portion of some very large recently-reported estimates, the bulk of which are indirect measures that may have little connection with actual costs to governments or allocational inefficiencies.
Q35|Narrative Sign Restrictions for SVARs|We identify structural vector autoregressions using narrative sign restrictions. Narrative sign restrictions constrain the structural shocks and/or the historical decomposition around key historical events, ensuring that they agree with the established narrative account of these episodes. Using models of the oil market and monetary policy, we show that narrative sign restrictions tend to be highly informative. Even a single narrative sign restriction may dramatically sharpen and even change the inference of SVARs originally identified via traditional sign restrictions. Our approach combines the appeal of narrative methods with the popularized usage of traditional sign restrictions.
Q35|OPEC and demand response to crude oil prices|This paper investigates demand response to crude oil price movements before and after the recent global financial and economic crisis. It employs several market power indices to structurally estimate price elasticities. A newly developed market power index for crude oil markets is implemented. In this approach OPEC is the central player and acts as a dominant producer in the global oil market. We quantify how a change in market structure (such as changes in marginal cost of production) would contribute to market power exercise of OPEC and have an ultimate impact on price elasticity of demand for oil. Our price elasticity predictions fall in a range reported in the literature, however estimates for pre-crisis deviate from the post-crisis ones. In fact, demand response to crude oil prices has almost doubled during the crisis. This severe change in price response can be associated with record price levels caused by supply shortages and surge in alternative renewable energy resources. The key advantages of this methodology over the existing literature are that it is simple to use and estimates price elasticity using a competition framework without specifying demand/supply function(s), and utilizes commonly observable market variables that can be applied to any admissible data frequency.
Q35|LoVe hurts: Verdsetting av Lofoten/Vesterålen/Senja|Med stort økonomisk verdipotensial og regionale ringverknadar i form av næringsutvikling og sysselsetting kan dei delte meiningane rundt olje og gassverksemd i Lofoten, Vesterålen og Senja kanskje fortone seg som gåtefulle. Basert på diskonterte kontantstraumer frå olje og gassressursane i området konkluderer denne analysen med at opning for olje og gassverksemd av Lofoten, Vesterålen og Senja er potensielt viktig for olje og gassnæringa, medan implikasjonane for statsfinansar og kapasitet til offentleg tenesteyting er mindre. Analysen indikerer at vern av området kan innrømmast til ein årleg kostnad på om lag 700 kroner per innbyggar.
Q35|Inter-Regional Coal Mine Competition in the US: Evidence from Rail Restriction|There has been much discussion recently in the U.S. press about the fate of coal mining and its employees, specifically in the Appalachian region. This analysis looks at how Appalachian coal mining responds to changes in coal production from the Western US, whose mines are generally on federal land. Specifically we look at how an unexpected reduction in the ability to move coal from Wyoming to Eastern power plants in 2005-06 impacted the rate of opening and closure of mines in Appalachia. The findings reveal that restrictions in coal from federal lands leads to a reduction in the rate of Appalachian coal mine closure but no impact on the rate of coal mine openings. The results imply inter-regional coal mine substitution possibilities and shed light on the tradeoffs inherent in policies to encourage production in one region.
Q35|Prolonging Coal’s Sunset: The Causes and Consequences of Local Protectionism for a Declining Polluting Industry|In recent years, the share of U.S electricity generated by coal has fallen from nearly 50% to 33%. The costs of this transition are spatially concentrated, and mining states have already lost income due to the reduced demand for coal. Coal states have enacted policies to encourage local power plants to purchase from within state mines. We document that power plants in states and counties with substantial mining activity are more likely to be coal fired and to purchase more within political boundary coal. These results are robust to including flexible controls for the distance from power plants to mines. While coal states benefits from local protectionism, these efforts impose social costs because coal mining and coal burning creates significant environmental consequences. We quantify these effects and find that a one-percentage point increase in the proportion of coal plants in a NERC region with an in-state coal mine results in approximately 2.3 million additional annual tons of CO2 emissions.
Q35|Did the renewable fuel standard shift market expectations of the price of ethanol?|It is commonly believed that the response of the price of corn ethanol (and hence of the price of corn) to shifts in biofuel policies operates in part through market expectations and shifts in storage demand, yet to date it has proved difficult to measure these expectations and to empirically evaluate this view. We utilize a recently proposed methodology to estimate the market's expectations of the prices of ethanol, unfinished motor gasoline and crude oil at horizons from three months to one year. We quantify the extent to which price changes were anticipated by the market, the extent to which they were unanticipated, and how the risk premium in these markets has evolved. We show that the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) is likely to have increased ethanol price expectations by as much $1.45 in the year before and in the year after the implementation of the RFS had started. Our analysis of the term structure of expectations provides support for the view that a shift in ethanol storage demand starting in 2005 caused an increase in the price of ethanol. There is no conclusive evidence that the tightening of the RFS in 2008 shifted market expectations, but our analysis suggests that policy uncertainty about how to deal with the blend wall raised the risk premium in the ethanol futures market in mid-2013 by as much as 50 cents at longer horizons. Finally, we present evidence against a tight link from ethanol price expectations to corn price expectations and hence to storage demand for corn in 2005-06.
Q35|Crude by Rail, Option Value, and Pipeline Investment|The U.S. shale boom has profoundly increased crude oil movements by both pipelines–the traditional mode of transportation–and railroads. This paper develops a model of how pipeline investment and railroad use are determined in equilibrium, emphasizing how railroads' flexibility allows them to compete with pipelines. We show that policies that address crude-by-rail's environmental externalities by increasing its costs should lead to large increases in pipeline investment and substitution of oil flows from rail to pipe. Similarly, we find that policies enjoining pipeline construction would cause 80-90% of the displaced oil to flow by rail instead.
Q35|Food vs. Fuel? Impacts of Petroleum Shipments on Agricultural Prices|Grain shippers and political figures in North Dakota and nearby states have voiced concern that the dramatic increases in shipments of crude oil by rail have caused service delays and higher costs. We investigate the potential impact of crude shipments on grain markets accounting for harvest effects and other potential sources of rail congestion. Increased crude oil shipments are associated with substantially larger spreads between wheat prices at regional elevators and in Minneapolis, the market hub. The effect on corn and soybean spreads are an order of magnitude smaller. Increased oil traffic is associated with small increases in rail rates but large increases in rail car auction prices. We document increases in wheat carry (storage) costs and decreases in shipment quantities. Surprisingly, little of the spread increase is due to lower prices paid to farmers, suggesting consumers rather than producers paid the cost of increased rail congestion.
Q35|Crude Oil Price Differentials and Pipeline Infrastructure|Crude oil production in the United States increased by nearly 80 percent between 2008 and 2016, mostly in areas that were far from existing refining and pipeline infrastructure. The production increase led to substantial discounts for oil producers to reflect the high cost of alternative transportation methods. I show how the expansion of the crude oil pipeline network reduced oil price differentials, which fell from a mean state-level difference of $10 per barrel in 2011 to about $1 per barrel in 2016. Using data for the Permian Basin, I estimate that the elimination of pipeline constraints increased local prices by between $6 and $11 per barrel. Slightly less than 90 percent of this gain for oil producers was a transfer from existing oil refiners and shippers. Refiners did not pass on these higher costs to consumers in the form of higher gasoline prices.
Q35|Evidence for a presource curse ? oil discoveries, elevated expectations, and growth disappointments|Oil discoveries can constitute a major positive and exogenous shock to economic activity, but the resource curse hypothesis would suggest they might also be detrimental to growth over the long run. This paper utilizes a new methodology for estimating growth underperformance to examine the extent to which discoveries depress the growth path of a country following a discovery and prior to production starting. The study finds causal evidence of a significant negative effect on short-run growth and growth relative to counterfactual forecast growth in countries with weak institutions, creating growth disappointments prior to private and public resource windfalls. This effect is termed the presource curse. For a giant oil or gas discovery in 1988-2010, the study estimates an average growth disappointment effect of 0.83 percentage points, measured as the average annual gap between forecast and actual growth over the five years following a discovery. Further, the estimated effect varies by the size of the discovery, increasing to a 1.77 percentage points gap in the case of super giant discoveries. The estimated effect is inversely related to the quality of political institutions, and driven by countries with lower institutional quality at the time of the discovery, consistent with the similar long-run results documented in the resource curse literature. For countries with below-threshold institutional quality, the growth disappointment effect is larger, measured as 1.35 percentage points in annual terms. There is no measured growth disappointment effect for countries with strong institutions. Using the synthetic control method, we confirm our findings for a selection of countries above and below the institutional quality threshold. The findings suggest that studies of the resource curse that focus only on the effects of resource exploitation or examine only long-run growth effects may overlook important short-run growth disappointments following discoveries, and the way countries respond to news shocks.
Q35|OPEC, Saudi Arabia, and the shale revolution: Insights from equilibrium modelling and oil politics|Why did OPEC not cut oil production in the wake of 2014's price fall? This study aims at aiding the mostly qualitative discussion with quantitative evidence from computing quarterly partial market equilibria Q4 2011 – Q4 2015 under present short-term profit maximisation and different competition setups. Although the model performs reasonably well in explaining pre-2014 prices, all setups fail to capture low prices, which fall even beyond perfect competition outcomes. This result is robust with respect to large variations in cost parameters. Rejecting present short-term profit maximisation, as well as a qualitative discussion of Saudi Arabian politics and the shale oil revolution, lead to the conclusion that the price drop of 2014-16 was most plausibly the result of an attempt to defend market shares and to test for shale oil resilience, besides being fuelled by other factors such as rising competitiveness of alternative technologies. Although shale oil might have increased competition permanently (as supported by model results), the agreement of December 2016 should not be misunderstood as an OPEC defeat.
Q35|The Shocks To Crude Oil Production. Nonparametric Stationarity Analysis For 20 OPEC And Non-OPEC Countries|The stochastic properties of crude oil production have been examined in the literature from different perspectives, with partly non-coincident conclusions depending on model specification. In this paper the nature of the shocks affecting crude oil production is analyzed for a panel of 20 OPEC and non-OPEC countries with reference to the period from January 1973 to December 2015. We rely on a novel nonparametric panel stationarity testing approach which offers the advantage of not requiring model specification of the trend functions for the series in the panel. Our analysis detects strong evidence of non-stationarity, both globally and group-wise for the OPEC and non-OPEC countries. A case-by-case study reveals that stationarity is rejected for 8 out of the countries under study (namely, Algeria, Canada, China, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Qatar, and the US) for which shocks would thus have permanent effects, with stationarity being relatively more frequent among OPEC members.
Q35|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)|We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to finance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls i ncrease both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q35|Oil and Civil Conflict: On and Off (Shore)| We reconsider the relationship between oil and conflict, focusing on the location of oil resources. In a panel of 132 countries over the period 1962-2009, we show that oil windfalls increase the probability of conflict in onshore-rich countries, while they decrease this probability in offshore-rich countries. We use a simple model of conflict to illustrate how these opposite effects can be explained by a fighting capacity mechanism, whereby the government can use offshore oil income to increase its fighting capacity, while onshore oil may be looted by oppositional groups to finance a rebellion. We provide empirical evidence supporting this interpretation: we find that oil windfalls i ncrease both the number and strength of active rebel groups in onshore-rich countries, while they strengthen the government in offshore-rich ones.
Q35|Regulation in the presence of adjustment costs and resource scarcity. Transition dynamics and intertemporal effects|This paper examines regulation in the presence of adjustment costs and resource scarcity, allowing for imperfectly informed firms. I find strong evidence that announcement of future environmental regulation will reduce current emissions in the combined presence of resource scarcity and adjustment costs. This contrasts with the results in the literature on the green paradox. Further, efficient transition towards a low emission economy requires an investment tax on emission intensive production, unless firms have perfect information about the future. Moreover, investments in clean substitutes should first receive a subsidy, but may thereafter be taxed. The optimal tax on production differs from the Pigouvian tax in the case of scarce resources. Last, a uniform tax across heterogeneous agents can induce the socially optimal outcome only if firms have equal expectations about the future.
Q35|Coercive state, resisting society, political and economic development in Iran|In my studies, I have explored the political economy of Iran and particularly the relationship between the state and socioeconomic development in this country. The importance of the oil revenue in economic development of contemporary Iran has been underlined since the early seventies and a vast literature on the rentier state and authoritarian modernization has scrutinized the specificities of the political and economic natural resource 'curse' in Iran. A new critical social history of the oil industry has recently endeavored to reconsider the spread effects of this industry on the emergence of new cities and labor activities. In this sense, the impact of oil revenue on economic development should be mitigated: it has not been only a 'curse' but also a 'blessing'. The precious results of natural resource curse or blessing notwithstanding, this approach is insufficient to explain why some predatory states reliant on natural resources could contribute to economic development while others hinder such development. Two recent examples provide a salient illustration: why did the Shah's regime which was dependent on oil revenues enhance economic development during 1962-1974, while Ahmadinjead's two terms presidency (2005-2013) imped economic growth despite the quadrupling of oil revenues? In this essay, I will first introduce my theoretical framework and distinguish two types of predatory states, i.e. inclusive and exclusive (section 1). I will then apply this framework to explain oil and economic development (section 2). Section 3 will be devoted to the Shah's regime as an inclusive predatory state, and section 4 to Ahmadinjead's presidency as an illustration of an exclusive predatory state. A short conclusion will follow.
Q35|Evidence for a Presource Curse? Oil discoveries, Elevated Expectations, and Growth Disappointments|Oil discoveries can constitute a major positive and exogenous shock to economic activity, but the resource curse hypothesis would suggest they might also be detrimental to growth over the long run. This paper utilizes a new methodology for estimating growth underperformance to examine the extent to which discoveries depress the growth path of a country following a discovery and prior to production starting. The study finds causal evidence of a significant negative effect on short-run growth and growth relative to counter-factual forecast growth in countries with weak institutions;creating growth disappointments prior to private and public resource windfalls. This effect is termed the presource curse. For a giant oil or gas discovery, between 1988 to 2010, the study estimates an average growth disappointment effect of 0.83 percentage points, measured as the average annual gap between forecast and actual growth over the five years following a discovery. Further,the estimate defect varies by the size of the discovery, increasing to a 1.77 percentage points gap in the case of super giant discoveries. The estimated effect is inversely related to the quality of political institutions, and driven by countries with lower institutional quality at the time of the discovery, consistent with the similar long-run results documented in the resource curse literature. For countries with below-threshold institutional quality, the growth disappointment effect is larger, measured as 1.35 percentage points in annual terms. There is no measured growth disappointment effect for countries with strong institutions. Using the synthetic control method we confirm our findings for a selection of countries above and below the institutional quality threshold. The findings suggest that studies of the resource curse that focus only on the effects of resource exploitation or examine only long-run growth effects may overlook important short-run growth disappointments following discoveries, and the way countries respond to news shocks.
Q35|The Housing Market Impacts of Shale Gas Development: Corrigendum|No abstract is available for this item.
Q35|The Simple Economics of Commodity Price Speculation|The price of crude oil never exceeded $40 per barrel until mid-2004. By July 2008 it peaked at $145 and by late 2008 it fell to $30 before increasing to $110 in 2011. Are speculators partly to blame for these price changes? Using a simple model of supply and demand in the cash and storage markets, we determine whether speculation is consistent with data on production, inventory changes, and convenience yields. We focus on crude oil, but our approach can be applied to other commodities. We show speculation had little, if any, effect on oil prices. (JEL G13, G18, G23, G31, Q35, Q38)
Q35|Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Fuels?|Scientists believe significant climate change is unavoidable without a drastic reduction in the emissions of greenhouse gases from the combustion of fossil fuels. However, few countries have implemented comprehensive policies that price this externality or devote serious resources to developing low-carbon energy sources. In many respects, the world is betting that we will greatly reduce the use of fossil fuels because we will run out of inexpensive fossil fuels (there will be decreases in supply) and/or technological advances will lead to the discovery of less-expensive low-carbon technologies (there will be decreases in demand). The historical record indicates that the supply of fossil fuels has consistently increased over time and that their relative price advantage over low-carbon energy sources has not declined substantially over time. Without robust efforts to correct the market failures around greenhouse gases, relying on supply and/or demand forces to limit greenhouse gas emissions is relying heavily on hope.
Q35|Forty Years of Oil Price Fluctuations: Why the Price of Oil May Still Surprise Us|It has been 40 years since the oil crisis of 1973/74. This crisis has been one of the defining economic events of the 1970s and has shaped how many economists think about oil price shocks. In recent years, a large literature on the economic determinants of oil price fluctuations has emerged. Drawing on this literature, we first provide an overview of the causes of all major oil price fluctuations between 1973 and 2014. We then discuss why oil price fluctuations remain difficult to predict, despite economists' improved understanding of oil markets. Unexpected oil price fluctuations are commonly referred to as oil price shocks. We document that, in practice, consumers, policymakers, financial market participants, and economists may have different oil price expectations, and that, what may be surprising to some, need not be equally surprising to others.
Q35|The housing market impacts of wastewater injection induced seismicity risk|Using data from a county severely affected by the increased seismicity associated with injection wells since 2009 in Oklahoma, we recover hedonic estimates of property value impacts from nearby shale oil and gas development that vary with earthquake risk exposure. Results suggest that the seismic activity has enhanced the perceived risks associated with wastewater injection but not shale gas production. This risk perception is limited to injection wells within 2 km of the properties.
Q35|Testing supply-side climate policies for the global steam coal market—can they curb coal consumption?|Abstract The achieved international consensus on the 1.5–2 °C target entails that most of current fossil fuel reserves must remain unburned. A major contribution has to come from coal as both the most abundant and the most emission-intensive fuel. Currently, a majority of climate policies aiming at reducing coal consumption are directed towards the demand side. In the absence of a global carbon-pricing regime, these policies are prone to carbon leakage and other adverse effects. Supply-side climate policies present an alternative and increasingly discussed approach to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels. In this article, I employ a numerical model of the international steam coal market to examine two supply-side policies that are currently discussed in academic literature and by policy-makers, alike: (1) a production subsidy reform introduced in major coal-producing countries and (2) a globally implemented moratorium on new coal mines. The model simulates global patterns of coal supply, demand, and international trade, with endogenous investment in coal production and transportation capacities. I find that mere production subsidy removal, while associated with a small positive total welfare effect, leads to a minor reduction of global emissions. By contrast, a mine moratorium induces a much more pronounced reduction in global coal consumption by effectively limiting coal availability and strongly increasing prices. Depending on the specification of reserves, the moratorium can induce a coal consumption path consistent with the 1.5–2 °C target.
Q35|The Relationship between Oil Prices and Exchange Rate in Russia|This paper studies the relationship between oil price and the exchange rates in Russian Federation. There is a close interrelation between the currency rate of dollar to ruble and oil prices. The regression model has accurately shown this interrelation. The interrelation with a foreign policy factor - sanctions of the USA and the European Union is also revealed. There is a close interrelation between the currency rate of dollar to ruble and oil prices. The regression model has accurately shown this interrelation. Oil prices of the Brent oil is the dominating factor in a currency exchange rate formation mechanism of ruble, at least, in the long term. When world oil prices are stabilized and sanctions cancelled, currency fluctuations and uncertainty will be minimized. The findings of this paper may be used by foreign and domestic investors while taking decisions because all the shocks impact on the economy in short and long term
Q35|Oil reserve life and the influence of crude oil prices: An analysis of Texas reserves|Oil producing exploration and production companies generate revenue from reserves which, from any given well, are depleting over time. The reserve life index measures how long reserves would last at the current production rate if there were no additions to reserves. In this study, we examine the time series behavior of the reserve life index for each of the twelve onshore oil producing districts in Texas. Specifically, we model the relationship between reserve life and the real price of oil within a nonlinear ARDL framework. Among the results, we find evidence of both long-run and short-run asymmetries in the response of reserve life to increases/decreases in real oil prices. Further, the magnitude of the effect is greater for positive changes in real oil prices than for negative changes in real oil prices. The findings are important to operators, investors and policymakers interested in sustainability.
Q35|Stationarity changes in long-run energy commodity prices|Situated at the intersection of the literatures on speculative storage and non-renewable commodity scarcity, this paper considers whether changes in persistence have occurred in long-run U.S. prices of the energy commodities crude oil, natural gas and bituminous coal. We allow for a structural break when testing for a break in persistence to avoid a change in the stochastic properties of prices being confounded by an unaccounted-for deterministic shift in the price series. We find that coal prices are trend stationary throughout their evolution and that oil prices change from stationarity to non-stationarity in the decade between the late 1960s to late 1970s. The result on gas prices is ambiguous. Our results demonstrate the importance of accounting for a possible structural shift when testing for breaks in persistence, while being robust to the exact date of the structural break. Based on our analysis we caution against viewing long-run energy commodity prices as being non-stationary and conclude in favor of modeling commodity market fundamentals as stationary, meaning that speculative storage will tend to have a dampening effect on prices. We also cannot reject that long-run prices of coal and, with some hesitation, gas follow a Hotelling-type rule. In contrast, we reject the Hotelling rule for oil prices since the late 1960s/early 1970s.
Q35|Valuing an offshore oil exploration and production project through real options analysis|To be useful to project managers, real option analysis (ROA) needs to capture the unique characteristics of individual projects and, at the same time, remain tractable and intuitive. That is a challenge since actual projects are often complex, featuring multiple sources of uncertainty as well as multiple investment and operating options. To meet the challenge, ROA has to take a clinical approach to project management and valuation, tailoring its framework to the specifics of each individual project to reflect its main sources of flexibility without becoming overly complex. This paper undertakes a ROA of an offshore oil development project of an integrated oil and gas company. The sequence and interconnections of available real options – exploration options, appraisal options, scaling options and abandonment options – as well as the calibration of the model's parameters, are developed in close collaboration with the Exploration and Production (E&P) division of the company, to assure realism and adherence to what management believes are the key sources of investment flexibility in a typical offshore project. The project assumes that there is joint uncertainty about reserve size and the price of oil. While the first source of uncertainty is resolved through exploration and appraisal activities the second is resolved through a diffusion model. The available real options add a substantial value to the project, with the option to abandon being the most valuable.
Q35|Oil and entrepreneurship|Economic theory predicts that rents produced from natural resources, especially oil and gas, can increase opportunities for entrepreneurship, but they may also reduce engagement in entrepreneurial activities as they change incentives towards rent-seeking. Using Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) annual surveys, this study provides empirical evidence that more per capita profit from oil and gas reduces entrepreneurship only in corrupt environments. The more the corruption is, the larger is the impact. The results have important implications for policy makers, especially in resource rich developing countries.
Q35|Assessing global fossil fuel availability in a scenario framework|This study assesses global, long-term economic availability of coal, oil and gas within the Shared Socio-economic Pathway (SSP) scenario framework considering alternative assumptions as to highly uncertain future developments of technology, policy and the economy. Diverse sets of trajectories are formulated varying the challenges to mitigation and adaptation of climate change. The potential CO2 emissions from fossil fuels make it a crucial element subject to deep uncertainties. The analysis is based on a well-established dataset of cost-quantity combinations that assumes favorable techno-economic developments, but ignores additional constraints on the extraction sector. This study significantly extends the analysis by specifying alternative assumptions for the fossil fuel sector consistent with the SSP scenario families and applying these filters (mark-ups and scaling factors) to the original dataset, thus resulting in alternative cumulative fossil fuel availability curves. In a Middle-of-the-Road scenario, low cost fossil fuels embody carbon consistent with a RCP6.0 emission profile, if all the CO2 were emitted freely during the 21st century. In scenarios with high challenges to mitigation, the assumed embodied carbon in low-cost fossil fuels can trigger a RCP8.5 scenario; low mitigation challenges scenarios are still consistent with a RCP4.5 scenario.
Q35|Capturing rents from natural resource abundance: Private royalties from U.S. onshore oil & gas production|We study how much private mineral owners capture geologically-driven advantages in well productivity through a higher royalty rate. Using proprietary data from nearly 1.8 million leases, we estimate that the six major shale plays generated $39 billion in private royalties in 2014. There is limited pass-through of resource abundance into royalty rates. A doubling of the ultimate recovery of the average well in a county increases the average royalty rate by 1–2 percentage points (a 6–11 percent increase). Thus, mineral owners benefit from resource abundance primarily through a quantity effect, not through negotiating better lease terms from extraction firms. The low pass-through likely reflects a combination of firms exercising market power in private leasing markets and uncertainty over the value of resource endowments.
Q35|A cointegration analysis of agricultural, energy and bio-fuel spot, and futures prices| This article features an analysis of the cointegration relationships among agricultural commodity, ethanol and Cushing crude oil spot, and future prices. The use of grains for the creation of bio-fuels has sparked fears that these demands are inflating food prices. We analyse approximately 10 years of daily spot and futures prices for corn, wheat, sugar ethanol, and oil prices from Datastream for the period 19 July 2006 to 2 July 2015. The analysis features Engle-Granger pairwise cointegration and partial cointegration. Pairs of series, that are cointegrated, are analysed using Markov-switching VECM and Impulse Response Analysis, which confirms that these markets have significant linkages that vary according to whether they are in low or high volatility regimes.
Q35|Peter Murphy, Universities and Innovation Economies: The Creative Wasteland of Post-Industrial Society|This is a brilliant, indeed an indispensable book. It provides a compelling diagnosis of the decline and failure of the contemporary bureaucratic and managerially governed university, the post-industrial-bureaucratic driven economy, and the social-liberal-democratic-bureaucratic state. It deals with matters that those of us who work in universities, particularly in Australia and the United Kingdom (US universities are still far less centralized), and who know from the inside that so much of what has happened over the last thirty years or so has pretty well destroyed the university as a place for reading, reflection, discussion, dispute, deliberation, and inventive imaginative responses to what are thrown up by the spirits of the times. But what makes the book truly remarkable is the thoroughness of the diagnosis and the mountains of evidence that the book marshals to make its case. Moreover, both the diagnosis and the evidence that is summoned to confirm the diagnosis could only have been made by someone who effortlessly moves between the disciplinary compartmentalisations, which, when kept separate, only serve to dilute any diagnosis of the nature of the problems and the forces and interests that conspire not only to create the problems but, sadly, to make then insoluble. Murphy is, to use one of those buzz-words that usually smacks of ‘bureaucratise’, ‘multi-skilled’ - precisely because he exemplifies that combination that is, sadly, all too rarely to be found, let alone nurtured in universities today: he is a real scholar, a prodigious researcher, and an inventive thinker.
Q35|Natural Resources and FDI in GCC Countries|Natural resources are a blessing for some countries to attract FDI but cursed for others. Existing literature argues the suggestion that resource-rich countries attract less FDI because of resource (oil) price volatility. This study examines that natural resources discourage FDI in GCC countries (the FDI-Natural resources curse hypothesis), using panel data analysis for six oil dependent countries during 1980-2013 and applying several econometrics techniques. The main findings of this paper is that natural resources measured by oil rents have a negative association with FDI inflows; this negative impact is robust even when other FDI determinates of FDI are included. FDI inflows decreased between 0.15 and 0.92% when oil rents increased by 1%. In addition, the empirical results show that trade openness and labour force are the main factors that encourage FDI, while political instability and corruption deter FDI inflows into GCC countries.
Q35|Changes in Institutional Design, Expropriation Risk and Extraction Path|The impact of expropriation risk on the extraction path of non-renewable resources has been shown as theoretically ambiguous. It depends on capital intensity of the extraction process and the size of resource stocks. By employing producing field-level data in the South East Asia region, we observe the impact of a change in institutional design of oil governance in Indonesia on expropriation risk and extraction path. From the empirical results, we make an inference that a change in oil governance reduces expropriation risk, and the impact of the reduction on the extraction path is different for different sizes of resource stock. The results confirm the theory that for small resource stocks, reduction in expropriation risk leads to a slower extraction path. This reiterates the importance of strengthening ownership rights such that expropriation risk can be reduced, over-extraction can be avoided and more sustainable economic welfare can be achieved.
Q35|Interfirm Learning Economies in Drilling and Environmental Safety|This paper examines interfirm learning economies in improving productivity and environmental safety in Bakken oil drilling. We distinguish between firms accruing match-specific relationship capital, idiosyncratic match quality, and learning about match quality. We find some evidence that firms do accrue relationship-specific capital which improves firm productivity. However, we do not find evidence that firm or interfirm learning leads to increased environmental safety. We do find evidence that idiosyncratic match quality leads to both higher productivity and improved environmental safety.
Q35|Estimating Path Dependence in Energy Transitions|What induces clean energy transitions? When transitional dynamics exhibit strong path dependence, a temporary shock to input composition can trigger permanent structural change. I examine whether such dynamics characterize the U.S. energy sector's use of coal - the most climate-damaging fuel - over the 20th century. Exploiting local coal supply shocks driven by changing regional accessibility of subsurface coal, I find increasing imbalance in the coal composition of electricity capital lasting ten decades following a shock. A structural change model enables recovery of a key structural parameter from reduced-form estimates and explores conditions for triggering sustained future clean energy transitions.
Q35|Economic and Environmental Impacts of Fracking: A Case Study of the Marcellus Shale|While many studies examine the individual costs and benefits from fracking, there are no studies that provide a unified comparison of costs and benefits. This study attempts to fill this void by conducting a cost–benefit analysis of developing natural gas from the Marcellus shale formation in Pennsylvania. Using more than seven thousand well records, this study estimates production decline curves for vintages of Marcellus wells and their productivity growth over time. The value added created from constructing and operating a recent average Marcellus well is estimated. Environmental impacts are estimated based upon several thousand records of environmental violations impacting air, land, and water resources. Air emissions are estimated during the life cycle of the well from drilling, hydraulic fracturing, production, transportation, and consumption. Using estimates of environmental damage costs, the economic value of these environmental impacts is estimated. The economic benefits, including the environmental benefits from displacing coal, range from $14 to over $30 million with an expected value of $23 million per well. These estimates are likely a lower bound because they do not include the benefits that arise from lower natural gas due to shale energy development. Environmental impact costs range from $162 to $755 thousand per well with the largest impacts arising from diesel use by water pumps and trucks, forest disruption from pipeline construction, and methane lost during flow back and downstream methane leakage. These environmental costs were estimated using relatively high estimates for environmental impacts and damage costs. Unknown impacts may remain, however, from unreported environmental violations and from possible long-term health impacts. Nevertheless, this study finds that the economic benefits from fracking substantially exceed the costs of known environmental impacts.
Q35|Oklahoma Oil and Gas Severance Taxes: A Comparative Analysis|Oklahoma assesses a production tax of seven percent on the extraction of oil, natural gas, and other minerals. However, since July 2002, it has taxed production from horizontal wells at only one percent for the first 48 months of production. This is a significant tax incentive relative to its neighboring states, Texas and Kansas, particularly considering the limited evidence as to the effectiveness of severance tax incentives for increasing in-state development of immobile resources. This paper empirically examines whether the severance tax incentive has encouraged horizontal development in Oklahoma relative to Texas and Kansas. Our findings indicate that the Oklahoma tax exemption has not had a significant influence on horizontal drilling.
Q35|Trading Off Global Fuel Supply, CO2 Emissions and Sustainable Development|The United Nations Conference on Climate Change (Paris 2015) reached an international agreement to keep the rise in global average temperature ‘well below 2°C’ and to ‘aim to limit the increase to 1.5°C’. These reductions will have to be made in the face of rising global energy demand. Here a thoroughly validated dynamic econometric model (Eq 1) is used to forecast global energy demand growth (International Energy Agency and BP), which is driven by an increase of the global population (UN), energy use per person and real GDP (World Bank and Maddison). Even relatively conservative assumptions put a severe upward pressure on forecast global energy demand and highlight three areas of concern. First, is the potential for an exponential increase of fossil fuel consumption, if renewable energy systems are not rapidly scaled up. Second, implementation of internationally mandated CO2 emission controls are forecast to place serious constraints on fossil fuel use from ~2030 onward, raising energy security implications. Third is the challenge of maintaining the international ‘pro-growth’ strategy being used to meet poverty alleviation targets, while reducing CO2 emissions. Our findings place global economists and environmentalists on the same side as they indicate that the scale up of CO2 neutral renewable energy systems is not only important to protect against climate change, but to enhance global energy security by reducing our dependence of fossil fuels and to provide a sustainable basis for economic development and poverty alleviation. Very hard choices will have to be made to achieve ‘sustainable development’ goals.
Q35|Turning Human Waste into Renewable Energy: Scope and Options for India|With rise in population and the ongoing urbanisation drive, the urge to ensure energy security both for the rural and urban areas has emerged as a major challenge in India. The demand for energy has increased in all spheres of life, e.g. for cooking, cultivation, production purposes, transportation, and so on. Although through various government initiatives, adoption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) for cooking has increased, given the vast population, use of biofuels is expected to continue for poorer households. Generation of biogas from cattle waste in India has intensified through policies, but the same from human waste is still in a nascent stage. The present study explores the possibilities of recovering energy and nutrients from human waste by discussing the present system of human waste collection, treatment and disposal in India, followed by the reasons behind the failures of the past initiatives (e.g., Ganga Action Plan, GAP). It further focuses on a few alternative systems and their technical feasibility. It is concluded that various ongoing policies, viz., National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ (SBM) - should be coordinated for integrating collection and treatment of human waste for generation of renewable energy.
Q35|Evaluating the effect of upside and downside slope on flow hydraulic in cylindrical overflows by using Flow 3D software|Features and behavior of flow in hydraulic structures is one of the complex phenomena. Cylindrical overflow is a simple hydraulic structure which is used for energy dissipation, control and flow measurement. Hereof the sharp, wide and climactic edges overflows are used commonly. In water transmission and distribution systems, cylindrical overflows and crest- circular overflows because of being affordable and ease of fabrication compared with other overflows can be used for measurement of flow rate, evacuation buildings of flow water and controlling the level of water in canals and reservoirs. The water flow on overflow of dams and used overflows in water supply and sewage networks are some cases that a design engineer is in contact with them.
Q35|An Analysis of OPEC Stability: Sacrifice Ratio Approach and Effect of Iran Economic Sanctions|The main purpose of this study is to analyze the stability of OPEC, based on approach of Danielsen's sacrifice ratio and the impact of Iran economic sanctions. For this purpose two concepts called the reserves sacrifice ratio and the capacity sacrifice ratio on Danielsen model framework have been used for investigating the stability of OPEC. Relationship between sacrifice ratios and variables such as population, gross domestic product (GDP), production and oil production capacities of all members of OPEC have been reviewed and analyzed. Iran sanctions as an important factor influencing on amount of sacrifice ratios and totally OPEC stability have been studied. Period of study has been chosen from 2000 to 2014. The results of this study show that during the examined period, there is a meaningful and negative correlation between population and sacrifice ratios. There is a meaningful and positive correlation between oil reserves and sacrifice ratio too. OPEC countries with large oil reserves have a tendency to restrict extraction of crude oil reserves. There is a meaningful and positive correlation between Iran economic sanctions and sacrifice ratio. Iran's oil production capacity has been reduced due to sanctions against Iran and consequently sacrifice ratios of reserves and oil capacities have been increased. According to results of this research there is no evidence to suggest OPEC collapse. As a result of this study, OPEC still considered a stable organization.
Q35|Анализ влияния институциональных условий на политику нефтяных компаний в сфере недропользования. Analysis of the impact of institutional environment on the policy of oil companies in the sphere of subsoil use|Нефтегазовый сектор имеет важнейшее значение для экономики России. Общие социально-экономические эффекты от разработки нефтегазовых ресурсов в существенной степени зависят от реализуемой политики нефтегазовых компаний. Поэтому важнейшей задачей государства является формирование таких условий, которые обеспечивали бы социально-ориентированное поведение нефтяных компаний. Основной целью исследования является разработка рекомендаций по формированию таких условий применительно к добыче нефти. В работе анализируются современное положение с освоением нефтяных ресурсов в России, поведение нефтяных компаний в сфере недропользования. Предложен методический подход к анализу поведения компаний применительно к вопросам освоения нефтяных месторождений в различных условиях (по жесткости государственной политики в сфере недропользования). Показано, что необходимо сбалансированное сочетание ограничительных мер и механизмов финансово-экономического стимулирования. Полученные выводы могут быть использованы при формировании институциональных условий в сфере недропользования. Oil and gas sector is key sector for the Russian economy. General socio-economic benefts from the development of oil and gas resources are largely dependent on the policies implemented by oil companies. Therefore, the most important task of the state is to create conditions that would ensure socially-oriented behavior of the oil companies. The main purpose of research is to develop recommendations for the establishment of these conditions with regard to oil production.The paper analyzes the current situation with the development of oil resources in Russia, the behavior of the oil companies in the sphere of subsoil use. The methodical approach to analyzing the behavior of companies with respect to the issues of development of oil felds in various conditions (rigidity of the state policy in the sphere of subsoil use) is provided. It has been shown that it is necessary a balanced combination of restrictive measures and mechanisms for fnancial and economic incentives. The fndings may be used in the formation of the institutional environment in the sphere of subsoil use.
Q35|The Housing Market Impacts of Shale Gas Development|Using data from Pennsylvania and an array of empirical techniques to control for confounding factors, we recover hedonic estimates of property value impacts from nearby shale gas development that vary with water source, well productivity, and visibility. Results indicate large negative impacts on nearby groundwater-dependent homes, while piped-water-dependent homes exhibit smaller positive impacts, suggesting benefits from lease payments. Results have implications for the debate over regulation of shale gas development. (JEL L71, Q35, Q53, R31)
Q35|When Does Regulation Distort Costs? Lessons from Fuel Procurement in US Electricity Generation|This paper evaluates changes in fuel procurement practices by coal and gas-fired power plants in the United States following state-level legislation that ended cost-of-service regulation of electricity generation. I find that deregulated plants substantially reduce the price paid for coal (but not gas) and tend to employ less capital-intensive sulfur abatement techniques relative to matched plants that were not subject to any regulatory change. Deregulation also led to a shift toward more productive coal mines. I show how these results lend support to theories of asymmetric information, capital bias, and regulatory capture as important sources of regulatory distortion. (JEL L51, L71, L94, L98, Q35, Q41, Q48)
Q35|Vehicle Scrappage and Gasoline Policy|"We estimate the sensitivity of scrap decisions to changes in used car values and show how this ""scrap elasticity"" produces emissions leakage under fuel efficiency standards, a process known as the Gruenspecht effect. We first estimate the effect of gasoline prices on used vehicle values and scrappage of vehicles with different fuel economies. We then estimate the scrap elasticity itself, which we find to be -0.7. When applied in a model of fuel economy standards, 13-16 percent of the expected fuel savings leak away through the used vehicle market. This effect rivals or exceeds the importance of the often-cited mileage rebound effect. (JEL H23, L62, L78, Q35, Q38, Q48, Q58)"
Q35|Is the Phillips Curve Alive and Well after All? Inflation Expectations and the Missing Disinflation|We evaluate explanations for the absence of disinflation during the Great Recession and find popular explanations to be insufficient. We propose a new explanation for this puzzle within the context of a standard Phillips curve. If firms' inflation expectations track those of households, then the missing disinflation can be explained by the rise in their inflation expectations between 2009 and 2011. We present new econometric and survey evidence consistent with firms having similar expectations as households. The rise in household inflation expectations from 2009 to 2011 can be explained by the increase in oil prices over this time period. (JEL D84, E24, E32, E52, E58, Q35)
Q35|Is The Phillips Curve Alive and Well After All? Inflation Expectations and the Missing Disinflation|We evaluate explanations for the absence of disinflation during the Great Recession and find popular explanations to be insufficient. We propose a new explanation for this puzzle within the context of a standard Phillips curve. If firms' inflation expectations track those of households, then the missing disinflation can be explained by the rise in their inflation expectations between 2009 and 2011. We present new econometric and survey evidence consistent with firms having similar expectations as households. The rise in household inflation expectations from 2009 to 2011 can be explained by the increase in oil prices over this time period. (JEL D84, E24, E32, E52, E58, Q35)<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q35|The socioeconomic impact derived from the oil royalty allocation on regional development| The aim of this work was to assess the socioeconomic impact derived from the oil royalty allocation on regional development, using a multi-sector model based on a Social Accounting Matrix (SAM), appropriately implemented for Basilicata region (Italy), the typical case of a region lagging behind in a developed economy. Our focus was on how political decisions have influenced the economic development of the region and how a different set of choices can be more effective in transforming public receipts into long-term benefits. Results clearly show that in the past the allocation of oil royalties to the regional government (as a whole €990 million) generated a much lower impact than expected, in terms of economic growth and employment. Given the structure of the regional economy, much of the impact of investments and running expenses financed by royalties has maybe been lost outside the regional boundaries. A greater effect on income and employment will not be possible unless resources are re-directed towards greater competitiveness of the regional economic system. Better balancing the use of royalties between social expenditure and production investments would probably be the first step towards a strategy of sustainable development of the regional economy.
Q35|Unconventional Gas and the European Union: Prospects and Challenges for Competitiveness|This article studies the likely impact of unconventional gas developments in the U.S. on EU competitiveness. We find, first of all, little evidence for a prosperous unconventional gas development in Europe. Second, the U.S. boom has already a strong impact on both world and European energy markets. In particular, lower U.S. gas and coal prices have changed relative energy prices both at home and abroad. Finally, competitiveness impacts in some (sub)sectors will be considerable. These impacts are not only related to production based on gas use as a feedstock but also on the ‘byproducts’ from unconventional gas production, such as ethylene, propane and butane. However, several indirect impacts, such as lower coal import prices, may soften the adverse competitiveness impact in the EU.
Q35|Oil and Regional Development in Chad: Impact Assessment of Doba Oil Project on the Poverty in Host Region|In 2003, Chadian authorities passed the Law N° 001/PR/1999, establishing rules for allocating and managing the expected oil royalties from the Doba Oil project. The oil producing region’s share amounts to 5% of oil revenues under this law in addition to other benefits related to its status in order to mitigate negative effects of the oil project. Many field studies attempted to assess poverty situation in this region. Yet, no rigorous method of impact assessment has been employed. The goal of this paper is to evaluate the poverty profile in this region, by combining a double difference estimator with propensity score matching methods. Using data from the «Survey on Consumption and the Informal Sector in Chad» carried out in 2003 and 2011, our results tend to show that the monetary poverty increased in the oil producing region compared to control regions. We find no evidence that the nonmonetary poverty decreased in the producing region, as the important investments in social infrastructures could have implicitly suggested. In addition, we notice that household expenditures for temptation goods increased in this region compared to the others. Finally, we observe that there are spillover effects. Especially the neighboring regions of the oil producing region are more likely to experience poverty. These results raise the issue of the efficiency of the law and of its enlargement to newly discovered oil fields.
Q35|Modeling UK Natural Gas Prices when Gas Prices Periodically Decouple from the Oil Price|When natural gas prices are subject to periodic decoupling from oil prices, for instance due to peak-load pricing, conventional linear models of price dynamics such as the Vector Error Correction Model (VECM) can lead to erroneous inferences about the nature of cointegration relationships, price adjustments and relative values. We propose the use of regime-switching models to address these issues. Our regime switching model uses price data to infer whether pricing is oil-driven (integrated) or gas-specific (decoupled). We find that UK natural gas (NBP) and oil (Brent) are cointegrated for the majority of the sample considered (1997-2014). UK gas prices tend to decouple during fall and early winter, when they increase relative to oil consistent with seasonal demand for natural gas creating gas-specific pricing. When evidence favors integrated markets, we find that the industry 10-1 rule-of-thumb holds (the value of one MMbtu of natural gas in the UK market is one tenth the value of one barrel of Brent oil), while the overall relationship, including decoupling periods, is 9.2-1. The paper highlights that what relative value to use, depends on the purpose of its use.
Q35|Probable Oil and Gas Reserves and Shareholder Returns: The Impact of Shale Gas|Oil and gas reserves are the most important assets of oil and gas companies. A source of confusion for investors in oil companies is that reserves quantities and values are uncertain estimates. Reserves are typically classified according to probabilities of recovery from underground reservoirs. All U.S. listed companies have to disclose proved reserves but not probable reserves, thus leaving out potentially important information for investors and financial analysts. This study addresses the impact on market valuation of various classifications of reserves amounts. Using a data sample of 94 companies that do disclose information on probable reserves, we compare the relation between three classifications of reserves and oil company returns. While we find that information on probable reserves do not have an impact on stock returns measured over the entire time period, this is not the case since 2009, coinciding with the onset of the shale gas revolution.
Q35|Análisis de la restructuración institucional del sector petrolero ecuatoriano en el período 2007-2012|El presente trabajo presenta un análisis de la nueva configuración institucional en el sector petrolero bajo la interpretación de los diferentes instrumentos de política pública, considerados como condicionantes de las instituciones que moldean las políticas públicas Esto permite, contextualizar y caracterizar los diferentes modelos de instrumentos que se aplican dentro de la configuración institucional. En un primer momento se identifica la arquitectura del Estado con el fin de conocer el papel de intervención de cada organismo dentro de su estructura piramidal, luego se analizan los cambios en el ministerio rector de la política petrolera a partir de la reforma a la Ley de Hidrocarburos del Ecuador vigente desde el 2010 y finalmente el estudio decanta en la configuración de las empresas públicas de hidrocarburos, siendo estas instrumentos de acción y ejecución de la directriz de política pública en el sector.
Q35|LNG is linking regional natural gas markets: Evidence from the gravity model|Evidence exists that global natural gas markets have become more integrated over time. One possible explanation for this increased level of integration is that increased liquefied natural gas trade has increased the opportunity for price arbitrage by decreasing transport costs. If this explanation is true, then the natural gas market should become relatively more integrated because countries separated by large distances would be more willing to trade with each other. We employ a gravity model to test whether trade in liquefied natural gas has helped to de-regionalize the total natural gas market, using trade in the compressed natural gas market as a comparison benchmark. The results indicate that liquefied natural gas is indeed a global commodity, whereas the compressed natural gas markets are more regional. Importantly, we find that trade in liquefied natural gas has de-regionalized the total natural gas market.
Q35|Local employment impact from competing energy sources: Shale gas versus wind generation in Texas|The rapid development of both wind power and of shale gas has been receiving significant attention both in the media and among policy makers. Since these are competing sources of electricity generation, it is informative to investigate their relative merits regarding local job creation. We use a panel econometric model to estimate the historical job-creating performance of wind versus that of shale oil and gas. The model is estimated using monthly county level data from Texas from 2001 to 2011. Both first-difference and GMM methods show that shale-related activity has brought strong employment to Texas. For example, based on the 5482 new directional/fractured wells drilled in Texas in 2011, the estimates imply that between 25,000 and 125,000 net jobs were created in that year alone. We did not, however, find a corresponding impact on wages. Our estimations did not identify a non-negligible impact from the wind industry on either local employment or wages.
Q35|The impact of outages on prices and investment in the U.S. oil refining industry|This paper considers the effects of refinery outages (due to planned turn-arounds or unplanned events) on current petroleum product prices and future refinery investment. Empirical evidence on these relationships is mixed and highly dependent on the size and duration of the outage, the geographic area considered, the level of inventories available at the time of the outage, and the tightness of the market as measured by the capacity utilization rate. Using a detailed database of plant-level refinery outages for both upstream and downstream refining units, I estimate the effects of outages on product prices controlling for the crude oil price and the ability of operating plants to respond to the outage. I also consider the effect of current market profitability on the likelihood of planned refinery outages and the effects of high utilization rates and planned maintenance on the prospects for unplanned outages. I then use plant-level capacity data to analyze the effects of outages, profitability, and utilization rates on future investment decisions of the refinery.
Q35|The demand for transport fuels in Turkey|In this paper, we estimate the demand for transport fuels in Turkey. Specifically, using four different models, namely a partial adjustment model, a distributed lag model, an autoregressive distributed lag model, and an error correction model, we estimate gasoline and diesel demand functions with quarterly data covering the period 2003:Q1–2014:Q3. We find a stable long-run relationship only for diesel demand, income and price. Our results imply that gasoline demand does not respond to income and price in the long run, reflecting a shift from gasoline towards diesel induced by differential tax policies. Furthermore, we find that transport fuel demand is price inelastic, making tax on fuel a perfect tool for raising budget revenues. In addition, our results suggest that fuel demand responds to negative and positive price changes symmetrically.
Q35|Should we extract the European shale gas? The effect of climate and financial constraints|In the context of the deep contrast between the shale gas boom in the United States and the recent ban by France of shale gas exploration, this paper explores whether climate policy justifies developing more shale gas, taking into account environmental damages, both local and global, and addresses the question of a potential arbitrage between shale gas development and the transition to clean energy. We construct a Hotelling-like model where electricity may be produced by three perfectly substitutable sources: an abundant dirty resource (coal), a non-renewable less polluting resource (shale gas), and an abundant clean resource (solar). The resources differ by their carbon contents and their unit costs. Fixed costs must be paid for shale gas exploration, and before solar production begins. Climate policy takes the form of a ceiling on atmospheric carbon concentration. We show that at the optimum tightening climate policy always leads to bringing forward the transition to clean energy. We determine conditions under which the quantity of shale gas extracted should increase or decrease as the ceiling is tightened. To address the question of the arbitrage between shale gas development and the transition to clean energy, we assume that the social planner has to comply to the climate constraint without increasing energy expenditures. We show that when the price elasticity of electricity demand is low, a binding financial constraint leads to an overinvestment in shale gas and postpones the switch to the clean backstop. We calibrate the model for Europe and determine whether shale gas should be extracted, depending on the magnitude of the local damage, as well as the potential extra amount of shale gas developed because of a financial constraint, and the cost of a moratorium on extraction
Q35|Did closures do any good? Labour productivity, mine dynamics, and rationalization in interwar Ruhr coal-mining|Over the later 1920s and up to the mid-1930s, German coal-mining saw an exceptional surge in labour productivity led primarily by the Ruhr coalminesÕ performance. It is a commonly accepted view that the economy-wide Ôrationalization boomÕ between currency stabilization and the depression years explains that pattern. We test the related hypothesis that Ônegative rationalizationÕ in the form of a massive wave of mine closures over 1924-29 played a significant role in pushing aggregate labour productivity in the Ruhr coal district up to new levels. Based on an original dataset on the population of Ruhr coalmines, the sources of productivity change over the extended period 1913-38 are identified using the decomposition method of Foster, Haltiwanger and Krizan (2001). Results suggest that labour productivity in Ruhr coal-mining was driven to a large extent by improvements at individual mines attributable to the intensified mechanization of underground operations. Closures regularly raised aggregate productivity in the year after the closure had been conducted; closures also pushed productivity by way of ceding resources to high(er) productivity surviving mines over gradual shut-down. However, on the whole, turnover-effects were marginal compared to the effects stemming from the producer dynamics among surviving mines. Thus, the practical productivity implications of mine closures over the rationalization boom are negligible and still overrated in the relevant literature. These findings call for testing more rigorously the relative importance of Ônegative rationalizationÕ in the form of plant closures in other branches of the Weimar economy.
Q35|Reserves Replacement and Oil and Gas Company Shareholder returns|This paper examines how oil and gas companies' reserves growth affects their share price returns. In particular we examine three issues affecting the relation between reserves changes and oil and gas firm returns. First, we examine if investors value reserves replacement as a result of exploration activities differently to reserves growth through acquisitions. In the second analysis we test if reserves replacement of oil reserves impacts stock returns differently than changes in gas reserves do. Third, we examine the impact of the Shale gas revolution and the subsequent oil and gas price divergence on the association between returns and replacement of oil versus gas reserves. The results suggest that investors seem to be indifferent to reserves replacement strategy (exploration or acquisition). However, we find that changes in oil reserves impact oil and gas company returns differently than changes in gas reserves does. Moreover, we find that there has been a structural shift in the relation between returns and changes in gas reserves (but not changes in oil reserves) after 2008, coinciding with the Shale gas revolution and the break in the oil-gas price link. This latter result can be relevant for understanding the impact of the recent fall in oil prices on investor valuation of oil and gas reserves
Q35|Who’s a major? A novel approach to peer group selection: Empirical evidence from oil and gas companies| This study presents a novel approach to selecting comparable companies in equity valuation. While valuation multiples is probably the most common valuation method in practice, discounted cash flow and residual income valuation models are advocated by academics. A key aspect in valuation by multiples is peer group selection. In this paper, we examine the usefulness of econometric techniques in peer-group selection for the largest companies in the international oil and gas sector. Using Chow tests, we are able to identify firms with similar relationships between valuation multiples and relevant value drivers. These results of our study suggest that analysts and investors should, when carrying out valuations, be careful in selecting the companies that comprise the peer groups. Comparable company selection could be carried out using econometric techniques that select companies on the basis of similarities in the relation between financial information and market valuation, instead of being based purely on analysts’ subjective judgments.
Q35|Oil Exploration Economics: Empirical Evidence from Indonesian Geological Basins|Oil exploration has been subject to economic research for decades. Earlier studies of exploration models are mostly discussed the behavior of exploration at the macro-level analysis such as field, firm, region, and continental. This paper then focuses on the geological and economic factors that determine the well-drilling decision at the micro-level using disaggregated panel data of 32 geological basins in Indonesia over the period of 2004–2013. This study shows that the number of drilled wells is determined significantly by the lag of success rate, lag of discovery size, lag of global oil price, and regional location of geological basin.
Q35|Should we extract the European shale gas? The effect of climate and financial constraints|In the context of the deep contrast between the shale gas boom in the United States and the recent ban by France of shale gas exploration, this paper explores whether climate policy justifies developing more shale gas, taking into account environmental damages, both local and global, and addresses the question of a potential arbitrage between shale gas development and the transition to clean energy. We construct a Hotelling-like model where electricity may be produced by three perfectly substitutable sources: an abundant dirty resource (coal), a non-renewable less polluting resource (shale gas), and an abundant clean resource (solar). The resources differ by their carbon contents and their unit costs. Fixed costs must be paid for shale gas exploration, and before solar production begins. Climate policy takes the form of a ceiling on atmospheric carbon concentration. We show that at the optimum tightening climate policy always leads to bringing forward the transition to clean energy. We determine conditions under which the quantity of shale gas extracted should increase or decrease as the ceiling is tightened. To address the question of the arbitrage between shale gas development and the transition to clean energy, we assume that the social planner has to comply to the climate constraint without increasing energy expenditures. We show that when the price elasticity of electricity demand is low, a binding financial constraint leads to an overinvestment in shale gas and postpones the switch to the clean backstop. We calibrate the model for Europe and determine whether shale gas should be extracted, depending on the magnitude of the local damage, as well as the potential extra amount of shale gas developed because of a financial constraint, and the cost of a moratorium on extraction.
Q35|Emissions Trading as a Policy Instrument: Evaluation and Prospects|Emissions trading schemes figure prominently among policy instruments used to tackle the problem of climate change, and the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS), begun in 2005, is the largest cap-and-trade market so far established. In the EU ETS, firms regulated by the scheme are provided with emissions allowances (each a one-time right to emit one ton of greenhouse gases) and can sell their unused allowances to firms that have higher rates of emissions. In this volume, leading economists offer empirical and theoretical perspectives on the early phases of the EU ETS implementation. The contributors discuss the features of the EU ETS market; and regulatory uncertainty stemming from rule changes; the political economy context of the trading scheme, including allowance allocation and the influence of lobbying on abatement decisions; the coexistence of such overlapping instruments for climate policy as pricing and taxation; the relationship between spot and futures markets for allowances, and firms’ responses to various features of the EU ETS, including fluctuating allowance prices, free allocation, and links to the Kyoto process. They show that, although the basic theory behind emissions permit markets is straightforward, design features, market structure, and interactions with other policy instruments can influence the efficiency of the scheme. Contributors Nathan Braun, A. Denny Ellerman, Timothy Fitzgerald, Beat Hintermann, Wolfgang Härdle, Peter Heindl, Philipp Hieronymi, Marc Gronwald, Frank Jotzo, Andreas Lange, Stephen Lecourt, Ralf Martin, A. J. Mulder, Mirabelle Muûls, Clement Pallière, Jason Pearcy, Oliver Sartor, David Schüller, Stefan Trück, Ulrich J. Wagner, Rafał Weron, Peter J. Wood
Q35|Geographic Dispersion of Economic Shocks: Evidence from the Fracking Revolution|We track the geographic and temporal propagation of local economic shocks from new oil and gas production generated by hydrofracturing. Each million dollars of new production produces $80,000 in wage income and $132,000 in royalty and business income within a county. Within 100 miles, one million dollars of new production generates $257,000 in wages and $286,000 in royalty and business income. Roughly two-thirds of the wage income increase persists for two years. Assuming no general equilibrium effects, new extraction increased aggregate US employment by as many as 640,000, and decreased the unemployment rate by 0.43 during the Great Recession.
Q35|Economic And Environmental Aspects Associated With The Technologies For Electricity Production From Conventional Sources And Measures To Mitigate The Produced Impacts|The electricity sector represents the sector with the greatest impact in terms of producing climate change, mainly due to the greenhouse gas emissions generated through the burning of fossil fuels. It is not however the only negative aspect associated to the classic technologies of electricity production. This paper aims to assess the economic and environmental aspects associated to the technologies for the electricity production from conventional sources and as a conclusion of the research it will also propose certain specific measures designed to mitigate their impacts. Therefore, the analysis will focus on economic issues, such as limited resources of fuels and the significant fluctuation in fuel prices, low energy efficiency, environmental protection expenditures and health issues as a result of the pollution generated by the electricity production and environmental aspects related primarily to the burning of fossil fuels, but also to extraction, transport and storage, aspects concerning the management of waste generated by the energy sector or to the risks associated with the process of producing electricity. In the final part of the paper a few measures will be proposed to mitigate the impact on the environment and economic development of such technologies, as well as increasing energy efficiency, promoting renewable sources of energy, carbon dioxide capture and storage, limiting deforestation, afforestation or the prevention of accidents in the energy sector.
Q35|Los impactos económicos de las restricciones al transporte de gas natural en el Perú: Un análisis de equilibrio general computable|En este documento se evalúa el impacto sobre la economía peruana de eventos extremos. Se utiliza un modelo de equilibrio general computable de la economía peruana con énfasis en el sector energético. Dados los importantes descubrimientos de yacimientos de gas natural en el Perú y la relevancia que ha venido tomando el mismo tanto en la matriz energética como en la economía en su totalidad, resulta de relevancia analizar el impacto que generaría restricciones en el transporte que limiten su utilización tanto en el destino interno como con fines de exportación. Los resultados muestran un fuerte impacto sobre el PBI y los niveles de bienestar de los consumidores.
Q35|The dynamic impact of uncertainty in causing and forecasting the distribution of oil returns and risk|The aim of this study is to analyze the relevance of recently developed news-based measures of economic policy and equity market uncertainty in causing and predicting the conditional quantiles of crude oil returns and risk. For this purpose, we studied both the causality relationships in quantiles through a non-parametric testing method and, building on a collection of quantiles forecasts, we estimated the conditional density of oil returns and volatility, the out-of-sample performance of which was evaluated by using suitable tests. A dynamic analysis shows that the uncertainty indexes are not always relevant in causing and forecasting oil movements. Nevertheless, the informative content of the uncertainty indexes turns out to be relevant during periods of market distress, when the role of oil risk is the predominant interest, with heterogeneous effects over the different quantiles levels.
Q35|Book Review 'Political Ecology: A Critical Introduction, 2nd Edition' by Paul Robbins|Paul Robbins is the director of the Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he oversees world-leading research in rapid global environmental change. His years of experience as both researcher and educator focus on specializing interactions with nature and the politics of natural resource management, spanning topics ranging from environmental studies and natural resource policy to social theory. His work has addressed many topics spanning conservation conflicts, urban ecology and environment as well as environment and health interactions.....
Q35|International Carbon Trade and Domestic Climate Politics|This article theorizes about the implications for domestic climate politics of three distinct roles countries play in the global carbon supply chain: fossil fuel producer, manufacturer of carbon-intensive goods, and final consumer. Because international responsibility is assigned to territorial emissions, countries at either end of the global supply chain effectively evade environmental responsibility by shifting fossil fuel combustion to manufacturing countries. In so doing, they lessen the political challenges of reducing domestic emissions. Although exporters of carbon-intensive goods are reluctant to disadvantage local producers, importers can craft policies that both reduce territorial emissions and create local jobs. Ironically, fossil fuel exporters can emerge as leaders in reducing their own territorial emissions, a finding illustrated by case studies of British Columbia and Norway. The conclusion argues that shifting responsibility for carbon emissions to the point of either final consumption or fossil fuel extraction could facilitate an international climate agreement.
Q35|Volatility Spillovers Across Petroleum Markets|By using our newly defined measure, we detect and quantify asymmetries in the volatility spillovers of petroleum commodities: crude oil, gasoline, and heating oil. The increase in volatility spillovers after 2001 correlates with the progressive financialization of the commodities. Further, increasing spillovers from volatility among petroleum commodities substantially change their pattern after 2008 (the financial crisis and advent of tight oil production). After 2008, asymmetries in spillovers markedly declined in terms of total as well as directional spillovers. In terms of asymmetries we also show that overall volatility spillovers due to negative (price) returns materialize to a greater degree than volatility spillovers due to positive returns. An analysis of directional spillovers reveals that no petroleum commodity dominates other commodities in terms of general spillover transmission.
Q35|Formation conditions and criteria of regional innovation systems in Ukraine|Considering the prospects of regional innovation systems in Ukraine, theoretically found the key organizational and institutional settings that allow the potential of regional innovation systems. A criterion for the onset of systematic innovation at the regional level. They are divided into infrastructure and under- structure parameters. The first question concerns the degree of infrastructure regional financial competence. This includes private and public finances. Where there is a regional stock exchanges, firms, especially small and medium-sized can find financial resources at the local capital market. Regional innovation management process assists in the interaction of the parties, including the competence of public and private resources. The revival of public-private investment in Ukraine can also help to build capacity, reputation, trust and reliability among regional partners. State regional budgets are also important in mobilizing regional innovation capacity. Three types of budget competencies. The first - the regions have the right to manage decentralized expenditure. For example, when the region is the channel through which funds are nation-wide. The second category is applicable in cases where the regions are competent in autonomous spending. This happens when regions determine how the grant will be spent allocated from the national budget. The third category - the regions have the power to collect taxes as well as for the autonomous distribution, which creates opportunities for regional innovation. The strongest basis for promoting regional innovation is found in regions with credit opportunities, and in the regions with autonomous expenditure and authority to collect taxes. The competence of regional authorities to infrastructure issues are divided according control and influence on investment: in 'hard' infrastructure projects such as transport and telecommunications and 'soft' - infrastructure knowledge, such as universities, research institutes, science parks and technology transfer centers. Most regions lack the budget to the most strategic of them, but many have the power to design and construction of such facilities.
Q35|The Economic Cost of Global Fuel Subsidies|By 2015, global oil consumption will reach 90 million barrels per day. In part, this high level of consumption reflects the fact that many countries provide subsidies for gasoline and diesel. This paper examines global fuel subsidies using the latest available data from the World Bank, finding that road-sector subsidies for gasoline and diesel totaled $110 billion in 2012. Pricing fuels below cost is inefficient because it leads to overconsumption. Under baseline assumptions about supply and demand elasticities, the total annual deadweight loss worldwide is $44 billion. Incorporating external costs increases the economic costs substantially.
Q35|Gasoline Taxes and Consumer Behavior|Gasoline taxes can be employed to correct externalities from automobile use and to raise government revenue. Our understanding of the optimal gasoline tax and the efficacy of existing taxes is largely based on empirical analysis of consumer responses to gasoline price changes. In this paper, we examine directly how gasoline taxes affect gasoline consumption as distinct from tax-inclusive retail gasoline prices. We find robust evidence that consumers respond more strongly to gasoline tax changes under a variety of model specifications. We discuss two potential reasons for our main findings as well as their implications.
Q35|Hydraulic fracturing and water resources| The potential for impacts on water resources is often recognized as an important issue when shale gas development is discussed. Potential and significant impacts on groundwater and surface water resources might arise by wellbores traversing drinking-water aquifers, the use of significant water inputs, and the generation of large wastewater streams. Water withdrawals for energy development could reduce instream flows in rivers and streams, or reduce groundwater levels, diminishing ecosystem services—such as species habitat, recreation, and pollution assimilation— and reducing water available for other diverted uses. Water pollution from shale gas development could reduce or degrade the quality of available resources for uncompensated downstream users who divert water from shared rivers and streams, or users of a common aquifer. Accidental releases are one avenue for these impacts. Liquid waste treatment and disposal is another. Recent research is beginning to shed more light to better inform public concerns.
Q35|Sustainability And Endogenous Individual Needs: A Survey Among The Working Age Population Of Hajdú-Bihar County, Hungary| The purpose of this study was to identify the preferences among the working age population of Hajdú-Bihar County, Hungary regarding the dimensions of sustainability. The significance of the financial increment, welfare, and the preserving of environmental capital were considered. The preferences were examined using choice experiment. The dimensions of sustainability were represented by six attributes and the respondents were asked to evaluate them indirectly. The results are representative of the county’s working age population by age, gender, qualification and dwelling type. The most important attribute regarding future development is the healthy life expectancy. Inflation, unemployment and income are valued lower and the less important issues are those connected with the ecosystem (biodiversity and climate change). However, the results vary significantly by gender and qualification. Ecological aspects are not at all considered in the preferences of men. The higher level of education helps the environmental awareness.
Q35|Happy Growers! Relationship Quality in the German Organic Apple Chain| Relational factors between supply chain actors have been acknowledged to contribute significantly to competitiveness. With the example of the German market for organic apples the suitability of the concept of the Relational View for explaining competitiveness was investigated. Structured interviews were conducted with selected actors of the supply chain. Actors at all levels of the supply chain proved to be highly committed and described their business relations as satisfying and trustful. Strong vertical and horizontal collaboration was found. Thus, the Relational View proved to be highly suitable to explain competitiveness in the market for organic apples.
Q35|Regalías directas por hidrocarburos y esfuerzo fiscal municipal en Colombia|Este paper analiza los efectos de las regalías por hidrocarburos sobre el esfuerzo fiscal de los municipios, definido como los ingresos por impuesto predial per cápita para los años 2004-2011. A través de métodos de estimación de panel con efectos fijos y de panel dinámico se busca esclarecer la elasticidad de corto y largo plazo del esfuerzo fiscal con respecto a los ingresos provenientes de las regalías directas, como proporción de los ingresos municipales totales. Los resultados muestran que en el corto plazo la elasticidad del esfuerzo fiscal con respecto a la dependencia fiscal en los recursos de regalías es de -0,65. En el largo plazo, esta elasticidad se reduce a -0,30.
Q35|Informational rents in oil and gas concession auctions in Brazil|This article aims to estimate the informational rents earned by winning bidders in oil and gas exploration and production auctions in Brazil. We estimate the distributions of bids and bidders' private valuations using a nonparametric structural model and assuming independence and asymmetry between participants. Petrobras, the Brazilian state-owned petroleum giant and former oil sector monopolist, was considered a competitor that was distinct from other competitors. Thus, we investigate a database based on information from all auctions held between 1999 and 2008. The results suggest that Petrobras earned significantly higher information rents than other competitors. Such rents ranged from 15% to 63%, depending on the number and type of competitors.
Q35|Innovation and the dynamics of global warming|Global warming and the carbon cycle are a dynamic system with positive feedbacks. Fossil fuels are exhaustible resources. These two facts mean that innovation in clean energy technology, rather than mitigating global warming, can lead to a permanently higher temperature path. This paper explores the impact of innovation in the simplest model linking the economic theory of exhaustible resources with positive feedback dynamics in the carbon cycle.
Q35|Should We Ban Unconventional Oil Extraction to Reduce Global Warming?|The extraction and processing of unconventional oil is more energy intensive and has larger negative environmental impacts than the extraction of conventional oil. The European Union (EU) estimates that oil sands lead to 22% more emissions than conventional oil. The EU is very concerned by the potential climate and environmental impacts and has considered introducing a tax on imported unconventional oil in order to discourage its production. This study shows that a global ban on the use of unconventional oil substantially reduces global carbon dioxide emissions, but the policy is not efficient. A unilateral ban of the EU on unconventional oil has no climate benefits and it is expensive for Europe.
Q35|The Organization of the Oil Industry, Past and Present|"For several decades, petroleum has been a commodity of vital importance to the global economy, in which a number of interesting market phenomena has occurred. This monograph represents my efforts to describe several of these phenomenon, along with a few other elements of the oil market. My focus is on elements related to the extraction of petroleum, and the interactions between buyers and sellers of crude oil; issues that are essentially linked to the Industrial Organization of crude oil markets The topics I cover are: the production of crude oil, material that provides a foundation for later material; an example of the behavior employed by John D. Rockefeller in his quest for control of the early petroleum refining industry; the excessive extraction phenomenon observed in the early days of the industry, which was obtained because of the ""common property"" nature of oil production; the historical battle between the major oil companies (who were collectively dubbed the ""Seven Sisters"" and Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or [OPEC]); a theoretical discussion of cartel formation, which forms the backdrop for an investigation of OPEC; an empirical model of membership in OPEC; and a handful of key recent events, which offer some insights into the future of the oil industry."
Q35|Balkan Piyasalarını Hedef Alan Doğal Gaz Boru Hattı Projeleri Arasında Rekabet: NABUCCO-Güney Akım ve Trans-Adriyatik Boru Hattı (TAP) Projeleri Örneği|In this article it is argued that historical rivalry for the dominance over Balkan region between Austrian-Russian and Ottoman Empires has been reproduced in the form of geopolitics of natural gas pipelines in the 21st century. In order to transport Azeri gas to South East Europe a harsh competition has been observed between some pipeline projects which have been developed by different actors that seek to pursue their own strategic interests. After a choice by Shah Deniz Consortium, TANAP and TAP projects have become the winners of this competition. During the process of three-lateral energy diplomacy between EU-Russia and Turkey, while Russia and Turkey have been taking into account each other’s positions, at the end of the day the loser had become NABUCCO Project which is supported by Austria and other central EU members.
Q35|Fracking in Deutschland — eine Option für die Zukunft!|Extraction of shale gas in Germany (fracking) is better left as an option for the future. Today, owners of deposits in many other countries have uncertain property rights and extract too quickly. German deposits may appreciate in value if left in the ground. They also better contribute to national energy security there than if extracted and depleted. Waiting also allows Germany to learn from the mistakes of others and to take this new information and the improvements in extraction technology into account when deciding about extraction in the future. Such decisions should not be left to the resource extraction industries. Their objectives are likely to differ from the objective of maximising the rent from the nation’s shale gas. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
Q35|The Supply-Shock Explanation of the Great Stagflation Revisited|"U.S. inflation data exhibit two notable spikes into the double-digit range in 1973-1974 and again in 1978-1980. The well-known ""supply-shock"" explanation attributes both spikes to large food and energy shocks plus, in the case of 1973-1974, the removal of price controls. Yet critics of this explanation have (a) attributed the surges in inflation to monetary policy and (b) pointed to the far smaller impacts of more recent oil shocks as evidence against the supply-shock explanation. This paper reexamines the impacts of the supply shocks of the 1970s in the light of the new data, new events, new theories, and new econometric studies that have accumulated over the past quarter century. We find that the classic supply-shock explanation holds up very well; in particular, neither data revisions nor updated econometric estimates substantially change the evaluations of the 1972-1983 period that were made 25 years (or more) ago. We also rebut several variants of the claim that monetary policy, rather than supply shocks, was really to blame for the inflation spikes. Finally, we examine several changes in the economy that may explain why the impacts of oil shocks are so much smaller now than they were in the 1970s.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>"
Q35|Financement des hydrocarbures et libéralisation financière en Algérie. Quels liens ?<BR>[Financing of hydrocarbons and financial liberalization in Algeria. Which links?]|Since the discovery of the wet gas and light oil deposits in Hassi Rmel in 1956, the hydrocarbon sector in Algeria has been a key factor in the country's economy. It is undoubtedly the nerve sector of the Algerian economy. The statistics available on the share of this sector in the economy illustrate this situation and its influence on public policies. This influence can be explained by the fact that it contributes to more than 40% of national GDP, more than two thirds of budget revenues and almost all foreign exchange earnings (97%). This explains the strong influence of this sector on the economic growth of the country and also the interest in constantly developing it especially since the economic crisis of 1986. This is also why the problem of financing this sector has always asked. Indeed, the question we are asking ourselves is how is this sector known to be a very capital-intensive sector financed? In other words, what types of financing does Sonatrach use to finance its investments, is there a need to resort to foreign funds, is there financial liberalization?
Q35|Uzbek Gas for Export: Will Political Maneuvering between China and Russia Result in Higher Export Price?|The main research question is “Will political maneuvering between China and Russia result in higher export price for Uzbek gas?” In 2008, the price of gas exports from Uzbekistan was US$160 per 1,000 cubic meters. On the other hand Gazprom used to charge its European customers an average of US$350 per 1,000 cubic meters. On July 1, 2008, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan has begun laying their respective stretches of the Turkmenistan-China gas pipeline. The construction began at the settlement of Saet in the Bukhara region. The cost of the Uzbek stretch of the gas pipeline is estimated to be over USD 2 billion. The total cost of the 1,818-kilometer long gas pipeline Turkmenistan-China is about USD7 billion. If implemented, the Turkmenistan-China pipeline might undermine Russia’s ability to manipulate the Central Asian gas market and stir up energy competition between Russia and China. It should be noted that with estimated natural gas reserves of 66.2 trillion cubic feet (Tcf), Uzbekistan is the third largest natural gas producer in the Commonwealth of Independent States (after Russia and Turkmenistan) and one of the top fifteen natural gas-producing countries in the world. According to the schedule approved by the decree of the Uzbek President, the first line of the gas pipeline and compressor station is expected to be completed by the end of 2009. According to schedule, the first stage will end in January 2010. The second line of the gas pipeline and two more compressor stations are expected to be launched by January 2012. Gazprom’s reaction to this development was almost immediate. Therefore, the purchase prices in these countries more than doubled in 2009 compared to the levels at which Gazprom has bought gas in 2008 The conclusion of the research is that alternative pipeline to China will strengthen the bargaining power of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan and may result in higher export gas prices. However, given the fact that Chinese themselves are unwilling to match the price that Europeans are paying for gas, the increase will not be very significant. Therefore, Uzbekistan, as well other Central Asian countries, should continue their efforts to construct and participate in other alternative gas pipelines, such as Trans-Caspian, Nabucco, Trans-Afghan, and Iran-Pakistan-India pipeline projects.
Q35|Clearing the Air: How Canadian LNG Exports Could Help Meet World Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals|No abstract is available for this item.
