Q37|Phase-out of 'coal to power' in an ETS|We investigate the displacement effects of phase-out-of-coal policies in a stylized model of electricity generation and CO2 regulation, in which a group of countries operates an emissions trading scheme (ETS). Electricity markets are either international or national and the emissions cap remains either unchanged or is tightened. With constant emissions cap and trade in electricity, some emissions as well as some coal-based electricity ‘leak’ into other countries and the aggregate welfare of the group of countries declines, if a country unilaterally phases out coal. With constant emissions cap and no trade in electricity, the unilaterally phasing-out country is worse off and the other countries are better off. Following a suggestion in a recently revised EU ETS Directive, we then combine a country’s phase-out policy with canceling the permits it formerly used to generate electricity from coal. When electricity is traded, that combined policy prevents the leakage of emissions and coal-based electricity and shifts a share of the welfare costs to other countries. Without trade in electricity, the other countries generate less coal-based electricity and all countries’ consumption welfare decreases, but all countries benefit from reduced climate damage. Finally, we offer an empirical calibration of our model to the European Union.
Q37|Interdépendance complexe et hybridation des modèles institutionnels nationaux : le cas des relations énergétique UE-Russie|Ce cahier de recherche vise à appliquer les problématisations des nouvelles approches de l’interdépendance (New Interdependence Approches – NIA selon l’acronyme anglais) aux enjeux relatifs à la régulation internationale de l’énergie et ce à partir d’un cas d’étude : la relation gazière entre l’UE et la Russie. Les interdépendances entre l’UE et ses fournisseurs extérieurs en matière de gaz naturel, au premier rang desquels figure la Russie, posent la question de la confrontation de préférences contradictoires des acteurs impliqués dans l’échange. L’interdépendance conflictuelle recèle un « effet transformatif » sur les régulations, les systèmes institutionnels et les politiques énergétiques de la Russie et de l’UE. Les deux modèles institutionnels font l’objet de changements incrémentaux porteurs de conséquences importantes. Dans l’interdépendance, la politique énergétique russe et les stratégies des acteurs russes se transforment pour faire place à un certain degré de concurrence. A l’inverse, il semble que de manière croissante celle de l’UE intègre des préoccupations d’ordre stratégique et d’économie politique qui ne se justifient pas par les seules considérations de création d’un marché unique et concurrentiel.
Q37|Fridays for Future meets the Hotelling rule: some thoughts on decarbonization policies|The Hotelling rule is applied to the case of a fixed CO2 budget restriction which has to be met in order to reach the global warming goal according to the Paris Agreement. While the theoretical result is well-known and simple, the practical implementation under technological uncertainty suggests that tradable emission certificates are superior to CO2 taxes. The practical implementaion has also to consider that production chains are globalized, and that decarbonization strategies will be pointless if the Global South is not part of it.
Q37|Asymmetric Effects of Terms of Trade Shocks on Tradable and Non-tradable Investment Rates: The Colombian Case|Terms of trade (ToT) shocks drive business cycles and have direct impact on the macroeconomic equilibrium conditions in commodity-exporter countries. ToT shocks also affect the dynamics of other variables such as national income and relative prices, and consequently, cause agents and firms to adjust their saving, spending and investment decisions accordingly. The latter is of special interest because of its link with potential GDP and the capital stock of the economy, relevant concepts when assessing sustainable and long-run growth. In this document we explore how tradable and nontradable investment rates respond asymmetrically to ToT shocks. We estimate a Threshold VAR (TVAR) in which the ToT are the transition variable. The empirical results suggest the existence of two regimes (low and high ToT levels) and that ToT shocks have different effects on tradable and nontradable investment rates depending not only the direction of the shock, but also on the levels from which the shock departs. **** Los choques de Términos de Intercambio (TdI) determinan en parte los ciclos económicos y tienen impacto directo en el equilibrio macroeconómico en los países exportadores de materias primas. Estos choques también afectan las dinámicas de variables como el ingreso nacional y los precios relativos, haciendo que los agentes y las firmas ajusten sus decisiones de ahorro, gasto e inversión. La inversión es de especial interés debido a su vínculo con el PIB potencial y el stock de capital de la economía, conceptos que resultan relevantes al evaluar el crecimiento sostenible y de largo plazo. En este documento se estudian cómo las inversiones transable y no transable reaccionan de forma asimétrica a choques de TdI. Estimamos un modelo VAR por umbrales (TVAR) en el cual la variable de transición son los TdI. Los resultados sugieren la existencia de dos regímenes (de altos y bajos TdI) y que los choques de TdI producen respuestas asimétricas en la inversión transable y no transable, dependiendo no sólo de la dirección del choque, sino del nivel de TdI desde el cual se parte cuando éste sucede.
Q37| Variegated dependence: The geographically differentiated economic outcomes of resource-based development in Peru, 2001-2015| The economic impacts of resource-based development are distributed unevenly across national space, and not even mining regions experience economic development in the same way. We build on the methodology of Rehner et. al. (2014) to typify resource-based economic development in Peru in the period 2001- 2015 and compare it with the case of mineral-abundant Chile. What we find is a nuanced version of the same dependency-related resource curse phenomenon. With the commodity cycle: (i) export specialization is not the same in all places; (ii) regional growth volatility is much higher in Peru than in Chile; (iii) the Dutch disease does not clearly manifest itself; and therefore (iv) economic dependence within Peru is variegated. At the national level, gold-and-copper-dependent Peru is not as vulnerable as copper-dependent Chile to external shocks. At the subnational level, outside Lima in particular, dependence-related volatility can be very high for clusters of regions. The results of the quantitative analysis are attuned to a theoretical framework of variegated dependence, which, while acknowledging the centrality of the center-and-periphery supranational structure for economic development, attributes variation in resource curse phenomena to subnational differences across space and over time in economic- geography configurations and institutional regimes. JEL Classification-JEL: F43 , O11 , O18 , Q33 , Q34 , Q37 , R58
Q37|Adjustment to negative price shocks by a commodity exporting economy: Does exchange rate flexibility resolve a balance of payments crisis?|Negative commodity price shocks can induce balance of payments crises in resource dependent economies. Governments often react by intervening against currency depreciation as, for example, in the case of Papua New Guinea in response to the commodity price shocks of 2014. We develop an original theoretical model to analyze the balance of payments impact of a commodity price shock under alternative exchange rate regimes: a flexible rate regime and a fixed rate regime with foreign exchange rationing. The balance of payments consequences are shown to depend on the elasticity of exports and imports with respect to the exchange rate. For the Papua New Guinea case, we estimate export elasticities for a variety of commodities (gold, silver, copper, oil, coffee, cocoa, copra, copra oil, palm oil, rubber, tea, logs, and marine products) as well as for imports. The results indicate that the Marshall-Lerner condition is satisfied for this resource-rich economy, implying that exchange rate flexibility may be practicable. We implement our calibrated model to conduct a counter-factual simulation and find that with a flexible exchange rate, foreign reserves would have been 20 percent higher three years after the shock than they were under the actual policy of exchange rate stabilization. In light of this, we argue the merits of greater exchange rate flexibility.
Q37|Time-varying relationship between oil price and exchange rate|This paper contributes to better understand the dynamic interaction between U.S. effective exchange rate (EER) and oil price by considering a Time-Varying Parameter VAR model with the use of monthly data from 1974 to 2017. Our findings show a depreciation after an oil price shock in the short-run for any period of time, although the pattern of long-run responses of U.S. EER is diverse across different period of time, with an appreciation being observed before the mid-2000s and a depreciation afterwards. This diversity of response should lead policy makers to react differently in order to counteract such shocks. Furthermore, the reaction of oil price to an appreciation of U.S. EER is negative, with the response being similar in the short-run but different in the long-run for each period of time. Thus, the different responses may generate different adverse effects on investment and the knowledge of such effects may help financial investors to diversify their investments in order to optimize the risk-return profile of their portfolios.
Q37|The predictive relationship between exchange rate expectations and base metal prices|In this paper we show that survey-based-expectations about the future evolution of the Chilean exchange rate have the ability to predict the returns of the six primary non-ferrous metals: aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc. Predictability is also found for returns of the London Metal Exchange Index. Previous studies have shown that the Chilean exchange rate has the ability to predict copper returns, a world commodity index and base metal prices. Nevertheless, our results indicate that expectations about the Chilean peso have stronger predictive ability relative to the Chilean currency. This is shown both in-sample and out-of-sample. By focusing on expectations of a commodity currency, and not on the currency itself, our paper provides indirect but new and strong evidence of the ability that commodity currencies have to forecast commodity prices. Our results are also consistent with the present-value-model for exchange rate determination.
Q37|Climate Friendly Goods and Technology Trade: Climate Mitigation Strategy of India|This study focuses on India’s climate change mitigation strategy through trade and how India gradually moves forward towards the goal of sustainable development path. The paper highlights trade performances of climate friendly goods and technology (CFGT) in India during 2002-20017 and suggests possible solution through trade channels that might mitigate climate change through disseminating and exchanging the low carbon and clean technologies, which improve energy efficiency and minimizes environmental impacts. The products associated with clean technologies which have relatively less adverse impact on the environment. This paper attempts to realize India’s CFGT export and import, and quantify trade opportunities of CFGT in India. With these it also identifies constrains and helps to widen capacity and strengthen its capability in the advancement of capturing new opportunities in production and trade in CFGT. India should adopt few policies to improve and raise CFGT production while trade ensures availability of technologies
Q37|Price volatility and demand for oil: A comparative analysis of developed and developing countries|During the past three decades the global oil market has seen significant price volatility. Literature to date has not analysed the cross-country effect of the recent episode of price instability. Previous studies have either not considered this period or have not utilised panel data techniques and therefore have not provided a comparative analysis of developed and developing countries. This paper explores the income and price elasticities between these two country groups and discusses the economic implication of the results. We use a panel data analysis accounting for income and price asymmetry and apply the dynamic fixed-effects methodology to separate panels for developed and developing countries for the period 1980–2012. Sixteen countries are included in this analysis which account for over 65% of total global oil consumption. A particular focus is on the income and substitution effects. The results indicate heterogeneous response to oil price shocks. Developing countries have an income effect 6.3 times stronger than developed countries. The substitution effect in developed countries is 2.1 times stronger than in developing countries. Policy recommendations include the pursuing of oil-efficiency improving technology, and ensuring that regional consumption pattern variations are considered in policy formation.
Q37|Discovery of natural resources: A class of general equilibrium models|When is the discovery of natural resources a curse for a country's industrialization and when is it a blessing? A large literature on economic development has collected evidence on both directions. This paper discusses a class of general equilibrium models that deals with natural resource discoveries and evaluates its potential to accommodate both successful and unsuccessful resource-based industrialization experiences, under different model settings. Particularly, it analyzes the importance of disentangling price and quantity effects. It illustrates that in closed model economies (or large open economies), with vertical integration between manufacturing and energy sectors, the long-run effect on the production of manufacturing goods will depend mainly on the equilibrium price of the natural resource good. Moreover, the strength of the vertical integration, even for small open economies, determines the limits to accommodate blessing or curse type of theories.
Q37|Is Chinese trade policy motivated by environmental concerns?|This paper analyses whether China's export VAT rebates and export taxes are driven by environmental concerns. Since China struggles to enforce environmental regulation, trade policy can be used as a second-best environmental policy. In a general equilibrium model it is possible to show that the second-best export tax increases in a product's pollution intensity. The empirical analysis investigates whether the export tax equivalent of partial VAT rebates and export taxes are higher for products which are more pollution intensive along several dimensions. The results indicate that the VAT rebate rates are set in a way that discourages exports of water pollution intensive, SO2 intensive and energy intensive products from 2007 on. Moreover, the conservation of natural resources such as minerals, metals, wood products and precious stones seems to be a key determinant of China's export VAT rebate rates. There is little evidence that export taxes are motivated by environmental concerns.
Q37|External Adjustment in a Resource-Rich Economy: The Case of Papua New Guinea|How should resource-rich economies handle the balance of payments adjustment required after commodity price declines? This paper addresses the question theoretically by developing a simple two-period multi-sector model based on Nakatani (2016) to compare different exchange rate policies, and empirically by estimating elasticities of imports and commodity exports with respect to exchange rates using Papua New Guinean data. In the empirical part, using various econometric methods, I find the statistically significant elasticities of commodity exports to real exchange rates. In the theoretical part, by introducing the notion of a shadow exchange rate premium, I show how the rationing of foreign exchange reduces consumer welfare. Using the estimated elasticities and theoretical outcomes, I further discuss policy implications for resource-rich countries with a focus on Papua New Guinea.
Q37|Structural Change in Mass-Procurement Systems: China’s Iron and Steel Industry and the Global Iron Ore Market|This paper was originally presented at the 1stWorld Congress on Business History/ This study aims to describe historical trends in the “mass-procurement system” for iron ore, which for many years has been the largest non-fuel natural resource in terms of trade value. Wefocus on China because it reflects globaltrendsmost comprehensively. Throughmodern history, all large steel producers have established their own iron ore mass-procurement systems. We can classify thesesystemsinto three major modes:“captive mine”,“long-term contract (LTC)”,and “spot trading.” We found that in China, traditional state-owned steel companies such as Anshan Iron and Steel (Ansteel)adopted the captive-mine mode from the prewar period, like the Americans. On the other hand, the newly established leadingcompany Baoshan Iron and Steel (Baosteel) introduced the LTC mode, following the innovationof this mode by Japanese companies in the 1980s. Then, in the early twenty-first century, China’smass-procurement system for iron ore further diversifiedwhich establishedthe spot-trading mode as the third mass-procurement system. As a result, many steel companies tended to create a portfolio of sourcing modes.
Q37|Local content policies in mineral-exporting countries|Resource abundance does not always bring sustained economic growth and development. Moreover, the mining sector generally provides little direct employment in the regions where extraction occurs. In an attempt to derive greater benefits from their resource endowments, and increase linkages with other parts of the economy, some minerals-rich countries have instituted local content and procurement policies (LCPs). The benefits sought include employment generation, supply chain development and technological and knowledge transfers. Measures that aim to increase local content and procurement in the extractive industries are common, including in many OECD countries.This study examines local content policies in 10 minerals-rich countries and provides some observations about their efficacy and the desirability of their use. A wide range of measures are examined, from industry-wide, mandatory quantitative targets to voluntary initiatives undertaken at the firm level, encompassing diverse policy objectives and implementation strategies. The range of countries covered is broad including OECD countries, developing countries and least developed countries. The study does not recommend a “one size fits all” policy mix but guards against the distortions created by overly prescriptive, mandatory local content requirements.
Q37|East Asian Integration: Towards an East Asian Economic Community|East Asia is a region of great global significance, currently accounting for around 30% of the global economy by most measures, e.g. production, trade, investment, and finance. It has also become increasingly integrated in various ways. Integration at the micro-level has steadily progressed since the 1960s, as indicated by rising intraregional trade. Moreover, East Asia’s economic regionalisation has become more functionally integrative, this broadly relating to the spread of transnational business and other technical systems where production, trade, and investment have become a function of each other within those systems. For example, as later explored, much of East Asia’s regionalised trade concerns cross-border movement of parts and components within the international production networks of multinational enterprises. Since the 1990s, East Asian states have in addition looked to strengthen regional cooperation and integration intergovernmentally at the macro-level, i.e. involving whole country economies. This has been driven by the need to manage their growing regional economic interdependencies and address future challenges that confront them all, such as globalisation and climate change. As we will discuss, this has been part of regional economic community-building efforts in East Asia, both across the whole region and within it at various subregional levels. We examine the key dimensions of East Asia’s integration, how they have developed over time, and what likely paths lie ahead in the endeavour to strengthen regional economic community-building.
Q37|A Balls-and-Bins Model of Trade: Comment|We show that the Armenter and Koren model's firm-product-country results rely on the assumption that export shipment size is independent of firm size, and this assumption is contradicted by the data. When actual shipment sizes are used in the balls-and-bins model, it cannot reproduce the data on single product/single country exporters. Beyond just showing that the shipment size assumption matters to balls-and-bins outcomes, our results highlight the important fact that shipment size is an economic decision, co-determined with other export choices. For this reason, we argue that a balls-and-bins model cannot be a purely statistical benchmark model. (JEL F11, F14, O13, O19, Q37)
Q37|Stock market reactions to conflict diamond trading restrictions and controversies|In this paper, I explore the reactions of financial market participants to news relating to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme (KPCS), a body that regulates aspects of global diamond production and trade. I use an event study approach with data on the returns for shares of leading global mining and jewelry retail companies over the period from 1999 to 2011. I show that the most influential dates related to the KPCS for diamond mining companies were associated with regulatory actions in the early 2000s taken by the United Nations and the United States. These events were associated with lower returns for diamond mining companies. After 2004, jewelry companies experienced abnormal returns coinciding with KPCS-related events, while mining firms appear rarely affected by events during this time. The majority of returns for jewelry companies were negative for events which called into question the ability of the KPCS to ensure conflict-free diamond production and trade. Expanded legal diamond production in some cases coincided with positive returns for jewelry retail companies over the time period I consider. These results are consistent with the expectation that jewelry companies, which often market directly to consumers, are more sensitive to public perception concerning the KPCS and its credibility. The results are inconsistent with the point of view that the creation of the KPCS was seen by financial market participants as “good news” overall for diamond mining companies. The results also suggest that once trade restrictions were in place, mining companies were less affected by controversies surrounding the credibility of the KPCS.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q37|Stock market reactions to conflict diamond trading restrictions and controversies|This article explores market reactions to regulations that addressed the link between armed conflict and the diamond industry. The results show that several regulatory actions taken by the United Nations and the United States in the early 2000s corresponded with lower stock returns for diamond mining companies. Such effects are inconsistent with predictions made by some critics of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. On the other hand, stock returns for jewelry companies were abnormally negative for events that hurt the reputation of conflict-free production and trade regimes. The expansion of legal diamond markets also coincided with abnormally positive returns for jewelry companies, while new restrictions on market access coincided with abnormally negative returns. The results suggest that i) diamond trade regulations affected businesses in important and measurable ways, and ii) that similar regulations may have broader applicability in related industries.
Q37|North American natural gas model: Impact of cross-border trade with Mexico|Natural gas gained significant attention due to its low carbon emissions and competitive prices in North America relative to other energy sources. The Annual Energy Outlook 2015 projects the U.S. as a net exporter by 2017. Recently, Mexico launched its energy reform, aiming to expand domestic production by opening the market to private investors. The success or failure of these policy changes will impact the development of the natural gas market in North America.
Q37|Indexing Oil from a Financial Point of View: A Comparison between Brent and West Texas Intermediate|Brent crude and West Texas intermediate (WTI) are major indices for purchases of oil worldwide among with some others such as OPEC basket. Brent is traditionally a European index whereas WTI representing slightly sweeter and lighter crude is more applicable in USA. Until 2010, the spread between WTI and Brent hasn’t been more than few dollars. However in recent years, the spread is widening in favor of Brent and then returning to the mean. WTI which historically taken over Brent, has fallen below Brent which is now claimed to be the global oil index for the World. This is sometimes argued with the Shale production and over-supply in the U.S. and several macroeconomic events such as Libyan crisis. The aim of this paper is to analyze which of these indices is a better indicator for the energy industry. The variables from NYSE exchange traded funds namely energy select sector SPDR ETF (XLE), Teucrium WTI crude oil ETF (CRUD), and United States Brent oil ETF (BNO) for the period December 1994 and September 2014. The variables are analyzed for long-run and short-run relationships with unit root tests, vector autoregression models, and vector error correction models as well as cointegration and Granger causality tests.
Q37|Buying Local or Imported Goods? Profiling Non-income Consumers in Developing Countries|This study attempts to profile non-income consumers by examining their decisions to buy local or imported products. Hypotheses were drawn from discussions on the comparative advantages of advanced and developing countries, as well as the effects of a product’s country-of-origin on customers’ purchasing decisions. Data was collected on 296 university students in Malaysia and analyzed through probit regression analysis. The findings reveal that foreign products from advanced countries are preferred by male students because of the superior quality and brand image. On the other hand, family members encourage students to buy local products because they are perceived as being less expensive. Also, students who receive scholarships are more likely to buy local products than self-sponsored students. This research offers insights into ex-ante purchasing behavior in developing countries particularly among non-income consumers
Q37|Assessing the EU ETS with an Integrated Model|The European Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) is the main instrument of the European Union (EU) against climate change. This mechanism is considered, from the theoretical point of view, as the most cost-effective method to reduce greenhouse gases (GHG). However, previous studies show that the agents who participate in these markets can behave in a way which may lead to inefficient CO 2 prices, creating doubts about the effectiveness of the system. This paper analyzes these possible anomalies by modeling the EU ETS under a rational market hypothesis and comparing the results with real market transactions. For this, we have built a bottom-up model, which represents the EU ETS in an integrated way, paying particular attention to the interactions among the most emissions intensive industries. The results show the benefits of this integrated modeling approach and how it better reflects real market conditions. We also present some preliminary conclusions regarding the behavior of the agents in the ETS market.
Q37|Quantitative Assessment of Pathways to a Resource-Efficient and Low-Carbon Europe|Though the sustainability research community as well as international decision makers seem to share the conviction that, akin to the challenges of climate policy, a great transi-tion will also be needed in order to decouple human wellbeing from resource use over the next decades, there exist only scarce quantitative assessments of possible transition scenarios which do also concern this matter. Our paper is intended to advance this branch of research by a presentation of key scenario insights from the global simulation model GINFORS which take account of the complex interrelations between different environmental objectives. Whereas a multitude of publications already applied various MRIO databases for ex post assessments of resource-related national footprint indicators, there exist only scarce ex ante assessments of possible transition scenarios concerning this matter. The modelling framework of GINFORS also rests on a MRIO database. Thus, GINFORS is also able to map quantitative indicators of material extractions embedded in regional consumption activities over the global supply chain.
Q37|Unilateral Climate Policies: Incentives and Effects|Abstract We analyze the effect of climate policies using a two-region partial equilibrium model of resource extraction. The regions are heterogeneous in various aspects, such as in their climate policies and resource extraction costs. We obtain analytical and numerical conditions for a Green Paradox to occur as a consequence of a unilateral increase in carbon taxation and backstop subsidy. In order to assess the welfare and climate consequences of unilateral policy changes, we calibrate the model to real world parameter values. We find that forming a ‘climate coalition’ and introducing carbon taxation even in the absence of real climate concerns is the best course of action for the largest fossil fuel-using regions.
Q37|Wealth Effects of Rare Earth Prices and China’s Rare Earth Elements Policy|Abstract Rare earth elements (REEs) have become increasingly important because of their relative scarcity and worldwide increasing demand, as well as China’s quasi-monopoly of this market. REEs are virtually not substitutable, and they are essential for a variety of high-tech products and modern key technologies. This has raised serious concerns that China will misuse its dominant position to set export quotas in order to maximize its own profits at the expense of other rare earth user industries (wealth transfer motive). In fact, export restrictions on REEs were the catalyst for the U.S. to lodge a formal complaint against China in 2012 at the World Trade Organization (WTO). This paper analyzes possible wealth transfer effects by focusing on export quota announcements (the so-called MOFCOM announcements) by China, and the share price reactions of Chinese REE suppliers, the U.S. REE users, and the rest of the world REE refiners. Overall, we find limited support for the view of a wealth transfer in connection with MOFCOM announcements only when disentangling events prior to and post the initiation of the WTO trial, consistent with the trial triggering changes to China’s REE policy and recent announcement to abolish quotas. We do find, however, that extreme REE price movements have a first-order effect on all companies in the REE industry consistent with recent market trends to enable hedging against REE price volatility.
Q37|Unequal among equals: Why are developing countries less likely to win WTO disputes?|This article discusses the factors that affect the chances of a favorable resolution of claims to the WTO dispute settlement. Drawing on several hundreds of complaints received by the WTO since the establishment of the organization and till 2014, we demonstrate that the developing countries have a smaller probability of successful resolution in the dispute than the developed countries. This inequality can be explained by differences in the size of economies (GDP), but the paper shows that differences in the country’s experience of participation in WTO disputes have a higher predictive power.
Q37|The resource curse exorcised: Evidence from a panel of countries|This paper evaluates the impact of major natural resource discoveries since 1950 on GDP per capita. Using panel fixed-effects estimation and resource discoveries in countries that were not previously resource-rich as a plausibly exogenous source of variation, I find a positive effect on GDP per capita levels following resource exploitation that persists in the long term. Results vary significantly between OECD and non-OECD treatment countries, with effects concentrated within the non-OECD group. I further test GDP effects with synthetic control analysis on each individual treated country, yielding results consistent with the average effects found with the fixed-effects model.
Q37|Turning Human Waste into Renewable Energy: Scope and Options for India|With rise in population and the ongoing urbanisation drive, the urge to ensure energy security both for the rural and urban areas has emerged as a major challenge in India. The demand for energy has increased in all spheres of life, e.g. for cooking, cultivation, production purposes, transportation, and so on. Although through various government initiatives, adoption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) for cooking has increased, given the vast population, use of biofuels is expected to continue for poorer households. Generation of biogas from cattle waste in India has intensified through policies, but the same from human waste is still in a nascent stage. The present study explores the possibilities of recovering energy and nutrients from human waste by discussing the present system of human waste collection, treatment and disposal in India, followed by the reasons behind the failures of the past initiatives (e.g., Ganga Action Plan, GAP). It further focuses on a few alternative systems and their technical feasibility. It is concluded that various ongoing policies, viz., National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ (SBM) - should be coordinated for integrating collection and treatment of human waste for generation of renewable energy.
Q37|A borkereskedelem versenyképességének elemzése a hagyományos és az újvilági bortermelő országokban| Az elmúlt évtizedekben a nagy, tradicionális európai bortermelő országok exportrészesedése a világ borpiacán fokozatosan csökkent, míg az újvilági bortermelők részesedése a borexportból jelentős mértékben növekedett. Ennek fényében fontos annak vizsgálata, hogy milyen tényezők befolyásolják a borkereskedelmi versenyképességet ezekben az országokban. A kereskedelmi versenyképességi kutatások többnyire a Balassa Béla által kifejlesztett komparatív előny indexek, illetve azok továbbfejlesztett változatainak elemzésén alapulnak, az ökonometriai modellek használata a nemzetközi versenyképesség tényezőinek kutatására azonban még ritkán alkalmazott technika. A tanulmányban a borágazat versenyképességét és az azt meghatározó tényezők kapcsolatát elemzem 31 európai és újvilági bortermelő országban, a világ borpiacára irányuló kereskedelmével összevetve. A versenyképesség elemzéséhez négy különböző regressziós modellt becsültem, a versenyképességet befolyásoló tényezők hatásainak vizsgálatára a panelbecslés korrigált hibáinak módszerét alkalmazva. A regressziós becslés eredményei azt mutatják, hogy a természeti adottságokkal való ellátottság, a gazdasági fejlettség, a termőterület nagysága, a nagyobb népesség és a kormányzati hatékonyság pozitív irányban befolyásolhatják a borkereskedelmi versenyképességet. Emellett az eredmények igazolják, hogy az újvilági bortermelő országok jelentős kereskedelmi versenyelőnnyel rendelkeztek a vizsgált időszakban. ---------------- In the past two decades the New World wine producer countries have increased their export share of the world wine market, causing several remarkable changes in this market. The New World wine producers are becoming more competitive for the reason that they are more economically efficient due to the geographical and climatic conditions, and technical efficiency. The European Union has responded to this challenge by introducing a new reform of the Common Agricultural Policy aimed at improving the profitability of the wine industry by reducing production costs, increasing value added and promoting the participation of farmers in food quality schemes. These changes motivated me to investigate the factors influencing the wine competitiveness in traditional and New World producer countries. The purpose of this research is to provide an insight into the export competitiveness of the wine trade of 31 wine producer countries on world wine markets. Four revealed comparative advantage indices are used to analyse the levels, evolutions in patterns of development in the export competitiveness of wine and their drivers over the period 2000-2012. The results show that GDP has negative effects on the wine export competitiveness, while GDP per capita, land area, grape area harvested and the population density are positively associated with comparative advantages.
Q37|Multilateral environmental agreements and the WTO|Addressing many environmental problems requires international cooperation. However, rules under the World Trade Organization (WTO) may deter participation in multilateral environmental agreements. Using a partial identification approach, we obtain strictly negative bounds for non-OECD countries in the WTO era.
Q37|LNG is linking regional natural gas markets: Evidence from the gravity model|Evidence exists that global natural gas markets have become more integrated over time. One possible explanation for this increased level of integration is that increased liquefied natural gas trade has increased the opportunity for price arbitrage by decreasing transport costs. If this explanation is true, then the natural gas market should become relatively more integrated because countries separated by large distances would be more willing to trade with each other. We employ a gravity model to test whether trade in liquefied natural gas has helped to de-regionalize the total natural gas market, using trade in the compressed natural gas market as a comparison benchmark. The results indicate that liquefied natural gas is indeed a global commodity, whereas the compressed natural gas markets are more regional. Importantly, we find that trade in liquefied natural gas has de-regionalized the total natural gas market.
Q37|The political economy of OPEC|We develop a conceptual model that captures OPEC pricing behavior, and apply it to explain the large gap observed between domestic fuel prices in OPEC countries and prices in the rest of the world. We model OPEC as a cartel of nations, not firms, and assume that politicians use two instruments: production quotas and domestic fuel consumption subsidies. The cartel-of-nations model suggests that introduction of alternatives to petroleum products may lead OPEC to reduce exports and increase domestic fuel consumption. The empirical analysis suggests that when OPEC sets production quotas, it places similar weights on consumer and producer surplus. But when OPEC countries set domestic fuel subsidies, on average 6% more weight is given to consumer surplus with some of the OPEC countries pursuing very aggressive domestic cheap fuel policies.
Q37|What drives the formation of global oil trade patterns?|In this paper, the spatial characteristics of current global oil trade patterns are investigated by proposing a new indicator Moran-F. Meanwhile, the factors that influence the formation of oil trade patterns are identified by constructing four different kinds of spatial econometric models. The findings indicate that most oil exporters have an obvious export focus in North America and a relatively balanced export in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Besides supply and demand factors, technological progress and energy efficiency have also significantly influenced the oil trade. Moreover, there is a spillover effect of trade flow among different regions, but its impact is weak. In addition, oil importers in the same region have the potential to cooperate due to their similar import sources. Finally, promotion of oil importers' R&D investments can effectively reduce the demand for global oil trade.
Q37|Dynamic steam coal market integration: Evidence from rolling cointegration analysis|The aim of the paper is twofold: first, to assess the dynamics of the integration process of the international steam coal prices and, second, to investigate the changes in the roles of particular coal prices in this market in the light of changes in the structure of supply and demand. The analysis is based on steam coal prices set by the largest world exporters and importers on both the Atlantic and the Pacific markets. We use weekly data spanning from October 5, 2001 to March 28, 2014. The aim is achieved in two stages. During the first one, we use the rolling trace test to identify the integration of the steam coal market, and during the second one, we apply the rolling weak exogeneity test to determine the roles of the participants of the international steam coal market, namely price setters and price takers. Our main findings can be summarized in two observations. Firstly, the main world steam coal prices are integrated and during the period when freight costs are higher, the coal market integration is weaker, and when the costs are lower, the integration is stronger. Secondly, the role of particular coal prices is not stable in time. Generally, price setters appear in the market which covers greater shares in the physical coal trade. Although Indonesia and Russia have a great share in the global export, their prices remain price takers during the whole period. As a consequence, although Russia remains the largest coal exporter of the steam coal to the European market, it cannot dictate its prices in this market.
Q37|All quiet on the eastern front? Disruption scenarios of Russian natural gas supply to Europe|The 2014 Russian–Ukrainian crisis reignited European concerns about natural gas supply security recalling the experiences of 2006 and 2009. However, the European supply situation, regulation and infrastructure have changed, with better diversified import sources, EU member states being better connected and a common regulation on the security of supply has been introduced. Nevertheless, European dependency on natural gas remained high. This paper investigates different Russian natural gas export disruptions scenarios and analyses short- and long-term reactions in Europe. We use the Global Gas Model (GGM), a large-scale mixed complementarity representation of the natural gas sector with a high level of technical granularity with respect to storage and transportation infrastructure. While we find that most of the EU member states are not severely affected by Russian disruptions, some East European countries are very vulnerable. Prioritizing the removal of infrastructure bottlenecks is critical for securing a sufficient natural gas supply to all EU member states.
Q37|Can Thinking Green and Sustainability Be an Economic Opportunity for ASEAN?|ASEAN member states (AMS) are confronted by serious environmental problems that threaten to undermine future growth and regional stability. This paper considers four major environmental challenges that policymakers across ASEAN will need to address towards 2030: water management, deforestation and land degradation, air pollution, and climate change. We argue that these challenges, each unique in its own way, exhibit the characteristics of wicked problems. As developed in the planning literature, and now applied much more broadly, wicked problems are dynamic and complex, encompass many issues and stakeholders, and evade straightforward, lasting solutions. Detailed case studies are presented to illustrate the complexity and significance of these environmental challenges, as well as their nature as wicked problems. The most important implication of this finding is that there will be no easy or universal solutions to environmental problems across ASEAN, as Environmental Performance Indicators (EPI) illustrate. This is a caution against over-optimism for formulating sector-specific solutions. It is not, however, a counsel for despair. We suggest general principles which may be useful across the board to tackle the issues and accelerate green growth. These are: a focus on cobenefits; an emphasis on stakeholder participation; a commitment to scientific and technological research; an emphasis on long-term planning; pricing reform; tackling governance issues, in addition to generally bolstering institutional capacity with regard to environmental regulation; and a strengthening of regionally coordinated approaches and international support.
Q37|International Trade and Structural Change: a Dynamic Model of Weak Sustainability|We present a dynamic Heckscher-Ohlin model to study structural change in a sustainability context. We show how resource rich economies maximising steady-state consumption should adopt different development strategies depending on the distribution of domestic wealth instruments (assets). Owing to the diversity of development strategies available to both natural resource rich and produced capital rich countries, trade liberalisation is not necessarily the best outcome for sustainability in both types of countries. We offer to amend Adjusted Net Savings (ANS) to include in the indicator trade-induced specialisation gains from trade to fund structural change and diversification, against economic incentives for specialisation.
Q37|Critical Minerals Today and in 2030: An Analysis for OECD Countries|Raw materials are essential for the global economy and future development depends on their continued supply. Like fossil fuels, minerals are non-renewable. In general, their deposits in the Earth’s crust are also geographically clustered, making security of supply a potential risk. In many cases, the exhaustion of economically competitive minerals deposits in industrialized countries has made supplies increasingly dependent on the political stability of mineral-rich emerging economies. At the same time, increasing demand from these emerging markets, new technologies that require large amounts of rare minerals , low substitutability in applications and low rates of recycling have made economies more vulnerable to potential supply disruptions. Consequently policy-makers in several OECD countries and regions have developed reports that assess the vulnerability of their respective economies to disruptions in the supply of minerals. A common aim of many of these studies is the identification of a list of so-called ‘critical minerals’, defined as minerals for which the risk of disruptions in supply is relatively high and for which supply disruptions will be associated with large economic impacts. Les matières premières sont essentielles pour l'économie mondiale et le développement futur dépend de leur approvisionnement continu. Comme les combustibles fossiles, les minerais ne sont pas renouvelables. Par ailleurs, leurs dépôts dans la croûte terrestre sont, en général, regroupés géographiquement, faisant ainsi de la sécurité de l'approvisionnement un risque potentiel. Dans de nombreux cas en effet, pour ce qui est des pays industrialisés, l'épuisement des réserves en minerais économiquement compétitifs a rendu l'approvisionnement en matières premières une activité de plus en plus dépendante de la stabilité politique des pays émergents riches en minerais. Dans le même temps, la demande croissante de ces marchés émergents, mais aussi les nouvelles technologies qui nécessitent de grandes quantités de minerais rares, ainsi qu’une faible substituabilité dans leurs applications concrètes et des taux de recyclage faibles, ont rendu les économies plus vulnérables aux éventuelles ruptures d'approvisionnement. Par conséquent les décideurs dans plusieurs pays et régions de l'OCDE ont commandé des rapports qui évaluent la vulnérabilité de leurs économies respectives face à des perturbations dans l'approvisionnement en minerais. L’objectif commun d'un grand nombre de ces études est l'identification d'une liste de soi-disant «minerais critiques», définis comme les minerais pour lesquels le risque de perturbations de l'approvisionnement est relativement élevé et pour lesquels les ruptures en approvisionnement seront associées à de grands impacts économiques.
Q37|Managing the Minerals Sector: Implications for Trade from Peru and Colombia|Managing and regulating the extractive industries can pose substantial challenges to minerals-rich countries. Aiming to overcome the “resource curse”, some countries attempt to generate greater gains from their natural resources by using trade policy instruments such as export restrictions. Others look to create a balanced regulatory framework to maximise gains from sustainable extraction and minimise the negative spillover effects. Colombia and Peru have aimed to do the latter. This study examines their experiences as regards some aspects of the management of their extractive industries. In particular, it examines the design of the tax system as it applies to non-renewable resources, the reform of the distribution of revenues from the sector, and strategies for tackling illegal mining. These policy areas are important to ensure that the extraction of natural resources benefits the economies and societies of the two Andean nations.
Q37|A Global Perspective on the Future of Natural Gas: Resources, Trade, and Climate Constraints|Natural gas plays an important role in the global energy system as an input to power generation, heating, and industry. This article identifies key drivers and uncertainties for natural gas markets in the coming decades. These include the availability of natural gas from conventional and unconventional sources, the role of international trade, and the impact of climate policies. We build on model-based research as well as an up-to-date survey of natural gas resource availability. We find that natural gas is an abundant fossil fuel and that the Asia-Pacific region will be most important in future global natural gas markets, especially under stringent international climate change mitigation. This means that an increasingly large share of future natural gas trade flows and infrastructure expansions will be directed to the Asia-Pacific region and that the role of liquefied natural gas will continue to increase globally. (JEL: C61, L71, Q33, Q37, Q54)
Q37|Battle for Climate and Scarcity Rents: Beyond the Linear-Quadratic Case|Industria imports oil, produces final goods and wishes to mitigate global warming. Oilrabia exports oil and buys final goods from the other country. Industria uses the carbon tax to impose an import tariff on oil and steal some of Oilrabia’s scarcity rent. Conversely, Oilrabia has monopoly power and sets the oil price to steal some of Industria’s climate rent. We analyze the relative speeds of oil extraction and carbon accumulation under these strategic interactions for various production function specifications and compare these with the efficient and competitive outcomes. We prove that for the class of HARA production functions, the oil price is initially higher and subsequently lower in the open-loop Nash equilibrium than in the efficient outcome. The oil extraction rate is thus initially too low and in later stages too high. The HARA class includes linear, loglinear and semi-loglinear demand functions as special cases. For non-HARA production functions, Oilrabia may in the open-loop Nash equilibrium initially price oil lower than the efficient level, thus resulting in more oil extraction and climate damages. We also contrast the open-loop Nash and efficient outcomes numerically with the feedback Nash outcomes. We find that the optimal carbon tax path in the feedback Nash equilibrium is flatter than in the open-loop Nash equilibrium. It turns out that for certain demand functions using the carbon tax as an import tariff may hurt consumers’ welfare as the resulting user cost of oil is so high that the fall in welfare wipes out the gain from higher tariff revenues. Copyright The Author(s) 2015
Q37|The Impact of Windfalls: Firm selection, trade and welfare|We ask how a small open economy with heterogeneous rms responds to a resource windfall. A resource windfall boosts demand but also a ects wages such that production costs increase. The result is a higher number of firms and renewed selection among firms: New firms at the lower end of the productivity continuum can produce for the domestic market, while only the most productive firms continue to export. While the share of firms that sell traded varieties decreases, the average productivity of exporting firms increases. The increase in the number of varieties caused by a larger number of firms and the inflow of additional imports implies that there is an increase in aggregate welfare over and above the direct windfall gain. We provide analysis in a model with two types of labor. The windfall causes a reallocation of labor types and a change in relative wages, thereby implying different welfare outcomes for each type of labor and the possibility of rising inequality.
Q37|Commodity price shocks, growth and structural transformation in low-income countries|This paper uses a panel-VAR approach to estimate both the dynamic and structural macroeconomic response of resource-rich, low-income countries to global commodity price shocks. I use a block recursive ordering, as well as a simple Choleski decomposition, to identify structural commodity price shocks for a set of developing countries. The block recursive identification strategy assumes only that global macroeconomic conditions do not respond to individual low-income country conditions contemporaneously. The results suggest that a one standard deviation increase in commodity prices raises per capita income in developing countries by 0.26% and government spending and investment by 4.4% and 12.4%. The effects are larger for less developed countries, economies with fixed exchange rate regimes and those that are more depended on commodity exports. Commodity price shocks also result in significant transformation of these economies, with the share of value-added in manufacturing contracting by 0.17–0.22 percentage points. Whilst these effects may appear small, they represent the effect of exogenous commodity price shocks that are not due to changes in aggregate demand or global financial conditions. This suggests that commodity price movements alone may be less important in explaining the volatility of low-income country growth than other explanations. Taken together, these results present a more nuanced picture of the ‘resource curse’ in poor countries. Whilst per capital income levels are positively affected by resource booms, the potential for de-industrialisation does exist. The channel through which this link operates appears to be the real exchange rate, with resource booms leading to appreciation pressures. To illustrate the relevance of these results, I investigate the impact of the recent oil price collapse on the Nigerian economy.
Q37|Left in the Dark? Oil and Rural Poverty|Do oil booms reduce rural poverty and inequality? To study this we measure rural poverty by counting people who live in darkness at night: combining high-resolution global satellite data on night-time lights and population from 2000 to 2013. We develop a measure that accurately identifies 74% of households as above or below the extreme poverty line when compared to over 600,000 household surveys. We find that both high oil prices and new discoveries increase illumination and GDP nationally. However, they also promote regional inequality because the increases are limited to towns and cities with no evidence that they benefit the rural poor.
Q37|The Impact of Restrictions to Export on Production: A synthetic controls approach|This paper uses quantitative restrictions to exports implemented in Bolivia in order to investigate the impact of export restrictions on the volume of production. We apply a synthetic controls approach and show that production of cattle beef fell remarkably when quantitative restrictions are imposed. Importantly, we show that export restrictions have a negative impact not only on total production, but also on production for local market. The fact that export controls can actually harm production for local market bears important implications for the design of policies in the future.
Q37|The footprint of using metals: new metrics of consumption and productivity|Metal use and modern society are intrinsically linked and it is no surprise that global processes of industrialization and urbanization have led to ever increasing amounts of metal use. In recent decades, global supply and demand networks for metals have become increasingly complex. Industrial Ecology research is well placed to unpack this complexity and to explore potential resource efficiencies for metals. This is especially important during the current period of rising ore prices. We examine patterns of supply and demand for iron ore and bauxite, and recent trends in resource productivity of these two important metal ores. We introduce a consumption perspective and compare the material footprint of metal ores to the GDP of countries to look at how much economic benefit countries achieve per unit of metal footprint. We find that for the past two decades global amounts of iron ore and bauxite extractions have risen faster than global GDP, that both supply and demand of iron ore and bauxite have been concentrated in a handful of countries and that resource productivity from a consumption perspective has fallen in developed nations, as well as globally. The research shows no saturation of metal ore consumption at any level of income. Policies will be required to enhance both the productivity of metal production and the economic productivity of consumption (GDP per metal footprint) through more efficient mining, product design, reuse and recycling. Copyright Springer Japan 2015
Q37|International trade and structural change: a dynamic model of weak sustainability|We present a dynamic Heckscher-Ohlin model to study structural change in a sus- tainability context. We show how resource rich economies maximising steady-state con- sumption should adopt different development strategies depending on the distribution of domestic wealth instruments (assets). Owing to the diversity of development strategies available to both natural resource rich and produced capital rich countries, trade liberal- isation is not necessarily the best outcome for sustainability in both types of countries. We offer to amend Adjusted Net Savings (ANS) to include in the indicator trade-induced specialisation gains from trade to fund structural change and diversification, against eco- nomic incentives for specialisation.
Q37|Double limit pricing|We study oil extraction by a monopolist who faces demand from a climate-aware and a climate-ignorant region. A renewable, perfect substitute for oil is available at constant unit cost. The climate-aware region uses a carbon tax and a renewables subsidy as policy instruments. Due to heterogeneity in climate policies between regions, the oil price path possibly contains two limit-pricing phases. We specify conditions under which a tightening of climate policies results in lower initial carbon emissions. A renewables subsidy and a carbon tax effectively force the monopolist to sell more oil to the climate-ignorant region, during the stage when demand from the climate-aware region has already vanished. We calibrate the model and numerically investigate climate damage and welfare effects of the policies of the climate-aware region. We find that both the carbon tax and a renewables subsidy lower climate damage, even though cumulative emissions are fixed.
Q37|International Carbon Trade and Domestic Climate Politics|This article theorizes about the implications for domestic climate politics of three distinct roles countries play in the global carbon supply chain: fossil fuel producer, manufacturer of carbon-intensive goods, and final consumer. Because international responsibility is assigned to territorial emissions, countries at either end of the global supply chain effectively evade environmental responsibility by shifting fossil fuel combustion to manufacturing countries. In so doing, they lessen the political challenges of reducing domestic emissions. Although exporters of carbon-intensive goods are reluctant to disadvantage local producers, importers can craft policies that both reduce territorial emissions and create local jobs. Ironically, fossil fuel exporters can emerge as leaders in reducing their own territorial emissions, a finding illustrated by case studies of British Columbia and Norway. The conclusion argues that shifting responsibility for carbon emissions to the point of either final consumption or fossil fuel extraction could facilitate an international climate agreement.
Q37|Forging a global environmental agreement through trade sanctions on free riders?|This paper studies the formation of self-enforcing global environmental agreements in a world economy with international trade and two groups of countries that differ with respect to fuel demand and environmental damage. It investigates whether the signatories’ threat to embargo (potential) free riders secures all countries’ participation in the agreement. Resorting to numerical analysis, we find that an embargo may be unnecessary, ineffective or even counterproductive - depending on the degree of asymmetry and other parameters. On some subset of parameters, the embargo stabilizes the otherwise unstable global agreement, but the threat of embargo is not credible. However, in some of these cases credibility can be restored by suitable intra-coalition transfers.
Q37|A political economy of China's export restrictions on rare earth elements|We investigate why governments restrict exports of exotic raw materials taking rare earth elements as a case study. Trade restrictions on exotic materials do not have immediate macroeconomic effects. Relocating rare earth intensive industries is found to be the main reason behind China's export barriers. They are part of a more extensive strategy aiming at creating comparative advantages in these sectors and at overcoming path dependencies. Moreover, export barriers serve as a second-best instrument to reduce pollution and to slow down the depletion of exhaustible resources. Growing domestic rare earth consumption renders those increasingly ineffective. Rising reliance on mine-site regulation indicates that this fact is taken into account. Rare earth extraction is dominated by a few large companies; the demand side is dispersed. That speaks against successful lobbying for export restrictions. It appears as if the export barriers are set up to compensate mining firms.
Q37|Distortion effects of export quota policy: an analysis of the China-Raw Materials dispute|The China-Raw Materials dispute recently arbitrated by the WTO opposed China as defendant to the US, the EU and Mexico as the claimants on the somewhat unusual issue of export restrictions on natural resources. For the claimants, Chinese export restrictions on various raw materials, of which the country is a major producer, create shortages in foreign markets increasing the prices of these goods. China defends export limitations by presenting them as a natural resource conserving policy. This paper offers a theoretical analysis of the dispute with the help of a model of a monopoly extracting a non-renewable resource and selling it on both the domestic and foreign markets. The theoretical results focus on the effects of imposing an export quota on quantities, prices and price distortion. Given the crucial importance of demand elasticities in this theoretical understanding of the conflict, the empirical part of the paper provides estimates of import demand elasticity of the parties for each product concerned in the case. The model and the empirical results challenge the ideas that an export quota always favors conservation of natural resource, that a higher foreign price necessarily follows this policy and that it inherently increases price distortion and therefore discrimination.
Q37|Differential games approach to trade with exhaustible resources|The paper presents a model of world economy with two countries where one of them dubbed home sells the exhaustible resource to final producers in both countries, which compete at the final goods market. The interaction between final producers is reached via the sticky price mechanics, whereas price continuously adjusts to produced final product quantities. Production technology in both countries includes the resource as an essential input plus the variety of intermediate products. We demonstrate how opening up to trade of the exhaustible resource may be beneficial for the home economy by promoting technical change and capital accumulation via increased resource rents and relative factor prices movements. This leads to the increase in social welfare due to taste for variety and fosters structural change in the home country.
Q37|The Use Of Relevant Factors For Consumers In Designing A Communicational Message|Today, organizations must adapt to the new realities of the environment in which they operate, and their efforts must be increasingly more oriented towards identifying the factors that influence consumer behavior, in particular economic, social and psychological aspects. When consumers are acting on incomplete information base, they assume automatically a risk for each purchasing decision. The size of the risk decreases depending on the quantity and relevance of information transmitted through communicational messages. Therefore, the aim of this paper is to highlight the factors that should be taken into account when designing a communicational message, so that this has to have the ability to change consumer attitudes and to keep constant interest to the products and / or services of a company.
Q37|Oil demand shocks reconsidered: A cointegrated vector autoregression|We reconsider the conclusions about the importance of oil demand shocks and the unimportance of supply shocks reported by Kilian (2009). We investigate whether the proxy for worldwide real economic activity, dry bulk maritime freight costs, represents anything more than transportation costs by analyzing the relation between these costs and oil prices. The meaning of this variable is critical because transportation costs appear on both sides of the equations estimated by Kilian, directly as dry bulk maritime freight costs and as part of the measure for oil prices. We also investigate the effects of representing oil supply with an aggregate of OPEC and non-OPEC production because they likely use different criteria to chose output. Finally we investigate Kilian's use of the first difference of supply while the other variables in his model are represented as levels. The results suggest that OPEC and nonOPEC nations use different criteria to set output and that reductions (increases) in OPEC production raise (lower) oil prices. The elements of the cointegrating relations, their loadings, and impulse response functions suggest that the positive relation between dry bulk maritime freight costs and oil prices simply represents the effect of higher oil prices on transportation costs. Sensitivity analyses suggest that these differences are caused by including transportation costs in the measure of oil prices, aggregating OPEC and non-OPEC productions, and using a very long lag length to estimate the VAR. Together, these results suggest that conclusions about the importance of demand shocks and the unimportance of supply shocks are not robust to alternative specifications that are consistent with many empirical findings about the world oil market.
Q37|Scenarios for Russia's natural gas exports to 2050|Russia is an important energy supplier as it holds the world's largest natural gas reserves and it is the world's largest exporter of natural gas. Despite a recent reduction in Russia's exports to Europe, it plans to build new pipelines. We explore the long-term (up to 2050) scenarios of Russian natural gas exports to Europe and Asia using the MIT Emissions Prediction and Policy Analysis (EPPA) model, a computable general equilibrium model of the world economy. We found that over the next 20–40years natural gas can still play a substantial role in Russian exports and there are substantial reserves to support a development of the gas-oriented energy system both in Russia and in its current and potential gas importers. Based on the considered scenarios, Russia does not need any new pipeline capacity to the EU unless it wants to diversify its export routes to supply the EU without any gas transit via Ukraine and Belarus. Asian markets are attractive to Russian gas and substantial volumes may be exported there. Relatively cheap shale gas in China may sufficiently alter the prospects of Russian gas, especially in Asian markets. In the Reference scenario, exports of natural gas grow from Russia's current 7Tcf to 11–12Tcf in 2030 and 13–14Tcf in 2050. Alternative scenarios provide a wider range of projections, with a share of Russian gas exports shipped to Asian markets rising to more than 30% by 2030 and almost 50% in 2050. Europe's reliance on LNG imports increases, while it still maintains sizable imports from Russia.
Q37|An energy factor proportions model of the US economy|A factor proportions model examines the effects of falling energy input and its rising price in the US economy based on a novel production function motivated by the definition of physical work. This physical production function specifies separate interaction of energy and labor with capital, estimated with annual data from 1951 to 2008. Energy has a large output elasticity and inelastic own input demand. A rising energy price lowers the return to capital in the general equilibrium even though capital is a moderate substitute for energy. Energy has robust comparative static elasticities linked to manufacturing in the general equilibrium.
Q37|Not only a man's world: Women's involvement in artisanal mining in eastern DRC|Artisanal mining is a key source of livelihood in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo, an area mostly known for its chronic instability and violent conflict. Although men make up the majority of the artisanal mining population, mining is also central in the livelihoods of many girls and women. In this paper, we take issue with the fact that the current emphasis on conflict-related sexual violence to women has obscured the role of women in artisanal mining. Furthermore, we criticize the tendency to promote women's departure from the mining sector, which has been presented as the best strategy to protect them against the threats of sexual violence, exploitation and oppression. We argue that, given the lack of viable alternative livelihoods in eastern DRC, policymakers should invest more time, energy and resources in trying to understand and to strengthen women's positions in the mining sector itself.
Q37|The long run development of Chile and the Natural Resources curse. Linkages, policy and growth, 1850-1950|This chapter analyses the effects of Natural Resources on the Chilean economy in the long run (1850 - 1950). Specifically, the authors focus their attention on the mining cycles (nitrates and copper) and their impact on the mining activity. We also compare it with the evolution of the industry and whole economy, and how this has affected the economic growth of the country. In that sense, the industrial performance in Chile at the end of the 19th century until the Great Depression is still under debate. The optimistic view of Kirsch (1977) forehead the pessimistic view of Lagos (1966) and Palma (1979). The new data and its analyses shows a neutral effect of the Natural Resources in the industrial development.
Q37|Should We Ban Unconventional Oil Extraction to Reduce Global Warming?|The extraction and processing of unconventional oil is more energy intensive and has larger negative environmental impacts than the extraction of conventional oil. The European Union (EU) estimates that oil sands lead to 22% more emissions than conventional oil. The EU is very concerned by the potential climate and environmental impacts and has considered introducing a tax on imported unconventional oil in order to discourage its production. This study shows that a global ban on the use of unconventional oil substantially reduces global carbon dioxide emissions, but the policy is not efficient. A unilateral ban of the EU on unconventional oil has no climate benefits and it is expensive for Europe.
Q37|Loss & Damage: a Critical Discourse Analysis|The years-long negotiations on an international mechanism for loss and damage (L&D) associated with climate change impacts got to a milestone during the nineteenth session of the UNFCCC Conference of the Parties (COP-19), held in Warsaw in November 2013. The COP established the Warsaw international mechanism, aiming to address L&D associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme events and slow onset events, in vulnerable developing countries (Decision 2/CP.19). The paper performs a Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA) of COP decision 2/CP.19 in order to reconstruct developing and developed countries’ positions on L&D and reflect on how the Warsaw mechanism could be implemented. The analysis builds on Fairclough’s (1992) three-dimensional model for CDA, and makes use of a wide range of materials including previous COP decisions, High Level Segment statements and Parties submissions to COP 19, press releases and other relevant documents. The analysis highlights the lack of a common understanding and representation of L&D by developed and developing countries, with this fact ultimately hampering the possibility to define specific tools to address the issue within the mechanism. The difficulty to come to a shared meaning on L&D is due to its connection to other controversial discourses under the UNFCCC, including that of compensation for climate change impacts. As the concept of compensation pertains to the field of international law, the paper explores the appropriateness of the notions of State Responsibility for wrongful acts and State liability for acts not prohibited by international law to effectively deal with L&D. The paper concludes by discussing some strategic options for developing countries to advance the L&D discourse within international talks.
Q37|Structural Disparities in Carbon Dioxide Consumption and Trade in the World Economy|Social scientists have long argued that developed countries are more and more responsible for climate change because they externalise pollution to less developed countries. This paper offers a way to quantify climate responsibility by calculating carbon footprints and carbon balances between regions by means of an input-output analysis. We find that regions in the center of the world economy are increasingly consuming CO2 which was emitted in the periphery. Developed countries exhibit a large emission balance deficit with the less developed economies. Furthermore, we decompose carbon footprint developments between 1995 and 2007 into three effects: technical progress, shifts in the global value chain and increasing final demand. Our results show that the effect of technical progress is overcompensated by the effect of increased consumption and value chain shifts. Footprint growth in the center is strongly linked to additional pollution and technical development in the periphery. These findings challenge the prevailing view of the potential of modernisation and globalisation with regard to climate change.
Q37|Environmental Aspects of Resource Extraction Contracts|This paper analyzes resource partnerships and their influence on the environmental quality in a resource-rich country by introducing incomplete contracts, imperfect property rights protection, and a lack of valuation for the environment by the government in the South. Employing numerical simulations, I determine the equilibrium extraction rate, the applied extraction technology, and the environmental quality in dependence of the state of democracy in the resource-rich country. In contrast to what one might expect, under certain circumstances it can be environmentally beneficial to have incomplete contracts that induce the utilization of a suboptimal technology for resource extraction. Further, reducing the holdup problem by shifting bargaining power to the North, is only desirable if the environmental quality in- creases with a better extraction technology.
Q37|Export Restrictions on Raw Materials: Experience with Alternative Policies in Botswana|Demand for non-renewable natural resources is forecast to rise steadily over the coming decades. Underlying trends of long-term rising demand and falling supply of mineral resources will inevitably increase pressure on prices and intensify competition for scarce resources. This can create a substantial opportunity for development for minerals-rich countries. However, as suggested by the “resource curse” debate, broad-based economic development based on the extractive industries is far from assured. History suggests that not all countries, in particular many of those outside the OECD area, have benefitted economy-wide from their mineral resources: good governance and good policies are essential to benefit from their huge potential growth. Some countries have successfully regulated their mining sectors without resorting to highly distortive policies such as export restrictions. One such country is Botswana. This paper examines some of the policies in place in Botswana that have contributed to the governance and management of its substantial minerals sector. Lessons are drawn for minerals-rich countries keen to manage their raw materials sectors for increased economy-wide growth.
Q37|Descriptive Analysis of Economic Diversification, Price and Revenue Dynamics in Oil and Energy in the Arab World|Abstract The present paper looks at the descriptive side of the economy of oil and energy in the Arab countries. It addresses the contours of these economies in relation to diversification and trading patterns and shows the limited diversification but high concentration of exports towards oil and gas in part of these countries. The paper addresses also the dynamic processes of gas and oil revenues with their time trends. It also attempts linking revenues to international oil prices before tackling the current status of renewable energy. The attained outcomes show clearly how non-oil exporters are exhibiting patterns that are different from the exporting countries of the Gulf. This latter set of economies is benefiting from oil price stability during the past recent years and ensuring thus, a stable revenue formation in comparison with other economies in the region. With regard to renewable energy, non-oil exporting countries are more active in the search of new energy alternatives.
Q37|Backtesting and Evaluation of Different Trading Schemes for the Portfolio Management of Natural Gas|The aim of our research is to test and evaluate the technical indicators and oscillators, which are commonly used on other stocks and commodity markets (e.g. moving averages, stochastic oscillator, etc.) in terms of their efficiency at the present European natural gas virtual trading points (VTPs). The decisive factors are the achievable cost savings in purchases. The scope of our work includes the testing of trading systems on historical prices of European natural gas VTPs. These trading systems will be compared with each other and evaluated in terms of their efficiency and long-term stability. The results show that in more than half of the cases, the average buying price of natural gas is lower than the median price; hence the use of technical-indicator-based trading systems in natural gas procurement portfolio management would be beneficial.
Q37|An introduction to the economics of rare earths|The aim of this paper is to examine the supply risk of rare earths and its impact on low carbon technologies deployment. Bringing together seemingly disconnected strands of scientific literature, this multidisciplinary approach allows to provide an overarching overview of the economics of rare earths. In terms of supply risk, as opposed to the common belief, it is not Chinas dominant position per se, but its industrial policies which distort the rare earths market. On the demand side, the results of this paper disprove the widespread allegation that availability risk impedes deployment of offshore wind. Contrary to this, a potential supply shortage of rare earths would disrupt the further development of the automotive industry and its electrification. Ultimately, uncertainty about volatile prices and threat of supply shortages induce manufacturers to shift away from technologies containing rare earths, and thus render innovation in these economically nonviable.
Q37|Dynamic market power in an exhaustible resource industry: The case of rare earth elements|This paper investigates China's capability to exert power on Rare Earth markets until 2020. A dynamic partial equilibrium model allowing for a disaggregated representation of the mining sector and endogenous investment in capacities is developed. The model is calibrated on a novel dataset on Rare Earth mines. Simulations show that Chinese market power is a transitory phenomenon. In 2014 and 2015, Light Rare Earth prices increase by 21 per cent and Heavy Rare Earth prices more than double compared to free trade, if assuming export restrictions to remain unchanged. Market power on Light Rare Earths vanishes almost completely by 2017 due to the entry of new suppliers, while it persists until 2019 for Heavy Rare Earths. Export restrictions imply a loss of Marshallian welfare of US$ 1.96 billion outside China. In the short run, even moderate cuts in export quotas can increase exerted market power substantially. Altering tariffs induces smaller but more persistent effects. Sensitivity checks indicate that the results are robust, but delayed opening of new mines and demand shocks can be important for China's capability to exert market power.
Q37|Lao Economy: Capitalizing on Natural Resource Exports|Trade and investment reforms in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) since the mid-1980s have boosted natural resource-based exports, underpinning recent economic growth. A high proportion of the proceeds from these exports accrue directly to the government. Over the 8 years preceding 2011, total government revenue increased from 11% to over 19% of gross domestic product, due almost entirely to revenues derived from mining and hydropower. The effect on the Lao people depends on how the government uses these revenues. This paper examines how the Lao PDR’s export-led growth can be channeled into directions that deliver the greatest benefit to the Lao people.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q37|Aké Faktory Vplývajú Na Cenu Ropy Brent?|Počas prvej dekády 21. storočia bola cena ropy na svetovom trhu vysoko volatilná. V predkladanom príspevku sa snažíme vytvoriť model pre cenu ropy Brent, ktorý by bol schopný vysvetliť čo najviac variability vo vývoji ceny ropy Brent v období 1994 – 2011. Uvažujeme s viacerými modelmi založenými na exogénnych premenných, ktoré najviac vplývajú na cenu ropy Brent. Všetky prezentované modely sa zameriavajú na vysvetlenie ceny ropy výlučne prostredníctvom faktorov dopytu a ponuky a abstrahujú od geopolitických, prírodných a špekulačných faktorov. Prichádzame k záveru, že na cenu ropy Brent vplývajú predovšetkým faktory strany ponuky, pričom faktory strany dopytu nie sú silne korelované s cenou ropy Brent.
Q37|From Boom to Bust? A Critical Look at US Shale Gas Projections|US shale gas production is generally expected to continue its fast rise. However, a cautious evaluation is needed. Shale gas resource estimates are potentially overoptimistic and it is uncertain to which extent they can be produced economically. Moreover, the adverse environmental effects of ever more wells to be drilled may lead to a fall in public acceptance and a strengthening of regulation. The objective of this paper is hence twofold: providing a critical look at current US shale gas projections, and investigating in a second step the implications of a less optimistic development by means of numerical simulation. In a world of declining US shale gas production after 2015, natural gas consumption outside the USA is reduced from its reference path by at least as much as US consumption. Trade flows are redirected, and the current US debate on LNG export capacity requirements becomes obsolete.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q37|Can FDI Be Bad for Growth?|We ?nd a curious negative casual relationship between foreign direct investment (FDI) and total factor productivity growth (TFPG) across the world for the period 1996-2009. The relationship is robust to speci?cations in which we instrument for FDI using lagged values and geography variables as well as when we control for country and year ?xed e?ects, human capital, the size of government, and other country di?erences. We hypothesize that not all FDI are the same as channels for technology transfer. We ?nd that higher natural resource extraction accounts for the negative relationship between FDI and TFPG. For countries with no natural resource exports, 10% higher FDI causes 0.7-1.9% faster TFPG. The same 10% higher FDI, however, in countries with 6% higher natural resource exports reduces TFPG by the same amount. These ?ndings have important implications for the middle-income trap and the rise in FDI for natural resource extraction. As an illustrative example, in Vietnam from 2003-2009, FDI in mining and quarrying grew at 135% per year while TFPG in that sector averaged -3%. In manufacturing, FDI grew at only 26% per year while TFPG averaged 24%.
Q37|Exportaciones verdes en Barbados: una evaluación de sus potencialidades|La transición hacia una economía verde, centrada en reducir los riesgos ambientales y la escasez de recursos sin dejar de contribuir al bienestar, se ha propuesto como una vía posible de desarrollo sostenible. Si bien son claras las ventajas potenciales de emprender el camino del desarrollo verde, el avance en este sentido requiere garantizar el apoyo a las empresas e industrias emergentes. En consecuencia, el programa de políticas tendrá que adaptarse a estas nuevas esferas de negocios verdes. En este estudio se hace una valoración de diversas empresas verdes y su posible idoneidad para el pequeño Estado insular de Barbados.
Q37|An assessment of green export opportunities for Barbados|Transitioning towards a green economy -one that focuses on reducing environmental risks and resource scarcities, while also improving well-being- has been put forward as one possible path towards sustainable development. While the potential advantages of pursuing a green development path are clear, moving forward on the green agenda requires guaranteed support for emerging businesses and industries. Consequently, the policy agenda will have to be tailored to these new green business areas. This study assesses various green businesses and their potential suitability for the small island State of Barbados.
Q37|Causality-in-mean and causality-in-variance within the international steam coal market|The purpose of this paper is to investigate the integration of the steam coal market. The analysis of dependencies between mean rates of return of prices on the steam coal market and volatility spillover was conducted using weekly data from the period 04.01.2002 to 30.12.2011. The prices of the world's largest exporters and importers on the Pacific and Atlantic markets were chosen to analyse the dependencies. The methodology was based on the tests from Cheung and Ng (1996) and Hong (2001), which allow for the analysis of Granger causality both in mean and in variance. The analyses indicate that the dependence between participants is not the same. The strongest links were observed between the pairs of participants from the same market (that is, either the Atlantic market or the Pacific market), and the price of Australian coal turned out to be the most important factor in shaping other prices on the Pacific market. On the Atlantic market, the coal prices in the Amsterdam–Rotterdam–Antwerp (ARA) ports and the Richards Bay port had the greatest influence on coal prices and were the Granger cause of prices in the Pacific region.
Q37|Rare earth elements as critical raw materials: Focus on international markets and future strategies|Supply of some critical raw materials by European industry is becoming more and more difficult. After the case of natural textile fibres, in particular cotton, and timber, over the last few years the problem of rare earths (REs) availability has also risen. The 97% of the global supply of rare earth metals (REMs) is produced by China, that has recently done copious cuts of its exports, apparently in order to protect its environment. This fact has greatly increased the REs prices, causing tension and uncertainty among the world hi-tech markets. Many of these materials, in fact, have very few effective substitutes and low recycling rates too. In addition, their natural reserves of rare earths are concentrated in a small number of countries (China, Brazil, US, Russia, Democratic Republic of Congo). REMs are a group of 17 elements particularly used in many new electronic and advanced components: such as fuel cells, mobile phones, displays, hi-capacity batteries, permanent magnets for wind power generation, green energy devices, etc. Many analysts foresee much more requests in the next decades.
Q37|Marché locatif privé : état des lieux et évaluation des dernières mesures gouvernementales|Le marché locatif privé est, depuis maintenant plus d’une décennie, sujet à une crise profonde (hausse des loyers, paupérisation des locataires, mobilité résidentielle bloquée) Dans ce contexte, les pouvoirs publics ont récemment mis en place deux mesures. L’une encadrant l’évolution des loyers dans les zones sous tensions, l’autre agissant sur l’offre par le biais d’un nouveau dispositif d’incitation fiscale à l’investissement locatif. Après un état des lieux du marché locatif privé, nous nous proposons d’évaluer l’impact de ces mesures gouvernementales sur les loyers, les taux d’effort supportés par les locataires, les rendements perçus par les propriétaires, ou encore sur la construction. Il ressort de cette étude que l’encadrement,s’il est pérennisé,pourrait certes stopper l’inflation des loyers dans les zones ciblées et avoir un impact positif sur le taux d’effort des ménages les plus modestes, notamment si plusieurs obstacles sont surmontés (maintien de l’offre, transparence de l’information,).Concernant le dispositif Duflot, en s’appuyant sur des plafonds de ressources et de loyers trop élevés, il bénéficierait peu aux classes moyennes inférieures, alors même que son coût fiscal s’avère non négligeable. Bien que la régulation du marché locatif paraisse être, dans ces conditions, une équation insoluble compte tenu des attentes des parties prenantes (État,bailleurs privés et locataires), certaines solutions existent comme le développement de l’offre locative sociale ou encore de l’accession sociale à la propriété. Ces solutions, coûteuses mais pérennes, permettraient de détendre durablement un marché locatif privé saturé.
Q37|China’s Quest for Energy Security: Why Are the Stakes So High?|China’s global quest for resources—in particular, oil and natural gas—has received unprecedented worldwide attention and scrutiny. The stakes are raised unnecessarily high mainly because of the growing politicization of Chinese energy security as a result of misconceptions and misunderstandings of China’s quest for energy security both inside and outside China. Inside China, these relate to the perceived US-led oil blockade against China and China’s illusion that its investments in oil fields overseas are able to help strengthen its energy security. Outside China, there are wide misconceptions and misunderstandings of how Chinese policy banks operate and their oil and natural gas-based loans. This paper seeks to clarify each of these points.
Q37|Trade Effects of Export Taxes|Export taxes usage has recently risen. They are widely presumed to affect trade, but the lack of data has prevented a systematic evaluation of their trade effects. Based on a new dataset of tax rates at the product level, this paper estimates the distortionary trade effects of export taxes. The results, which are based on theory-consistent estimation of a structural gravity model, indicate that the elasticity of trade quantities to tax is -1.8 on average, rising to -5.5 for extractive sectors. The effects are driven by homogeneous goods. The results suggest that the burden of export taxes is shared by exporters and importers and that export taxes play a role in the rise of world prices.
Q37|Mineral Resource Trade in Chile: Contribution to Development and Policy Implications|Mineral resources present a formidable source of wealth but a formidable challenge to regulate in order to maximize social welfare from their extraction. Some resource-rich countries, such as Chile, have been successful in developing their economies and managing their revenue streams effectively. Strong institutions and regulatory oversight have helped to capitalize on the benefits of the mining sector for economy-wide growth and development in Chile. This paper identifies some of the good practice areas in mining regulation in Chile whose economy has shown strong growth over most of the last two decades. Some of the areas touched on in this paper are the taxation of the minerals sector, management of the tax revenue, and policies designed to foster spillovers into other sectors of the economy and make the most of Chile’s comparative advantage as a long-time global leader in the copper industry. The paper concludes that there is much to be learned from the Chilean experience in regulating its mining sector and many areas where it could be well used as a model for other mineral rich economies wishing to develop their mining sectors to enhance economy-wide growth.
Q37|Economics of Export Restrictions as Applied to Industrial Raw Materials|Governments intervene in non-renewable natural resources sectors more than in many others, including through the use of export taxes and quotas. Industrial raw materials sectors are characterized by a number of specificities: production is often geographically concentrated, firms are often large with substantial market power, production processes are highly capital intensive, products are relatively homogeneous and potentially substantial differences in costs of production are prevalent. This paper aims to increase understanding of the economic effects of export restrictions, in particular as they apply to the mining sector. It ascertains the prevalence of export restrictions on metals and minerals, proposes a Cournot-Nash model of export restrictions, suggests some of the economic effects due to the presence of export restrictions, and draws some implications for trade policy among producing and consuming countries of non-renewable natural resources.
Q37|Trade Restrictions and Conflict Commodities: Market Reactions to Regulations on Conflict Minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo|In this paper, I use an event study approach to investigate the claim that conflict minerals legislation in the United States (US) led to a ban on some mining exports from the Democratic Republc of the Congo (DRC), and that the passage of US regulation caused a ban on both production and trade by regulators in the DRC several months later. I als oconsider the assertion that conflict minerals legislation imposed severe costs for companies that report to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US. I find that returns for some companis traded on US stock exchanges were sensitive to changes in production in the DRC after the proposed legislation became law in the US. This either suggests that some financial market participants did not expect an immediate full embargo on newly-regulated Congolese mining and trading activities, or that market participants did not expect trade to be halted indefinitely. Reactions to a DRC-imposed ban on production were statistically significant; indicating that addtional reductions in trade were not fully anticipated by financial market participants after regulations became law in the US. I also find that among metal and gold mining companies traded on US exchanges, returns were abnormally high when conflict mineral legislation became more probable. Electronic communication manufacturing firms, which as a group were a target for many supporters of conflict mineral regulations, experienced no systematically abnormal returns corresponding to important dates in the US legislative process that I consider, but experienced abnormally positive returns coinciding with the ban on mining in the eastern DRC.
Q37|Exports and Participation in Clean Development Mechanism [CDM] in Technology Intensive Industries in India|This study attempts to find out the relationship between exports and Participation in Clean Development Mechanism [CDM] in the technology intensive industries in India. Data are used from the PROWESS, CMIE and the VCU (Verified Carbon Units) database from 2007 to 2012. Results of this study indicate that firm size, age of the firms, profitability and R&D intensity are the major determinants of export intensity. In addition, technology imports and multinational affiliation also help firms in exporting more. The CDM participation in terms of higher VCU, and energy related technological advancements at firm level are also found to be major determinants of export intensity. India, unlike other established European carbon markets is not a platform for trading but the country is known for its creation of VCU and selling them. Government should focus more on smaller and less profitable firms and create a wider platform for them to be an active participant. Technology spillovers created by bigger and profitable firms which attract more benefits from Verified carbon offsetting should pool the entire interested ready-to-participate firms and attain a common goal, i.e. economically viable and environmentally sustainable and the leaders in the international export market.
Q37|Empowering Rights-holders and Facilitating Duty-bearers to Secure Farmers’ Rights in Nepal|Nepal has ratified both the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (ITPGRFA). As such, it has accepted its role as a duty-bearer to its people, including the duty to uphold farmers’ rights to plant genetic resources for food and agriculture and their associated traditional knowledge. The chapter discuss how the simultaneous empowerment of right-holders and duty bearers is important for realization of farmers' right by smallholder farmers.
Q37|Prospects for Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas from British Columbia: An Application of Monte Carlo Cost-Benefit Analysis|British Columbia’s natural gas industry is currently facing competitive pressures from other gas-producing jurisdictions in North America. The emergence of shale gas developments has resulted in natural gas prices falling dramatically. Nonetheless, British Columbia is positioned to take advantage of growing markets in Asia that have considerably higher prices than in North America through the export of liquefied natural gas (LNG) in carrier ships. This paper aims to assess the economic viability of an LNG industry in British Columbia by analyzing world LNG prices and trade, market development, and costs through a Monte Carlo risk assessment.
Q37|The metal resources (METRO) model: A dynamic partial equilibrium model for metal markets applied to rare earth elements|This paper presents the METal ResOurces (METRO) model, a partial equilibrium model tailored for metal markets. It allows for a disaggregated representation of the mining sector and endogenous investment in extractive capacities. It can be calibrated to a large number of metal markets. Rare Earth Elements are the first group of metals for which the model is implemented. A new dataset on Rare Earth mines is compiled to calibrate it. First results on key developments of Rare Earth markets are presented. Extensive sensitivity analyses indicate their robustness.
Q37|Competitiveness and Leakage Concerns and Border Carbon Adjustments|This paper provides a review of the literature on competitiveness and leakage concerns associated with differentiated climate abatement commitments among countries. The literature reviewed is not exhausted, but it is sufficient to provide a balanced view of both academics and policy circles. Section 2 discusses how to identify the sectors at a risk of carbon leakage. Section 3 examines ex ante estimates of potential carbon leakage rates, and explains why they differ from ex post results of environmental tax reforms and greenhouse gas emissions trading schemes that have been implemented in the European Union. Section 4 discusses broad policy options to address competitiveness and leakage concerns, and compares which anti-leakage policy, border adjustments or output-based allocation, is more effective to limiting carbon leakages or mitigating production loss in the sectors affected. Given that border carbon adjustment measures are incorporated in the U.S. proposed congressional climate bills to level the carbon playing field and could have potential conflicts with World Trade Organization (WTO) provisions and practical difficulties associated with their implementation, Section 5 discuses in great detail the WTO consistency, the effectiveness and methodological challenges of border carbon adjustment measures. The paper ends with some concluding remarks.
Q37|Why Are the Stakes So High? Misconceptions and Misunderstandings in China’s Global Quest for Energy Security|China’s global quest for resources, in particular oil and natural gas, has received unprecedented worldwide attention and scrutiny. This is partly because of China’s own high-profile, active energy diplomacy, its national oil companies’ acquisitions in the key exporting regions of oil and natural gas and some debatable issues about the management and operation of these companies. But why the stakes are raised unnecessarily high is mainly because of the growing politicization of Chinese energy security as a result of misconceptions and misunderstandings of China’s quest for energy security both inside and outside China. This paper aims to de-politicize the debate on China’s global quest for energy resources and to put discussions on that issue into perspective. To that end, the paper first categorizes the main features of China’s energy mix and discusses why energy security in China equates to a large extent to oil security. The paper then pays special attention to misconceptions and misunderstandings regarding the hypothesized U.S.-led oil blockade against China; the Chinese policy banks and their oil and natural gas-based loans; and the role of Chinese investments in oil and gas fields overseas in discussions on China’s global quest for energy resources. Finally, the paper ends with some concluding remarks on a more constructive way forward.
Q37|Chinaâ€™s Growth and Its Impact on Resource Demand and The Iron Ore Trade|The paper sets out what has been driving Chinese demand for resources and outlines the main features of the growth of Chinese resource consumption. It explains the impact of Chinese growth on the Australian economy and examines the future of Chinese resource demand. It reviews the potential to supply Chinese resource (and in particular, iron ore) demand and looks at some policy questions that confront China, as a major resource-procuring economy seeking resource security through foreign investment, and resource-supplying countries, such as Australia, in the context of the growth of Chinese demand. The paper argues that increased supply capacity in Africa and elsewhere in the world is likely to put downward pressure on iron ore (and potentially other resource) prices as new projects come on stream over the next five years.
Q37|West and Central African Iron Ore: A Lesson in the Contestability of the Iron Ore Market|The paper briefly sets out factors behind Chinese demand for iron ore imports and the main features of China's medium term resources consumption growth path. It then outlines the potential of major iron ore export countries to meet China's medium term iron ore import demands. The focus of the paper in on the potential of iron ore supplies from west and central Africa to enter the export market over the short and medium terms. To assess this, three export capacity scenarios (low, medium and high risk) are constructed for 17 iron ore mines (over 27 production expansion phases) in west and central Africa. The result suggest the development of west and central African iron ore has the potential to create significant downward pressure on the price of iron ore exports over the short to medium term. The impact of the excess export capacity on iron ore price is estimated and it suggests that there would be significant knock-off effects for iron ore-centric economies such as Australia and Brazil.
Q37|Chinaâ€™s Growth and Its Impact on Resource Demand and The Iron Ore Trade|The paper sets out what has been driving Chinese demand for resources and outlines the main features of the growth of Chinese resource consumption. It explains the impact of Chinese growth on the Australian economy and examines the future of Chinese resource demand. It reviews the potential to supply Chinese resource (and in particular, iron ore) demand and looks at some policy questions that confront China, as a major resource-procuring economy seeking resource security through foreign investment, and resource-supplying countries, such as Australia, in the context of the growth of Chinese demand. The paper argues that increased supply capacity in Africa and elsewhere in the world is likely to put downward pressure on iron ore (and potentially other resource) prices as new projects come on stream over the next five years.
Q37|An Econometric Study of Economic Growth, Energy and Exports in Mauritius: Implications for Trade and Climate Policy|While electricity from fossil fuels is among a major source of greenhouse gases and global warming, it is also a key resource in the industrial sector geared towards exports and economic growth. This study attempts to examine the export-GDP nexus and electricity-GDP nexus in addition to a supplementary hypothesis between exports and electricity in Mauritius for the period of 1970- 2009. An augmented neo-classical aggregate production model is used. The ARDL bounds test and the Johansen cointegration test confirm the existence of a long-run relationship between these variables. The multivariate Granger-causality analysis indicates that electricity and exports Granger-cause economic growth in the long-run. Electricity remains a significant causal variable in the short-run and is also found to lead exports. The empirical findings suggest that conserving electricity as a climate policy may not be conducive for exports and economic growth. The use of renewable sources for electricity may be the right option.
Q37|Climate policy and fiscal constraints: Do tax interactions outweigh carbon leakage?|Climate policymaking faces twin challenges of carbon leakage and public sector revenue requirements. A large literature advocates the use of CO2 pricing and recycling the revenues to lower distorting taxes as a way to minimize costs. In this paper, we explore the implications of labor tax interactions for cost-effectiveness of border adjustments and other measures to cope with leakage. We find that, for plausible values of labor supply elasticities, the cost savings from revenue recycling are significant—from 15 to 25%. The cost savings from anti-leakage measures are generally smaller, but also significant, particularly for small coalitions or more binding reduction targets. Tax interactions further enhance the cost savings from border adjustments, but make other measures like rebates or exemptions less attractive.
Q37|Chinese resource security policies and the restructuring of the Asia-Pacific iron ore market|This paper reviews the restructuring of the Asia-Pacific iron ore market in the wake of the rise of the Chinese steel industry. Prior to the 2000s, this market was characterised by two key features—high firm-level concentration on both the producer and consumer sides, and price determination through annually negotiated benchmark pricing between Australian mining and Japanese steel firms. However, owing to rapid growth in the Chinese steel industry and its emergence as the region's principal iron ore consumer, the Asia-Pacific iron ore market has been dramatically restructured during the last decade. This process has been accelerated since 2005 by Chinese governmental resource security policies, which have sought to address current record high iron ore prices through the use of foreign investment to sponsor new market entrants and the formation of an import cartel amongst the Chinese steel firms. This paper evaluates how these policies have driven restructuring in the Asia-Pacific iron ore market, through an analysis of the growth of China's steel industry, Chinese resource security policies aimed at lowering iron ore import costs, and their effects upon the regional market's ownership structure and price determination mechanisms. It argues that while Chinese investment and cartelisation policies have catalysed significant changes to the ownership and pricing structures of the Asia-Pacific iron ore market, they have carried only mixed benefits for the Chinese steel industry's resource security.
Q37|West and Central African Iron Ore : A Lesson in the Contestability of the Iron Ore Market|The paper briefly sets out factors behind Chinese demand for iron ore imports and the main features of Chinaâ€™s medium term resource consumption growth path. It then outlines the potential of major iron ore export countries to meet Chinaâ€™s medium term iron ore import demands. The focus of the paper is on the potential of iron ore supplies from west and central Africa to enter the export market over the short and medium terms. To assess this, three export capacity scenarios (low, medium and high risk) are constructed for 17 iron ore mines (over 27 production expansion phases) in west and central African. The results suggest the development of west and central African iron ore has the potential to create significant downward pressure on the price of iron ore exports over the short to medium term. The impact of the excess export capacity on iron ore price is estimated and it suggests that there would be significant knock-on effects for iron ore-centric economies such as Australia and Brazil.
Q37|Why Are the Stakes So High? Misconceptions and Misunderstandings in China’s Global Quest for Energy Security| China’s global quest for resources, in particular oil and natural gas, has received unprecedented worldwide attention and scrutiny. This is partly because of China’s own high-profile, active energy diplomacy, its national oil companies’ acquisitions in the key exporting regions of oil and natural gas and some debatable issues about the management and operation of these companies. But why the stakes are raised unnecessarily high is mainly because of the growing politicization of Chinese energy security as a result of misconceptions and misunderstandings of China’s quest for energy security both inside and outside China. This paper aims to de-politicize the debate on China’s global quest for energy resources and to put discussions on that issue into perspective. To that end, the paper first categorizes the main features of China’s energy mix and discusses why energy security in China equates to a large extent to oil security. The paper then pays special attention to misconceptions and misunderstandings regarding the hypothesized U.S.-led oil blockade against China; the Chinese policy banks and their oil and natural gas-based loans; and the role of Chinese investments in oil and gas fields overseas in discussions on China’s global quest for energy resources. Finally, the paper ends with some concluding remarks on a more constructive way forward.
Q37|Chinese Investment in Latin American Resources: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly|"China's need for vast amounts of minerals to sustain its high economic growth rate has led Chinese investors to acquire stakes in natural resource companies, extend loans to mining and petroleum investors, and write long-term procurement contracts for oil and minerals in Africa, Latin America, Australia, Canada, and other resource-rich regions. These efforts to procure raw materials might be exacerbating the problems of strong demand; ""locking up"" natural resource supplies, gaining preferential access to available output, and extending control over the world's extractive industries. But Chinese investment need not have a zero-sum effect if Chinese procurement arrangements expand, diversify, and make more competitive the global supplier system. Previous Peterson Institute research (see Moran 2010) and new research undertaken in this paper, show that the majority of Chinese investments and procurement arrangements serve to help diversify and make more competitive the portion of the world natural resource base located in Latin America. For a more comprehensive analysis, we conduct a structured comparison of four Peruvian mines with foreign ownership: two Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development-based, and two Chinese. We examine what conditions or policy measures are most effective in inducing Chinese investors to adopt international industry standards and best-practices, and which are not. We distill from this case study some lessons for other countries in Latin America, Africa, and elsewhere that intend to use Chinese investment to develop their extractive sectors: first, that financial markets bring accountability; second, that the host country regulatory environment makes a significant difference; and third, that foreign investment is a catalyst for change."
Q37|Taking Stock of Measures Restricting the Export of Raw Materials: Analysis of OECD Inventory Data|Governments appear increasingly inclined to resort to border and domestic measures that restrict the export of raw materials. For industrial raw materials, the OECD is constructing an Inventory of measures that have been applied since 2009. The underlying survey covers some 100 countries, some 15 types of measures and most minerals, metals as well as wood. This paper analyses 2009-2010 data collected so far for the minerals and metals sector. It sets out with observations, based on the Inventory research, about policy transparency. What information about use of export restrictions do governments publish on their websites? The paper then proceeds with a descriptive statistical analysis of the Inventory data. What are the measures most frequently used? What are the most affected minerals and metals? What motivates governments to resort to export taxes or other measures? The analysis takes account of different stages of production and makes use of trade data to illustrate supply concentration patterns and trade affected by export restrictions.
Q37|Modeling Dutch Disease in the Economy of Iran: A Computable General Equilibrium Approach|In this paper, we will study the impacts of a counterfactual scenario of an increase in oil revenues on the price levels, activity levels, imports and exports in Iran. Our focus is on non-traded sectors, household welfare, and expenditure indices in the framework of a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model. The model is calibrated based on the 2001 Micro Consistent Matrix assuming Iran as a small open economy. The model consists of 11 production sectors, urban households, rural households, government, capital formation, exports, and imports. We concentrate on non-traded products especially rental services, public services, and construction sectors. Since part of the outputs of the construction sector relates to the capital value of buildings, we divided the demand for the construction sector into consumption and investment (seeking capital gain) purposes. In this study, we simulate the impact of a 30% increase in annual oil revenues. Based on the results, this shock leads to an increase in activity levels in the nontraded sectors and a decline in the traded sectors activity levels. Services and manufacturing show the highest increases in import levels at respectively 24% and 22%. Except for the oil and gas sector, all productive sectors experience declining exports. Public services, water, and construction sectors register the highest price increases. Results are robust to production elasticity of substitution choice, while they are sensitive to the elasticity of substitution between imports and domestic output.
Q37|Uzbek Gas for Export: Will Political Maneuvering between China and Russia Result in Higher Export Price?|The main research question is “Will political maneuvering between China and Russia result in higher export price for Uzbek gas?” In 2008, the price of gas exports from Uzbekistan was US$160 per 1,000 cubic meters. On the other hand Gazprom used to charge its European customers an average of US$350 per 1,000 cubic meters. On July 1, 2008, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan has begun laying their respective stretches of the Turkmenistan-China gas pipeline. The construction began at the settlement of Saet in the Bukhara region. The cost of the Uzbek stretch of the gas pipeline is estimated to be over USD 2 billion. The total cost of the 1,818-kilometer long gas pipeline Turkmenistan-China is about USD7 billion. If implemented, the Turkmenistan-China pipeline might undermine Russia’s ability to manipulate the Central Asian gas market and stir up energy competition between Russia and China. It should be noted that with estimated natural gas reserves of 66.2 trillion cubic feet (Tcf), Uzbekistan is the third largest natural gas producer in the Commonwealth of Independent States (after Russia and Turkmenistan) and one of the top fifteen natural gas-producing countries in the world. According to the schedule approved by the decree of the Uzbek President, the first line of the gas pipeline and compressor station is expected to be completed by the end of 2009. According to schedule, the first stage will end in January 2010. The second line of the gas pipeline and two more compressor stations are expected to be launched by January 2012. Gazprom’s reaction to this development was almost immediate. Therefore, the purchase prices in these countries more than doubled in 2009 compared to the levels at which Gazprom has bought gas in 2008 The conclusion of the research is that alternative pipeline to China will strengthen the bargaining power of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan and may result in higher export gas prices. However, given the fact that Chinese themselves are unwilling to match the price that Europeans are paying for gas, the increase will not be very significant. Therefore, Uzbekistan, as well other Central Asian countries, should continue their efforts to construct and participate in other alternative gas pipelines, such as Trans-Caspian, Nabucco, Trans-Afghan, and Iran-Pakistan-India pipeline projects.
Q37|An Empirical Note on the Impact of the Price of Imported Crude Oil on Inflation in the United Kingdom|This study empirically investigates whether the assumption by the Bank of England that rising prices of imported crude oil lead to domestic inflation in the United Kingdom has had validity. In a model where real GDP growth and money stock growth are both all allowed for, empirical estimation reveals compelling evidence for the validity of this assumption. In particular, the greater the percentage increase in imported crude oil prices, the greater the domestic inflation rate. In addition, oil shocks involving imported crude oil price hikes of 40 percent or more in a given year further elevate the domestic inflation rate.
