Q38|For want of a chair: teaching price formation using a cap and trade game|The tradable or transferable permit system, “cap and trade”, is one of the most innovative policy options developed by environmental economists. Over the last 40 years, cap and trade programs have been used around the globe by some of the world’s biggest economies. By placing a cap on a bad, whether a pollutant or excess fish mortality, and then allowing firms to buy and sell the right to generate it, policy makers combine government intervention with market-based incentives in order to improve welfare and internalize the externality. Such programs represent a great opportunity for economics instructors to show students how economic theory can be used in the real world by policy makers while teaching foundational economic concepts. By using an in-class game that utilizes a mobile app or paper-based interaction to create a market for a pollutant (or another rival but non-excludable resource), students can learn several important tenants of economics. These include how prices are formed and how price-based incentives lead to voluntary, as if cooperative, behavior by agents. This active learning method engages students while improving their comprehension of price formation, gains from trade, voluntary response to incentives, and an important environmental economics policy.
Q38|Does Drawing Down the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve Help Stabilize Oil Prices?|We study the efficacy of releases from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) within the context of fully specified models of the global oil market that explicitly allow for storage demand as well as unanticipated changes in the SPR. Using novel identifying strategies and evaluation methods, we examine seven questions. First, how much have exogenous shocks to the SPR contributed to the variability in the real price of oil? Second, how much would a one-time exogenous reduction in the SPR lower the real price of oil? Third, are exogenous SPR releases partially or fully offset by increases in private sector oil inventories and how does this response affect the transmission of SPR policy shocks? Fourth, how effective were actual SPR policy interventions, consisting of sequences of exogenous changes in the SPR, at lowering the real price of oil? Fifth, are there differences in the effectiveness of SPR emergency drawdowns and SPR exchanges? Sixth, how much did the creation and expansion of the SPR contribute to higher real oil prices? Finally, how much would selling half of the oil in the SPR, as recently proposed by the White House, lower the global price of oil (and hence the U.S. price of motor gasoline) and how much fiscal revenue would it generate?
Q38|The Risk of Policy Tipping and Stranded Carbon Assets|If global warming is to stay below 2°C, there are four risks of assets stranding. First, substantial fossil fuel reserves will be stranded at the end of the fossil era. Second, this will be true for exploration capital too. Third, unanticipated changes in present or expected future climate policy cause instantaneous discrete jumps in today’s valuation of physical and natural capital. Fourth, if timing and intensity of climate policy are uncertain, revaluation of assets occurs as uncertainty about future climate policy is resolved. E.g. abandoning climate policy plans immediately boosts scarcity rent, market capitalization, exploration investment and discoveries. To explain and quantify these four effects, we use an analytical model of investment in exploration capital with intertemporal adjustment costs, depletion of reserves and market capitalization, and calibrate it to the global oil and gas industry. Climate policy implements a carbon budget commensurate with 2°C peak warming and we allow for different instruments: immediate or delayed carbon taxes and renewable subsidies. The social welfare ranking of these instruments is inverse to that of the oil and gas industry which prefers renewable subsidy and delaying taxes for as long as possible. We also pay attention to how the legislative “risk” of tipping into policy action affects the timing of the end of the fossil era, the profitability of existing capital, and green paradox effects.
Q38|Does Drawing Down the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve Help Stabilize Oil Prices?|We study the efficacy of releases from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) within the context of fully specified models of the global oil market that explicitly allow for storage demand as well as unanticipated changes in the SPR. Using novel identifying strategies and evaluation methods, we examine seven questions. First, how much have exogenous shocks to the SPR contributed to the variability in the real price of oil? Second, how much would a one-time exogenous reduction in the SPR lower the real price of oil? Third, are exogenous SPR releases partially or fully offset by increases in private sector oil inventories and how does this response affect the transmission of SPR policy shocks? Fourth, how effective were actual SPR policy interventions, consisting of sequences of exogenous changes in the SPR, at lowering the real price of oil? Fifth, are there differences in the effectiveness of SPR emergency drawdowns and SPR exchanges? Sixth, how much did the creation and expansion of the SPR contribute to higher real oil prices? Finally, how much would selling half of the oil in the SPR, as recently proposed by the White House, lower the global price of oil (and hence the U.S. price of motor gasoline) and how much fiscal revenue would it generate.
Q38|The Death Spiral of Coal in the USA: Will New U.S. Energy Policy Change the Tide?|The Trump administration has promised to stop the spiraling down of the U.S. coal industry that has been going on for several years. We discuss the origins of the decline of the U.S. coal industry and new policy interventions by the Trump administration. We find that a further decrease of coal consumption in the U.S. electricity sector must be expected because of the old and inefficient U.S. coal-fired generation fleet. By contrast, we adapt the EIA’s overly optimistic view and analyze three potential support schemes to assess whether under such assumptions they can turn the tide for the U.S. coal industry: i) revoking the Clean Power Plan (CPP); ii) facilitating access to the booming Asian market by developing West Coast coal export terminals; and iii) enhanced support for the Carbon Capture, Transport and Storage (CCTS) technology to provide a long-term perspective for domestic coal use while mitigating climate change. We investigate the short-term and long-term effects for U.S. coal production using a comprehensive partial equilibrium model of the world steam coal market, COALMOD-World (Holz et al. 2016). Revoking the CPP will stop the downward trend of steam coal consumption in the U.S., but will not lead to a return of U.S. coal production to the levels of the 2000s with more than 900 Mtpa. Even when assuming a continuously strong global coal demand and expanding U.S. coal export capacities, U.S. coal production will not return to its previous production highs. When global steam coal use, including U.S. consumption, is aligned with the 2°C climate target, U.S. steam coal production drops to around 100 Mtpa by 2030 and below 50 Mtpa by 2050, respectively, even if CCTS is available and exports via the U.S. West Coast are possible.
Q38|Partage de la rente et progressivité des régimes fiscaux dans le secteur minier : une analyse sur 21 pays africains producteurs d’or|Dans le secteur minier, les Etats doivent être en mesure de concilier deux objectifs : attirer les investissements directs étrangers pour exploiter la ressource et capter une part suffisante de la rente minière pour financer le développement. Cette problématique est connue depuis longtemps et pose certes la question de la répartition de la rente minière entre les acteurs mais devrait aussi mettre en évidence l’importance de la progressivité des régimes fiscaux. Une fiscalité progressive est un, sinon le critère principal qui pourrait rassurer de façon durable les investisseurs et garantir à l’Etat de capter une part « juste » de la rente générée par le secteur. Alors que plusieurs études différencient les instruments fiscaux selon leurs effets économiques, aucune ne cherchent à évaluer la capacité des régimes miniers africains à adapter la charge fiscale supportée par l’investisseur à la rentabilité des projets. La base de données fiscales mise à disposition par la Ferdi[1], en partenariat avec le CERDI et l’ICTD, recense les 12 principaux impôts, droits et taxes qui s’appliquent selon la législation aux entreprises industrielles dans le secteur de l’or de 1980 à nos jours dans 21 pays africains. Appliquer aux données économiques de mines représentatives africaines, cette base de données donne les moyens aux chercheurs et analystes de construire des indicateurs permettant d’identifier les régimes fiscaux les plus à même de réconcilier les acteurs du secteur, tout en tenant compte de leur complexité. Les résultats de notre analyse montrent 1) que la part de la rente minière perçue par les Etats est très hétérogène entre les pays, et 2) que les « innovations » en termes de conception de l’impôt, n’ont fait qu’atténuer, dans le meilleur des cas, la régressivité des régimes fiscaux. [1] https://fiscalite-miniere.ferdi.fr.
Q38|Partage de la rente et progressivité des régimes fiscaux dans le secteur minier : une analyse sur 21 pays africains producteurs d’or|Dans le secteur minier, les Etats doivent être en mesure de concilier deux objectifs : attirer les investissements directs étrangers pour exploiter la ressource et capter une part suffisante de la rente minière pour financer le développement. Cette problématique est connue depuis longtemps et pose certes la question de la répartition de la rente minière entre les acteurs mais devrait aussi mettre en évidence l’importance de la progressivité des régimes fiscaux. Une fiscalité progressive est un, sinon le critère principal qui pourrait rassurer de façon durable les investisseurs et garantir à l’Etat de capter une part « juste » de la rente générée par le secteur. Alors que plusieurs études différencient les instruments fiscaux selon leurs effets économiques, aucune ne cherchent à évaluer la capacité des régimes miniers africains à adapter la charge fiscale supportée par l’investisseur à la rentabilité des projets. La base de données fiscales mise à disposition par la Ferdi[1], en partenariat avec le CERDI et l’ICTD, recense les 12 principaux impôts, droits et taxes qui s’appliquent selon la législation aux entreprises industrielles dans le secteur de l’or de 1980 à nos jours dans 21 pays africains. Appliquer aux données économiques de mines représentatives africaines, cette base de données donne les moyens aux chercheurs et analystes de construire des indicateurs permettant d’identifier les régimes fiscaux les plus à même de réconcilier les acteurs du secteur, tout en tenant compte de leur complexité. Les résultats de notre analyse montrent 1) que la part de la rente minière perçue par les Etats est très hétérogène entre les pays, et 2) que les « innovations » en termes de conception de l’impôt, n’ont fait qu’atténuer, dans le meilleur des cas, la régressivité des régimes fiscaux. [1] https://fiscalite-miniere.ferdi.fr.
Q38|Estimating the Costs and Benefits of Fuel-Economy Standards|Fuel-economy standards for new vehicles are a primary policy instrument in many countries to reduce the carbon footprint of the transportation sector. These standards have many channels of costs and benefit, impacting sales, composition, vehicle attributes, miles traveled and externalities in the new-car fleet, as well as the composition and size of the used fleet. We develop a tractable analytical framework to examine the welfare effects of fuel-economy standards, and apply it to the recent government proposal to roll back fuel-economy standards. We find that our combined, multi-market vehicle choice model implies that the proposal would increase the size of the vehicle fleet over time, and also generates smaller welfare gains than models with a less rich structure of the vehicle market, such as the one used in the analysis associated with the 2018 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) announcement. The disparities across the two models appear to result from the absence of feedback effects in the NPRM analysis. We stress the importance of instead using a multi-market vehicle choice model to provide the most accurate predictions of costs and benefits. We also derive bounds that can serve as a check on the theoretical consistency of such analyses, and that offer insights into the magnitudes of potential errors resulting from imperfect multi-market integration.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q38|The Impact of Natural Gas Consumption on Industry Value Added in the Mediterranean Region|The current paper assesses the link between natural gas consumption (NGC) and macroeconomic variables for the period between 1980 and 2018 in the Mediterranean region. Analyses accounts for assessing the significance of the natural gas consumption on the industry value added (IVA) using fixed-effects panel data regression. In addition to that, this contribution evaluates the causal link between the variables cited above. Empirical findings indicate that there is a significant relationship between IVA and NGC. Furthermore, these two latter variables showcase a mutual causality in a sense that an increase in each of these variables will lead to the increase of the other one. Results also indicate that GDP causes the increase in natural gas consumption
Q38|Does information matter? Transparency and demand for accountability in Ghana's natural resource revenue management|Transparency in resource revenue management is frequently cited as an important strategy to avoid misuse and misappropriation. The underlying theory proposes that transparency will allow citizens to gain (more) information on their country’s revenues and their management; better informed citizens in turn will be able to contribute to the debate on national resource governance issues, voice their concerns, and demand improved accountability if necessary. However, there is little micro-level evidence so far to show how transparency policies actually relate to better citizen knowledge, or to any difference in attitudes towards revenue management and in demand for accountability. To address these points, we analyze data from a unique survey of over 3500 Ghanaian citizens to understand how Ghana’s extractive sector transparency measures are linked to citizens’ knowledge, rights perception, satisfaction levels, and behavior regarding resource revenue management. Our results suggest that information levels among citizens are generally quite poor; however, there is a strong sense of citizens’ right to benefit from resource revenues. Satisfaction with the current use of natural resource revenues is very low; yet, few respondents have sought more information, or even discussed resource revenue management with friends or family. The results also hold for elected representatives, who should be best placed to influence resource governance. The findings imply that the transparency discourse may hinge on false assumptions of the effects of information in resource revenue management. If the policy is to work as a way of increasing accountability of government towards citizens, the focus may need to shift to informing civil society organizations in particular, rather than simply making information available as widely as possible.
Q38|Fridays for Future meets the Hotelling rule: some thoughts on decarbonization policies|The Hotelling rule is applied to the case of a fixed CO2 budget restriction which has to be met in order to reach the global warming goal according to the Paris Agreement. While the theoretical result is well-known and simple, the practical implementation under technological uncertainty suggests that tradable emission certificates are superior to CO2 taxes. The practical implementaion has also to consider that production chains are globalized, and that decarbonization strategies will be pointless if the Global South is not part of it.
Q38|Effects of higher required rates of return on the tax take in an oil province|For different reasons the oil companies might apply higher required rates of return than they did some years ago, and this will have consequences for investments and tax revenue in oil provinces. By applying various required rates of return as well as various oil prices, this study derives future Norwegian tax revenue during 2018-2050 by using a partial equilibrium model for the global oil market. The model explicitly accounts for reserves, development and production. Both investment in new reserves and production are profit driven. With rising required rates of return less of the high cost reserves become profitable to develop and investments decline. Because the government in practice carries a large fraction of the investments, less investment in a period increases the tax base and the tax income. The initial effect is offset by a subsequent reduction in production which has a negative effect on future taxes. The result is that increasing required rates of return will lead to small variations in net present value of total tax revenue. With lower oil prices, tax take increases significantly when required rates of return rise.
Q38|Wasted windfalls: Inefficiencies in health care spending in oil rich countries|This paper uses Stochastic Frontier Analysis (SFA) to determine whether oil rents drive inefficiency in the healthcare sector. SFA simultaneously estimates a production function for health outputs and the determinants of inefficiency in production. Using a sample of 119 countries covering the period 2000 to 2015, unexpectedly high oil revenues are shown to increase inefficiency. Oil rents hinder countries in reaching their potential life expectancy. Exploiting exogenous variation in the international oil price reveals that causality runs from oil rents to inefficiency. The effect varies with institutions, sex and age. The effect is more pronounced in democracies, and women and children are affected more. Transparency and inequality are potential mechanisms.
Q38|Effective Climate Policy Doesn’t Have to be Expensive| We compare the effectiveness of different climate policies in terms of emissions abatement and costs in the British and German electricity markets. The two countries follow different climate policies, allowing us to compare the effectiveness of a relatively low EU ETS carbon price in Germany with a significantly higher carbon price due to a unilateral top-up tax (the Carbon Price Support) in the UK. We first estimate the emissions offsetting effects of carbon pricing and of subsidized wind and solar feed-in, and then derive the abatement costs of one tonne of CO2 for the different policies. We find that a reasonably high price for emissions is the most cost-effective climate policy, while subsidizing wind is preferable to subsidizing solar power. A carbon price of around EURO 35 is enough in the UK to induce vast short-run fuel switching between coal- and gas-fired power plants, leading to significant emissions abatement at low costs.
Q38|Public Infrastructure Provision in the Presence of Terms-of-Trade Effects and Tax Competition|This paper analyses and compares the performance of carbon taxes and capital taxes in financing public goods with positive effects on private firm productivity. It is motivated by Franks et al. (2017), who ask whether using carbon taxes could be motivated on fiscal grounds rather than by environmental ones, arguing that the advantage of the carbon tax consists in its potential to reap foreign resource rents. I employ an analytical general equilibrium framework of n identical countries, where local firms use internationally mobile capital and imported fossil fuel and in production as well as local public infrastructure. The latter is financed solely by either taxing the input of fossil fuels (carbon tax) or capital. The choice of the policy instrument is exogenous to policy makers and symmetric across countries. I find that the effect of policy on the fossil fuel price (terms-of-trade effect) leads to higher public good provision under carbon taxation. However, tax-competition could cause either policy instrument to yield higher provision depending on how strongly either tax base reacts to changes in the tax rate. And finally, I conclude that the ranking of the two policy scenarios is ambiguous when considering tax competition and the terms-of-trade effect simultaneously. A numerical exercise shows cases for higher provision of either policy.
Q38|Environmental Effects of Capital Income Taxation - A New Double Dividend?|We analyze a n-country, two-period Nash tax competition game to evaluate Sinn’s proposal to use capital income taxation as a means to decelerate fossil fuel ex- traction (Sinn, 2008). The interest and discount rate is determined on a perfectly competitive consumer loan market on which the resource extractor acts as the loan supplier. Our first result is that, with perfectly identical countries, tax rates are inefficiently low in the Nash equilibrium of the tax competition game since the tax distortion and the environmental externality are not taken into account. The sec- ond result is that, in an asymmetric setting with resource-exporting and -importing countries, the tax can turn into a subsidy in the exporting country. Moreover, we show that partial cooperation of the importers is always beneficial to them, but can be harmful to the exporter. Finally, we identify cases where full cooperation is self-enforcing.
Q38|Cap-and-Trade Policy vs. Carbon Taxation: Of Leakage and Linkage|We assess a 2-period, non-cooperative equilibrium of an n country policy game where countries chose either (i) carbon taxes, (ii) cap-and-trade policy with local permit markets or (iii) cap-and-trade policy with internationally linked permit markets and potential central redistribution of permit revenues. Policy makers maximizes welfare, which depends on household consumption over time and environmental damage from period-1 resource use. We assume costless and complete extraction of this non-renewable resource, so damage only depends on speed of extraction. Tax policy is the least efficient option due to carbon leakage, which introduces a second externality adding to the environmental externality. Cap-and-trade policy does not show any leakage since all symmetric countries will employ caps. Its equilibrium thus only suffers from the environmental externality and welfare is higher than under carbon taxation. The policy scenario with linked permit markets and central redistribution yields an efficient outcome. The redistribution of revenues creates a negative externality which offsets the positive environmental externality.
Q38|Can reducing carbon emissions improve economic performance? Evidence from China|As the problem of carbon emissions is becoming increasingly more serious around the world, how to balance carbon emissions reduction and economic growth has become an important issue in the field of ecological economics. China is the world's largest carbon dioxide emitter, and China's Low-Carbon Pilot (CLCP) policy has significantly reduced carbon dioxide emissions and achieved expected benefits. However, is environmental quality improving at the expense of economic growth? Based on panel data from 286 Chinese prefecture-level cities and from Chinese micro-industrial enterprises from 2001 to 2013, this article focuses on the causal effect of environmental policy on regional economic growth and the benefits and changes in the behavior of enterprises through a quasi-natural experiment and the difference-in-differences (DID) method. The results are as follows. First, the CLCP policy significantly promotes regional economic growth. Moreover, as the implementation time of the policy continues, environmental regulation has a greater effect of promoting economic growth. Second, although the CLCP policy significantly increases various production costs, it also promotes the growth of enterprises' output and benefits. Third, under the pressure of the significant increase in enterprise cost caused by environmental regulation, enterprises choose the positive way of strengthening internal management, improving efficiency and increasing innovation instead of choosing the negative way of trans-regional transfer to exit the market; accordingly, enterprises finally achieve an improvement in output and benefits.
Q38|The Superiority of Biased Reviewers in a Model of Simultaneous Sales|This paper considers the impact of reviewers on sales of products of quality unknown to consumers. Sales occur simultaneously after consideration by a reviewer with a known level of bias. Consumers observe the reviewer`s decision and a private signal. We find that: (a) with flexible prices and signals that are not too revealing the reviewer most biased against the product is best for profits; (b) with flexible prices and very revealing private signals the reviewer most biased in favour is optimal; (c) with fixed prices then a reviewer biased against, but close to unibased, is optimal.
Q38|Dynamically Stable Preferences|This paper models the indirect evolution of the preferences of a population of fully rational agents repeatedly matched to play a symmetric 2 x 2 game in biological fitnesses. Each agent is biased in favor of one of the strategies, and receives a noisy signal of his and his opponent`s bias. With sufficiently accurate signals, the resulting global game selects a unique outcome, allowing preference biases to be shaped by the replicator dynamics. Stability analysis in this setting requires the extension of recent techniques for evolution on infinite strategy spaces, introducing new setwise stability concepts. In coordination games, the interval of preference biases supporting the Pareto-dominant equilibrium is Lyapunov stable and weakly attracting, by virtue of constituting a strongly uninvadable set. In Prisoners` Dilemmas that satisfy Kandori and Rob`s (Games and Economic Behavior 22, 1998, 30-60) marginal bandwagon property, meanwhile, an interval of biases supporting efficient cooperation is a neutrally uninvadable set, and thus Lyapunov stable.
Q38|Biodiversitatea patrimoniului natural montan. Provocările prezentului și perspective durabile de acțiune<BR>[Biodiversity of the natural mountains heritage – present challenges and sustainable perspectives]|Între zonele montane și biodiversitate există o legătură directă și indisolubilă: zonele montane reprezintă, poate, cel mai important izvor de eco-sisteme la nivel global, adevărate laboratoare științifice, de cercetare și cunoaștere a evoluției și distribuției speciilor și organismelor vii, a relațiilor dintre acestea, a adaptării lor la diferite medii și a influențelor hotărâtoare ale acțiunilor umane care au condus la actualele schimbări climatice. Munții funcționează ca adevărate refugii pentru speciile endemice afectate de acțiunile umane necontrolate, în timp ce pajiștile alpine sunt expuse pierderii practicilor tradiționale de pășunat. Regiunile montane, diverse și complexe, sunt elementele centrale ale politicilor de mediu și dezvoltare durabilă, problemele lor și dificultățile de adaptare la noile schimbări climatice necesitând măsuri adecvate, rapide și, mai ales, permanente (susținute continuu). Munții aparțin, de regulă, geografiei mediului, dar, deopotrivă, pot fi analizați și din perspectivă economică, socială, culturală etc., multidisciplinaritatea lor fiind recunoscută atât de mediul academic-universitar, cât și de factorii decizionali implicați în politicile de dezvoltare teritorială. Recent, Noua Geografie Economică (New Economic Geography) promovată intens pe plan global, consideră dezvoltarea economică și socială a regiunilor montane ca fiind una deosebit de importantă: zonele montane sunt surse importante de materii prime și materiale necesare producției și consumului de bază (agricultură, industrie, servicii), aspect ce afectează, în condițiile actuale, atât biodiversitatea, cât și nivelul de viață al comunităților locale. Perspectiva economică este deosebit de importantă atât la nivelul marilor grupuri de interese regionale, cât mai ales la nivel local, pentru comunitățile dependente direct și permanent de resursele și condițiile oferite de munte. Din ce în ce mai vizibil, impactul negativ al activităților economice asupra zonei montante, atât de înaltă cât și de joasă altitudine, trebuie să conducă spre o viziune comună și o abordare durabilă a stării biodiversității acesteia, deoarece, afectarea unui habitat poate atrage după sine distrugerea întregului echilibrul ecologic, și așa atât de fragil, în prezent. Pornind de la considerentele prezentate mai sus, articolul oferă o imagine generală asupra relației dintre biodiversitatea zonelor montane și implicațiile dezvoltării economice și sociale asupra acesteia, apelând, în principal, la surse documentare naționale și internaționale, la date și informații statistice, care vin să completeze imaginea globală a evoluției relației, în timp și spațiu.
Q38|Difficulties in the forecasting of iron ore price: a review|"The interest in the analysis of the iron ore market significantly increased after a sharp spike in the iron ore price in 2008-2010 and consecutive decline. Understanding of the reasons for these shifts are crucial for further development of the industry because a high price motivates investments in developing new mines but a long lead time for new projects and high price volatility make these investments very risky. The analysis of the studies of the iron ore market shows that the short-run behavior of iron ore price is highly dependent on oil price and variations in supply and demand, and is very difficult to predict. There are strong chances that the iron ore price will remain highly volatile with a low average in the long-run. The dependence on the price of oil and the corresponding volatility can be reduced by a gradual shift of iron ore sellers to non-fossil-fuel transport. This shift can be facilitated by the public policy regulations, offered in Ali et al. (2017) if this approach dominates the ""modestly optimistic perspective"" offered in Tilton et al. (2018), which relies mostly on market forces in the intergenerational distribution of nonrenewable resources. However, this approach also allows for a more stable iron ore price in the case of cartelization of iron ore sellers. Using the arguments of Jones (1986), fortified by an incentive compatibility mechanism, the current situation in the iron ore market is quite favorable for coordinated actions of iron ore sellers."
Q38|The U.S. Shale Oil Boom, the Oil Export Ban, and the Economy: A General Equilibrium Analysis|This paper examines the effects of the U.S. shale oil boom in a two-country DSGE model where countries produce crude oil, refined oil products, and a non-oil good. The model incorporates different types of crude oil that are imperfect substitutes for each other as inputs into the refining sector. The model is calibrated to match oil market and macroeconomic data for the U.S. and the rest of the world (ROW). We investigate the implications of a significant increase in U.S. light crude oil production similar to the shale oil boom. Consistent with the data, our model predicts that light oil prices decline, U.S. imports of light oil fall dramatically, and light oil crowds out the use of medium crude by U.S. refiners. In addition, fuel prices fall and U.S. GDP rises. We then use our model to examine the potential implications of the former U.S. crude oil export ban. The model predicts that the ban was a binding constraint in 2013 through 2015. We find that the distortions introduced by the policy are greatest in the refining sector. Light oil prices become artificially low in the U.S., and U.S. refineries produce inefficiently high amount of refined products, but the impact on refined product prices and GDP are negligible.
Q38|Economic Impacts of the Marcellus Shale Energy and Environment Laboratory (MSEEL)|This report summarizes the economic impacts of the MSEEL project for both the state of West Virginia and the Morgantown metropolitan area. It uses two types of data; the first is project data provided by NNE and processed using a Cost Estimation Tool developed by the authors, and second is worker survey data collected during the drilling phase.
Q38|Simple Rules for Climate Policy and Integrated Assessment|Abstract A simple integrated assessment framework that gives rules for the optimal carbon price, transition to the carbon-free era and stranded carbon assets is presented, which highlights the ethical, economic, geophysical and political drivers of optimal climate policy. For the ethics we discuss the role of intergenerational inequality aversion and the discount rate, where we show the importance of lower discount rates for appraisal of longer run benefit and of policy makers using lower discount rates than private agents. The economics depends on the costs and rates of technical progress in production of fossil fuel, its substitute renewable energies and sequestration. The geophysics depends on the permanent and transient components of atmospheric carbon and the relatively fast temperature response, and we allow for positive feedbacks. The politics stems from international free-rider problems in absence of a global climate deal. We show how results change if different assumptions are made about each of the drivers of climate policy. Our main objective is to offer an easy back-on-the-envelope analysis, which can be used for teaching and communication with policy makers.
Q38|An Investigation of the Resource Curse in Indonesia|"We investigate the effect of resource dependence on district level income in a rare within-country study for Indonesia, one of the largest resource producing countries in Asia. We follow 390 districts between 2006 and 2015, consider four alternative measures of resouce dependence, and instrument for the potential endogeneity of each using historical measures of oil, gas and coal reserve locations, and changes in the physical production of each resource. Using annual fixed effects and first differenced regressions with and without various instruments, we find no evidence of a ""resource curse"". Instead, we find robust evidence across all models that dependence as measured by mining's share of output is positively associated with district real per capita income. We find a similar positive relationship between dependence as measured by the share of district government revenues from oil and gas or mining overall, and income in our most credible specifications with instruments. For example, a standard deviation increase in change in district government dependence on oil/gas revenues increases real per capita income by 16 percent over a nine year period."
Q38|Resource Dependence and the Causes of Local Economic Growth: An Empirical Investigation|Previous research has found that in Indonesia, a resource giant in South East Asia, resource dependence is positively associated with economic growth, contrary to a 'resource curse' hypothesis. We test four potential causal mechanisms for this positive effect: spill overs to manufacturing, higher education provision, improvements in institutional quality, and investment in public capital. We follow 390 districts within Indonesia from 2006 to 2015, using four alternative measures of resource dependence, and instrumenting for their potential endogeneity. We first confirm a positive overall effect of resource dependence on real per capita Gross Regional Domestic Product. We then test the extent to which resource dependence positively affects manufacturing, education, public investment, and district institutional quality. We finally test the extent to which these factors contribute to growth. We find that resource dependence aids growth in part by raising measures of district institutional quality. Resource dependence also raises net high school enrolment rates, though we do not find that this in turn raises growth. Conversely, while higher capital spending by districts raises growth, we find no evidence that this share is affected by resource dependence. In auxiliary analysis, we find little support for the hypothesis that resource dependence benefits growth more (or only) for districts that begin with higher institutional quality.
Q38|Oil Rents Shocks and Inequality in Iran|We study the short and long run responses of income inequality to positive per capita oil and gas rent shocks in Iran. Using historical data from 1973 to 2012 and vector autoregression (VAR)-based impulse response functions, we find a positive and statistically significant response of income inequality to oil rent booms within 4 years of the shock. In addition, the Autoregressive-Distributed Lag (ARDL) results show that in the long run, a 10-percent increase in oil and gas rents per capita leads to an approximately 1.4-percent increase in income inequality. The results are robust to controlling for different channels potentially affecting the income distribution in Iran. Our analysis can help policymakers evaluate and accommodate the possible positive or negative effects on inequality in Iran resulting from the 2016 lifting of the embargo against the country.
Q38|Non-Cooperative and Cooperative Climate Policies with Anticipated Breakthrough Technology|Global warming can be curbed by pricing carbon emissions and thus substituting fossil fuel with renewable energy consumption. Breakthrough technologies (e.g., fusion energy) can reduce the cost of such policies. However, the chance of such a technology coming to market depends on investment. We model breakthroughs as an irreversible tipping point in a multi-country world, with different degrees of international cooperation. We show that international spill-over effects of R&D in carbon-free technologies lead to double free-riding, strategic over-pollution and underinvestment in green R&D, thus making climate change mitigation more difficult. We also show how the demand structure determines whether carbon pricing and R&D policies are substitutes or complements.
Q38|Analysing Institutional Set-up of Forest Management in Pakistan|This study analyses the institutional set-up of forest management in Pakistan, focusing on the North West Frontier Province, which houses 40 percent of the total forestlands. These areas have faced significant deforestation in the past. It is feared that if nothing is done to check this process, these forests will soon disappear. The study argues for the Property Rights School of thought that the roots of environmental problems are to be traced to inadequate and ill-defined property institutions. The study develops a normative criterion, describing the conditions that are essential for optimal utilisation and conservation of a resource, to be used in assessing the present situation. The analysis indicates that there are problems in the ownership structure, in the enforcement of property rules, as well as in the management system. It is concluded that the present institutional set-up is inappropriate to achieve the objective of forest conservation, and changes in this set-up are suggested. The study puts forward ‘collective management’ as an alternative institutional set-up.
Q38|The supply of non-renewable resources|There exists no formal treatment of non-renewable resource (NRR) supply, systematically deriving quantity as function of price. We establish instantaneous restricted (fixed reserves) and unrestricted NRR supply functions. The supply of a NRR at any date and location depends not only on the local contemporary price of the resource but also on prices at all other dates and locations. Besides the usual law of supply, which characterizes the own-price effect, cross-price effects have their own law. They can be decomposed into a substitution effect and a stock compensation effect. We show that the substitution effect always dominates: a price increase at some point in space and time causes NRR supply to decrease at all other points. Our newalthough orthodoxsetting takes into account not only NRR supply limitations but also the heterogeneity of NRR deposits, and the endogeneity of their development and opening. Our analysis extends to NRRs the partial-equilibrium analysis of demand and supply policies. Thereby, it provides a generalization of results about policy-induced changes on NRR markets.
Q38|Does the Identifiable Victim Effect Matter for Plants? Results From a Quasi-experimental Survey of French Farmers|Numerous studies showed that people respond more generously to individual identified victims than to equivalent statistical victims, which is referred to as the “identifiable victim effect” (IVE). While the previous literature examined the IVE for human and animal victims, we focus on vegetal entities that can be threatened. Thanks to a between design allowing to increase the degree of plants' identifiability, we test whether IVE is likely to enhance farmers' participation in a conservation program, using mail survey data among a sample of French farmers located in the Vaucluse area. Unlike humans and animals, we found that IVE does not matter regarding plants, as farmer willingness to participate in the compensation measures was found to decrease as the (plant) victim(s) become more identifiable. Moreover, this figure is even stronger with respect to organic farmers compared to their conventional counterparts.
Q38|Extracting information or resource? The Hotelling rule revisited under asymmetric information|A concessionaire has private information on the initial stock of resource. A â€œvirtual Hotelling ruleâ€ describes how the resource price evolves over time and how extraction costs are compounded with information costs along the optimal extraction path. Fields which are heterogeneous in terms of their initial stocks follow different extraction paths. Resource might be left unexploited in the long run as a way to foster incentives. The optimal contract may sometimes be implemented through royalties and license fees. With a market of concessionaires, asymmetric information leads to a â€œvirtual Herfindahl principleâ€ and to another form of heterogeneity across active concessionaires.
Q38|The Public Finance Challenges of Fracking for Local Governments in the United States|Fracking has revolutionized international oil and gas markets practically overnight, but its impact on local public finance and governance have largely been overlooked. While operating under federal and state constraints, the key ongoing policy question is whether and to what extent local governments can â€“ and should â€“ have the power to manage the industryâ€™s effects on their communities. This IMFG Paper explores the fiscal health risks associated with the industry, its local revenue generation implications, and what local governments can do to address the spatial and temporal mismatches between the two. As the industry expands internationally, including to Canada, lessons from the United States can inform future regulatory response in other places.
Q38|Douglass C. North: Transaction Costs, Property Rights, and Economic Outcomes|Douglass North asked why some societies historically and contemporarily have rising per-capita incomes and individual welfare, whereas others do not? He argued that successful economies had property rights that encouraged markets, trade, and investment in new production and organizational methods. In other economies, transaction costs, especially those due to the political process, blocked more efficient property rights. Property rights grant decision making over valuable resources and are the basis for investment, and market exchange. They mold the economy and the distribution of wealth and political power. Politicians and coalitions of privileged elites with stakes in the status quo join to preserve it. Inefficiencies create their own constituencies. There is no clear remedy for general citizens in North’s cases. Despite the power of North’s argument, transaction costs are not clear in aggregate studies of economies. They are more apparent in US common-pool resource problems with large, continuing losses in resource rents. This evidence runs counter to the facile arguments in the welfare and environmental economics literatures for addressing externalities that are reminiscent of the simplistic recommendations in the growth and economic history literatures that North challenged. If the observed costly political response to open access losses is characteristic of regulation in general, then welfare losses permeate developed economies as well and are more pervasive than the dramatic examples of development failure examined by North and others. Mitigation requires competitive interest groups that benefit from more secure property rights and greater resource rents to offset powerful elites that align with politicians and capture bureaucratic agencies to achieve particularistic benefits that undermine general welfare.
Q38|Climate Policy and Stranded Carbon Assets: a Financial Perspective|Unanticipated climate policy curbs the value of physical capital that is costly to adjust. We illustrate this by showing that climate policy to keep peak global warming below 2°C depresses the share prices of oil and gas majors and their market capitalisation, curbs exploration investment and oil and gas discoveries, boosts proven reserves left abandoned in the crust of the earth, cuts exploitation investment, and induces an earlier onset of the carbon-free era. For a given carbon budget, an immediate carbon tax is the first-best response but delaying the carbon tax or a renewable energy subsidy to meet the same temperature target are preferred by shareholders because they introduce Green Paradox effects and protect the profitability of existing capital.
Q38|Pricing Carbon and Adjusting Capital to Fend Off Climate Catastrophes|Abstract The optimal reaction to a potential productivity shock as a consequence of climate tipping is to substantially tax carbon in order to curb the risk of tipping, but to adjust capital as well in order to smooth consumption when tipping occurs. We also allow for conventional marginal climate damages and decompose the optimal carbon tax in two catastrophe components and the conventional component. We distinguish constant and increasing marginal hazards. Moreover, the productivity catastrophe is compared with recoverable catastrophes and with a shock to the climate sensitivity. Finally, we allow for investments in adaptation capital as an alternative to counter the potential adverse effects of climate tipping. Quantitatively, the results are investigated with a calibrated model for the world economy.
Q38|Climate policy commitment devices|We develop a dynamic resource extraction game that mimics the global multi-generation planning problem for climate change and fossil fuel extraction. We implement the game under different conditions in the laboratory. Compared to a baseline condition, we find that policy interventions that provide a costly commitment device or reduce climate threshold uncertainty reduce resource extraction. We also study two conditions to assess the underlying social preferences and the viability of ecological dictatorship. Our results suggest that climate change policies that focus on investments that lock the economy into carbon-free energy sources provide an important commitment device in the intertemporal cooperation problem.
Q38|Mining taxation in Africa: the gold mining industry in 14 countries from 1980 to 2015|The lack of information about the sharing of mining resource rent between governments and investors is an easy statement to make for Africa. The existing datasets are often insufficient for a deep analysis of African tax law as applied to the natural resource sectors, which has limited the academic and operational approaches. This paper describes the first legal and tax database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African gold-producing countries from 1980 to 2015. The database has three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold project; (ii) a new detailed historical record covering 1980 to 2015; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of mining tax regimes and rent sharing in the main gold-producing countries. The first results highlight the heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries. There has been a convergence of the average effective tax rates across most of the countries, the effective tax rate has increased in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.The database is downloadable following the link : http://www.ferdi.fr/en/indicator/minining-tax-database-africa.Keywords: Mining sector, Gold, Taxation of natural resources, DatabaseJEL: Q38, K34, C80
Q38|Regulating transgenic soybean production in Argentina|"This article investigates how to regulate transgenic soybean production in Argentina. Taking into account the broad range of negative externalities associated with transgenic soybean production, we explore the effects of two different policy instruments, namely a subsidy for non-transgenic soybean and production quotas for transgenic soybean. Taking into account the political and economic context in Argentina, we demonstrate that auctioned production quotas are the best way to achieve the regulation of transgenic soybean production. However, the organization of the agricultural sector in Argentina is such that ""raising rivals' costs"" behavior could occur on the quota market although the output price is set exogenously. We show that auctioned quotas limit this anti-competitive behavior. Finally, we demonstrate that introducing a shadow cost of public funds leads to an increase in the optimal production level of transgenic soybean."
Q38|Energy Price Reform: A Guide for Policymakers|This essay reviews the conceptual and quantitative literature on the efficient system of fossil fuel energy prices in different countries for reflecting supply and environmental costs, as well as the environmental, fiscal, and economic benefits from energy price reform. Drawing on recent experiences in numerous countries, the ingredients for successful reform are then discussed (e.g., the need for a comprehensive reform strategy and for compensating vulnerable groups). Low energy prices, fiscal pressures, and momentum for climate action provide an especially conducive environment for price reform and much is happening rapidly on the ground, however there is a long way to go to reap the enormous benefits at stake (e.g., at the global level, over a 20 percent reduction in carbon emissions and revenues gains of 4 percent of GDP).
Q38|Finders, keepers?|Natural resource taxation and investment often exhibit cyclical behavior, driving political turmoil and shifts in power. By way of a rational-expectations model under limited commitment, we show that cycles arise endogenously from the interaction between firms' investment decisions and government taxation. Large resource revenues induce a high tax, lowering exploration investment and thereby future findings. This later leads the government to reduce tax rates, inducing high investment and high future taxes, and so on. Cycling may occur even under a government that cares about the future, but a sufficiently patient government is also able to avoid cycles altogether. Our model can thus also account for why some countries have stable resource taxation regimes. Tax differentiation on mine vintage avoids cycles as well and, surprisingly, increases government revenues. Our findings are consistent with stylized facts: we document evidence of cyclical behavior in a large number of countries with both strong and weak institutions, and provide detailed case studies of two Latin American countries. A simple empirical analysis suggests that our investment mechanism is consistent with about half of all expropriations in the oil and gas sector, the same fraction as exogenous price shocks.
Q38|Die Beseitigung des Mittelstandsbauchs – Varianten und Kosten|"Die Initiative Neue Soziale Marktwirtschaft (INSM) hat das ifo Institut mit der Erstellung einer Studie zum sogenannten Mittelstandsbauch im deutschen Einkommensteuertarif beauftragt. Der Mittelstandsbauch führt bei geringen und mittleren Einkommen zu einem schnell steigenden Grenzsteuersatz, weshalb der Mittelstand in der öffentlichen Debatte oft als derjenige Teil der Gesellschaft angesehen wird, welcher einen besonders großen Teil der staatlichen Abgaben trägt. Das Gutachten „Die Beseitigung des Mittelstandsbauchs – Varianten und Kosten"" – erstellt im ifo Zentrum für öffentliche Finanzen und politische Ökonomie – zeigt konkrete Reformoptionen auf und quantifiziert die Auswirkungen auf Steuerzahler und öffentliche Haushalte mithilfe des ifo-Einkommensteuer-Simulationsmodells (ifo-ESM)."
Q38|Will Assets be Stranded or Bailed Out? Expectations of Investors in the Face of Climate Policy|The goal to keep global warming below 2°C implies that many energy-sector assets are at risk of becoming stranded. This paper investigates whether and how investors price in stranded asset risk due to climate policy. We exploit the gradual development of a German climate policy proposal aimed at reducing electricity production from coal and analyze its effect on the valuation of energy utilities. We find that investors do care about stranded asset risk due to climate policy, but that they also expect a financial compensation policy for their stranded assets. We show that these results are not driven by contemporaneous confounding events.
Q38|Extracción dinámica óptima de gas y petróleo en Colombia: retos del uso simultáneo de dos recursos naturales|En algunas ocasiones, dos recursos naturales no renovables pueden compartir espacio físico; este es el caso del gas y del petróleo cuando están disponibles en el mismo campo de producción. En la literatura económica no se ha analizado en profundidad las implicaciones de esta característica sobre las decisiones de extracción de una empresa que cuenta con ambos recursos. A diferencia del caso con yacimientos distantes, la proximidad entre los dos combustibles fósiles facilita la inyección de gas en los pozos de crudo, lo cual permite aumentar la extracción de este último. Además, se debe tener en cuenta la correlación de los precios y las externalidades que ambos recursos generan sobre el medio ambiente ya que las decisiones de extracción se vuelven interdependientes. Dadas las relaciones técnicas y económicas entre el gas y el crudo cuando se encuentran en el mismo campo, en este documento se postula el problema dinámico de maximización de beneficios de una empresa que extrae los dos recursos, con el fin de encontrar las sendas óptimas de extracción de cada uno para un horizonte de tiempo finito. Los modelos propuestos se validan para el caso colombiano. Para esto, se lleva a cabo la parametrización de las funciones de costos y se realizan simulaciones para una ventana de tiempo de 26 años. Los resultados muestran que, cuando hay disponibilidad de gas, es óptimo realizar inyección en casi todos los periodos. Sin embargo, en un escenario de precios decrecientes la producción de petróleo y la inyección de gas deben disminuir, mientras que la venta de gas debe aumentar. Finalmente, la implementación de un impuesto a las emisiones de carbono disminuye marginalmente la cantidad total producida de combustibles fósiles, pero reduce significativamente las emisiones de carbono. Además, la sensibilidad al impuesto disminuye con el aumento del precio del crudo.
Q38|Rapacious Oil Exploration in face of Regime Switches: Breakthrough Renewable Energy and Dynamic Resource Wars|Rapacious fossil fuel extraction occurs if fossil fuel producers fear that there is a probability that their under-the-ground assets becomes worth less. They show that rapacious depletion of oil reserves occurs if there is a probability of a breakthrough renewable energy coming to the market or a probability of climate policy finally becoming seriously ambitious. These are examples of one-way regime switches leading to the so-called Green Paradox. Two-way regimes switches also lead to rapacious oil depletion. They occur if there is a chance of being removed from office in a partisan political context with perennial election cycles or if there are dynamic resource wars with the hazard of being removed from office dependent on fighting efforts. This rapacity effect is stronger in societies with bad institutions and lack of political cohesiveness.
Q38|How expensive should CO2 be? Fuel for the debate on optimal climate policy|Most people are convinced that climate change is a threat and that it should somehow be dealt with. It is also clear that CO2 emissions are still too cheap and must be priced higher to sufficiently curtail emissions. Yet how high should a carbon tax be? Answering this question requires scientific insights on the costs and benefits of a carbon tax but also ethical - and thus political - judgements on how we value the damages from climate change that will happen in the near and in the far future. This paper reviews the evidence on the social cost of carbon and discusses global and unilateral policy options. It finds that a price of $77 per metric ton of carbon is defensible if we give 95% weight to damages occurring two generations (or 50 years) from now but higher if we want to further reduce the risk of catastrophic change. It is best implemented as part of trade agreements and in combination with R&D investment.
Q38|Technological Changes as the Development Factor of the Global and Russian Energy Sector|This article aims to study the real and hidden technological changes that will shape the strategic contours of the world energy civilization development, as well as the development of the Russian energy sector. The paper presents the following main conclusions: (i) Global energy development and nation states energy sector development are determined by a set of issues, foremost of which is innovation and technological aspect that determines the local and global changes that are likely to lead to the formation of a new energy civilization; (ii) New energy civilization is established by concepts of “green economy” and “smart energy.” In the new energy civilization for a sufficiently long period, the level of primary fossil energy resources consumption will be reduced, and the consumption of energy derived from renewable energy sources will be increased; (iii) The prospect of long-term and distant future now requires a reorientation of national energy sectors from resource-intensive and resource-dependent development type to resource-efficient and resource-tech development type. For the Russian energy sector, which is one of the problematic areas of the national economy, the local and systemic solutions are offered that reduce the level of its energy intensity and improve its energy efficiency.
Q38|Irreversibility and uncertainty cause an intergenerational equity-efficiency trade-off|Two important policy goals in intergenerational problems are Pareto-efficiency and sustainability, i.e. intergenerational equity. We demonstrate that the pursuit of these goals is subject to an intergenerational equity-efficiency trade-off. Our analysis highlights two salient characteristics of intergenerational problems and policy: (i) temporal irreversibility, i.e. the inability to revise one's past actions; and (ii) uncertainty of future consequences of present actions in human-environment systems. We employ a two-non-overlapping-generations model that combines an intragenerational production decision on the use of circulating capital and a non-renewable resource, with a negative intergenerational externality as an unforeseen contingency. If initially unknown problems become apparent and policy is enacted after irreversible actions were taken, policy-making faces a fundamental trade-off between ex-post Pareto-efficiency and sustainability. That is, one can achieve either one of these two goals, but not both.
Q38|A Cost-effectiveness Analysis for Incineration or Recycling of Dutch Household Plastic Waste|The cost-effectiveness of two different plastic waste treatment options is compared. This paper evaluates the recycling of plastic waste with the more conventional incineration of plastic waste, using data for the Netherlands. Both options have specific revenues and costs. The main benefit from plastic recycling is the avoidance of CO2 emissions that otherwise would occur during incineration and from the production of virgin (new) plastic material. At the same time, there are significant costs involved, such as collection, separation, sorting, and recycling. The benefit from plastic waste incineration is the energy that can be recovered, which reduces emissions in the regular energy production sector by displacing production. The main cost associated with incineration is that this requires a waste-to-energy plant with the associated capital investments. Summing the costs and revenues from both plastic waste treatment options and comparing the results, leads to an implicit CO2 abatement price of 178€/t of CO2 in case of plastic recycling. In general, this implicit price is much higher than current (or historic) ETS prices, the estimated external costs of CO2 emissions, or alternatives to reduce CO2 emissions (e.g. renewable energy). A sensitivity analysis shows that this conclusion is robust.
Q38|Taxing income in the oil and gas sector — Challenges of international and domestic profit shifting|This paper provides specific estimates on the scale of profit shifting among hydrocarbon MNEs. We estimate a semi-elasticity of reported Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) to sector specific income taxation of −1.68. Observed effects are larger when using Profit and Loss before Taxes, allowing for debt shifting. We find no profit-shifting among entities that are majority-owned by a national government. We also observe a higher vulnerability of non-OECD economies in our sample, which consists of 294 domestic and multinational parents and subsidiaries during the period from 2004 to 2012. To assess the importance of domestic profit-shifting channels, we take advantage of domestic tax differentials among hydrocarbon producers facing additional rent taxes and find that domestic profit shifting accounts for about one third of total income concealed.
Q38|Trade in fossil fuel deposits for preservation and strategic action|In the world economy with interdependent markets for fossil fuel deposits and extracted fossil fuel, some coalition of countries may fight climate change by purchasing and preserving fossil fuel deposits, which would be exploited otherwise. Assuming that deposits are traded on a market with a uniform price, we find that the outcome is efficient if the coalition is a price taker in both markets, but inefficient if it acts strategically in the deposit market but not in the fuel market, or acts strategically in both markets. The latter result demonstrates that Harstad’s (2012, Theorem 1) ‘efficiency-despite-strategic-action result’ is not robust with respect to changes in the concepts of the deposit market and market (or bargaining) power. In a simplified parametric version of the game, a strategically acting coalition buys fewer deposits, consumes more fuel, and puts up with higher climate damage than in first-best.
Q38|The accountability imperative for quantifying the uncertainty of emission forecasts : evidence from Mexico|Governmental climate change mitigation targets are typically developed with the aid of forecasts of greenhouse-gasemissions. The robustness and credibility of such forecasts depends, among other issues, on the extent to which forecasting approaches can reflect prevailing uncertainties. We apply a transparent and replicable method to quantify the uncertainty associated with projections of gross domestic product growth rates for Mexico, a key driver of greenhouse-gasemissions in the country. We use those projections to produce probabilistic forecasts of greenhouse-gas emissions forMexico. We contrast our probabilistic forecasts with Mexico’s governmental deterministic forecasts. We show that, because they fail to reflect such key uncertainty, deterministic forecasts are ill-suited for use in target-setting processes. We argue that (i) guidelines should be agreed upon, to ensure that governmental forecasts meet certain minimum transparency and quality standards, and (ii) governments should be held accountable for the appropriateness of the forecasting approach applied to prepare governmental forecasts, especially when those forecasts are used to derive climate change mitigation targets.
Q38|Mining taxation in Africa: The gold mining industry in 14 countries from 1980 to 2015|The lack of information about the sharing of mining resource rent between governments and investors is an easy statement to make for Africa. The existing datasets are often insufficient for a deep analysis of African tax law as applied to the natural resource sectors, which has limited the academic and operational approaches. This paper describes the first legal and tax database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African gold-producing countries from 1980 to 2015. The database has three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold project; (ii) a new detailed historical record covering 1980 to 2015; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of mining tax regimes and rent sharing in the main gold-producing countries. The first results highlight the heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries. There has been a convergence of the average effective tax rates across most of the countries, the effective tax rate has increased in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.The database is downloadable following the link :http://www.ferdi.fr/en/node/3198.
Q38|The U.S. Shale Oil Boom, the Oil Export Ban, and the Economy: A General Equilibrium Analysis|This paper examines the effects of the U.S. shale oil boom in a two-country DSGE model where countries produce crude oil, refined oil products, and a non-oil good. The model incorporates different types of crude oil that are imperfect substitutes for each other as inputs into the refining sector. The model is calibrated to match oil market and macroeconomic data for the U.S. and the rest of the world (ROW). We investigate the implications of a significant increase in U.S. light crude oil production similar to the shale oil boom. Consistent with the data, our model predicts that light oil prices decline, U.S. imports of light oil fall dramatically, and light oil crowds out the use of medium crude by U.S. refiners. In addition, fuel prices fall and U.S. GDP rises. We then use our model to examine the potential implications of the former U.S. crude oil export ban. The model predicts that the ban was a binding constraint in 2013 through 2015. We find that the distortions introduced by the policy are greatest in the refining sector. Light oil prices become artificially low in the U.S., and U.S. refineries produce inefficiently high amount of refined products, but the impact on refined product prices and GDP are negligible.
Q38|The U.S. Shale Oil Boom, the Oil Export Ban, and the Economy: A General Equilibrium Analysis Nida|This paper examines the e ects of the U.S. shale oil boom in a two-country DSGE model where countries produce crude oil, re ned oil products, and a non-oil good. The model in- {{p}} corporates di erent types of crude oil that are imperfect substitutes for each other as inputs into the re ning sector. The model is calibrated to match oil market and macroeconomic data for the U.S. and the rest of the world (ROW). {{p}} We investigate the implications of a signicant {{p}} increase in U.S. light crude oil production similar to the shale oil boom. Consistent with the data, our model predicts that light oil prices decline, U.S. imports of light oil fall dramatically, and light oil crowds out the use of medium crude by U.S. re ners. In addition, fuel prices fall and U.S. GDP rises. We then use our model to examine the potential implications of the former U.S. crude oil export ban. The model predicts that the ban was a binding constraint in 2013 through 2015. We find that the distortions introduced by the policy are greatest in the {{p}} re ning sector. Light oil prices become arti cially low in the U.S., and U.S. re neries produce ineciently high amount of re ned products, but the impact on re ned product prices and GDP are negligible.
Q38|Building Bridges for the Adoption of Deep Green Agri-environment Measures: The Emergence of Environmental Knowledge Brokers|The activities of intermediary organisations in the context of payments for agri-environmental services have broadly increased in all European countries over the last two decades. However, the impact of this new governance mechanism on environmental protection and changes in individualsâ€™ behavior has not yet studied in the economic literature. To explore this issue, we develop a new theoretical economic framework that allows us to compare the main environmental eï¬€ects of an incentive mechanism with intermediaries, such as environmental knowledge brokers and information providers, as compared to those of a standard central governance mechanism. This paper bridges the knowledge-brokering theory developed in the literature in environmental science with the process of individual preferences formation and transmission developed in the economic literature. The analysis shows that the emergence of knowledge intermediaries is particularly valuable in the context of payments for agri-environmental services in a situation where individuals, such as farmers, initially have a low level of environmentally awareness. The same conclusion holds when the public institution organizing the scheme is not suï¬ƒciently apprised of individualsâ€™ characteristics. This allows us to give a theoretical justiï¬ cation for previous empiric results on payment schemes for agri-environmental measures.
Q38|Regulating transgenic soybean production in Argentina|"This article investigates how to regulate transgenic soybean production in Argentina. Taking into account the broad range of negative externalities associated with transgenic soybean production, we explore the effects of two different policy instruments, namely a subsidy for non-transgenic soybean and production quotas for transgenic soybean. Taking into account the political and economic context in Argentina, we demonstrate that auctioned production quotas are the best way to achieve the regulation of transgenic soybean production. However, the organization of the agricultural sector in Argentina is such that ""raising rivals’ costs"" behavior could occur on the quota market although the output price is set exogenously. We show that auctioned quotas limit this anti-competitive behavior. Finally, we demonstrate that introducing a shadow cost of public funds leads to an increase in the optimal production level of transgenic soybean."
Q38|LoVe hurts: Verdsetting av Lofoten/Vesterålen/Senja|Med stort økonomisk verdipotensial og regionale ringverknadar i form av næringsutvikling og sysselsetting kan dei delte meiningane rundt olje og gassverksemd i Lofoten, Vesterålen og Senja kanskje fortone seg som gåtefulle. Basert på diskonterte kontantstraumer frå olje og gassressursane i området konkluderer denne analysen med at opning for olje og gassverksemd av Lofoten, Vesterålen og Senja er potensielt viktig for olje og gassnæringa, medan implikasjonane for statsfinansar og kapasitet til offentleg tenesteyting er mindre. Analysen indikerer at vern av området kan innrømmast til ein årleg kostnad på om lag 700 kroner per innbyggar.
Q38|Provoking insurgency in a federal state: theory and application to India|Abstract This paper presents a model of provocation in a federation, wherein the state government triggers an insurgency with a view toward acquiring control of some economic assets with the help of the central government. Some econometric support for this model is found using data on the Naxalite conflict in eight states of India. The tests performed control for endogeneity of the state government’s police force interventions. They suggest that the latter are meant to trigger the violent activity of the insurgents, so as to lure the central government into intervening and helping clear the ground for mining purposes in the lands of tribal people.
Q38|Natural resource rents, autocracy and the composition of government spending|This paper empirically analyzes the influence of rents from natural resources on the composition of government spending and investigates whether the relationship differs between democracies and autocracies. Both panel data and instrumental variable regressions suggest that there is a negative joint effect of autocracy and natural resource dependency on education spending. Moreover, there is slight evidence in the results of a positive joint effect on spending for social protection, while other components of government spending do not seem to be influenced. In particular, the results do not suggest that autocratic regimes in resource-dependent countries spend relatively more on military.
Q38|The response of income inequality to positive oil rents shocks in Iran: Implications for the post-sanction period|We study the short and long run responses of income inequality to the positive oil and gas rents per capita shocks in Iran from 1973 to 2012. Using vector autoregression (VAR)-based impulse response functions, we find a positive and statistically significant response of income inequality to oil rents booms within 4 years after the shock. The Autoregressive-Distributed Lag (ARDL) results show that a 10 percent increase in oil and gas rents per capita leads to 1.1 percent increase in income inequality in the long run. The results are robust after controlling for income-distribution channels in Iran. Our analysis can help policy makers to evaluate and accommodate the possible positive or negative effects of lifting sanctions on inequalities in Iran.
Q38|Three Degrees of Green Paradox: The Weak, The Strong, and the Extreme Green Paradox|We show that a green paradox can be weak, or strong, or extreme. A weak green paradox arises when a green - intentioned policy measure worsens the quality of the environment at least in the near term. A strong green paradox outcome is obtained if the policy ends up causing greater cumulative environmental damages than under the business - as - usual scenario , though it may raise welfare , for example by adding productive green capacity. An extreme green paradox arises when aggregate welfare (net of environmental damages) falls as result of a poorly designed green - intentioned policy. We illustrate numerically the three degrees of green paradox using a model with a capacity - constrained green backstop technology in direct competition with fossil fuels.
Q38|Local content policies in mineral-exporting countries|Resource abundance does not always bring sustained economic growth and development. Moreover, the mining sector generally provides little direct employment in the regions where extraction occurs. In an attempt to derive greater benefits from their resource endowments, and increase linkages with other parts of the economy, some minerals-rich countries have instituted local content and procurement policies (LCPs). The benefits sought include employment generation, supply chain development and technological and knowledge transfers. Measures that aim to increase local content and procurement in the extractive industries are common, including in many OECD countries.This study examines local content policies in 10 minerals-rich countries and provides some observations about their efficacy and the desirability of their use. A wide range of measures are examined, from industry-wide, mandatory quantitative targets to voluntary initiatives undertaken at the firm level, encompassing diverse policy objectives and implementation strategies. The range of countries covered is broad including OECD countries, developing countries and least developed countries. The study does not recommend a “one size fits all” policy mix but guards against the distortions created by overly prescriptive, mandatory local content requirements.
Q38|Do announcements of WTO dispute resolution cases matter? Evidence from the rare earth elements market|Rare earth elements (REEs) have gained increasing attention recently for several key reasons: 1) they are vital to many strategic industries, 2) they are relatively scarce, 3) they frequently exhibit high price fluctuations, 4) China holds a quasi-monopoly on their mining, and 5) China's REE policy, which was overly restrictive and led to a formal complaint from the U.S., Japan, and the EU at the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2012. This paper investigates whether the announcement of a WTO dispute resolution case has the power to fundamentally change market dynamics. We find empirical support for this notion because REE prices exhibit a structural break around the announcement of the WTO dispute, and show lower variance ratios for all tested REEs afterward. This indicates a tendency toward efficiency, although REE prices still do not follow a random walk. Similarly, we find that stock price informativeness of companies in the REE industry increases after the announcement, reflecting more firm-specific than marketwide information and less governmental influence. Finally, we show that model uncertainty for option pricing models decreases, which we measure by the lower pricing differences among them.
Q38|Lobbying over Exhaustible-Resource Extraction|Republished as CIE Working Paper 2014-06
Q38|أثر الحوكمة على عوائد الموارد الطبيعية : دراسة تطبيقية مع إشارة للدول العربية<BR>[The Impact of Governance on Returns of Natural Resources: An Empirical Study with References to Arab Countries]|The main purpose of this research is to investigate the impact of governance (especially of natural resources) on returns of natural resources sector (specifically oil and natural gas). In addition, It also examines whether governance turn point exists or not. The natural resources governance index used in this research was drawn from the Revenue Watch Institute for the year 2013 while the natural resources rent, GDP, and natural resources depletion data were obtained from the World Bank Database. The study covered fifty-six countries; ten of them are Arabian countries. And it adopted the cross-sectional data framework, the Ordinary Least Square estimation technique is used for the analysis. The research found that governance, GDP, and depletion of natural resources impact positively on the returns of natural resources. The research also found that there is a turning point for governance which means that after a given level of governance the significant positive impact diverted to be a significant negative impact. The research advocates that the last result may be due to the maximized governance after optimal level may lead to bureaucracy or/and combat the corruption in natural resources sector which lead to a drop in natural resources returns. The results suggest that firstly, it's necessary to provide a legislative guarantee to ensure ease of access to data related to the natural resources sector. Secondly, apply the disclosure standards of the contracts entered by the government with companies worked in the natural resources sector. Thirdly, publish periodic reports on the financial receipts and licensing revenues and assess both of the economic and environmental returns in the exploitation of natural resources projects. Fourthly, application of accountability standards begins with setting clear selection criterions for top management in both of public companies and governmental agencies related to the natural resources sector. Fifthly, publish financial data of natural resources funds in terms of assets and how to manage those funds. Sixthly, encourage the cooperation with international organizations which interested in governance, for example, joining the World Bank's initiative to promote transparency in the extractive industries, which indicate to good intentions from the government to apply the principles of governance. Finally, by analyzing the returns of natural resources - oil and natural gas only - in terms of value in Arab countries, it notes that there are ten Arab countries that have about 648.8 billion US Dollar in the year 2014. Therefore, the share of the ten Arab countries is about 21% of the total revenue of the natural resources in the world in 2014. This fact indicates that Arab countries are a major player in the natural resources market. So, any attempts to reform the natural resources sector will lead to positive effects on the whole economy performance
Q38|Role of socio-economic variables in adoption of crop insurance: A Discriminant Function Approach|This study examined the influence of the respondents’ socio-economic characteristics on their adoption of crop insurance schemes. Discriminant analysis based on the criteria values of standardized canonical coefficient and correlation matrix identified that educational level, farm size, satisfaction level, awareness and access to source of credit were positive discriminators while negative coefficients were obtained for age, income level and number of earning members. Awareness about crop insurance scheme, satisfaction level of farmer respondent with respect to the insurance scheme and access to source of credit were the highest discriminant variables. The study made it amply clear that socio-economic characteristics of farmers exert a significant influence on their adoption of crop insurance schemes. Taking into cognizance the findings of the discriminant analysis it can be inferred that awareness about the schemes and their benefits have to be created among the farmers in order to motivate them to go for insurance of their crops.
Q38|Oil rents and institutional quality: empirical evidence from Algeria|This paper examines the interaction between natural resource abundance and institutional quality in Algeria, using two measures of institutional quality (corruption and democratic accountability), and a measures for resource endowment (oil rents as a percentage of GDP). Our results indicate that an increase in oil rents significantly increase corruption in Algeria, while the interaction effect between oil rents and democratic accountability is positive and statistically significant, which means that enhancing democratic institutions can reduce corruption. It is also revealed that the manufactures exports significantly decline in the aftermath of oil rents shock, a pattern consistent with the Dutch Disease phenomenon. On the one hand, these findings confirms that Algeria’s institutional framework demonstrates a high degree of perceived weakness, and on the other hand, enhancing these institutional environment would reduce corruption, and increase the impact of resource abundance on economic development.
Q38|Identifikasi Modal Sosial Masyarakat Terhadap Restorasi Lahan Pasca Tambang: (Studi Masyarakat Desa Bukit Kijang, Kecamatan Namang, Kabupaten Bangka Tengah)<BR>[Identification of Community Social Capital to Post-Mining Land Restoration: (Study of the Bukit Kijang Village, Namang District, Bangka Tengah Regency)]|Social capital is an important instrument that has an influence on people's lives socially and economically. This decade's economic development is an interesting concern for all people, especially the government, in realizing public welfare. This reality relates to the focus of this research study on post-mining land restoration programs that are taking place in the Bukit Kijang Village. This study uses qualitative research methods with a case study approach. Meanwhile this study uses the theory of the character James Coleman regarding the concept of social capital. The purpose of this study is to identify social capital in the lives of the people of Bukit Kijang Village towards the ongoing post-mining land restoration program in the village. The results showed that the low social capital in the Bukit Kijang Village community. Some indicators of social capital that can be elaborated such as the low level of community participation in post-mining land restoration programs, low information flows such as ineffective communication in the Bukit Kijang Village community. In addition, the low social relations that exist in the community, such as the lack of community participation in the implementation of programs pioneered by the Bangka Regency Government and the Ministry of Environment and the private sector involved in the program.
Q38|The response of income inequality to positive oil rents shocks in Iran: Implications for the post-sanction period|We study the short and long run responses of income inequality to the positive oil and gas rents per capita shocks in Iran from 1973 to 2012. Using vector autoregression (VAR)-based impulse response functions, we find a positive and statistically significant response of income inequality to oil rents booms within 4 years after the shock. The Autoregressive-Distributed Lag (ARDL) results show that a 10 percent increase in oil and gas rents per capita leads to 1.1 percent increase in income inequality in the long run. The results are robust after controlling for income-distribution channels in Iran. Our analysis can help policy makers to evaluate and accommodate the possible positive or negative effects of lifting sanctions on inequalities in Iran.
Q38|Do WTO Rulings Really Matter? Evidence from the Rare Earth Elements Market|Republished as CIE Working Paper 2017-05
Q38|Do WTO Rulings Really Matter? Evidence from the Rare Earth Elements Market|Republished as CIE Working Papier 2016-05
Q38|A quantitative description of state-level taxation of oil and gas production in the continental U.S|We provide a quantitative description of state-level taxation of oil and gas production in the continental U.S. for 2004–2013. Aggregate revenues from production taxes nearly doubled in real terms over the period, reaching $10.3 billion and accounting for 20% of tax receipts in the top ten revenue states. The average state had a tax rate of 3.6%; nationally, the average dollar of production was taxed at 4.2%. The oil-specific rate estimated for the study period is $2.4 per barrel or $5.5 per ton of carbon. Lastly, state-level tax rates are two-thirds higher in states excluding oil and gas wells from local property taxes, suggesting that the policies are substitutes for one another.
Q38|Uncertainty, learning, and local opposition to hydraulic fracturing|New extraction technologies, including hydraulic fracturing (fracking), have increased fossil fuel reserves in the United States. Despite local economic benefits, many jurisdictions have adopted bans on fracking. We develop a dynamic learning model parameterized with a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model to quantify the associated quasi-option value (QOV), and to explore if uncertainty about environmental damages with the potential to learn can rationalize such bans. The model is calibrated to a representative municipality in Colorado, the site of several fracking bans. With plausible damages, we find that the QOV increases the incentive to delay drilling within a range of energy prices. The results suggest that improving the ability to learn about fracking impacts could increase the prevalence of bans in the short run and lead to better policymaking over time. Incorporating CGE output into a dynamic learning framework permits calculation of the locality-wide QOV associated with a range of policies.
Q38|Optimal Production of Crude Oil Based on Buy Back Contract: Case Study of Foroozan Oil Field|In this paper, the optimal production of oil from Forzooan field is extracted Based on Buy Back contract governing it. With regard to the role of the National Iranian Oil Company in managing operating process of the field, this optimal production is estimated in according to maximization net present value of NIOC from oil production of the field. Thus, in this paper in according to mechanism and information of fiscal regime of Buy Back contract, revenue and cost functions of NIOC for period of the contract is estimated and then based on target function of this study and using optimal control method Generalize Reduced Gradient (GRG) is estimated optimal production in the framework three scenario and three expected price conditions. Finally, from this study concluded that optimal production level has direct relation with expectations of price and depletion rate of the field and it has reserve relation with discount factor. Also because of obligation of protective production principal, optimal production level is lower than contractual production level.
Q38|POLICIES FOR GREEN GROWTH VERSUS POLICIES FOR NO GROWTH: A Matter of Timing|Advocates of green-growth policies and those who advocate policies to stop growth both accept that the world faces serious environmental problems. They disagree on and debate about appropriate remedies. Green-growth advocates argue that it is possible to create a green economy compatible with sustained growth. The no-growth advocates argue that the whole growth process must be stopped if the planet is to be saved from catastrophe. This short paper argues that choosing the optimal policy for dealing with these serious problems does not require deciding which group is right. Instead it is argued that the optimal policy is to act as if the green-growth advocates are right and only if they are proved wrong by the failure of their policies to do the job, should no-growth policies be attempted.
Q38|A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis for Incineration or Recycling of Dutch Household Plastics|The cost-effectiveness of plastic recycling is compared to energy recovery from plastic incineration in a waste-to-energy plant using data for the Netherlands. Both options have specific benefits and costs. The benefits of recycling are the avoidance of both CO2 that otherwise would be emitted during incineration and the production of virgin (new) material. There are significant costs, such as collection costs and recycling costs involved for plastic recycling by municipalities. The benefits of energy recovery from plastic are heat and electricity production leading to fewer emissions in the regular energy production sector, but this requires a waste-to-energy plant with the associated capital investments. Summing all the costs and benefits results in an implicit CO2 abatement price of 172 Euro per tonne of CO2 in case of plastic recycling. In general, this implicit price is much higher than current (or historic) ETS prices, the estimated external costs of CO2 emissions, or alternatives to reduce CO2 emissions (e.g. renewable energy). A sensitivity analysis shows that this conclusion is robust.
Q38|Post Separation of Plastic Waste: Better for the Environment and Lower Collection Costs|The European Union (EU) advocates a plastic waste recycling rate of more than 55% through home separation by households. Even for the Netherlands, which has already invested heavily in plastic recycling policies, there is still a challenge to meet this target. We show that post separation is an advisable alternative with more separation of plastic waste and lower collection costs. Based on data for 2013-2014, Dutch municipalities with post-separation have 6.2 kilogram more plastic than municipalities with only bring locations. Moreover, the effectiveness of post separation increases significantly over time to 8.4 kilograms in 2014. Also curbside collection of plastic waste can be effective, if it is combined with an unit-based pricing system, but in such a case the collection costs are higher. Therefore, there are indications that the cost effectiveness of recycling plastic waste increases, if post separation is chosen.
Q38|Le gaz de schiste peut-il participer à la réduction des émissions de C02 chinoises ?|To reduce CO2 emissions, Chinese government sets a target on the share of gas in its energy consumption. Shale gas can supply around 10% of energy consumption if its cost declines by one third, but it drives up domestic C02 emissions by 5%. A policy aiming at stabilizing coal consumption leads to large development of shale gas as well as a decrease in CO2 emissions of 41%. However, a tax on C02 emissions slows down shale gas development in favor of renewable energy.
Q38|Critical raw material strategies in different world regions|The rising imbalance between increased demand for minerals and their tighter supply has resulted in growing concerns about their criticality. This has in turn stimulated both resource-rich and resource-poor countries to take active role in implementing mineral policy strategies. This paper explains why different world regions responded differently to the global problem of securing stable supply of critical minerals, in particular of rare earths. The paper first provides an in-depth overview of development trajectories of critical mineral strategies through a historical case study analysis of major stakeholder regions - China, the United States, Europe, Japan and Australia. Next, it offers answers as to why they have responded the way they did: how national interest considerations, resource endowment circumstances, countries’ historical experience in tackling supply risk and their respective policy styles influenced the development of critical mineral policy choices within a comparative political economy framework. The overall findings show distinctive differences in policy strategies towards critical materials. Whereas Europe opts for a policy dialogue with resource-rich countries, Japan and the United States have a more hands-on approach in research and development initiatives. Australia and China instead, strive to promote domestic mining activities and to protect their resources through resource nationalist policies.
Q38|The impacts of the EU ETS on efficiency: An empirical analyses for German manufacturing firms|We investigate the effect of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) on the economic performance of manufacturing firms in Germany. Our difference-in-differences framework relies on several parametric conditioning strategies and nearest neighbor matching. As a measure of economic performance, we use the firm specific distance to the stochastic production frontier recovered from official German production census data. None of our identification strategies provide evidence for a statistically significant negative effect of emissions trading on economic performance. On the contrary, the results of the nearest neighbor matching suggest that the EU ETS rather had a positive impact on the economic performance of the regulated firms, especially during the first compliance period. A subsample analysis confirms that EU ETS increased the efficiency of treated firms in at least some two-digit industries.
Q38|Subsidizing human capital to overcome the green paradox: A demand-side approach|This paper shifts the perspective of the recent green paradox literature towards the demand side. Based on a simple model, I show that a subsidy on input factors in a Cobb-Douglas production function may contribute substantially to postponing resource extraction into the future and, thereby, to limit the future costs of climate change. Specifically, indirect subsidies on human capital, such as investments in education, are plausible policy options to mitigate carbon dioxide emissions because it is robust to short-sighted incentives on the part of politicians and resource owners.
Q38|Buy coal for preservation and act strategically on the fuel market|In Harstad’s (2012) model, climate damage only hits one group of countries, called the coalition, and the coalition’s climate policy consists of capping own fuel de- mand and supply combined with the purchase of fossil fuel deposits for preserva- tion. Harstad’s Theorem 1 states that if the deposit market clears the coalition’s strategic fuel-cap policy implements the ﬁrst-best. The present paper reconstructs that eﬃciency result and argues that the deposit market equilibrium as deﬁned in Harstad (2012) fails to be attained, unless the non-coalition countries act cooper- atively on the deposit market. Without such cooperation, the coalition’s strategic action on the fuel market distorts the allocation to its own favor.<br><small>(This abstract was borrowed from another version of this item.)</small>
Q38|The impacts of the EU ETS on efficiency: An empirical analyses for German manufacturing firms|We investigate the effect of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) on the economic performance of manufacturing firms in Germany. Our difference-in-differences framework relies on several parametric conditioning strategies and nearest neighbor matching. As a measure of economic performance, we use the firm specific distance to the stochastic production frontier recovered from official German production census data. None of our identification strategies provide evidence for a statistically significant negative effect of emissions trading on economic performance. On the contrary, the results of the nearest neighbor matching suggest that the EU ETS rather had a positive impact on the economic performance of the regulated firms, especially during the first compliance period. A subsample analysis confirms that EU ETS increased the efficiency of treated firms in at least some two-digit industries.
Q38|Y - Yacimientos|Resumen de la situación de gas natural en Bolivia, 1990 - 2014
Q38|The Simple Economics of Commodity Price Speculation|The price of crude oil never exceeded $40 per barrel until mid-2004. By July 2008 it peaked at $145 and by late 2008 it fell to $30 before increasing to $110 in 2011. Are speculators partly to blame for these price changes? Using a simple model of supply and demand in the cash and storage markets, we determine whether speculation is consistent with data on production, inventory changes, and convenience yields. We focus on crude oil, but our approach can be applied to other commodities. We show speculation had little, if any, effect on oil prices. (JEL G13, G18, G23, G31, Q35, Q38)
Q38|Multicountry Appropriation of the Commons, Externalities, and Firm Preferences for Regulation| This paper analyzes a common property resource (such as oil field or water reservoir) shared by two countries in the presence of two forms of bilateral externalities: the tragedy of the commons, and the environmental damage resulting from the exploitation of the resource. We demonstrate that both cooperative and non-cooperative forms of regulation produce a negative effect on firms' profits, as they increase firms' unit production costs. However, regulation can also entail a positive effect on profits, given that it mitigates industry overproduction. We show that the magnitude of these two effects depends not only on the type of regulatory instrument, but also on the rate of resource extraction and the environmental damage in each country. We identify conditions under which the positive effect of regulation dominates its negative effect, thus increasing firms' profits and ultimately incentivizing them to support the introduction of regulation, either at the national or international level.
Q38|Cap and trade markets for groundwater: Efficiency and distributional effects of the permit allocation mechanism| Agricultural production on the Texas High Plains is heavily dependent on the Ogallala Aquifer, which accounts for approximately 95 percent of groundwater pumped. Rapid groundwater depletion has been observed in the Ogallala Aquifer, which is attributed to low recharge rates and high water withdrawals. In an effort to manage this limitedly-renewable water resource, High Plains Water Conservation District (HPWD) No.1 has established a rule to reduce pumping 1.25 acre-feet per acre per year for all groundwater users within HPWD. This research evaluates the efficiency and distributional effects of a “cap and trade” mechanism for the HPWD region under alternative methods of allocating the allowable groundwater use: an equal distribution rule and a uniform percentage reduction rule. Marginal abatement curves are derived from producer profit functions, which include four irrigated and three rain fed crops. Optimal cropping choices, water use, water permit trades, and water permit prices are estimated simultaneously by maximizing producer profits. The relative efficiency of the programs are evaluated by comparing total producer profits. The results shows that the equal distribution cap will result in a more efficient use of groundwater resources, while the uniform percentage reduction cap will result in less wealth redistribution.
Q38|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : un état des lieux du secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|The lack of information about the mining resource rent sharing between governments and investors is an easy statement in Africa. Existing public databases are often insufficient for a deep analysis of the African tax law applied to natural resource sectors, which limits the academic and operational work. The FERDI publishes the first tax and legal database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African countries from the 1980s to 2015. The database featuring three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold mining project; (ii) an entirely new level of historical depth; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of tax regimes and rent sharing in gold producer countries. The first results emphasize heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries with a convergence of the average effective tax rates that increase in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.
Q38|Monetary Policy Rule, Exchange Rate Regime, and Fiscal Policy Cyclicality in a Developing Oil Economy|This paper constructs a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of joint monetary and fiscal policy for a developing oil economy to find an appropriate monetary rule combined with pro-/countercyclical and neutral fiscal stance based on a loss measure. The model captures a set of structural specifics: two monetary instruments–interest rate and foreign exchange interventions, two fiscal instruments–public consumption and public investment, two production sectors–oil and non-oil, and the two types of households–optimizers and rule-of-thumb households. It further includes a Sovereign Wealth Fund, the foreign debt of private sector via collateral constraint, and a world oil price shock. The loss measure is chosen as an equal summation of variances in in ation, output, and real exchange rate to be minimized by Taylor rule’s parameters in a small open economy. The foreign exchange interventions distinguish between managed and exible exchange rate regime. Fiscal policy cyclicality is referred to the oil output response of public consumption and public investment. Impulse response functions to the negative world oil price shock are analyzed at exible and rigid prices.
Q38|How Large Are Global Energy Subsidies?|This paper provides a comprehensive, updated picture of energy subsidies at the global and regional levels. It focuses on the broad notion of post-tax energy subsidies, which arise when consumer prices are below supply costs plus a tax to reflect environmental damage and an additional tax applied to all consumption goods to raise government revenues. Post-tax energy subsidies are dramatically higher than previously estimated, and are projected to remain high. These subsidies primarily reflect under-pricing from a domestic (rather than global) perspective, so even unilateral price reform is in countries’ own interests. The potential fiscal, environmental and welfare impacts of energy subsidy reform are substantial.
Q38|Dynamic Resource Management under Weak Property Rights: A Tale of Thieves and Trespassers|Using a dynamic framework with strategic interactions, we study the management of a non-renewable natural resource when property rights are generally weak. Under generally weak property rights both the resource stock and the revenues from exploiting it are imperfectly protected, due to trespassing and theft respectively. Trespassing and theft affect the legitimate owner’s extraction decision: extracting the resource today protects the stock against trespassing but exposes the revenues to theft. Moreover, in an evolving institutional setting, the anticipation of a change in the strength of property rights further distorts the extraction decision: e.g., if the owner anticipates stronger property rights in the future, extraction is delayed. Our results indicate that the depletion of the resource is decreasing in the intensity of theft. In addition, when the owner and the trespassers are affected by theft, the depletion of the resource is below (above) the social optimal level if the intensity of theft is high (low).
Q38|Kurz zum Klima: Umwelt und Demokratie|Der Environmental Performance Index (EPI) betrachtet die ökologische Gesamtleistung eines Landes, der Environmental Democracy Index (EDI) bildet die demokratischen Beteiligungsmöglichkeiten im Umweltbereich ab. Der Beitrag zeigt, dass, entgegen der allgemeinen Vermutung, nur ein geringer Zusammenhang zwischen den beiden Indizes besteht.
Q38|Energiewende und größere Energieautarkie: Kann beides erreicht werden?|Neben dem Klimaschutz ist die Minderung der Importabhängigkeit bei fossilen Energieträgern ein Ziel der Energiepolitik Deutschlands. Wie wirkt sich die Energiewende auf die Importabhängigkeit aus? Ist eine Importabhängigkeit im Energiebereich überhaupt ein Problem? Nach Ansicht von Sebastian Strunz und Erik Gawel, Helmholtz-Zentrum für Umweltforschung, Universität Leipzig, hat die Energiewende kein »Importabhängigkeitsproblem«. So sei die in der Vergangenheit entstandene Abhängigkeit gerade von russischen Gasimporten nicht den Energiewendezielen anzulasten. Um dennoch Erdgas nicht zur »Achillesferse« der Energiewende werden zu lassen, sollte kurz- und mittelfristig eine Diversifizierung des Angebots eingeleitet sowie langfristig andere Flexibilitätsoptionen angereizt werden. Für Hubertus Bardt, Institut der deutschen Wirtschaft Köln, ist die Energiewende strukturell auf einen internationalen Ausgleich und offene Strommärkte angewiesen und kann nicht auf Grundlage der Vorstellung einer autarken Energieversorgung gelingen. Von grundlegender Bedeutung sei hier vor allem eine stärkere Europäisierung der Energie- und Strompolitik. Das Konzept der Energieautarkie zeige in die falsche Richtung. Die Chancen der internationalen Arbeitsteilung müssten genutzt werden, um die Energiewende erfolgreich gestalten zu können. Andreas Seeliger, Hochschule Niederrhein, unterstreicht, dass Wirtschaftlichkeit, Umweltverträglichkeit und Versorgungssicherheit die relevanten Zielgrößen sind und in diesem Zusammenhang die Energiewende nur ein Instrument bzw. ein Instrumentenmix ist. Auch zeige das Beispiel der USA, dass Energiewende und Energieautarkie gleichzeitig erreichbar seien. Zwar sei ein abschließendes Fazit noch nicht möglich, nach aktuellem Stand dürfte aber die Energiewende zulasten einer größeren Energieautarkie führen. Die Politik sollte deshalb bei zukünftigen Maßnahmen eine Verschiebung hin zu einer etwas ausgeglicheneren Zielgewichtung anstreben. Sibyl D. Steuwer, FU Berlin, weist ebenfalls darauf hin, dass im Zieldreieck der Energiepolitik Energieautarkie kein eigenständiges Ziel ist. Das Streben nach Energieautarkie sei vielmehr eine Strategie, um die Zielgröße der Versorgungssicherheit zu realisieren und die Abhängigkeit von Energieimporten und außenpolitischen Unsicherheiten zu minimieren.
Q38|Resource Agency Relationship with Privately Known Exploration and Extraction Costs|We analyze exploration and extraction under asymmetric information. The principal delegates the exploitation of a resource to an agent (a mining firm) who possesses private information about the cost of exploration and learns further extraction cost information once reserves have been established and constrain extraction. The principal can only commit to current period royalty contracts: one discovery-transfer menu; one extraction-royalty menu conditional on reserves discovered. Compared with the symmetric information first best, avoiding adverse selection in extraction requires the optimum mechanism to increase discoveries by the lowest cost type and possibly others. This is tempered by a countervailing effect stemming from information asymmetry in exploration which tends to reduce discoveries, especially by higher cost types. We further detail implications on the forms taken by the inefficiencies associated with asymmetric information: abandoned reserves, excessive use of low-cost exploration prospects, and inefficient levels of technological sophistication in exploration and extraction sectors.
Q38|Simultaneous Supplies of Dirty Energy and Capacity Constrained Clean Energy: Is There a Green Paradox?|Abstract The effects of two popular second-best clean energy policies are analysed using an extended Hotelling-type resource extraction framework. This model features, first, heterogenous energy sources and, second, a capacity-constrained backstop technology. This setup allows for capturing the following two empirical observations. First, different types of energy sources are used simultaneously despite different production cost. Second, experiences from various European countries show that a further expansion of the use of climate friendly technologies faces substantial technological as well as political constraints. We use this framework to analyse if under two policy scenarios a so-called “Green Paradox” occurs. A subsidy for the clean energy as well as an expansion of the capacity of the clean energy are considered. The analysis shows that under plausible parameter values both policy measures lead to a weak Green Paradox; however a strong Green Paradox is only found for the capacity expansion scenario. In addition, the subsidy is found to be welfare enhancing while the capacity increase is welfare enhancing only if the cost of adding the capacity is sufficiently small.We also show the effects of the policies crucially depend on the initial capacity and that under certain scenarios even an “extreme” Green Paradox is found.
Q38|Preservación ambiental de la Amazonia colombiana: retos para la política fiscal|Este artículo explora los retos encarados por la política fiscal en la preservación de la Amazonia colombiana. Se discuten algunos sesgos en contra del gasto público ambiental y se examinan las modalidades de financiación de la función estatal de protección del ambiente en la región. Los autores arguyen que muchas de las herramientas fiscales empleadas en Colombia para el efecto generan incentivos contrarios a los objetivos de conservación. Además de que las externalidades ambientales rebasan allí las jurisdicciones de las entidades territoriales, la eficacia potencial de los gobiernos subnacionales de la Amazonia en el ámbito de la política ambiental es constreñida por su relativamente baja capacidad fiscal. La intervención del nivel nacional de gobierno, acompañada de la acción internacional, es vista como necesaria en el caso de la Amazonia. ***** This paper explores the challenges faced by fiscal policy in the preservation of the Colombian Amazon. Some biases against public environmental expenditure are discussed; the financing arrangements for the state function of environmental protection in the region are examined. The authors argue that many of the fiscal tools used to that effect in Colombia generate perverse incentives for conservation purposes. In addition to the fact that environmental externalities go beyond the jurisdictions of local and departmental authorities, the potential effectiveness of Amazonian subnational governments in the realm of environmental policy is constrained by their relatively low fiscal capacity. The intervention of the national level government, accompanied by international action, is viewed as particularly necessary in the case of the Amazon.
Q38|Dividendos ambientales de la paz Retos y oportunidades para construir una paz sostenible|El presente documento estima el valor de los dividendos ambientales que obtendría el país con la implementación de la paz. Dichos dividendos se calcularon utilizando la metodología de costos evitados, la cual parte de valorar los costos asociados a los impactos ambientales que genera el conflicto –para este caso en temas de deforestación, minería ilegal y derrames de petróleo- que bajo un escenario de paz la sociedad no asume. Las estimaciones realizadas se hicieron para dos escenarios uno conservador y otro optimista. El primero asume una tasa de deforestación promedio igual a la que tienen los municipios sin conflicto, un uso de mercurio controlado igual al del promedio de América Latina y el cese total de los ataques a la infraestructura petrolera. El escenario optimista supone una serie de programas nacionales que maximizarían los dividendos y llevarían a lograr una tasa neta de deforestación igual a cero, a la eliminación por completo del uso del mercurio en la minería y al cese total de derrames de petróleo. Los resultados encontrados bajo el escenario conservador indican que los dividendos ambientales para Colombia serían del orden de 2,7 billones de pesos mientras, que para el escenario optimista se alcanzarían los 7,1 billones de pesos. Los beneficios no son homogéneos para todo el territorio y, por tanto, éstos dependerán de los retos y oportunidades que tenga cada región.
Q38|Monetary Policy Rule, Exchange Rate Regime, and Fiscal Policy Cyclicality in a Developing Oil Economy|According to Frankel and Catao (2011), a commodity exporting developing economy is advised to target the output price index rather than consumer price index, as the former monetary policy is automatically countercyclical against the volatile terms of trade shock. This paper constructs a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model of joint monetary and fiscal policies for a developing oil economy, to find an appropriate monetary rule combined with a pro/counter/acyclical fiscal stance based on a loss measure. The foreign exchange interventions distinguish between a managed and flexible exchange rate regime, while fiscal policy cyclicality depends on the oil output response of public consumption and public investment. The study reveals that the best policy combination is a countercyclical fiscal stance and CPI inflation monetary targeting under a flexible exchange rate regime to stabilize equally the domestic price inflation, aggregate output, and real exchange rate in a small open economy. This result is conditional on weights for those three variables used in the loss measure.
Q38|Phasing out the U.S. Federal Helium Reserve: Policy insights from a world helium model|This paper develops a detailed partial equilibrium model of the global helium market to study the effects of the recently decided rapid phase out of the U.S. Federal Helium Reserve (FHR), a vast strategic stockpile accumulated during the 1960s. The model incorporates a detailed representation of that industry and treats both helium producers and the FHR as players in a dynamic non-cooperative game. The goal of each player is assumed to be the maximization of discounted profit, subject to technical and resource constraints. We consider two alternative policies aimed at organizing the phase out of the FHR: the currently implemented one and a less stringent one whereby the FHR would be allowed to operate as a profit-maximizing agent during an extended period of time. Evidences gained from a series of market simulations indicate that, compared to the current policy, a less stringent policy mandate systematically increases the financial return to the U.S. federal budget, always enhances environmental outcomes as it lowers helium venting into the atmosphere, and also augments global welfare in three out of the four scenarios considered in the paper.
Q38|Mitigating Environmental and Public-Safety Risks of United States Crude-by-Rail Transport|We present a medium-term market equilibrium model of the North American crude oil sector via which we develop a scenario analysis to investigate strategies to mitigate the environmental and public-safety risks from crude-by-rail transportation across the United States. The model captures crude oil movements across rail- roads, pipelines and waterways, while distinguishing between light and heavy crude qualities. We find that restricting rail loads or increasing pipeline capacity from areas driving production will significantly reduce rail movements. However, lifting the United States crude oil export ban in isolation will only increase rail transportation volumes. We show that an integrated policy of targeted rail caps, pipeline investments and lifting the export ban sustainably addresses medium-term crude-by-rail risks in the United States.
Q38|Provision of Energy Security at the National Level in the Context of the Global Gas Transportation Industry Development|The laws of development of the gas transportation industry and the global gas industry are summarized and systematized in this article. Also this article describes the key points that determine the direction and the specifics of the formation of gas transportation systems for the nearest future, taking into account the risks and the most likely priorities of the global gas transportation sector, which plays a leading role in ensuring an adequate level of energy security and the needs of the economy and society in energy resources. The scientific novelty of this study involves the development of a model of the global gas transportation sector taking into account the priorities of the energy security maintenance at the national level and the existing threats. The model of the global gas transportation industry can be adapted to form solutions for the optimization and upgrading the national gas transportation systems. The model’s main attention is paid to the growth of technological gas production, which will reduce the environmental and other inter-related risks, and will help to maintain the stability of the global gas transportation industry to possible external and internal shocks.
Q38|Assessment of the Required Changes of Russian Ecological Taxes|Russia is one of the most polluting countries in the world and environmental problem is very important in this country. The forecast of atmospheric emissions was conducted according to various economic development scenarios in Russia using dynamic input-output model. The optimistic scenario is realized under hypothesis about oil prices increase and real ruble exchange rate strengthening beginning of the end of 2015, the revival of investment processes, the successful policy of import substitution, and the competent using of instruments of monetary and fiscal policy. The pessimistic scenario is implemented under assumption of negative economic tendency prolongation of the 2014. Future increase of environmental pressure will be expected in optimistic scenario. The improvement of pollution taxes mechanism as a way of government ecological policy is discussed in the article.
Q38|How is China's coke price related with the world oil price? The role of extreme movements|This paper focuses on the relationship between the world oil price and China's coke price, particularly with respect to extreme movements in the world oil price. Based on a daily sample from 2009 to 2015 and the ARJI-GARCH models and copulas, our empirical results show that China's coke price and the world oil price are characterized by GARCH volatility and jump behaviors. Specifically, negative oil price shocks lead to falls in China's coke returns on the following day while positive oil prices have no significant effects. In addition, current coke returns positively respond to the very recent oil price jump intensity, and a time-varying and volatile lower tail dependence is found between the world oil price and China's coke price. Our results are expected to have implications for coke producers and users and policy makers.
Q38|Second-best carbon taxation in the global economy: The Green Paradox and carbon leakage revisited|Acceleration of global warming resulting from a future carbon tax is large if the price elasticities of oil demand are large and that of oil supply is small. The fall in the world interest rate weakens this weak Green Paradox effect, especially if intertemporal substitution is weak. Still, social damages from greenhouse gases drop if the fall in oil supply and cumulative emissions is strong enough. If the current carbon tax is set too low, the second-best future carbon tax is set below the first best too to mitigate adverse Green Paradox effects. Unilateral second-best optimal carbon taxes exceed the first-best taxes due to an import tariff component. The intertemporal terms of trade effects of the future carbon tax increase current and future tariffs and those of the current tax lower the current tariff. Finally, carbon leakage and globally altruistic and unilateral second-best optimal carbon taxes if non-Kyoto oil importers price carbon too low are analysed in a three-country model of the global economy.
Q38|Exploration externalities and government subsidies: The return to government|Governments have, for a long time, invested in the direct provision of basic geological survey information to support exploration and mining activity. Recently, Australian governments have also started to provide direct drilling subsidies to exploration companies. Using data for Western Australia we investigate the return to government from the direct provision of geological survey information and the provision of drilling subsides. We find no evidence that drilling subsidies are less effective than traditional geological survey spending in generating a return to government. We suggest drilling subsidies are effective because there is a dishonesty externality in the market for exploration equity capital that gives rise to a market for lemons problem, and that government programs to award drilling subsidies to exploration companies work as a third party certification system that addresses this problem. We conclude by showing that, with real discount rates of 5%, 7%, and 9%, and a narrow definition of benefits, the expected benefit–cost ratios for State government support for exploration are 9.0, 6.7, and 5.2.
Q38|National strategies for securing a stable supply of rare earths in different world regions|The rising imbalance between increased demand for minerals and their tighter supply has resulted in growing concerns about their criticality. This has in turn stimulated both resource-rich and resource-poor countries to take an active role in implementing mineral strategies. The present paper explains why different world regions responded differently to the global problem of securing stable supply of critical minerals, in particular of rare earths. The paper is based on a comparative political economy framework and examines the extent to which distinct national policy styles, national interests, resource endowment and historical experience in tackling supply risk shaped the different policy choices. The overall findings show that despite their similar objectives, strategies undertaken by various regions tend to differ in their foci. Whereas Europe opts for a policy dialogue with resource-rich countries, Japan and the United States have a more hands-on approach in research and development initiatives. Australia's and China's policies instead, focus on development of domestic mining activities and on resource protection.
Q38|Natural resources: Funds and economic performance of resource-rich countries|Resource funds have been widely defended in the theoretical literature as a solution to the resource curse. In this work, empirical analyses of a sample of 28 resource-rich countries over the period 1985–2010 do not support this argument. Rather, the results indicate that resource funds have a negative and significant effect on growth and that this finding is robust under alternative estimation techniques. Moreover, the results do not validate the hypothesis of the resource curse due to the positive effect of resource dependence on growth. Finally, the study provides evidence that the negative component of the curse is captured by the resource funds. The implications in terms of natural resources funds management are discussed.
Q38|The green paradox and learning-by-doing in the renewable energy sector|The green paradox conveys the idea that climate policies may have unintended side effects when taking into account the reaction of fossil fuel suppliers. The prospect of carbon taxes being implemented in the future induces resource owners to extract more rapidly which increases present carbon dioxide emissions and accelerates global warming. However, our results suggest that future carbon taxes may decrease present emissions if resource owners face increasing marginal extraction costs and if there is a clean energy source that is a perfect substitute and exhibits learning-by-doing (LBD).
Q38|A regression discontinuity approach to measuring the effectiveness of oil and natural gas regulation to address the common-pool externality|Oil and natural gas reservoirs typically span multiple productive leases so that no owner has rights to the entire stock of resource, resulting in production externalities. Previous literature has examined the effectiveness of government regulation in Texas and Oklahoma in abating these externalities, finding Oklahoma to be more successful in unifying common pools and securing property rights. Using regression discontinuity design, we quantify the impact of regulatory difference between the two states. We find that Oklahoma produces an average of 3361 more barrels of oil over the life of a well, relative to Texas. Given the maturity of the fields in question, the result underscores the continuing importance of addressing common pool externalities even after the primary phase of recovery has largely been completed.
Q38|Adverse selection, commitment and exhaustible resource taxation|Governments design taxation schemes to capture resource rent. However, they usually propose contracts with limited duration and possess less information on the resources than the extractive firms do. This paper investigates how information asymmetry on costs and an inability to commit to long-term contracts affect tax revenue and the extraction path. This paper assumes that governments maximize the tax revenue contingent on the quantity extracted. This study gives several unconventional results. First, when information asymmetry exists, the inability to commit does not necessarily lower tax revenues. Second, under asymmetric information without commitment, an efficient firm may produce during the first period more or less than under symmetric information. Hence, the inability to commit has an ambiguous effect on optimal contract duration. Third, an increase in the discount factor may shift the extraction towards the first period which contradicts Hotelling's rule.
Q38|Natural Capital Accounts and Public Policy Decisions: Findings From a Survey|There have been many initiatives and policy commitments in natural capital accounting in the recent years. Based on a survey for statistical offices, ministries and independent experts worldwide, we provide some preliminary evidence that there is very little use of natural capital accounts for public policy decisions and, more so, in developing countries. The most relevant obstacles are the lack of political support by key people and institutional leadership unable to promote policy use by other ministries. Concerning developing countries, the factor which is considered as the most relevant in preventing the use of natural capital accounts for policy making is the stage of development of the country. In addition, respondents from statistical institutes and developing countries are firstly, concerned about institutional obstacles and secondly, about data availability and cooperation. Respondents from ministries and independent experts are particularly concerned about design obstacles. Not many accounts may be available to be used in the policy-making process due to data gaps, design challenges and the required investment, the problem being more acute in developing countries. A key result of the survey is the need to evaluate the added value of natural capital accounts with respect to statistics.
Q38|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : Un état des lieux sur le secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|Le manque d’information concernant le partage de la rente minière entre les Etats et les investisseurs est un constat aisé en Afrique. Les bases de données existantes sont souvent insuffisantes pour mener une analyse détaillée des règles constituant les systèmes d’imposition africains appliqués aux secteurs des ressources naturelles ce qui limite les travaux académiques et opérationnels. Cet article présente la première base de données juridiques et fiscales qui précise le régime fiscal s’appliquant aux mines industrielles d’or dans 14 pays africains producteurs des années 1980 à 2015. La base de données présente trois innovations majeures : (i) un recensement par pays des impôts, droits et taxes (taux, assiette, exonérations) dus en phase de recherche et en phase d’exploitation d’un projet aurifère ; (ii) une profondeur historique inédite 1980 à 2015 ; (iii) l’association de chaque information fiscale à sa source juridique. Cette base de données est utilisée pour formuler une première analyse des régimes d’imposition des entreprises minières et du partage de la rente qui en découle dans les principaux pays producteur d’or. Les premiers résultats soulignent une hétérogénéité des régimes fiscaux entre pays anglophones et pays francophones, avec toutefois une convergence des taux effectifs moyens d’imposition, qui augmentent dans la plupart des pays suite aux réformes fiscales engagées depuis 2010. (La base de données est téléchargeable ici)Mots clés : Secteur minier, Or, Fiscalité des ressources naturelles, Base de données
Q38|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : un état des lieux du secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|The lack of information about the mining resource rent sharing between governments and investors is an easy statement in Africa. Existing public databases are often insufficient for a deep analysis of the African tax law applied to natural resource sectors, which limits the academic and operational work. The FERDI publishes the first tax and legal database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African countries from the 1980s to 2015. The database featuring three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold mining project; (ii) an entirely new level of historical depth; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of tax regimes and rent sharing in gold producer countries. The first results emphasize heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries with a convergence of the average effective tax rates that increase in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010.
Q38|Unilateral Climate Policies: Incentives and Effects|Abstract We analyze the effect of climate policies using a two-region partial equilibrium model of resource extraction. The regions are heterogeneous in various aspects, such as in their climate policies and resource extraction costs. We obtain analytical and numerical conditions for a Green Paradox to occur as a consequence of a unilateral increase in carbon taxation and backstop subsidy. In order to assess the welfare and climate consequences of unilateral policy changes, we calibrate the model to real world parameter values. We find that forming a ‘climate coalition’ and introducing carbon taxation even in the absence of real climate concerns is the best course of action for the largest fossil fuel-using regions.
Q38|Non-cooperative and Cooperative Responses to Climate Catastrophes in the Global Economy: A North–South Perspective|Abstract The optimal response to a potential productivity shock which becomes more imminent with global warming is to have carbon taxes to curb the risk of a calamity and to accumulate precautionary capital to facilitate smoothing of consumption. This paper investigates how differences between regions in terms of their vulnerability to climate change and their stage of development affect the cooperative and non-cooperative responses to this aspect of climate change. It is shown that the cooperative response to these stochastic tipping points requires converging carbon taxes for developing and developed regions. The non-cooperative response leads to a bit more precautionary saving and diverging carbon taxes. We illustrate the various outcomes with a simple stylized North–South model of the global economy.
Q38|Wealth Effects of Rare Earth Prices and China’s Rare Earth Elements Policy|Abstract Rare earth elements (REEs) have become increasingly important because of their relative scarcity and worldwide increasing demand, as well as China’s quasi-monopoly of this market. REEs are virtually not substitutable, and they are essential for a variety of high-tech products and modern key technologies. This has raised serious concerns that China will misuse its dominant position to set export quotas in order to maximize its own profits at the expense of other rare earth user industries (wealth transfer motive). In fact, export restrictions on REEs were the catalyst for the U.S. to lodge a formal complaint against China in 2012 at the World Trade Organization (WTO). This paper analyzes possible wealth transfer effects by focusing on export quota announcements (the so-called MOFCOM announcements) by China, and the share price reactions of Chinese REE suppliers, the U.S. REE users, and the rest of the world REE refiners. Overall, we find limited support for the view of a wealth transfer in connection with MOFCOM announcements only when disentangling events prior to and post the initiation of the WTO trial, consistent with the trial triggering changes to China’s REE policy and recent announcement to abolish quotas. We do find, however, that extreme REE price movements have a first-order effect on all companies in the REE industry consistent with recent market trends to enable hedging against REE price volatility.
Q38|Coasean Bargaining to Address Environmental Externalities|I examine Ronald Coase’s criticism of standard regulatory and tax policies to address environmental externalities. I elaborate some of Coase’s key points and discuss opportunities for Coasean exchange as an alternative mitigation approach. Regulation, tax, and Coasean exchange, such as through cap-and-trade regimes, are presented as substitutes, based on the relative transaction costs involved. Transaction costs are those of information, bounding, enforcing, and exchanging property rights. In general, transaction costs are not examined in depth in the environmental economics literature. This is particularly the case for the costs of political bargaining and lobbying that arise from implementing and administering government regulation and tax policies, although these costs have received somewhat more attention with cap and trade regimes. Coasean exchange and important market design issues are illustrated with examples.
Q38|Federal Coal Program Reform, the Clean Power Plan, and the Interaction of Upstream and Downstream Climate Policies|Coal mined on federally managed lands accounts for approximately 40% of U.S. coal consumption and 13% of total U.S. energy-related CO2 emissions. The U.S. Department of the Interior is undertaking a programmatic review of federal coal leasing, including the climate effects of burning federal coal. This paper studies the interaction between a specific upstream policy, incorporating a carbon adder into federal coal royalties, and downstream emissions regulation under the Clean Power Plan (CPP). After providing some comparative statics, we present quantitative results from a detailed dynamic model of the power sector, the Integrated Planning Model (IPM). The IPM analysis indicates that, in the absence of the CPP, a royalty adder equal to the social cost of carbon could reduce emissions by roughly 3/4 of the emissions reduction that the CPP is projected to achieve. If instead the CPP is binding, the royalty adder would: reduce the price of tradeable emissions allowances, produce some additional emissions reductions by reducing leakage, and reduce wholesale power prices under a mass-based CPP but increase them under a rate-based CPP. A federal royalty adder increases mining of non-federal coal, but this substitution is limited by a shift to electricity generation by gas and renewables.
Q38|Intrinsic Motivation, Norms and Environmental Behaviour: The Dynamics of Overarching Goals|The understanding, prediction, and encouragement of pro-environmental behaviour (i.e., behaviour that impacts the environment as little as possible) depend to a large extent on understanding the motivational dynamics of pro-environmental behaviour. In this review paper, we discuss the state of the art with regard to these dynamics. We explain the importance of three types of goals underlying behaviour: the hedonic goal to feel good, the gain goal to enhance one's resources, and the normative goal to act appropriately. The strength of these goals differs across situation, which affects which aspects in the situation people attend to, how they evaluate these aspects, and which choices they make. We describe factors affecting the strength of goals, and how the normative goal to act appropriately can be strengthened so as to encourage sustained pro-environmental actions. More specifically, we propose that values affect the chronic strength of goals. Besides, various situational factors can affect the strength of goals in a particular situation. These situational factors explain why people do not have stable preferences and why they do not always act upon the values they prioritise. Finally, we discuss strategies that can be employed to encourage pro-environmental actions. These strategies are either aimed at reducing the conflict between different goals by aligning the hedonic and/or gain goal with the normative goal, or at strengthening the normative goal so that people will act pro-environmentally even though this may reduce the realisation of their hedonic or gain goals.
Q38|The Rebound Effect and Energy Efficiency Policy|What do we know about the size of the rebound effect, the well-known phenomenon that improving energy efficiency may save less energy than expected due to a rebound of energy use? Is there any validity to the claims that energy efficiency improvements can actually lead to an increase in energy use (known as backfire)? This article clarifies what the rebound effect is and provides a guide for economists and policymakers interested in its existence and magnitude. We discuss how some studies in the literature consider a rebound effect that results from a costless exogenous increase in energy efficiency, whereas others examine the effects of a specific energy efficiency policy—a distinction that leads to very different welfare and policy implications. We present the most reliable evidence available about the size of the energy efficiency rebound effect and discuss situations where such estimation is extraordinarily difficult. With this in mind, we present a new way of thinking about the macroeconomic rebound effect. We conclude that overall, the existing research provides little support for the so-called backfire hypothesis. However, our understanding of the macroeconomic rebound effect remains limited, particularly as it relates to induced innovation and productivity growth. (JEL: H23, Q38, Q41)
Q38|Vehicle Scrappage and Gasoline Policy|"We estimate the sensitivity of scrap decisions to changes in used car values and show how this ""scrap elasticity"" produces emissions leakage under fuel efficiency standards, a process known as the Gruenspecht effect. We first estimate the effect of gasoline prices on used vehicle values and scrappage of vehicles with different fuel economies. We then estimate the scrap elasticity itself, which we find to be -0.7. When applied in a model of fuel economy standards, 13-16 percent of the expected fuel savings leak away through the used vehicle market. This effect rivals or exceeds the importance of the often-cited mileage rebound effect. (JEL H23, L62, L78, Q35, Q38, Q48, Q58)"
Q38|US State Fiscal Policy and Natural Resources|An analytical framework predicts that, in response to an exogenous increase in resource-based government revenue, a benevolent government will partially substitute away from taxing income, increase spending and save. Fifty-one years of US-state level data are largely consistent with this theory. A baseline fixed effects model predicts that a $1.00 increase in resource revenue results in a $0.25 decrease in nonresource revenue, a $0.43 increase in spending and a $0.32 increase in savings. Instrumenting for resource revenue reveals that a positive revenue shock is largely saved and the rest is transferred back to residents in the form of lower non resource tax rates. (JEL H71, H72, H76, Q38, R11)
Q38|Bilateral information asymmetry and irreversible practice adoption through agri-environmental policy: an application to peat land retirement in Norway| Bilateral information asymmetry and irreversible practice adoption through agri-environmental policy: an application to peat land retirement in Norway
Q38|Why Finance Ministers Favor Carbon Taxes, Even If They Do Not Take Climate Change into Account|Abstract Fiscal considerations may shift governmental priorities away from environmental concerns: finance ministers face strong demand for public expenditures such as infrastructure investments but they are constrained by international tax competition. We develop a multi-region model of tax competition and resource extraction to assess the fiscal incentive of imposing a tax on carbon rather than on capital. We explicitly model international capital and resource markets, as well as intertemporal capital accumulation and resource extraction. While fossil resources give rise to scarcity rents, capital does not. With carbon taxes, the rents can be captured and invested in infrastructure, which leads to higher welfare than under capital taxation. This result holds even without modeling environmental damages. It is robust under a variation of the behavioral assumptions of resource importers to coordinate their actions, and a resource exporter’s ability to counteract carbon policies. Further, no green paradox occurs—instead, the carbon tax constitutes a viable green policy, since it postpones extraction and reduces cumulative emissions.
Q38|Forest Law enforcement through district blacklisting in the Brazlian Amazon| Deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon has dropped substantially after a peak at over 27 thousand square kilometers in 2004. Starting in 2008, the Brazilian Ministry of the Environment has regularly published blacklists of critical districts with high annual forest loss. Farms in blacklisted districts face stricter registration and environmental licensing rules. In this paper, we quantify the impact of blacklisting on deforestation. We first use spatial matching techniques using a large set of covariates to identify appropriate control districts. We then explore the effect of blacklisting on change in deforestation in double difference regression analyses using panel data covering the period from 2002-2012. Several robustness checks are conducted including an analysis of field-based enforcement missions as a potential causal mechanism behind the effectiveness of the blacklist. We find that the blacklist has considerably reduced deforestation in the affected districts even after controlling for in situ enforcement activities.
Q38|Plug-in vehicles and the future of road infrastructure funding in the United States| In the United States, the road infrastructure funding is declining due to an increase in fuel efficiency and the non-adjustment of fuel taxes to inflation. Propositions to tax plug-in vehicles have been proposed or implemented in several states. Those propositions are contrary to policies to promote the sale of fuel efficient vehicles. This paper assesses (1) the magnitude of the decline in federal fuel tax revenue caused by plug-in vehicles and (2) quantifies the amount of revenue that could be generated from a federal plug-in vehicle registration fee. We find that the contribution of plug-in vehicles to the decline of the federal fuel tax revenue is at most 1.56% and that the majority of the shortfall can be attributed to the non-adjustment of the fuel tax rate by 2040. An additional tax of $50-$200 per plug-in vehicle per year in the reference case would generate $188-$745 million in 2040 which represents an increase of 1.7% - 6.7% in federal fuel tax revenue compared to no tax. The lesson for policy makers is that plug-in vehicles do not contribute significantly to the funding shortfall in the short- and medium-run and a supplemental tax would generate a small percentage of additional revenue.
Q38|Evaluating regulatory approaches to mine closure in Kenya, Western Australia and Queensland| Many countries have been burdened with a legacy of unplanned mine closure. Inadequate and ineffective regulatory approaches to mine closure have resulted in legacy of abandoned mine sites, which rehabilitation costs are substantial liabilities to governments and communities. Although governments have been reviewing mine closure regulations to enhance their effectiveness, achievement of successful closure outcomes still remains a challenge. The purpose of this study was to evaluate how well existing regulatory approaches for Kenya, Western Australia and Queensland incorporate various aspects of mine closure. This is the first study to do this type of evaluation for regulatory approaches to mine closure. This study reviewed published literature to identify characteristics of mine closure success, and subsequently developed an analytical framework based on this review. Regulatory documents such as Acts, Bills, regulations, policies, guidelines and government reports were then assessed for inclusion of these characteristics in each case study area. The study found that regulatory approaches in the three case study areas do not incorporate all the aspects identified as requirements for successful mine closure. The study found that Western Australia and Queensland regulations were more comprehensive than Kenya. In addition, requirements that address socio-economic impacts of mine closure need to be incorporated in regulatory approaches in all study areas. This study indicates there is need to improve the existing regulatory approaches to mine closure in each study area, particularly Kenya, so that the regulation is more likely to have the desired effect of improved mine closure outcomes and success.
Q38|Is education really underfunded in resource-rich economies? Evidence from a panel of U.S. states|Existing development literature has argued that natural-resource endowments ``curse'' economic prosperity by reducing expenditures on education. According to this theory, public and private agents lack sufficient foresight to make optimal economic decisions and become poor as a result. Using a panel of U.S. state-level data, this paper offers evidence to the contrary. Public spending on education in resource-rich states greatly exceeds that in resource-scarce ones, and private education services are imperfectly crowded out as a result. More generally, this paper highlights the importance of exploiting both spatial and temporal variation in resource wealth when studying resource-rich economies.
Q38|Tax effort and oil royalties in the Brazilian municipalities|This paper estimates a stochastic production frontier, to investigate whether municipalities covered by oil royalties in the last decade have reduced their tax effort in Brazil. The issue is relevant to the prospect of a substantial increase in these revenues and the new rules for distribution of the funds, established by Law No. 12.734/2012. The inputs were provided by personnel and capital expenditures, whereas the product was defined as the municipal tax collection. With the purpose of overcoming the endogeneity problems due to reverse causality of output on inputs, we used the lagged independent variable as instruments in the inefficiency equation. The data set is composed of a panel of Brazilian municipalities from 2002 to 2011. The results indicate that oil revenues have a negative impact on the estimated efficiencies, signaling reduced fiscal effort by the benefiting municipalities
Q38|Coherence, efficiency, and independence of the EU environmental policy system: results of complementary statistical and econometric analyses|This paper presents the first empirical test of coherence (i.e., consistency of policies within a framework), efficiency (i.e., ability of policies to meet their objectives), and independence (i.e., logical priority of objectives over policies) of the overall EU environmental policy system. To do so, I applied statistical (cross-sectional and time series) and econometric (dynamic tri-probit) analyses to an original panel dataset, based on addressed issues rather than on implemented policies. In contrast with previous studies of single EU environmental policies, characteristics of the EU environmental policy, or EU environmental objectives, I found that the overall EU environmental policy system is coherent, efficient, and independent. Moreover, the evidence suggests that many issues are correlated: trans-boundary issues became more relevant in 2012, pollution production was more significant than resource use, and flow issues were more important than stock issues from 1995 to 2010. Finally, I show that few objectives overlapped: a “safe environment” objective (1987 to 1997) was preferred to a “greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction” objective (2003 to 2012, but pursued with a 2-year lag), although the latter has recently become preferred to the former. In addition, a “GHG reduction” objective was preferred to “a sustainable development” objective (1998 to 2002).
Q38|La fiscalité minière en Afrique : le secteur de l’or dans 14 pays de 1980 à 2015|The lack of information about the mining resource rent sharing between governments and investors is an easy statement in Africa. Existing public databases are often insufficient for a deep analysis of the African tax law applied to natural resource sectors, which limits the academic and operational work. The FERDI publishes the first tax and legal database which specifies the tax regime applied to industrial gold mining companies in 14 African countries from the 1980s to 2015. The database featuring three major innovations: (i) an inventory of taxes and duties (rate, base and exemptions) payable during the prospecting phase and mining phase of a gold mining project; (ii) an entirely new level of historical depth; (iii) the link between each piece of tax information and its legal source. This database is used to make a first analysis of tax regimes and rent sharing in gold producer countries. The first results emphasize heterogeneity of tax regimes between English-speaking and French-speaking countries with a convergence of the average effective tax rates that increase in most countries following the tax reforms undertaken since 2010. Codes JEL : Q38, K34, C80.
Q38|Adapter les marchés financiers aux changements climatiques|We are witnessing an energy transition where renewable energy is becoming a more competitive technology than traditional fossil fuels. Besides, the climate imperative is pressing policy makers to internalize negative environmental externalities. Scientific evidence demonstrates that the cost of inaction is larger than the cost to face the challenges posed by climate change. In this sense, adapting the economy to a more stressful reality and dealing with huge and promising niches compose the new environment that needs to be assumed by the financial community in their investment decisions. On the other hand, engagement with climate change solutions will aid finance to recover the public legitimacy highly damaged since the Great Recession. On the eve of Paris agreement this paper explores the first steps required to make a systemic change in financial markets ; to make them fitter to deal with the challenges of climate change. How public sources are expected to move in the short term and how private finance can innovate and scale up means to best deal with these changes. Classification JEL: G18, Q38, Q54.
Q38|Optimum Commodity Taxation with a Non-Renewable Resource|Optimum commodity taxation theory asks how to raise a given amount of tax revenue while minimizing distortions. We reexamine Ramsey's inverse elasticity rule in presence of Hotelling-type non-renewable natural resources. Under standard assumptions borrowed from the non-renewable-resource-extraction and from the optimum-commodity-taxation literatures, we show that a non-renewable resource should be taxed in priority whatever its demand elasticity and whatever the demand elasticity of regular commodities. It should also be taxed at a higher rate than other commodities having the same demand elasticity and, while the tax on regular commodities should be constant, the resource tax should vary over time. The appropriate taxation rule depends on the government's revenue needs; the higher these needs, the closer the consumer price to the monopoly price. Reserves are a form of capital and royalties tax its income; our results contradict Chamley's conclusion that capital should not be taxed at all in the very long run. When reserves to be extracted are responsive to the taxation of extraction, in the absence of any subsidy to reserve discoveries, the optimal tax rate on extraction obeys an inverse elasticity rule almost identical to that of a commodity whose supply is perfectly elastic. As a matter of fact, there is a continuum of optimal combinations of extraction taxes and subsidies. When the government cannot commit, extraction rents are completely expropriated and subsidies are maximum. In general the optimum Ramsey tax not only causes a distortion of the extraction path, as happens when reserves are given, but also distorts the level of reserves developed for extraction. When that distortion is the sole effect of the tax, it is determined by a rule reminiscent of the inverse elasticity rule applying to elastically-supplied commodities. La taxation optimale des biens cherche à lever des revenus fiscaux donnés en minimisant les distorsions. Nous réexaminons la règle de l'élasticité inverse de Ramsey en présence de ressources non-renouvelables à la Hotelling. Sous les hypothèses standard des littératures de l'extraction des ressources non-renouvelables et de la taxation optimale, une ressource non-renouvelable doit être taxée en priorité, quelles que soient l'élasticité de sa demande et l'élasticité de la demande pour les autres biens. Elle doit l'être à un taux plus élevé qu'un autre bien dont la demande est aussi élastique et, contrairement au taux s'appliquant aux biens conventionnels, ce taux doit varier dans le temps. La taxe dépend des besoins en revenus fiscaux; plus ils sont élevés, plus le prix correspondant s'approche du prix de monopole. Les réserves minérales constituent une forme de capital que taxent les royalties; Chamley a montré qu'il est néfaste de taxer le capital à très long terme. Au contraire, même lorsque les réserves à extraire dépendent du traitement fiscal de l'extraction, en l'absence de toute subvention à l'exploration, le taux optimal de la taxe obéit à la même règle d'élasticité inverse que les biens conventionnels dont l'offre est parfaitement élastique. En fait, il y a une infinité de combinaisons optimales de taxes à l'extraction et de subventions à la constitution de réserves. Si le gouvernement n'est pas en mesure de s'engager à s'abstenir de taxer les producteurs, ces derniers sont entièrement expropriés et ce sont des subventions qui doivent financer la constitution de réserves. En général, la taxe optimale de Ramsey cause une distorsion tant sur le profil d'extraction (comme lorsque les réserves sont données) que sur le volume des réserves lorsque celles-ci sont endogènes. Lorsque cette dernière distorsion est le seul effet de la taxe, elle obéit à une règle proche de celle qui s'applique aux biens conventionnels dont l'offre est élastique.
Q38|Climate Policy and the Intertemporal Supply of Fossil Resources|This thesis was written by Christian Beermann while he was a research assistant at the Center for Economic Studies (CES) at the University of Munich. It was completed in December 2014 and accepted as a doctoral thesis by the Department of Economics at the University of Munich in May 2015. The thesis analyses the intertemporal supply reaction of the fossil resource supply side to demand-reducing climate policies while explicitly taking into account the global warming problem. The interaction between a climate coalition that can either be global or incomplete, comprising only a subset of the world’s countries in the latter case, and a representative competitive resource supplier is analysed in a Stackelberg differential game in which the coalition leads.
Q38|Keine Kohle, keine Zukunft?|Die Bundesregierung hat sich ehrgeizige Klimaschutzziele gesetzt; bis zum Jahr 2050 soll der CO2-Ausstoß gegenüber dem Basisjahr 1990 um bis zu 95 % sinken. Dies ist nur erreichbar, wenn auf die Braunkohleverstromung in Deutschland mittelfristig verzichtet wird. Insoweit gibt es einen kaum zu lösenden Gegensatz zwischen den Klimaschutzzielen der Bundesregierung und dem Interesse der Landesregierungen von Brandenburg, Sachsen und Sachsen-Anhalt, die an der energetischen Nutzung der heimischen Braunkohlevorkommen bis auf Weiteres festhalten wollen und hierfür neben energiepolitischen Zielen vor allem strukturpolitische Belange geltend machen. Da davon auszugehen ist, dass schon aufgrund aufkeimender gesellschaftlicher Widerstände die Braunkohleverstromung in Deutschland nur noch begrenzte Zeit aufrechterhalten werden kann, sollte bereits jetzt damit begonnen werden, neue Wirtschaftsstrukturen in den betroffenen Regionen aufzubauen. Hierfür sind entsprechende Förderprogramme zu initiieren, damit ein sozialverträglicher Ausstieg aus der Braunkohlewirtschaft gelingen kann.
Q38|Dimensionen und Auswirkungen eines Freihandelsabkommens zwischen der EU und den USA|Das ifo Institut hat im Auftrag des Bundesministeriums für Wirtschaft und Technologie die vorliegende Evaluierungsstudie zu den Dimensionen und Auswirkungen eines Freihandelsabkommen zwischen der EU und den USA durchgeführt. Die Studie zeigt, dass ein tiefgreifendes Handelsabkommen(Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, TTIP), welches auch nicht-tarifäre Handelsbarrieren berücksichtigt, ein erhebliches Potenzial für Wohlfahrtsgewinne mit sich bringt. Dabei profitieren vor allem mittelständische Unternehmen von den einhergehenden Kostensenkungen. Die Reallöhne in Deutschland würden um etwa 1,6% zunehmen und die Arbeitslosigkeit geringfügig sinken. Nachhaltig negative Effekte auf das Welthandelsregime sind indes nicht wahrscheinlich.
Q38|Klimaabgabe für Kohlekraftwerke: Ein richtiger Schritt zur Erreichung des Klimaziels?|Lange Zeit favorisierte das Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Energie eine zusätzliche Klimaabgabe für alte Kohlekraftwerke zur Erreichung der deutschen Klimaziele. Mit dem Kompromiss vom 1. Juli scheint dieser Vorschlag jetzt vom Tisch zu sein. Sind die Alternativvorschläge zur Erreichung der mittel- bis langfristigen klimapolitischen Ziele effektiver? Für Erik Gawel und Sebastian Strunz, Helmholtz-Zentrum für Umweltforschung – UFZ, Leipzig, ist die vom Koalitionsausschuss favorisierte Variante »die schlechteste« – ohne Stilllegung von CO2-Zertifikaten würden Altkraftwerke in einer überdies kurz- und mittelfristig gar nicht benötigten Kapazitätsreserve gehalten, die strukturellen Anreize für den Stromsektor dürften stark begrenzt sein. Der ursprüngliche Vorschlag des Bundeswirtschaftsministeriums hätte dagegen emissionsintensive Kraftwerke belastet, samt Stilllegung von Zertifikaten. So wäre der jüngsten Renaissance der Braunkohleverstromung strukturell entgegengesteuert worden. Auch nach Ansicht von Sonja Peterson, Institut für Weltwirtschaft an der Universität Kiel, gehen die Vorschläge, die jetzt alternativ zur Klimaabgabe diskutiert werden, in die falsche Richtung: »Sie kosten die deutschen Steuerzahler viel Geld, vergrößern die Ineffizienzen in Deutschland und der EU und sparen am Ende EU-weit keinerlei Emissionen ein.« Die diskutierte Klimaabgabe gehe immerhin in die richtige Richtung. Für Hartmut Möllring, Minister für Wissenschaft und Wirtschaft in Sachsen- Anhalt, ist dagegen die Ablehnung des Klimabeitrags »eine gute Nachricht«. Der angedachte Klimabeitrag sei ordnungspolitisch und verfassungsrechtlich bedenklich, ohne dass damit tatsächlich ein Beitrag zum Klimaschutz geleistet worden wäre. Carl-Friedrich Elmer, Martin Faulstich und Christian Hey, Sachverständigenrat für Umweltfragen (SRU), sehen in den an Stelle des Klimabeitrags beschlossenen Alternativen weniger effiziente und effektive Einzelmaßnahmen. Dessen ungeachtet könnte aber der Klimabeitrag noch eine Rolle bei der instrumentellen Flankierung eines Kohlekonsenses spielen. Nach Meinung von Felix Höffler, Universität zu Köln, ist der Ausstieg aus der Braunkohleförderung der wohl effektivste unilaterale Beitrag, den Deutschland leisten kann. Die entstehenden Härten in den Braunkohlerevieren abzufedern, wäre Sache einer langfristigen regionalen Strukturpolitik, die man z.B. durch eine Reduzierung der klimapolitisch weniger zielgenauen Erneuerbaren-Energien-Förderung finanzieren könnte.
Q38|Status und Perspektiven der Kohle für die weltweite Energieversorgung|Nach Ansicht von Hans-Wilhelm Schiffer, World Energy Council, London, und Thomas Thielemann, RWE Power AG, Köln, sind der verstärkte Ausbau erneuerbarer Energien und die Nutzung von Kohle keine Gegensätze. Kohle sei ein Schlüsselfaktor für die Sicherheit der Energieversorgung und zudem kostengünstiger als andere Energien. Damit leiste sie einen entscheidenden Beitrag zur Bezahlbarkeit von Energie, zur Sicherung der Wettbewerbsfähigkeit der Industrie und damit zur wirtschaftlichen Entwicklung. Aber auch unter dem Gesichtspunkt des Klimaschutzes sei ein Ersatz von Kohle durch Erdgas nicht zielführend. Zum Erreichen der Klimaziele der Staatengemeinschaft seien vielmehr, neben dem Ausbau der erneuerbaren Energien und der fortgesetzten Steigerung der Energieeffizienz, die Nutzung fortgeschrittener Technologien auch bei Kohle unverzichtbar.
Q38|Petrodollar Recycling, Oil Monopoly, and Carbon Taxes|We identify a new general equilibrium transmission channel of climate policy on oil extraction, assuming an oil monopolist who accounts for the implications of oil supply on her capital asset returns. Policy-induced adjustments in asset holdings lead to postponement of extraction under a wide range of reasonable parameter settings: present extraction can drop considerably for a moderately high carbon tax. For endogenous exploration, a decrease in first-period extraction and in cumulative extraction at the same time is also possible. This contrasts with the literature on supply-side effects of climate policy which neglects these capital market implications. Concerns about carbon taxes arising from impeding climate-damaging supply reactions are alleviated, while taxing asset returns may induce acceleration of extraction.
Q38|The taxation of nonrenewable natural resources|We provide an analytical overview of the distortionary effects of some common forms of taxes faced by the nonrenewable resources sector of the economy. In the category of taxes meant specifically to capture the resource rent, we look at a specific severance tax, an ad valorem severance tax, a profit tax and a ‘lump-sum’ tax, with emphasis on their effects on the extraction decisions over time and on the initial reserves to be developed. In the category of taxes meant for all sectors of the economy, we look at the corporate income tax and its special provision for the resource sector in the form of a depletion allowance, with emphasis on the effects on the intra-industry resource extraction decisions and on the inter-industry allocation of investment.
Q38|Sustainability, Resource Efficiency and Competitiveness. An Assessment of Resource Efficiency Policies in the European Union|Addressing high and volatile natural resource prices, uncertain supply prospects, reindustrialization attempts and environmental damages related to resource use, resource efficiency has evolved into a highly debated proposal among academia, policy makers, firms and international financial institutions (IFIs). In 2011, the European Union (EU) declared resource efficiency as one of its seven flagship initiatives in its Europe 2020 strategy. This paper contributes to the discussions by assessing its key initiative, the Roadmap to a Resource Efficient Europe (EC 2011 571), following two streams of evaluation. In a first step, resource efficiency is linked to two theoretical frameworks regarding sustainability, (i) the sustainability triangle (consisting of economic, social and ecological dimensions) and (ii) balanced sustainability (combining weak and strong sustainability). Subsequently, both sustainability frameworks are used to assess to which degree the Roadmap follows the concept of sustainability. It can be concluded that it partially respects the sustainability triangle as well as balanced sustainability, primarily lacking a social dimension. In a second step, following Steger and Bleischwitz (2009), the impact of resource efficiency on competitiveness as advocated in the Roadmap is empirically evaluated. Using an Arellano–Bond dynamic panel data model reveals no robust impact of resource efficiency on competiveness in the EU between 2004 and 2009 – a puzzling result. Further empirical research and enhanced data availability are needed to better understand the impacts of resource efficiency on competitiveness on the macroeconomic, microeconomic and industry level. In that regard, strengthening the methodologies of resource indicators seem essential. Last but certainly not least, political will is required to achieve the transition of the EU-economy into a resource efficient future.
Q38|Incidencia de los precios del petróleo en el crecimiento económico y la inversión extranjera directa en Colombia durante el periodo 1990-2010|El efecto macroeconómico derivado de la variación de los precios del petróleo puede llegar a ser representativo y de marcada incidencia. Dicha afectación puede estar influenciada por aspectos propios del mercado del sector de hidrocarburos, los choques de oferta y la dinámica de su demanda denotando así particularidades en el criterio para la fijación de los precios del crudo y su correspondiente volatilidad. Este documento verifica la incidencia que han tenido los precios del petróleo en el crecimiento y en la inversión extranjera directa para Colombia en el periodo comprendido entre 1990 y 2010, a través del uso de un modelo econométrico (VAR) con un (1) rezago sobre las variables consideradas, entregando como resultado que no existe evidencia que los precios del petróleo tengan incidencia sobre el crecimiento de la economía colombiana y sobre la inversión extranjera directa.
Q38|Risk Assessment in Construction Process in Nuclear Sector within the Central and Eastern Europe|This article assesses various risks arising within the process of building, running and decommissioning of nuclear units with the Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) where nuclear power is still perceived as a reliable and widely utilized energy source. The region is specific for its relations with Russia which is a dominant provider of technologies and fuel thanks to former ties between the region and the Soviet Union. The debate on building new nuclear producing units with Russian companies as potential contractors is thus echoing old concerns about the rise of Russian influence and one-sided dependency. The main conclusions are twofold. First, financing is the key issue to be addressed in order to conduct a successful project with current electricity prices undermining any new project not only in the region but also in Europe as a whole. Second, precise formulation of project documentation is crucial to avoid hidden costs, delays and potential disputes with contractors.
Q38|Behavioral Determinants of Russian Nuclear State-Owned Enterprises in Central and Eastern European Region|Rosatom State Nuclear Corporation play a substantial role in the energy sector of the Central and Eastern European (CEE) region and the behavioral characteristics of the company forms the basis of this article. Rosatom is positioned as the dominant provider of nuclear technology and fuel supplies to the region, in large part stemming from the Soviet legacy in CEE countries. Compounding this challenge, nuclear energy is one of the major sources of power generation in CEE. Given the long-time, near monopoly of Russian nuclear technology/design in the region and plans to expand further the nuclear capacity of select CEE countries, the sector requires careful monitoring from both a technical and security-minded perspective.
Q38|International capital markets, oil producers and the Green Paradox|A rapidly rising carbon tax leads to faster extraction of fossil fuels and accelerates global warming. We analyze how general equilibrium effects operating through the international capital market affect this Green Paradox. In a two-region, two-period world with identical homothetic preferences and without investment, the global interest rate falls and the Green Paradox weakens. With investment or a relatively more impatient oil-importing region, the Green Paradox may be strengthened because the future oil demand function shifts downward or because the interest rate rises. If the oil-importing region is very much more patient than the oil-exporting region, the Green Paradox may be reversed but in our calibrated model the effects are tiny. With exploration and endogenous initial oil reserves, a future carbon tax lowers cumulative oil extraction in partial equilibrium. If the boost to current oil extraction is weakened, strengthened or reversed in general equilibrium, so is the fall in cumulative extraction. A partial and general equilibrium welfare analysis of a future carbon tax, both for full and partial exhaustion, is given. The effects of stock-dependent extraction costs are separately discussed in an Appendix.
Q38|A practical approach to oil wealth management: Application to the case of Kazakhstan|This study presents a practical approach to oil wealth management by bringing together various dimensions (oil production and sustainability of oil reserves, impact on the economy and the balance of trade, and the impact on the fiscal balance, government debt, and the national oil fund) within a long-term planning framework. The study provides a quantitative depiction of the above dimensions to 2050 for the case of Kazakhstan where the country's oil output has grown from about 0.6million barrels/day (mb/d) in the late 1990s to 1.8 (mb/d) in 2013, and it is expected to reach a peak of 3.5mb/d by 2035. The analysis of this study indicates that within the limits of proven oil reserves, Kazakhstan's oil production capacity would collapse to negligible amounts after the peak period of 2035. This envisaged scenario will have undesirable impacts on the economy, balance of trade and fiscal balance both prior and after 2035. To avoid these erratic impacts, the study examines an alternative “conservative” production scenario that would enable the country to maintain its level of oil production until 2050, and to manage better the transition to a non-oil economy.
Q38|Does urbanization affect energy intensities across provinces in China?Long-run elasticities estimation using dynamic panels with heterogeneous slopes|Although there has been extensive debate in the literature that addresses the impact of urbanization on total energy use, the relative magnitude of each impact channel has not been empirically examined and urbanization's effects on energy transition dynamics in China remains unknown. Using panel datasets at the provincial level from 1986 to 2011, this paper employs dynamic models to investigate both the long-run and short-run elasticities of urbanization on energy intensities and the most significant impact channel is identified. Coal intensity and electricity intensity are also modeled to reveal energy transition dynamics driven by urbanization. A set of newly developed regression techniques, namely well-performed common correlated effects mean group (CCEMG) and augmented mean group (AMG) estimators, are used to treat residual cross-sectional dependence, nonstationary residuals, and unlikely-to-hold homogeneous slope assumptions. The results obtained verify that the net effects of urbanization on overall energy intensity and electricity intensity are statistically positive, with long-run elasticities of 0.14% to 0.37% and 0.23% to 0.29%, respectively, whereas China's urbanization does not significantly increase coal intensity. The fact that short-run elasticities account for a majority of corresponding long-run values indicates that the short-run effect, that is, indirect energy use induced by urban infrastructures is the most significant impact channel of urbanization on energy use in China. An energy transition from high-pollution coal to clean electricity is also present in China, although the fundamental transition to renewable energy is still in its infancy. From a regional perspective, urbanization exerts asymmetric impacts on provincial energy use so that energy policies associated with urbanization should be province-specific. The findings also illustrate that for a panel dataset on regional dimension within large and fast-growing economies such as China, error cross-sectional dependence and residual nonstationarity must be tested and properly treated to avoid size distortion and biased estimators.
Q38|Heterogeneity in the response to gasoline prices: Evidence from Pennsylvania and implications for the rebound effect|The consumer response to changing gasoline prices has long interested economists and policymakers, for it has important implications for the effects of gasoline taxation and vehicle energy efficiency policies. This study examines both the elasticity of driving with respect to changing gasoline prices and heterogeneity in this elasticity by geography, the fuel economy of the vehicle, and the age of the vehicle. We use detailed annual vehicle-level emissions inspection test data from Pennsylvania that include odometer readings, inspection zip codes, and extensive vehicle characteristics. We estimate a short-run gasoline price elasticity of driving demand of −0.10, and find substantial heterogeneity in this responsiveness. The elasticity is largely driven by low fuel economy vehicles, as well as vehicles between 3 and 7years old. Our findings help reconcile some of the recent literature and provide guidance on the magnitude of the direct rebound effect from light duty vehicle energy efficiency policies.
Q38|Management of pre-salt oil royalties: Wealth or poverty for Brazilian coastal zones as a result?|Brazil is the largest country in South America in terms of both area (8,515,767,049km2) and population (203,912,619 of inhabitants). Over the last decade, it has also become one of the world׳s fastest-growing economies; today, it is the world׳s seventh largest economy and plays a substantial role in the international oil and gas production market. The recent discovery of the huge amount of petroleum in the oceanic pre-salt layer can position Brazil as the world׳s fourth largest petroleum producer by 2030. As a result, the country is facing the challenge of finding a non-predatory development strategy for the sector, especially one that will protect the coastal environments and local communities. The Brazilian system of royalties, initially thought to counteract negative impacts, has encountered social and governmental disapproval, and has subjected the communities affected by the oil findings to considerable uncertainty and increased disputes over the fairness of the returns from the use of this resource. Both national and international experiences have shown that when mismanaged, royalties from oil production create an economy that is heavily dependent on oil, and often lead to fiscal inefficiency and corruption. These effects happen because government ownership of the oil resources alone does not guarantee social and economic development or higher quality of life for local people; this part of the population is generally the group that is harmed by the activities. The key is in defining the implementation and management frameworks for the efficient utilization of oil resources. The development of the Brazilian oil industry should account for the fact that these activities are predominantly carried out in the coastal zone, a region whose ecological and economic relevance was recognized by the Brazilian Constitution of 1988, which gave it the status of a national heritage site. This study discusses Brazilian practices in royalty management and compares them to international experiences in terms of legal, social and economical aspects. We also provide a historical summary of the use of oil resources in Brazil, advocating for responsible utilization that includes obligatory compensation for social or environmental impacts on coastal and oceanic zones.
Q38|Inefficiency and sustainability|Sustainability goals of a social planner in an inefficient economy may require a wider range of tools than prescribed by a model that assumes dynamic efficiency. The need for additional tools can be shown by considering both the planner׳s model and a more comprehensive one that imitates real life. A new tool is necessary if the level of inefficiency, resulting from the discrepancy between the model and “real life”, can undermine any feasible effort advised by the planner׳s model. This study assumes that the planner applies the policies developed for a simple model, whereas the real economy is distorted by neglected effects that influence utility, production, the balance equation, and the dynamics of the natural resource stock. The resulting inefficiency affects the dependence of current utility change on investment. The analysis shows that a prescription for sustainability requires estimation of possible inefficiencies and coordination of genuine investment with inefficiency-reducing policies, including changes in accounting systems and institutions.
Q38|An assessment of mining efficiency in Turkish lignite industry|This article focuses on the mining activities of Turkish Coal Enterprises (TKI), the major lignite supplier in Turkey. First, we analyzed the lignite production and overburden removal activities of TKI from a historical perspective and then employed the Principle Component Analysis to build a mining efficiency index of TKI and investigated its historical development since the establishment of the company. We found that labor productivity and operational structure have been the most important factors, positively affecting the index. The current article makes two important contributions: (1) by using the most comprehensive data set available on TKI for the first time, and (2) by developing a Mining Efficiency Index (MEI), which can be used to analyze productivity in lignite mining activities in different countries.
Q38|Mining, regional development and benefit-sharing in developed countries|The objective of the paper is to synthesize the existing empirical research on mining, regional development and benefit-sharing in developed countries. Specifically, the paper presents a review of the literature addressing how the regional development impacts of mining ventures (e.g., employment multipliers) can be comprehended and assessed empirically, as well as the role of various benefit-sharing instruments in generating a more inclusive development. These issues are investigated in the context of selected practical experiences in four high-income mining countries (Australia, Canada, Chile and the USA). Important issues and challenges that deserve increased attention in future research are identified. These include, for instance, the relationship between mining competitiveness and benefit-sharing, and the efficient use of regional development investment funds.
Q38|Rights to the forest, REDD+ and elections: Mining in Guyana|This paper examines the impact of electoral cycles and the introduction of Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD+) policy upon the holding of small-scale mining property rights in Guyana. Mining is both the major cause of deforestation and the main economic activity in the country. A simple model of the incentives to hold mining property rights is developed and tested using a unique data-set of small-scale mining property rights data. Econometric techniques are used to test the findings of the model, concluding that the number of mining rights issued fall after election years, with the number rescinded rising. The introduction of REDD+ in Guyana also seems to have increased the number of mining claims being relinquished, and reduce the number being issued. The findings highlight the importance of political economy events in the evolution of small-scale mining activity, and show some evidence that the introduction of a REDD+ framework in Guyana has impacted the main driver of deforestation, despite the absence of specific policy targeting the sector.
Q38|Firm-level estimates of fuel substitution: an application to carbon pricing|We estimate partial- and total-fuel substitution elasticities between electricity, gas and oil, using firm-level data. We find that, based on the partial elasticity measure, electricity is the least-responsive fuel to changes in its own price and in the price of other fuels. The total elasticity measure, which adjusts the partial elasticity for changes in aggregate energy demand induced by individual fuel price changes, reveals that the demand for electricity is much more price responsive than the partial elasticity suggests. Our results illustrate the importance of accounting for the feedback effect between interfactor and interfuel substitution elasticities when considering the effectiveness of environmental taxation. We use the estimated elasticities to simulate the impact of a e15/tCO2 carbon tax on average energy-related CO2 emissions. The carbon tax results in a small reduction in CO2 emissions from oil and gas use, but this reduction is partially offset by an increase in emissions due to increased electricity consumption by some firms.
Q38|The Great Recession and the transition to a low-carbon economy|The objective of this paper is to consider the potential implications of the recent financial and economic crisis on the transition to a low carbon economy. This is unavoidably an exercise in tenuous conjectures given both our proximity to the still unfolding crisis, and the inherent complexity, confusing and highly contested nature of global scale crisis. It is also difficult because our understanding of major energy transitions are still very much in thier infancy, not to mention the unprecedented nature of a transition to a sustainable energy system. The paper begins with a breif review of the Great Recession, considers what lessions can be drawn from past energy transitions and the potential ways that crises, socio-economic transitions and sustainability might be linked. The historical relationship between past recessions and C)2 emissions is presented along with where we stand with respect to meeting mitigation targets. The Great Recession coincided with a relative peak in climate action and the rise of a Green Growth narrative that provides some hope of a joint attack on climate change and economic malaise. This paper will briefly review the idea of Green Growth and Green Keynesianism and look at the evidence on the extent and effectiveness of green demand stimulus following the Great Recession. The paper will argue that despite some early hope and some worthy global developments on the renewables front, public and political priorities shifted dramatically so that on balance the Great Recession can be associated with a 'policy peak' and a lost opportunity to propel the low carbon transition. Moreover, it raises concerns that the continued fragility of the economic recovery will further delay the needed transition.
Q38|Effects of fossil fuel prices on the transition to a low-carbon economy|The purpose of this paper is to shed light on the role that fossil fuel prices have in bringing about a transition to a low carbon economy. This is a very broad, complex and potentially ambiguous question. It requires a good understanding of the factors that can shape long run fossil fuel price trends as well as an understanding of how energy transitions take place, and more specifically how an unprecedented policy-driven global energy transition can be orchestrated. The paper starts with the theory and historical evidence of resource and energy prices with a key message that over the very long run prices of energy services have shown a steady decline. The paper explains why a focus on oil is warranted, discusses the key determinants of oil prices and presents a brief history of recent oil price patterns. It also considers the connection of oil prices with recessions, what the future might bring for fossil fuel prices, and the potential implications of an end to cheap oil for the transition to a low-carbon economy. Finally, it looks into some facets of the interaction between fossil fuel prices and climate policy with a special focus on the role of carbon prices and how these must ultimately be part of a much broader strategy for an effective transition to a low carbon economy that is robust to alternative oil price trajectories.
Q38|Convergence in global environmental performance Assessing country heterogeneity|A large body of literature explores convergence in environmental performance (EP) using a simple measure of the percentage change of per capita CO2 as dependent variable and the level of per capita CO2 and GDP as explanatory variables. As such it conforms to the standard convergence literature in the economic growth literature. This study differs from these studies by constructing a measure based on production theory, where production processes explicitly results in the production of two outputs; a good output (GDP) and a bad output (CO2). Based on this we derive an EP index that can be expressed as the ratio of the inverse of the change of the emission intensity. We use the derived EP index to test the beta-convergence hypothesis for a panel of 94 countries. The results reveal strong evidence in support of beta-convergence in environmental, or carbon, performance. Moreover we find evidence of heterogeneity between groups of countries in line with the concept of “club” convergence and also heterogeneity between countries within country groups, especially for the high-income group. Additionally, we find evidence of a negative relation between environmental performance and fossil fuel share both at the global level as well as within sub-samples, which tend to vary with capital intensity. As such the results conform to the results from studies of the dynamics of per capita emissions. These results are therefore very informative and can help in both regional and international negotiations regarding burden sharing of global CO2 emissions. The results also suggest a balanced policy mix between efficiency and conservation policies in order to promote good environmental performance.
Q38|Income Guarantees and Borrowing in Risky Environments: Evidence from India's Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme|This paper investigates the effects of an income guarantee on borrowing to smooth consumption and finance cultivation in a risky setting with marked seasonality. A three-season, infinite-horizon theoretical model is developed and analyzed. The insights yielded by the model are then used to interpret results from an empirical analysis which uses data on a sample of households in a semi-arid region of Odisha state. The potential endogeneity of borrowing and NREGS earnings is instrumented using the female reservation for local elections. An additional day of work at the regulated wage reduces the estimated amount borrowed for consumption by about half the wage. For the financing of working capital, it increases such borrowing by an estimated amount that is almost twice as large as the wage. NREGS is therefore effectively a substitute for borrowing if a household does not cultivate, but a complement if it does so.
Q38|Energy Policies and Food Prices|Biomass energy has been regarded as an effective instrument in combatting a high oil price. However, the increased production of biomass energy has raised the demand for agricultural products and led to a global grain deficiency and rising grain prices. This paper discusses the influence of energy policies on the agricultural product price using a macro model that contains the energy demand for agricultural products. The results show that: 1) A rise in the subsidy for agricultural products used for biomass energy will have an ambiguous effect on the agricultural product price and exchange rate in the long run. 2) The rise in the subsidy on agricultural products used for biomass energy will result in a misadjustment of the exchange rate in the short run. 3) When the elasticity of substitution between agricultural products and bonds is extremely large, the rise in the energy tax on fossil fuels will reduce the agricultural product price in the long run. 4) Given the extremely large elasticity of substitution between agricultural products and bonds, increasing the share of biomass energy in total energy will increase the agricultural product price in the short run and reduce the price in the long run.
Q38|Announcing is Bad, Delaying is Worse: Another Pitfall in Well-intended Climate Policy|It is frequently observed that the implementation of green policies is delayed compared to the initial announcement. Considering a setting with a representative monopolist extracting a nonrenewable resource, we demonstrate that announcing a green policy, but then delaying its implementation, is associated with a larger cumulative extraction at any point in time than announcing a late implementation of this policy at the outset.
Q38|The Role of Carbon Capture and Sequestration Policies for Climate Change Mitigation|This paper takes the ‘policy failure’ in establishing a global carbon price for efficient emissions reduction as a starting point and analyzes to what extent technology policies can be a reasonable second-best approach. From a supply-side perspective, carbon capture and storage (CCS) policies differ substantially from renewable energy policies: they increase fossil resource demand and simultaneously lower emissions. We analyze CCS and renewable energy policies in a numerical dynamic general equilibrium model for settings of imperfect or missing carbon prices. We find that in contrast to renewable energy policies, CCS policies are not always capable of reducing emissions in the long run. If feasible, CCS policies can carry lower social costs compared to renewable energy policies, in particular when second-best policies are only employed temporally. In case fossil resources are abundant and renewable energy costs low, renewable energy policies perform better. Our results indicate that a pure CCS policy or a pure renewable energy policy carry their own specific risks of missing the environmental target. A smart combination of both, however, can be a robust and low-cost temporary second-best policy. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
Q38|Efficiency Effects of Unit-Based Pricing Systems and Institutional Choices of Waste Collection|Municipal residential waste costs are rising. Therefore, it is important to introduce measures that lower waste collection and disposal costs. Based on a large panel data set for the Netherlands we show that unit-based pricing systems are more important from a cost-minimizing point of view than the institutional mode of waste collection. In particular, the bag-based and frequency-based pricing systems are preferred. Moreover, dividing the cost effects between cost price and quantity effects, we illustrate that lower administrative costs and a smaller waste quantity are the most important drivers of cost decreases. It also shows that a disadvantage of the bag-based system is that it is not easy to price compostable waste. In addition, if more general cost functions are analyzed, these estimations suggest that there are economies of scale for small municipalities. Copyright Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2015
Q38|Political Economy and Instruments of Environmental Politics|Economists argue that such market-based policy instruments as environmental taxes and emission trading systems are the best way to target the negative effects of pollution. Yet there is no agreement about whether the use of these instruments is sufficient, whether they are deployed efficiently, and which factors influence their effectiveness. Nor is it clear if such policies have had any significant effect on the urgent matter of climate change mitigation. This volume offers conceptual, empirical, and theoretical analyses of the effectiveness of these policy instruments in achieving environmental goals. Taken together, the chapters not only identify shortcomings of existing policy making, but also point to ways in which more effective policy design can help solve one of the most pressing problems of our time. The contributors consider such topics as theoretical approaches to address the failure of the free market to protect the environment, the influence of people’s trust in their government on their willingness to accept higher environmental taxes, political determinants of fossil fuel pricing, a game theoretic approach to understanding domestic political constraints on international environmental agreements, and intergenerational equity and carbon taxation. Contributors Elisa Belfiori, Frank J. Convery, Peter Egger, Denny Ellerman, Dominic Hauck, Philipp Hieronymi, Andrea Kollmann, Sonja Köke, Andreas Lange, Antony Millner, Francesco Nicolli, Sergey Nigai, Johannes Reichl, David Schüller, Jon Strand, Cees van Beers, Francesco Vona
Q38|Mining and Quasi-Option Value|We study the timing-of-extraction problem facing a decentralized mine owner when extraction entails environmental damage. As expected, when the environmental damage from mining is known, the socially optimal timing will depend on the magnitude of the damage relative to these costs in the rest of the world. But when environmental damage is uncertain, and these costs are revealed over time, a quasi-option value arises. We show that even if expected environmental costs are identical to those in the rest of the world, any uncertainty over these costs will cause the social planner to optimally delay mining until better information arrives. We show conditions under which it is optimal to postpone the mining decision indefinitely, and conditions when it is optimal to postpone only for a finite duration. The analysis leverages a crucial observation that distinguishes the non-renewable resource problem from the traditional quasi-option value framework. In the traditional framework, the presence of an irreversible investment and uncertainty can help nudge the decision maker to preserve an option, but it by no means implies the decision maker should always preserve the option. In contrast, for a non-renewable resource model, the arbitrage condition underpinning the Hotelling rule suggests that in the absence of uncertainty, the marginal mine owner is completely indifferent between mining immediately and at any point in the future. Thus, for our problem, any uncertainty will convince her to defer the mining decision.
Q38|What Impedes Household Investment in Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy?|Energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies provide important opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, households fail to take up many clean energy investments that are cost-effective. This article reviews different explanations for apparent underinvestment in energy efficiency that have been put forward in the literature. While investments in renewable energy technologies are typically not (yet) profitable, many of its drivers are similar to those that determine energy efficiency investments, and the two types of investment are therefore assessed jointly. The article also provides new evidence regarding barriers to investment in energy efficiency based on the OECD Survey on Household Environmental Behaviour and Attitudes. Finally, policy solutions that would help overcome some of these barriers are also presented.
Q38|Inefficiencies in Residential Use of Energy — A Critical Overview of Literature and Energy Efficiency Policies in the EU|A rather large literature argues that firms and households do not always improve energy efficiency by investing in new technology even if it would be cost-effective to do so. In this paper, we review the theoretical and empirical literature on the so-called energy efficiency gap and provide a rationale for policymakers to act to improve energy efficiency. By eliminating market failures, welfare can be improved in a broad sense, including both environmental quality and material welfare. We also discuss social 'nudges' as examples of policy instruments that do not directly target any market failure in energy markets but that still may have a significant impact on energy use. Although we acknowledge the existence of the energy efficiency gap, we argue that the gap in general is overestimated as parts of it can be explained by heterogeneity in preferences and thus explained by rational choices.
Q38|Offshore Oil and Gas Drilling: A Review of Regulatory Regimes in the United States, United Kingdom, and Norway|This article investigates the regulatory regimes for offshore oil and gas in the United States (U.S.), United Kingdom (U.K.), and Norway from both a positive and normative perspective. The positive analysis reveals that all three countries are converging on a similar regulatory system that combines strict liability, command-and-control, and management-based regulations for controlling site-specific risks. The timing of the adoption of each element in this regulatory system varies across the three countries and has been driven largely by accidents along the individual country’s continental shelf. In particular, the adoption of the management-based approach occurred after a significant accident revealed the weaknesses of a one-size-fits–all set of prescriptive rules. Although the normative analysis reveals theoretical support for the use of both liability and management-based approaches, the empirical data are limited, and the data that do exist call into question the superiority of the management-based approach over command-and-control. More research is needed that develops and systematically evaluates incentive-compatible regulatory regimes. (JEL: Q38, Q40, Q48, K32)
Q38|Global Warming and the Green Paradox: A Review of Adverse Effects of Climate Policies|This article examines the possible adverse effects of well-intended climate policies, an outcome known as the Green Paradox. A weak Green Paradox arises if the announcement of a future carbon tax or a sufficiently fast rising carbon tax encourages fossil fuel owners to extract reserves more aggressively, thus exacerbating global warming. We argue that such policies may also encourage more fossil fuel to be locked in the crust of the earth, which can offset the adverse effects of the weak Green Paradox. We show that a subsidy on clean renewables may have similar weak Green Paradox effects. Green welfare (the converse of environmental damages) declines (i.e., the strong Green Paradox) if the beneficial climate effects of locking up more fossil fuel do not outweigh the short-run weak Green Paradox effects. Neither the weak nor the strong Green Paradox occurs for the first-best Pigouvian carbon tax. We also discuss dirty backstops, spatial carbon leakage, and green innovation.
Q38|Unilateral Carbon Taxation in the Global Economy: The Green Paradox and carbon leakage revisted|Unilateral, second-best carbon taxes are analysed in a two-period, two-country model with international trade in final goods, oil and bonds. The increase in oil demand and acceleration of global warming resulting from a future carbon tax are large if the price elasticities of oil demand are large and that of oil supply is small, but are attenuated by the fall in the world interest rate especially if intertemporal substitution is weak. Despite this Green Paradox effect, green welfare rises if the fall in oil exploration is strong enough. If the current carbon tax is too low, the second-best future carbon tax is set below the first best to mitigate adverse Green Paradox effects. Unilateral exceed first-best carbon taxes due to an import tariff component. The intertemporal terms of trade effects of the future carbon tax increase current and future tariffs and those of the current tax lower the current tariff. Unilateral taxes are time inconsistent. Finally, carbon leakage and globally altruistic and unilateral optimal carbon taxes if other oil importers do not price carbon are analysed in a three-country model of the global economy.
Q38|Effects of Threshold Uncertainty on Common-Pool Resources|Many natural resources and common-pool resources have inherent thresholds regarding the onset of deleterious environmental impacts or consequences. Group and individual behavior were examined in an experimental setting using three distinct games designed to model common-pools in which there existed such a threshold: one with complete information of the threshold, one with incomplete information of the threshold and one with sporadically enforced targets. By design the true threshold was unknown to the players in the role of policymaker, and the guesses of the threshold value were allowed to change during every round. Sporadically enforced targets had a significant negative effect on the lifespan of a common-pool resource and individual gains. Allowing the participants to develop and act on their own beliefs for the location of the threshold improved both individual benefit and conservation of the common-pool. Conservation of common-pool resources will be best achieved by policies which allow users of the resource access to reliable information regarding the status of the common-pool and which enable the development of their own beliefs regarding the location of threshold.
Q38|Corporate Walkover in Progress: The Case of the Southern Company’s “Clean Coal” Plant in Mississippi|The project to create an experimental “clean coal” plant in Mississippi is funded by electric utility customers in the poorest state in the United States. The incentives for the project come from the industry capturing the Public Service Commission of Mississippi. The controversial incentives stipulate that the Southern Company can earn a return on money spent to create electrical infrastructure, even if the experimental plant never produces any electricity. The Southern Company’s Kemper County Mississippi “Radcliffe” Plant, originally estimated to cost about $1.2 billion, is approaching $6 billion dollars, is still not operational, and may never be a profitable facility. Despite this, over 180,000 of America’s poorest citizens are expected to foot the bill. Although this is one of the most intense examples of corporate welfare, the “Radcliffe” Plant is hardly the only current case in the utility industry. The “Public Service Commission” of Mississippi facilitated this large transfer of income from ratepayers to investors in this monopoly.
Q38|La Política de Aguas en Chile y la Gran Minería del Cobre<BR>[Water Policy in Chile and the Great Copper Mining]|The article discusses, from a critical approach, water management in Chile,describing its institutional foundations and current physical and legal reality, highlighting the lack of adequate policy response to serious tensions and conflicts that emerge around the resource; not be postponed more important role of state agencies and citizens. Moreover the key aspects that have defined the policy of copper in the last three decades are described, where the denationalization of the xploitation of this resource has reduced the chances of raisingmore revenue for the state, which could have been set aside for fundamental needs like health, education or housing. Given its vital importance, the relationship between water and mining, within the context of sovereignty over natural resources and the sustainability of development, illustrating the detriment to the natural heritage and establishing a proposal for charging for the use of water to large mining as an economic and environmental signal, all framed within a national policy for integrated management of this vital resource.
Q38|Rôle des institutions et des régulations foncières sur le marché foncier agricole : illustration dans la région Bretagne| En France, l’accès au foncier est fortement régulé par des politiques publiques et par le statut du fermage : le pendant de cette restriction de liberté est la relative stabilité du prix des terres agricoles. A l’inverse, dans beaucoup de pays de l’union européenne, le prix du foncier ne cesse de s’accroître dans des proportions beaucoup plus problématiques. Dans notre papier nous décrirons le fonctionnement des institutions locales et les outils juridiques qui ont, a priori, un rôle dans la relative stabilité du prix des terres agricoles en France. Nous illustrerons notre démonstration à partir de l’exemple de la Bretagne
Q38|Mesures de compensation écologique : risques ou opportunités pour le foncier agricole ?| Compenser revient à équilibrer un effet par un autre : les mesures de compensation obligent un aménageur à compenser les effets négatifs de son projet. Deux types d’approches sont envisagées, la première est fondée sur la demande de compensation, dans ce cas l’aménageur cherche des surfaces sur lesquelles il pourra compenser son emprise ; la seconde est axée sur l’offre de compensation, dans cette approche un prestataire sécurisera des terrains, au moyen d’acquisition ou par des contrats durables. L’analyse de la règle du jeu et des modalités de mise en œuvre de la compensation écologique, permet de vérifier la cohérence de ces mesures avec les politiques foncières territorialisées. Les aspects fonciers et les notions d’anticipation et de concertation avec le monde agricole apparaissent comme les déterminants principaux de l’efficacité de ces mesure
Q38|Neoliberalismo y naturaleza: la “comoditización” de los hidrocarburos en Argentina (1989-2001)|El presente artículo expone una parte de los resultados obtenidos en una investigación referida a la reforma estructural del sector de hidrocarburos en Argentina operada desde 1989, a partir de la presidencia de Carlos Menem, hasta la crisis de 2001. Bajo la hegemonía neoliberal, en ese período se llevó a cabo la desregulación del mercado de hidrocarburos y la privatización de la empresa estatal Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales (Y.P.F.) en sucesivas etapas. Desde una perspectiva económico-político-ecológica, en este artículo se examina el proceso de “comoditización” del petróleo y gas articulado a un nuevo régimen de acumulación, basado en la valorización financiera, y una nueva forma de Estado neoliberal. La supresión del carácter estratégico de los hidrocarburos y su transformación en “commodities” facilitaron la estrategia de las petroleras privadas, la cual se centró en la sobreexplotación de los yacimientos descubiertos en la etapa estatal dirigida a la obtención de saldos exportables y en la reducción de la actividad exploratoria, produciendo una caída notable del horizonte de reservas. Con el fin de investigar este proceso, se utilizó una metodología mixta a partir de técnicas cuantitativas y cualitativas.
Q38|Rule-Based Resource Revenue Stabilization Funds: A Welfare Comparison|Resource prices, and petroleum prices in particular, are volatile and difficult to predict, so government revenue in resource-producing regions is also uncertain and volatile. Adjusting government expenditure in response to these revenue movements involves economic, social and political costs. Many jurisdictions have established rule-based revenue stabilization funds to address revenue volatility, but there is little evidence on whether these funds improve welfare or if some fund designs increase welfare more than others. Using Monte Carlo techniques, we provide a quantitative welfare comparison of several types of rule-based stabilization funds for a petroleum-producing jurisdiction. We find large potential gains from the use of a fund to stabilize revenue, but some fund types reduce welfare, particularly those that accumulate large stocks of assets or debt. A fund that performs well, and is generally robust to changes in the simulation parameters, has a fixed deposit rate out of resource revenue and a fixed withdrawal rate out of assets.
Q38|Juventud y campesinado en las falanges rurales: España, 1939-50|This text joins the burgeoning series of studies into agrarian fascism and the local politics of fascist and parafascist dictatorships. Taking Franco's regime as a case study, our work focuses on the role played by two of the most outstanding structures of the single party or FET-JONS in rural post-war Spain: the Youth Front (Frente de Juventudes) and the Trade Union Organisation (Organización Sindical). Their evolution and problems during the 1940s are analysed here, including the real level of social penetration, the sociological profile of their leaders, members and affiliates, as well as their capacity to implement specific policies in rural contexts. Though already well-studied in the urban sphere, greater attention should be given to the actions of FET-JONS in rural Spain, as post-war society was predominantly agricultural. Moreover, Spanish youth and peasants are two collectives that have yet to receive much attention in historiography examining Franco's regime.
Q38|Fracking in Deutschland — eine Option für die Zukunft!|Extraction of shale gas in Germany (fracking) is better left as an option for the future. Today, owners of deposits in many other countries have uncertain property rights and extract too quickly. German deposits may appreciate in value if left in the ground. They also better contribute to national energy security there than if extracted and depleted. Waiting also allows Germany to learn from the mistakes of others and to take this new information and the improvements in extraction technology into account when deciding about extraction in the future. Such decisions should not be left to the resource extraction industries. Their objectives are likely to differ from the objective of maximising the rent from the nation’s shale gas. Copyright ZBW and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2014
Q38|The Effectiveness of Dutch Municipal Recycling Policies|The EU advocates a household waste recycling rate of more than 70%. Although the Netherlands already years ago invested in recycling policies heavily, this is still a large challenge as nowadays on average this rate is approximately 50% and nearly no municipalities have a rate above 70%. Given the experience, it is possible to learn from the Dutch experience which policies are effective in increasing the recycling rates. Based on a large panel data set for the Netherlands , we show that unit-based pricing, avoiding a duo-bin or unsorted and compostable waste, and moving back the frequency of collecting unsorted and compostable waste at the curbside are effective in raising the recycling rate. However, only unit-based pricing has a substantial effect. In nearly all cases changing the frequency of collection of recyclables had no or very small effects. We find some evidence for the effectiveness of adding bring locations to curbside collection. Based on an estimation of the cost function most policies have no effect on costs, except for unit-based pricing (saving on cost) and increases in the frequency of unsorted waste collection (cost increasing). Overall, it seems nearly impossible to reach the EU-goal of 70% with the policies applied.
Q38|Settlement under the threat of conflict-The cost of asymmetric information|TI study a situation where two players disagree on the division of a good. In the first of two stages, the players can divide the good peacefully between them by signing a contract. If either or both players reject the contract, they must engage in a costly contest over the good. One of the players' valuation is assumed to be private information. The feasibility of a contract that divides the good between the players prior to the contest is determined by the expected contest outcome and thus also by the distribution of the private valuation. The findings can be applied to environmental conflicts, for example to shed some light on how a valuation study of ecosystem services in Lofoten can affect the probability of opening up the area for oil and gas exploration, and also the appropriate level of compensation to negatively affected parties.
Q38|Sodbusting, Crop Insurance, and Sunk Conversion Costs|We build a real option model that articulates sodbusting incentives arising from risk interventions in the presence of conversion costs. The model shows that risk interventions reduce expected costs of switching land use between cropping and noncropping activities and, hence, incentivize sodbusting. Based on data for south-central North Dakota over 1989–2012, our simulations show that offsetting 20% of a cropping-return shortfall by a risk intervention increases the sodbusting cost threshold, below which sodbusting will occur, by 41% (or $43.7/acre). Omitting cropping-return risk across time underestimates the sodbusting cost threshold by 23% (or $24.35/acre) and hence underestimates sodbusting caused by crop production.
Q38|The Vindication of Don Quixote: The Impact of Noise and Visual Pollution from Wind Turbines|In this article we quantify the marginal external effects of nearby land-based wind turbines on property prices. We succeed in separating the effect of noise and visual pollution from wind turbines. This is achieved by using a dataset consisting of 12,640 traded residential properties located within 2,500 meters of a turbine sold in the period 2000–2011. Our results show that wind turbines have a significant negative impact on the price schedule of neighboring residential properties. Visual pollution reduces the residential sales price by up to about 3%, while noise pollution reduces the price between 3% and 7%.
Q38|The Impact of Tax Concessions on Extraction of Non-renewable Resources:An Application to Gold Mining in Tanzania|Gold mining firms in Tanzania pay royalty and corporate taxes, but also receive many tax concessions. Such tax incentives may cause to reschedule their extraction plans and thereby change the expected life of a gold mine. We model a representative mining firm’s extraction decision using optimal control theory, into which various tax incentives are introduced to determine their theoretical impact. Our results suggest thatin the race to take advantage of tax incentives, a firm may end up making excessive investments, which in turn increases extraction rate. Actual extraction patterns of several gold mining companies in Tanzania are also reviewed.
Q38|Ressourcenproduktivität - Indikatoren und Fortschritte|Bei der Bewertung des Ressourceneinsatzes in Deutschland spielt die Auswahl von Indikatoren eine wichtige Rolle. Veränderungen in der internationalen Arbeitsteilung wie eine verringerte Fertigungstiefe und eine über das Wirtschaftswachstum hinausgehende Steigerung des internationalen Handels lassen sich hierbei berücksichtigen. So kann der ursprüngliche Rohstoffeinsatz dem Land der letzten Verwendung und nicht dem produzierenden Land zugerechnet werden. Dies ist eine für Deutschland bedeutsame Korrektur. Die Daten zeigen für Deutschland – auch im Vergleich mit anderen EU-Ländern – nennenswerte Fortschritte bei der Ressourcenproduktivität. Die in der Nachhaltigkeitsstrategie der Bundesregierung von 2002 vorgesehene Verdopplung der Rohstoffproduktivität bis 2020 gegenüber 1994 wird jedoch schwer zu erreichen sein.
Q38|The Economic Cost of Global Fuel Subsidies|By 2015, global oil consumption will reach 90 million barrels per day. In part, this high level of consumption reflects the fact that many countries provide subsidies for gasoline and diesel. This paper examines global fuel subsidies using the latest available data from the World Bank, finding that road-sector subsidies for gasoline and diesel totaled $110 billion in 2012. Pricing fuels below cost is inefficient because it leads to overconsumption. Under baseline assumptions about supply and demand elasticities, the total annual deadweight loss worldwide is $44 billion. Incorporating external costs increases the economic costs substantially.
Q38|Climate Policy and Border Measures: The Case of the US Aluminum Industry| In this paper, analysis is presented relating to the impact of border measures for climate policy on the problem of carbon leakage, and the related issue of competitiveness in the US aluminum industry, which can be characterized as oligopolistic. Specifically, it is shown that an appropriate border measure depends on the nature of competition in aluminum production, as well as the basis for assessing the trade neutrality of any border measure. If trade neutrality is defined in terms of market volume, even though carbon leakage is reduced, US aluminum producer competitiveness cannot be maintained. This compares to defining trade neutrality in terms of market share, which results in US aluminum producer competitiveness being maintained and global carbon emissions being reduced. In either case, US users of aluminum incur deadweight losses.
Q38|Putting a Price on Trash: Does Charging for Food Waste Reduce Total Waste? The Case of Korea| The purpose of this paper is to estimate the impact of the new unit-based pricing system (UPS) for food waste on the volume of solid waste collected, accounting for the effect of cross price elasticity and environmental activism. Based on causal inference using a natural experiment with a difference-in-differences model for Korea for 2003-2010, this paper shows that adopting UPS for food waste has a significant negative effect on the volume of solid waste. A key contribution relative to the broader literature is that this paper initially examines the impact of adopting a UPS for food waste on the volume of solid waste by using a natural experiment. Furthermore, this research suggests a way to implement UPS that needs to be considered according to the characteristics of each type of waste. For solid waste, the effects of own price elasticity and income elasticity are clear and significant. However, for food waste, the effect of own price elasticity exists but, the effect of income elasticity is insignificant. Increasing the price of bags for food waste may send residents a signal regarding the cost of waste disposal and thereby motivates residents to reduce their total waste.
Q38|Does Neighborhood Matter? A Micro-level Spatial Analysis of the Entry and Exit of Organic Farming Program in Southern Sweden| We investigate farmers’ decision to engage in organic production. Our objective is to identify the key factors that promote or hinder the update of organic farming. In particular, we focus on neighborhood factors and the spatial allocation of organic land parcels. A rich spatial panel data of all agricultural parcels is compiled and the information on land use, soil quality, biodiversity, local landscapes, and neighborhood characteristics are extracted using ArcGIS techniques. We carry out both cross-sectional analyses and panel data models. In the cross –sectional analysis, we focus on the duration that a parcel stays in organic production: to temporarily enroll into organic farming program for subsidy or to convert to organic production permanently. In the panel data model, we analyze whether a parcel stays in organic production in a period by assuming there is or there is no temporary correlation. We find that neighborhood characteristics do have significant effects on farmers’ decision. Such effects manifest in the following four areas: 1) a farm with a higher share of organic land in its adjacent neighborhood is more likely to be organic temporarily or permanently; 2) a neighborhood with a higher share of ley and grass land, hence, a higher potential for biological control, can promote conversion to organic production; 3) a parcel with a larger shared border per unit area with other parcels are less likely to be engaged in organic production; and 4), a neighborhood with abundant floral species and more floral spices that are suitable to traditional agricultural production has more parcels being converted to organic production. We also find that highly productive land is less likely to be enrolled into organic farming programs, which confirms the finding from literature that profits is an important factor that affects farmers’ decision. Farmers tend to convert parcels that are far away from their houses to organic while keep the parcels close by in conventional production. Small farms and farms that are more diversified are more likely to be shifted to organic production. Our findings are hence in favor of the policy suggestions on agglomeration payments in biodiversity conservation.
Q38|Is the Natural Gas Revolution all its Fracked Up to Be for Local Economies?|No abstract is available for this item.
Q38|The good oil. State roles in Norwegian petroleum sector| Oil and gas have been produced on the Norwegian continental shelf since 1971. Exploration rates, extraction rates, employment, expertise levels, exports of oil and gas have all increased many fold during 1971-­‐2013. The State has several roles in the Norwegian petroleum sector including basic research provider, allocator of exploration rights, investor, infrastructure owner, taxation collector, Sovereign Wealth Fund owner. In this paper I review the development of the petroleum sector in Norway, and highlight the various roles of the State in the development of the sector. The paper provides an overview of the macroeconomic importance of oil and gas in the Norwegian economy and critiques selected petroleum related policies.
Q38|Reduced deforestation and economic growth| The clearing of forests for agricultural land and other marketable purposes is a welltrodden path of economic development. With these private benefits from deforestation come external costs: emissions from deforestation currently account for 12 per cent of global carbon emissions. A widespread intervention in reducing emissions from deforestation will affect the paths of agricultural expansion and economic growth of lower income nations. To investigate these processes, this paper presents a general, dynamic, stochastic model of deforestation and economic growth. The model is shown to generate unique deforestation and investment paths and a model without reduced deforestation policy is shown to have a stationary distribution of income and landholdings. There are three main findings. First, in the short run national output growth falls with compensation for reduced deforestation. Second, deforestation rates are reduced through compensating either reduced deforestation directly or the stock of forests; however, compensating the stock of forests is likely to be prohibitively expensive. Finally, by offering a fixed compensation rate, as opposed to a compensation rate tied to a stochastic carbon price, further reductions in deforestation can be achieved.
Q38|Mesures de compensation écologique : risques ou opportunités pour le foncier agricole ?|[paper in French] Compensation measures require a developer to offset the negative effects of the project. Two types of approaches are possible. The first one is based on the compensation claim: in this case the developer looks for surfaces on which he can offset its grip. The second focuses on offering compensation: in this approach the service provider secures land through acquisition or long term contracts. We describe the game rules and procedures for the implementation of ecological compensation, and we emphasize the need for consistency of these measures with land based policies. The property aspects, the concept of expectation and the consultation with the agricultural sector are for us the main determinants of the effectiveness of such measures.
Q38|Rôle des institutions et des régulations foncières sur le marché foncier agricole : illustration dans la région Bretagne|[paper in French]In France, access to land is heavily regulated by government policies and the status of the tenancy: the counterpart of this restriction of freedom is the relative stability of farmland prices. Unlike in many countries of the European Union the price of land continues to increase in much more problematic proportions. In our paper we describe the functioning of local institutions and legal tools that have a role in the relative stability of prices of agricultural land in France. We illustrate our argument from the Britain example.
Q38|Petróleo y desarrollo: Efectos en la acumulación y destrucción de capital humano de los municipios de Colombia| La literatura económica ha documentado un panorama pesimista para los países en desarrollo que han explotado recursos naturales de alto valor agregado, no obstante nueva evidencia refuta este postulado y ofrece nuevas perspectivas. En línea con esto, a partir de un panel para la primera década del 2000 el objetivo de este artículo es encontrar el impacto que tuvo la producción de petróleo en la acumulación y destrucción de capital humano de los municipios de Colombia, condicional a su calidad institucional. La estrategia de identificación consistió en un modelo de MC2E con VI, en el cual la primera etapa consta de tres ecuaciones simultáneas cuyos instrumentos reflejan la probabilidad del municipio de producir petróleo en función de las actividades de exploración de hidrocarburos, y la institucionalidad en función de la distancia a los centros económicos del país. Se encontró que la producción de petróleo exacerba la destrucción de capital humano de los municipios, ya que la tasa de homicidios y la tasa de ataques armados por cien mil habitantes aumentan en promedio 0.02 ambas por cada 1% que aumente la producción de petróleo, y el desempeño fiscal del municipio como variable institucional ejerce un efecto exiguo para reversar estos resultados. En cambio, para la acumulación de capital humano de los municipios no se observó ningún efecto a causa de la producción de petróleo.
